U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2008
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. You had a pretty good days, you made enough birdies, but a  
couple of those bogeys got in the way, didn't they?
 INBEE PARK: Yes, I still thought I played pretty good throughout the day. I made a couple mistakes here and there. I don't think you can really escape the bogeys on the USGA courses, you really have to take them and try to make a lot of birdies and a lot of putts and just play smart.
 
  
Q. Were you surprised to see that you were 2-under for the day,  
and yet you were having trouble keeping up? 
 INBEE PARK: Yes, I kind of had a slow start today with the bogey on No. 2. That was very disappointing. But I think that I fought back pretty good and I'm very happy with the result and we'll see what happens tomorrow.
 
  
Q. Do you like the looks of the leaderboard with you and a lot  
young talent there?
 INBEE PARK: Yes, I'm pretty used to it by now. There's a lot of talented young players out here whose name is up there on the leaderboard all the time. So, I don't know, hopefully I'm one of them.
 
  
Q. Tell me what really worked for you today whether it was the  
driving or the putting?
 INBEE PARK: It was mostly -- well I think I hit the balls better and yesterday and the day before. Actually today I was a little bit shaky with the ball striking, but I putted very well today, so there was a lot of birdies.
 
  
Q. Could you go over for me your birdies and bogeys? 
 INBEE PARK: Yes. I got it here. No. 1, birdie. I hit pitching wedge about 15 feet. Made a downhill putt from there.
  
No. 2, made a bogey. I had a good drive down the middle and my  
second shot, I kind of had a bad lie, and hit it into the left  
bunker. I hit that shot into the green and it spun back and came  
back down. Hit that one a little bit past about 10 feet past and  
missed that one. 
  
No. 9, my second shot was pin high on the left. Big breaking  
putt left-to-right. Made that one. 
  
Number 10, I got to the green in two and just 2-putted that one. 
  
No. 11, trying to think. I hit a pitching wedge a little bit  
short of the pin, 15 feet, made that one. 
  
14, I was probably -- it was a par-3, I hit a rescue club into the  
bunker and didn't get up-and-down from there. 
  
16, I hit a pitching wedge again, pin high left, 15 feet, made that  
one. 
  
17, my second shot went to the right bunker short. And didn't  
get up-and-down from there. 
 
  
Q. You've played 9 very well, you played 18 in par. Do you  
feel like you're losing anything by not making birdie on 18 and  
gaining a whole bunch by making two birdies on 9?
 INBEE PARK: Yes, I think that it was supposed to be the opposite, actually, but.
  
(Laughter.)
  
On No. 9 I had a bogey on the first day. Really hit a good shot  
and it just got a bad bounce and just went over the back and made a  
good bogey from there, actually. 
  
Hopefully, I'll make a birdie on 18 tomorrow. But No. 9 I think  
I really got -- I hit really good drives all day and just good second  
shots and just two good solid shots actually that hole could really  
become a birdie hole with the back slope in the back, so. 
 
  
Q. Sleeping on the fact that you're right there in  
contention. Are you nervous comfortable with it all?
 INBEE PARK: I'm pretty comfortable right now. I don't know how I'm going to feel tomorrow. But at the moment I'm good.
  
Usually I sleep very good before the tournament days, so hopefully,  
yes. 
 
  
Q. We have got some people that have signature things, Paula's  
got her pink, Tiger has his red, do you have something special planned  
for tomorrow?
 INBEE PARK: Special plans? No, I'm not too superstitious and I played good through the last three days, so I'll just keep doing the same thing and watch what happens tomorrow.
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT