THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2019
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another great round.  Birdie at 18 as well.  Nice way to cap off the round.  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, really nice way to finish.  At the beginning of the round it just didn't look like it was going my way.  A little bit of a miss putt and nothing really wanted to drop.   
At the end I finished really nice, three birdies in last four holes.  Really happy with the finish.  Yeah, hopefully I can keep this going.   
 Q.  As someone who has won so many majors, give us an idea what happens tomorrow.  What happens to the mind of Inbee?  
INBEE PARK: Nothing really changes.  I mean, I think it's just best that we finish 72 holes.  That's really the important thing.  Just do whatever we can do to try to finish four rounds.   
Yeah, I think just no different mindset.  Just same thing every day.  It's going to be a quick night tonight, but I think we can turn around quickly.   
 Q.  And you're ready if the weather changes?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah.  I'm actually looking forward to a little bit cooler weather, because this has been just really hot.  I lost my concentration there a little bit in the beginning because of the heat.   
Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  So birdie at the last is a great way to finish.  
INBEE PARK: Yeah.   
 Q.  What was it like coming back with such a dramatic change in weather?  
INBEE PARK: It was really hard.  I played maybe four and a half holes in the wind.  I think we were definitely on the wrong side of the draw.  It was really tough out there, but I was able to play really good on those holes.   
Wasn't easy for sure, but I was able to finish nicely.  Hopefully this wind dies down and make it a little bit easier.   
 Q.  How did you manage the suspension?  Did you have an idea how long you would be off?  Did you kind of adjust?  
INBEE PARK: I had no idea like how long it was going to be.  I kind of actually thought that it didn't look that bad.  Well, it wasn't a long wait, which was really good.  Didn't have to warm up again and go out there again.  I think that was a good choice by the tournament operations.   
Yeah, just did really well going out after the break.  I think maybe I needed a little bit of a break after the heat.   
 Q.  Did you have to play with the wind?  Has the wind changed so much you had to play differently?  
INBEE PARK: It was really, really tough.  Most of the holes we play right to left, hard right to left on No. 16, 17, and No.  18 was hard left to right.  It was just hard to judge the distance.  I was lucky that I was able to hole some putts coming in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT