KIA CLASSIC
March 30, 2019
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Inbee Park, 14-under par.  What was the key to your round today?
INBEE PARK: Key to my round today was I think just a combination of consistency and the putting.  I holed some good putts, especially on the back nine.
Obviously couple of bogeys was unnecessary, but things happen on these poana greens.  You just got to be really patient, and that's what I did.  Few putts dropped on the back nine and got me in a good position.
Q. What do you tell yourself when those bogeys happen?
INBEE PARK: It's really disappointing obviously because it was a par-5 and a very birdieable hole.  I made a bogey.  Almost feels like lost couple of shots there.  Yeah, disappointing, but I knew there will be a lot of chances coming in.  Just trying to be patient and give myself that there will be chances.  Just be patient.
Q. What are you hoping to take away from your game today heading into the final round tomorrow?
INBEE PARK: Just the feel on the greens is really good this week and I really want to keep that going until tomorrow.  Hopefully I can hit a lot of fairways and greens.  That's always very helpful, yeah.
Q. Your preparation for this week, obviously played last week in preparation for the season.  What's it been like for you?  How much did you work on your game in the off-season?
INBEE PARK: Obviously had about three months of off-season, and did good practice for about couple months starting early January pretty much until Singapore started.  I had some good practice time in Vegas.
Yeah, just trying to get the rhythm back being on the golf course and just trying to get my rhythm on the swing, on the putting stroke.  Obviously you have to just start playing the tournaments to get actual tournament feelings.  Yeah, it's coming around really good.
Q. You've come close here; the greens are tricky.
INBEE PARK: Yeah.
Q. What's been the good parts of the putting this week?  What have you felt good about putting-wise?
INBEE PARK: I think I just did a little bit of a tweak on my putting stroke this week.  I really struggled with my putter last week.  Just fixed my stroke just a little bit and it has been working really well.  I can see the ball rolling really true with where I am aiming.  Can be jumpy on those poana greens, but I'm just trying to hit it to where I aim.  That's what I am trying to do, and it has been pretty consistent?
Q. Were the big putts?
INBEE PARK: I think the last one on 18 was really great, and yesterday on No. 13 I made a big par save putt.
It was really good, too.
Q. How long was that?
INBEE PARK: About 20, 25 feet.
Q. How about the one here?
INBEE PARK: Probably about 20 feet.
Q. You had a long wait out there in the fairway.
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I did.
Q. Is it tough to wait on that shot because it's such a tough shot?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, you definitely don't want to wait for that shot.  I'm not really too patient, yeah.  But it has been happening in the last three days.  I have been waiting for the group in front.  It's just going to happen.  You just don't know what's going to happen, so just trying to stay relaxed.
Q. What motivates you now?
INBEE PARK: A lot of things can really motivate me now.  Any tournament I play in I try to play good and have some fun in the golf tournaments, and just if the results follow, that's really good.  If not, it is what it is.
Q. How many events are you looking at playing this year?
INBEE PARK: 15 to 20 events this year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT