U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 2, 2019
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thanks for joining us, Inbee.  Very nice round on Sunday, 2 under par.  Tell us what you did right.  
INBEE PARK: Just putting a little bit better today.  I played a pretty solid round 1, 2, and 4.  Just a blemish on round No.  3.  So just one bad day, and other three days were pretty good days.  I just couldn't hole anything yesterday.   
I wish I had a decent round yesterday.  I think I would have had a chance.  But just happy to finish the round today a couple under par, the first time in the 60s.  So, yeah, really happy with that.   
 Q.  As someone who is known as a really good putter, does that really frustrate you when the ball doesn't go in the hole?  
INBEE PARK: I just feel like this year, it's something about the Saturday.  I have been cursed or something.  I have been posting really bad rounds on Saturday.  With a descent round on Saturday, I would always have a chance on Sunday, but Saturday's really just been screwing me up.   
So I wish I can fix that on the way out.  Yeah, a little bit more consistent would be nice.   
 Q.  As a two-time champion, can you tell us what you thought about this Championship here at the Country Club of Charleston?  The way the golf course was prepared, how the fans reacted, all those kinds of things.  
 Did you have a good (inaudible) because you're a two-time champion?   
INBEE PARK: Yeah.  Obviously, I guess it was a little bit different than what we've played over the years.  The golf course style, it was a little bit different with really wide fairways and no roughs.  That's really unlike U.S. Opens.  So that's one thing I was really surprised with.   
I think this is probably the first Bermuda greens I've played in U.S. Women's Open.  We always played up north and bent greens.  So that's what I kind of expected.   
But it was a little bit different, but I was happy to see a lot of the fans come out here to watch and just different part of the town.  But I really wish we'd get a little better weather than this week.  It was just really hot.   
Yeah, I mean, I'm looking forward to playing next year and on.  USGA always plays in great golf courses, and U.S. Women's Open championship is always a great one to compete in.   
 Q.  Everybody's been talking about the width of the fairways.  How important is it, given how difficult the green surrounds are, to make sure you place -- how important is it to place your tee shots?  
INBEE PARK: It is actually not that hard to place the tee shot on the fairway on these fairways, yeah.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
INBEE PARK: I don't think it makes much of a difference because a lot of the pins that we -- tucked pins, we can't go from any part of the fairway anyway for the tucked pins.  So, yeah, I think the better layout would be missed tee shot would be a punishment, but I think that's something that was missing this week.   
 Q.  Players always talk about have to stay patient, have to stay patient.  This was -- as you said, this was a little bit of an unusual week with the heat and everything.  
INBEE PARK: Yes.   
 Q.  The delay and all that stuff.  I know there were people backed up on the 11th tee the first couple of days a lot.  What do you do to keep that kind of patience while you're out there?  
INBEE PARK: I think yesterday was a shocking round.  It was, like, almost a six-hour round, which was really unusual.  I mean, it is always hard to stay patient on the slow rounds and playing with the slow players as well.  That always makes a day much tougher, but that's just part of the game.  You just don't know who you're going to get and what kind of pace of play you're going to have.   
So I think you've just got to deal with it and try to stay cool as much as you can.   
 Q.  Do you consider yourself a fast player?  
INBEE PARK: Yes, very.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT