BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 19, 2019
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Welcome back to the media center at the Bank of Hope Founders Cup.  I have here with me Rolex Rankings No. 6 and defending champion, Inbee Park.  Inbee, thanks for joining us today.
INBEE PARK: You're welcome.
THE MODERATOR: How are you doing?  First of all, you won your 19th career win here last year.  What memories do you have to from that win?
INBEE PARK: I remember I played really well last year here.  I mean, this golf course has been very good fit for me.  I have been playing well last couple years on this golf course, and obviously last year was the best one.
Golf course is in great condition this year as well.  It's really flawless.  It's nice fairways and greens.  Just got to worry about -- got to make too many birdies.
Yeah, I mean, this golf course is definitely scorable and everybody scores really well.  Got to make a lot of birdies out here.
THE MODERATOR: You had a lengthy time off.  We just saw you in Singapore two weeks ago.
INBEE PARK: Uh-huh.
THE MODERATOR: Prior to that was the Evian Championship in September.
INBEE PARK: Yep.
THE MODERATOR: Can you tell us what you were up to during that time and how much golf you were playing?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I play in a couple Korean events last fall, in September to November time; sponsor events, my own tournament in November as well.
So, yeah, I played a couple events so I wasn't really away from golf, I wouldn't say.  Yeah, but obviously the LPGA event was the last Evian, and this year I started in Singapore.
Yeah, I feel a little bit still fresh, but I am looking forward to playing the stretch starting in this event and on.
THE MODERATOR: Will we see you play a similar LPGA schedule this year?
INBEE PARK: I'm trying to play a little bit more if my body allows it to.  Definitely.  Yeah, I have scheduled probably like three, four more -- three to five more events this year than last year.
THE MODERATOR: Last year you started your season in Singapore.  Same as this year.
INBEE PARK: Uh-huh.
THE MODERATOR: And you came back in just your second start to win here at the Founder Cup.  How is your game shaping up this year?  Is there anything you're still tweaking to get the rust off maybe?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I thought ball striking was going to take a little bit of time.  You know, just getting used to -- maybe thought I was going to be a little rusty on the ball striking, but it was really the opposite when I played in Singapore.  My putter really wasn't working in Singapore.
That's what I been concentrating on doing for the last couple weeks.  I might have some change this week on the putter.  Yeah, I'm just trying to find the best putter for me and best stroke for me and just trying to roll the ball a little bit more consistently.  That's what I have been working for.  Consistently, Julie.
THE MODERATOR: This is your seventh start at the Bank of Hope Founders Cup this week.  What makes this event so special - especially now that you're a past champion - but having the Founders on 18 green?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, this tournament was made for a reason, and obviously seeing the Founders at the end of the 18th green is very meaningful all the time.  Especially having a good week.  We just realize that we are here because of the Founders.  It's great that we get an opportunity like this tournament to give the thanks back to them.
THE MODERATOR: At this time, we'll open up to questions.
Q. Inbee, we seem to ask you every year, so I'll start this year the same way.  What else do you have to prove?
INBEE PARK: What else do I have to prove?  I don't know.  (Laughter.)  You know, I have been -- I haven't been playing as much tournaments as I would like to for last few years, but my game is actually in the level that I still think that I can compete.
That's what I really want.  I have been very healthy since after the Olympics for last couple of years or so, which I'm really thankful about.  I don't want to go through any surgeries or I don't want to go through anymore injuries during my career.  Hopefully not.
So maybe a little bit too much careful, but I'm happy with the way I have scheduled.  I don't know what -- I think maybe I need to prove that I can still play very healthy, yeah.
Q. Do you still love it?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I definitely do.  I mean, that word, I can't lie.  There were times when I was like, Wow, I think I'm really sick of golf.  I really don't want to play anymore.  There were definitely moments like that when I was on the tour for long time.  Some moments I was really burned out; sometimes I thought I lost my concentration; sometimes I thought there is no more that I need to achieve.
Yeah, there were moments like that.  But since a little bit of time off from golf and not as much busy schedule as before, I kind of realize that I really still love golf and this is what I want to do.  I missed golf.  I think that's really good thing that I caught in the time off.
Q. How much time do you spend in Las Vegas opposed to in Korea?
INBEE PARK: I got to say it was about half and half, but I'm trying to spend more time here in U.S. since I have my dog here.  (Laughter.)  Yeah, we moved him over here, so I may be spending little more time in the States.
Q. Last question:  Everybody enters the year with goals.  When you have been No.1 in the world and you have won as many majors and are in the Hall of Fame and you have been an Olympian, what goals do you set for yourself as you enter a year?
INBEE PARK: Well, I think it will be definitely a win.  You know, any type of win will be really nice.  I didn't realize since last year this event was my last win on the LPGA Tour, so I think it gives me a good motivation to have a goal.  You know, let's not go past a year.  (Laughter.)  Yeah, try to make it as soon as possible.  I want to definitely have a win and want to hold a trophy.  That's what I'm playing for.
Q. So Laura Davies is 55 and she gave it a really good run last year.
INBEE PARK: Yep.  I remember.
Q. And JoAnne Carner is playing at the age of 80 in the Senior Women's Open.  Can you imagine either of those two things for you?
INBEE PARK: For me?  Hang on.  It's like 25 years away.  (Laughing.)  I don't know.  I mean, that's really tough question.  I don't know.  It's is far away that I can't really tell what I'm going to be doing.
I don't know.
Q. Did it impress you what Laura did last year?
INBEE PARK: It really definitely surprises me.  You know, she's one of my favorite player to watch.  Obviously still being able to compete in this level is just amazing thing to watch.  Yeah, I'm doubting myself if I can do that.  I mean, that's such a big thing..  yeah.
Q. She has such a different game than you.
INBEE PARK: Yeah.
Q. What is it that you enjoy watching about Laura?
INBEE PARK: Just it so feels like once you get older and older and get to know the game better and better you get scared of a lot more things than when I played as a junior.  She still doesn't look like she's not afraid of anything.  She has so much passion.  That's why maybe she is still playing and competing out here.  She is very competitive, which I think sometimes I'm a little bit lacking of.
Yeah, just passion and the competitiveness and things like that.
Q. Wow.  You really sometimes think you lack competitiveness?
INBEE PARK: Sometimes, yeah.
Q. Okay, sure.  Wow.  Then I just wanted to ask your impression of SH Park's game and just kind of how she's done so far on the LPGA.
INBEE PARK: Oh, yeah, I mean, always kind of knew that Sung Hyun was going to play really well out on this tour.  She's super long and she is very straight, so I mean, from there can't really go that wrong.  She has been putting really well since she got on the tour.
That really brought her back to where she was, and she's back to No. 1, right?
Q. Uh-huh.
INBEE PARK: Yeah, so I think she has a great game, very consistent ball-striking, and long, and if her putter works, I think it's really tough to beat.
THE MODERATOR: Any final questions for our defending champion?
Okay.  Thank you for joining us and good luck this week.  Thank you.
INBEE PARK: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT