HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 1, 2019
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 3-under rounds.  How difficult was it out there and what was working well for you today?
INBEE PARK: Well, I think it was really similar game to yesterday, and -- today and yesterday was really similar game for me.  Just a little better on the greens today.  The greens are really firm and it was a little windy, so it's tougher conditions than the previous years than we have played in Sentosa.
Yeah, I feel good.  My ball-striking was good.  I hit a lot of fairways and greens, which was very helpful in these windy conditions.  I think that's the reason I was able to score well.
Q. What was the longest putt you made all day?
INBEE PARK: Not long at all.  I mean, last couple days, I, you know, missed so many opportunities, it's, yeah, incredible how good the scoring is, because I think that's just because I hit a lot of shots really close and gave myself a lot of opportunity.
The longest putt I've made is probably like 15 feet, so not long at all.
Q. We know you're one of the greatest putters the LPGA Tour has ever known.  We've also seen a number of short putts missed by a lot of players this week.  What is the key to putting well on greens like this?
INBEE PARK: You know, greens are somewhat little bit slippery this week, so you have to be careful on your speed, and you have -- if you try to hit it too soft, you have to play too much break and it gets a little bit more complicated.
It's a little bit grainy with the greens, so I don't know what is the good tip, because I think I need some help, as well.
Q. Obviously heading into the weekend, you'll be in a pretty good position.  You've won this tournament twice before.  Talk about your comfort factor at this venue?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I feel always quite comfortable playing in Singapore, and it has been very successful for a few years.  Yeah, and I just love the atmosphere and I love the place, love the golf course.  It really suits my eye, and, yeah, the windy conditions I really don't mind so far.
Hopefully I keep that going for the next two days.  You know, my putter is still a little bit rusty, so trying to get the speed and the breaks right; the next couple of days, that will be really helpful.
Q. You say the putter has been rusty, and this is your first event of the year and it looks as though you've never been gone?
INBEE PARK: Not at all.  I still feel a little bit awkward being on the golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT