U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 2, 2018
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You seem to build a little momentum out there.  Did you think you might be able to put together an even better round than you did?
INBEE PARK: You know, the ball-striking wasn't really quite there.  I was missing, three, four five fairways and lot of greens.  Actually I think I made the best out of it today because I scrambling really well out there.  Last two days my balance on my swing wasn't the greatest so I wasn't hitting it close enough to make birdie.
So, that's the part that I kind of need to work on to tomorrow because I got to have the opportunity to.
Q. What will be your mindset tomorrow, obviously you'll be trailing, how will you go out and play tomorrow?
INBEE PARK: Three rounds under par is a good score so I'm just in the final round I just got to hit the iron shots a little bit more closer because I was busy making pars out there today.
I have to give myself more opportunities at birdie and see because I feel quite good about the putter.  I just haven't been putting for many birdies.
Q. Are you surprised to see how low Ariya is going out there?
INBEE PARK: Yeah.  I know this golf course can be scoreable like long hitters like Ariya, she hits the ball very high and yeah.  So, yeah, it is possible if you hit your irons close but that's the part that I have been struggling this week.
Q. How long have you known Ariya, would you say?  What do you make of her game overall?
INBEE PARK: You know, she's a very powerful player.  She definitely has a lot of advantage on this golf course and when she putts well I think she can go very low.  I know her since she was got on Tour.
Q. Couple of your fellow South Koreans are in position with a really good round to win another one of these tournaments.
How would you explain the success you've had here in this tournament?
INBEE PARK: It's a amazing to see how the Koreans do in the U.S. Women's Open.  We've won lot of them.  Got to be something about the Us Women's Open the Koreans really like.
This is the biggest event of the year and something that makes everyone really concentrate on their game and test in every part of our game.  I think it's a really good test for golf.
Q. How comfortable are you with the Anser style putter you're using now, how comfortable are you?
INBEE PARK: I feel really good.  I have had some success with it and I have been putting quite consistently over the last month or so.  I'm happy with it.
Q. I thought your caddy said you put it in the bag at Phoenix or was it --
INBEE PARK: Different putter than what I used in Phoenix but the same style of the putter.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT