U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2018
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What have you been up to the last like four weeks?  You haven't been playing LPGA events.  
INBEE PARK: I was in Korea for the last three weeks.  I played one event in those three weeks and I won.  So yeah, it was great trip and it was actually first time winning in Korea.   
 Q.  How was it your first time to win in Korea?  What was it like?  
INBEE PARK: They said it was the 20th time that I played in the KLPGA event and I won in my 20th try.  A lot of people were asking, you know, why are you not winning in Korea.  I really couldn't give them a good answer.  I played well, but I ended up falling a little bit short every time.  This win definitely gave them a good answer for it.  I'm happy with that.   
I'm here back in the U.S. playing the U.S. Women's Open and I'm actually going back to Korea to play the Korean Women's Open the week after.  I think it's going to be a good trip.   
 Q.  When was the event that you won?  
INBEE PARK: Two weeks ago.  I took a week off last week.   
 Q.  It was a match play event?  
INBEE PARK: Match play, uh-huh.   
 Q.  Was it fun to get pack in the match play atmosphere?  
INBEE PARK: We lost the match play event this year.  I was really hoping for another match play.  I love match play format.  So it was great to play match play in Korea.  I grew up playing a match play events and I was actually sad that we didn't have any match plays on the LPGA Tour.  Hopefully we have a few coming up.   
 Q.  What about International Crown?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, of course.  International Crown is coming up really quickly.  I know the teams are not decided yet, so we can't talk about it right now.  With Korea you don't know if you are going to get in or not.  If you are playing so well, it doesn't really matter.  I will think about it after.   
 Q.  Having won in Korea leading into this event, did it give you special confidence coming in here?  
INBEE PARK: Definitely.  I putted really well in the match play event and that gave me a lot of confidence on my putter.   
Today was a good putting day as well.  I think my confidence on the putter has definitely helped from the event.  It was a great week to have.   
 Q.  How was the golf course compared to what you saw earlier in the week?  
INBEE PARK: The golf course was actually much better condition that I thought.  Obviously we got a lot of moisture on all parts of the golf course.  You are going to get some mud balls around this golf course.  It's just -- you can't really avoid that.  I got a couple that was pretty bad and it hooked into trees and stuff like that for a couple of times today.  I tried not to get that in my mind so much.  Everybody is in the same boat.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT