LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 12, 2018
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey-free round.  Three birdies on your round.  Good pairing with Brooke.  How are you feeling today?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I feel good.  Yesterday was definitely tougher conditions than today's conditions.  Obviously I had more opportunities today than yesterday, but I wasn't able to make couple coming in.
Yeah, really happy with the round.  Just no bogeys and just pretty solid with ball-striking and two-putting.  Everything has been just the way I want it.
Just few more putts would've dropped would've been nice, but, yeah, that's okay.  Brooke played really good the last couple days and her putting was just, yeah, really good, so...
Q. This is a place you've had success in the past, right?
INBEE PARK: Uh-huh.
Q. How much do you enjoy coming here and playing this course?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I just love being in Hawaii.  So relaxed atmosphere.  One of the best, definitely one of the best weeks to play on tour.  And not just because of the golf course or anything else, but just the place it is.  It's a paradise.  Yeah, everybody loves to come here and play.  Obviously this golf tournament has been a great tournament for me.  I had some great results over the past.
Yeah, the course is -- gets sometimes too windy, but this is what you get on the islands.
Q. Does that atmosphere kind of contribute to -- onto the course once you're out there and help you stay relaxed?
INBEE PARK: Yeah.  I mean, I think this is probably the week where I play most relaxed out of the all of weeks.
I just feel like I'm just out here for the holiday and playing and just playing golf.  Just trying to have that thought.  Every year I come here, no matter what the result is, I enjoy myself out here.
Q. You always seem like you're so relaxed.  How can you get more relaxed in Hawaii?
INBEE PARK: I don't know.  I just get more relaxed in Hawaii.  I don't know why.  I mean, since I was just a little kid my family always came to Hawaii for vacation.  My mom's family is living in here, so since I was four, five I came here every year.
It's like another home for me, so, yeah, I love to come to the beach and just hang out in the beach.  Even if it gets windy, windy is fine because I'm used to it.  This golf course play weird without the wind.
Q. Did you come over early after ANA?
INBEE PARK: No, I had family over in -- at my home so I couldn't come over early, no.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT