ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2018
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you talk about your day for us?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, just a much better putting day than the last couple days.  I made some good saves from the bunker where I couldn't do that on the first day, so I made up for that.  The putter just felt much better today.  I made some good putts out there, especially good par putts on the back nine.
Q. Did you tweak something this morning or is it just total feel?
INBEE PARK: No, same, just went in.
Q. When you look at the board, I mean, right now you're about four back but it's fluctuating.  Is there a lead that seems unreachable?
INBEE PARK: Well, I think it's just going to be like a calm day like today, like the last three days.  So as long as -- I struck the ball good and putt good, I think I can go low, but you know what knows what's going to happen on the final day of a major tournament.  So I'm just going to do my best.  I played quite consistent the last three days, trying to just keep that play going.  Yeah, that will be the goal.
Q. Do you scoreboard watch?  Do you alter your plan?
INBEE PARK: Well, there wasn't many out there.  Yeah, I sometimes watch it, especially on the final day, I want to know where I am.
Q. What do you remember most about winning here?
INBEE PARK: What do I remember?  I remember I was hitting the driver very straight.  Yeah, much straighter than this week for sure.  I hit the ball pretty good this week too, but in 2013 I think my ball striking was so pure, I just didn't miss many shots out there.
I shot something very low for those four days.  So that's kind of the game you need on the golf course.  You have to be really straight off the tee.  That makes the game so much better, especially staying out of the roughs and going in with the short iron, that's so you can give yourself a lot of opportunity, then you can go low.
Q. You're such a calm, sweet, kind person.  But do you feel like when your name is on the board, rushing up the leaderboard that you can intimidate some folks playing behind you?
INBEE PARK: Well, I think that would be a nice thing to have if you have to compete with other girls out here.  So, yeah, I mean, if I can put a little bit of pressure that's great, if not, I've just got to play a little bit better.
Q. Is your dad here?
INBEE PARK: Uh-huh, yes.
Q. I remember he wasn't here.
INBEE PARK: Yeah, he wasn't here.
Q. Are majors more important to you than ever now, coming back after that break and having accomplished all you can accomplish?  Do you focus more on the majors?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I think I definitely do.  I think most of the players do that.  But, yeah, the majors are very important tournaments of the year, and we have a lot, five.  So kind of work your schedule kind of around that is I think a good way to have the season.
Q. Couple huge par saves on the back nine.  For those of us who play golf and struggle, what's it like for you when you're putting so well under intense pressure out there?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I mean, last couple days I wasn't able to putt great, but today was definitely a much better putting day than the last couple days.  Especially on the back nine I was able to hit some good bunker shots and make those par saves, which I wasn't able to do on the first day.
First day I was in the bunker three times and I didn't get any saves.  I was somehow hitting it very far from the bunker, so I'm really happy that I made some confidence from the bunkers today, and obviously the putting was definitely the good part about today's game.
Q. Seven major titles for you, including this one in 2013.  Your last came in the British in 2015.  You came from 3-back on Sunday.  How much will you rely on what happened that day to maybe think back to that come back and let that help you tomorrow?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, last major win was the British Open.  I played really good on the final day, and the putter was really hot.  That's kind of the play you need to win a major championship on the final day.
Hopefully, I keep this putting going, and hopefully I can hit a lot of fairways, so I can have some short irons in, and so I can attack some pins, and hopefully I can make shots like today.
Q. Your caddie was bragging on you and says he does not know how you stay so relaxed out there, but it continues today in this round.  Congratulations, best of luck.
INBEE PARK: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT