HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 19, 2018
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  All right, Inbee, you just keep rolling out here; carrying over from a great result last week as well.  How did you feel about your game today?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I mean, it was a little bit rainy and a little bit cold this morning, but I feel like I played really well out there.  Especially being the new golf course.  I didn't know how was it going to play.   
The course played really good.  Really suited me.  I putted really well out there, so I was really happy with that.   
The conditions, I think the wind picks up this golf courses can get very difficult.  Yeah, looking forward to next three days because I have posted a good round today.  Hopefully I can post some good rounds like today for the next three days.   
 Q.  You talked about switching out the putter coming into this week.  How is that feeling?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, it was always the putter I used for a long time so I'm really comfortable with it.  Just like I used it every day.  Didn't really make much of a difference.   
 Q.  What's it like to see all these fans coming out and coming out to support this first-year tournament?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I never played a tournament outside of Korea having this much Korean supporters out.  I almost feel like I'm playing back home.  It's almost like a little Korea.   
 Q.  Was it raining during your four birdies in a row?  
INBEE PARK: No.  The rain stopped pretty much as soon as we tee'd off.   
 Q.  Oh, okay.  
INBEE PARK: Just when we were warming up.   
 Q.  Got you.  You played really well last week, nearly won, and you switched putters.  Did you just feel like that was the one thing that could have pushed you over?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, last week was really bad putting week for me.  I was hitting the ball good, but a lot of short putt misses, which, I mean, I usually -- yeah, I don't usually miss the short ones.   
Last week was just awkward week where I missed a lot of short ones and I wasn't really comfortable with the putter, so I just wanted to have a different look so I just changed it.   
 Q.  It wasn't the wind, the conditions last week that made it a little tough on the greens?  
INBEE PARK: I didn't want to blame on anything, but just I thought try to find something to blame, I thought it was maybe a new putter.   
 Q.  So Koreatown.  Did you go to dinner?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah.   
 Q.  A lot of the good options around here, huh?  
INBEE PARK: Too many, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT