KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2021
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. You told us the other day that you were still getting warmed up.  Are you warmed up now?
 INBEE PARK:   Yeah, you know, I am really getting the good feel of it.  I played well last three days and obviously played well today as well.
 It's tough putting on these greens, but I have been handling myself really well on the greens.  Obviously they made the course very reachable today and I couldn't take advantage of those holes, but I played rest of the holes good.  So I'm happy with that.
 Yeah, just probably like the same day like last couple, three days, would be nice tomorrow.
 Q. How does that change your game plan when you come out and the course is more than 300 yards shorter than yesterday?
 INBEE PARK:   It was actually a big surprise.  I didn't know the LPGA was going to move four tees up in one day.  I never seen this kind of setup before.  So they tried something new.  I mean, it took a long time on the golf course today waiting to go for the greens.
 But it was fun, but at the same time, I was a little bit annoyed because I couldn't take advantage of them.  But, yeah, but it was, yeah, a fun setup.
 Q. You had four birdies and one bogey.  Can you tells us about those birdies?  Any of them particularly stand out to you?
 INBEE PARK:   Well, I think the good birdie was on No. 13, uphill hole, because I was just going through that a little bit of a rough time, 8, 9, 10, bogeying 11; was going down a little bit.
 Then No. 13 birdie was a big turnaround and I was able to finish well after that.
 Q. What was that birdie on 13?  Can you tell us what you did there?
 INBEE PARK:   I hit a 9-iron and I hit it to about ten, twelve feet.  Yeah, and I holed that, so...
 Q. So you're going to take a five-shot lead into the final round.  You've been in this situation before.  What is your game plan?  Do you go aggressive?  Do you play it safe in do you see what the day brings you?
 INBEE PARK:   Well, I think it's just going to be the same game plan that I have done for last three days, and hopefully things work out just exactly the same as what we have done three days.
 Yeah, just trying to hit a lot of fairways and greens and hopefully the putts will fall.
 Q. And then we've seen a lot of changing weather conditions, course conditions.
 INBEE PARK:   Uh-huh.
 Q. What's the mental game knowing that you're going to have something a little different every day?
 INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, it's a nice surprise I think.  Everybody is new to everything and it's matter of how you going to get used to that.
 It's just part of the game, and I think players probably enjoyed it.
 Q. If you can take the win you'll be getting closer to Se Ri Pak's place in the history books.  What would that mean to you as you get closer and closer to the women who has meant so much to Korean golf?
 INBEE PARK:   Well, it means a lot because we looked at Se Ri growing up, and obviously being able to follow her is great thing.  I mean, that's not my only motivation obviously, but I'm just trying to play week to week and to play some good golf.
 That's it.
 Q. Are the Olympics still a motivation for you?
 INBEE PARK:   Yeah, of course.  Olympics is always a great motivation.  If there wasn't Olympics I might not be here because it's a good motivation to a lot of the players, I think.
 And it's one time in four years and you're kind of pacing yourself, what are you going to do after four years.  I think it's a good event to have for sure.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT