RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 5, 2017
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN CALLANDER: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.  We have Inbee Park with us who has just shot a 64 which ties the course record set a couple of days ago by Michelle Wie.
Just start with a few comments about what appears to be a fantastic round of golf.
INBEE PARK: Yeah, just eight birdies out there and no dropped shots, which is great, a great result.  You know, thinking that we had to play in that, some 20 mile wind for three holes or so.  It was nice and very warm in the morning and it was very scorable conditions.  I definitely took some advantage of that.
The greens were much quicker today than the last two days which helped me a lot.  The last two days I really struggled with the putter and just couldn't get it to the hole.  I just couldn't trust the green was this slow, and today was much better conditions with the greens, and they were holding very true.
So I was able to hole some putts.  I got some confidence from yesterday's ball-striking, and I was able to hit some fairways and greens out there today.
Q. Can you clarify the last, were you 20 feet from the hole when you were trying to get the course record?
INBEE PARK: The last hole?  No, I think it was more like 30 feet.
Q. Was it?
INBEE PARK: Yes.
COLIN CALLANDER: Did you think at one point it was going in?
INBEE PARK: I didn't know there was a course record and I wasn't really paying attention to that to be honest.
Q. You and Stacy have played a lot of golf together, both at sort of the highest times of your careers.  Can you just talk about the pairing and how you played off of her?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, it was a great pairing out there today.  I love playing in twosomes and it's just much quicker and a nice rhythm for me.
Playing with Stacy definitely brought some memories back from a couple years ago.  Yeah, we both played great golf, which really drives each other well.  You know, we had a very good vibe.  It was great to play with an old friend.
Q. You just said you try to play quickly.  What would be -- if you were asked for an opinion on how you would speed up golf, what would you suggest?
INBEE PARK: I think you just have to be prepared when other people are reading their lines or when they are getting ready for it.  You've just got to read your line and you've just got to look at the numbers.  You've just got to be prepared before you hit.  Still there is a lot of girls that when it's their turn to hit, they start working on the numbers and looking at the breaks.  I think that saves much time, just being prepared before you hit.
Q. In Korea, are they quick in general?
INBEE PARK: I think they were very, very slow and now they are starting to catch up a little bit better, and they are getting better and better over the years.
COLIN CALLANDER: You're now at 10-under par with the weather seemingly deteriorating.  Do you think you've put yourself in the picture for tomorrow?
INBEE PARK: Well, really, it's tough to tell because you just don't know what weather -- they might get sunshine in 30 minutes or they might get wind or they might get rain.  The wind hasn't really came into play at all.  Even today there is a little bit of rain right now but don't feel much wind out there.
If it is just rain, I thinks is very scorable out there and it will soften up the greens.  Yeah, I think it really depends what the weather wants to do.  But for -- whether I want to have a chance or not, it doesn't really -- it's not up to me, I should say.  It's up to the weather gods.
Q. I know you concentrate on your own game all the first time, but when the other player is also shooting lights-out, does that help you, as well?
INBEE PARK: I think it does.  It's really one thing that I am happy about is that it really fastens up the play, and at the same time, we are both playing great golf.  When somebody just holes a putt, you kind of think, oh, I can hole this one, as well.
I think it's just -- I think it definitely helps when you have two players that -- it can be different if it is on Sunday.  But I think if it's any other day, I think it is good to have a player that's going low.
Q. You said there hasn't been too much wind this week -- do you think tomorrow that's going --
INBEE PARK: Tomorrow?  I think I've prepared myself pretty well last week in the Scottish Open in the bad wind and bad weather.  I think it doesn't matter, whatever comes tomorrow, it is what it is.  We are expecting the worst, so prepare for the worst.
Yeah, that's what we can do.  I mean, it can change and bring some good sunshine tomorrow.  You just don't know.  I mean, I don't even watch the forecast because it's really hard to judge, whether it's going to be right or not.  So yeah, it just changes; four seasons in a day, and we've felt it for the last few days out here.
Q. Did you sense that round coming today?  Did you feel you were going to have a day like that?
INBEE PARK: Well, I mean, the expectation was pretty low.  I mean, just made the cut yesterday and I wasn't putting good at all.  I was not confident with my ball-striking coming into this week.  I struggled last week and struggled about the last month or so.
I've never been to the putting green this week because I was so concentrated on my ball-striking.  But I said this morning, this is the first time I came to this putting green this week.  So my concentration was just really on the ball-striking.  That's why even I didn't putt well the last couple of days, I didn't complain, because I didn't prepare.
Once the confidence from the ball-striking came on, the putts started to roll and just better mind-set brought me some good putters.  So I think just happy with that.
The last couple days, the ball-striking was pretty solid.  That's what I'm pretty happy with; once I can give myself some chances -- I think the greens, if it gets much slower than today -- the last couple days it was slow and I wasn't able to get it to the hole and that's something I really struggled with.
If the green speed is like today, I think I can get a really good feel off the putter today.
COLIN CALLANDER: Inbee, thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT