ANA INSPIRATION
March 30, 2018
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good day.  Can you tell us about your round?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, it was a good day, I think.  Yesterday the ball striking was really good.  Yesterday just a couple bad bunker shots, and today a lot of opportunities, but I missed some short putts, birdie putts that were maybe makable.   
So everything is good, but just the putter doesn't seem to be too hot at the moment, but I'm liking the way I am right now in the first couple rounds.  I think I'm in a good position.  The next couple rounds hopefully the putter gets a little bit hot.  Because the conditions were really great out there.  There was no wind.  It was perfect for scoring.   
 Q.  You don't switch putters a lot, so when you do switch one, do you stay with it for a while to give it a chance?  How do you approach it?  
INBEE PARK: I don't know the way it has been right now, maybe I'll be switching it back.  I don't know.  I feel like I'm hitting the ball really good, but hopefully I can convert a couple of those good shots into birdies, that would be much better.  I know after using the other style putter now, I know what my problem was.  So even if I go back to the mallet style, I think I can fix my stroke even a little better.   
 Q.  You keep the 2-Ball and the Sabertooth nearby?  
INBEE PARK: No, it's just the 2-Ball I travel with.   
 Q.  The sabre tooth is retired somewhere?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, yeah, retired.   
 Q.  What were the misses?  What do you attribute maybe a colder putter today?  
INBEE PARK: Just maybe a couple of bad strokes and maybe a couple of bad reads.  I think that's it.   
 Q.  Did you look at the board and see -- I mean, there was a record today of minus-12.  Do you feel like you could just go out tomorrow and scorch it and get right back in it?  
INBEE PARK: It was very scorable.  Yesterday and today it was in perfect condition for scoring.  Greens were a lot softer than I thought it would play, so going in with the short iron we were able to attack a lot of the pins.  So, yeah, if your driver was on the fairway, I definitely think 7 and under was definitely possible.   
I mean, even if you missed a couple fairways and missed a couple of putts, I still shot 2, 3-under, so there was definitely room there.   
 Q.  You're obviously golf royalty in Korea.  How is Sung Hyun Park received?  What is her reputation in Korea?  
INBEE PARK: I think her reputation is getting rally big.  She has the type of game where a lot of people can pay attention.  She hits it long off the tee, and I think this kind of golf course really suits her game as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT