KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 10, 2020
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're here with Inbee Park, who just shot a 4-under 66 today.  Inbee, you had six birdies and just two bogeys.  If you don't mind, talk to us particularly about those three birdies you had in a row to make the turn right there at 7, 8 and 9.
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I hit great shots into those holes, and I hit a lot of fairways and greens today, which that's what you really want to do.  There were some pins today that were just really tough to get at.  I missed a couple of those shots on the short side, and I had to make a bogey, but the rest of the holes I feel like I navigated myself really good and played really good.
I putted pretty good today, but I think the ball-striking was really good today, and especially being in the fairways a lot and on the greens a lot.
THE MODERATOR:   Today is called "moving day" for a reason, and you did move your way up the leaderboard.  What are your thoughts now as you head into the final round, looking for a fourth win at this championship?
INBEE PARK:   You know, I thought going into today's round, anything maybe three to four inside of leader will be having a good chance at it tomorrow.  The course is getting firmer and faster, so it's getting tougher, and there are a lot of pins that we can't go at.  The course is playing very smart and very tough.  I'm really loving the course, and playing under contention on the weekend, it's great fun.
Q. You had a nice little stretch of three in a row on the front nine.  Can you tell me how long those putts were?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, on No. 7 I hit it to about six feet.  No. 8 was about 15 feet.  No. 9, three feet, four feet maybe.
Q. This is unusual because you'll have a morning tee time tomorrow; what will you do tonight and how much will you practice?
INBEE PARK:   Well, I'm not really a morning person, so it's just always really hard to get up in the morning.  It's just going to be another day like that tomorrow.  I try to go to bed early, but that's just really tough to do when your life cycle is kind of late and late.
Yeah, probably not going to get a lot of sleep, and I like to get it done early and just relax after.
Q. Will you not get a lot of sleep because you'll be thinking a lot about today's round, or is it just more you don't like to go to bed early?
INBEE PARK:   Well, not particularly.  I think just because I can't go to bed early.  I feel like I am a lot more relaxed than before, and even if I am in contention I feel like I can kind of do my normal routine and not get into my head too much.  I feel I deserve that kind of feeling by now.  (Laughter.)  Yeah, it feels great to be here, though.
Q. Does anything make you nervous anymore?
INBEE PARK:   I mean, it does, when you're in contention and just playing under pressure, especially in the final round in the major championships, it's always a lot of pressure.  But I kind of really enjoy -- I'd rather enjoy that than not being in there.
Q. What were the toughest pin placements today?
INBEE PARK:   Well, those two holes that I made a bogey.  Pretty much.  No, those two holes, the pin positions were tough, and I knew that I couldn't go at those pins, but I kind of did, so that was my mistake today.
Q. Just wondering in a week like this, do you historically think about where you're at like in the history of golf?  If you win this week it'll be your fourth Women's PGA Championship, which is tied for the most ever, or do you just kind of take it week by week, tournament by tournament?
INBEE PARK:   Well, you know, I'd be lying if I said I don't think about it, but it's just too crazy to think something big like that, in the history of golf, history of this championship is going to maybe have a slim chance of happening to me is just too crazy that I really kind of don't think about it, I've got to say.
Q. When we talked to you earlier in the week and you talked about how long this golf course was, does any part of your performance this week surprise you knowing how long of a test it was going to be or are you just one that adapts?
INBEE PARK:   Well, I've got to say Thursday and Friday I hit some great 5-woods and 3-woods into a lot of the holes, and today it played a lot shorter with firmer fairways and tee boxes were up.  The course was playing really good.  I mean, there are still a few long holes still, but it wasn't playing like crazy like we played the practice round, which was really good to see, and I'm just really thankful that we are not getting much rain until today or tomorrow.
Q. When you look at a day like tomorrow, the role of experience and having been there, are you as calm as you appear in that situation?
INBEE PARK:   Well, you know, I've got to say today I stayed pretty calm and pretty much what it looked on TV I think was what I was feeling inside of me.  I felt pretty comfortable out there today.  Just really enjoying the course, trying to navigate this golf course where there are a lot of challenges on this golf course that I'm trying to get around those challenges.  It was just so much fun.  I think I was just enjoying the golf course so much that nothing else was really getting into my head.
Q. Do you like playing in the rain?
INBEE PARK:   No, I don't.
THE MODERATOR:   You won your first major in 2008, your most recent major in 2015.  What would it mean to you to get another major, and then also what has led to your longevity in the game?  Your career started with a bang with that major win and you're still out here competing in majors.
INBEE PARK:   I know.  I didn't know I would be out here still, but I'm still here, and I'm just really proud of myself that I can still put myself in contention in major championships, which is really great to see.  I'm really proud of myself of doing that.  But raising another trophy is a really, really different story and something that I would always remember.  Just proving to myself that I can still compete out here and still win a major championship is just proving to yourself, I guess.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT