BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2018
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Phenomenal start to the round; 6-under through five holes.  You shot a 29 on the front nine.  Were you ever thinking about that magic number that would come into play in shooting a 59 today?  
INBEE PARK: Yes, for a little bit I think after the front nine.  I got off to really good start with a shot eagle on the front and everything seemed to be in.   
On the back nine it was a little bit different, a little bit more boring golf.  You know, I putted many more putts on the back nine than the front nine.   
To finish with the birdie on the last was a relief.   
 Q.  That was an excellent birdie at 18.  Why is it hard to keep sustaining the good play?  Why do you think things cooled off for you on the back?  
INBEE PARK: I don't know.  (Laughter.)  Yeah, because the front nine I felt great.  Everything felt great.  Still the back nine I felt like I was hitting the ball pretty solid, but just putting doesn't seem to drop like front nine.   
If it dropped like front nine it would've been 59, but I'm still really happy with my round today.   
Yesterday after the round I thought, you know, bogey on No. 17 and 18 might put me out of winning this tournament.  Round like today got me back looking at a chance, so I think I'm happy with that.   
 Q.  Great day for Inbee Park.  Talk us through the day, especially the start to your round.  
INBEE PARK: Got off to a really great start with a shot eagle on No. 3.  Yeah, I was pretty much making everything I was looking at until about No. 6.  Then kind of things cooled off on the back nine and it was a little bit more boring on the back nine.   
Finish with a birdie on the last was a great finish.   
 Q.  What's that zone like when you're hitting the ball so well, making the putts?  
INBEE PARK: Ball striking was pretty solid yesterday, all week this week; just putting was a little bit of a problem yesterday.  Putting and the short game I would say.  Yesterday I missed only three, four greens, but everything I missed I made a bogey.   
So wasn't happy with the short game or the putting at all, but obviously made up for it today.   
 Q.  And now you're right back in the tournament with a chance to win.  What'll be key tomorrow?  
INBEE PARK: I think just keep the ball striking, hit a lot of fairways and greens, and maybe putting like today would definitely work.   
 Q.  What were the details on the eagle, club and yardage?  
INBEE PARK: I had 98 yards.  I had a 50-degree wedge.   
 Q.  On the stats on the par-5 birdie, it's like zero putts.  Were you just off the green there?  
INBEE PARK: Just off the green, yes.   
 Q.  How long was that putt?  
INBEE PARK: That wasn't that long.  About 15 feet.   
 Q.  And you were away for a long time before the Olympics; you won there.  Now you're back in form.  What is it about you that you're able to take these breaks and come back so strong?  
INBEE PARK: I don't know.  I think I just love the breaks.  Just really refreshes me.  Obviously I get nervous because I haven't played tournament golf for a while.  I just don't feel like -- I'm not burned out.  I'm happy to play golf again.   
I think that's just kind of the things that has been working really well after the breaks.   
 Q.  When you were No. 1 and winning all the majors, there was a lot of intense pressure, scrutiny on you, so I imagine a break is refreshing.  Does that help you maybe get back that urge to want to win and compete again?  
INBEE PARK: I think it's just kind of 50/50.  Sometimes when you take a longer break it makes you get a little bit more lazier and just kind of think, Oh, I don't want to go back.  I really love this life, too.   
So I think it's just 50/50.   
At the same time, you kind of miss golf as well.  Looking at the girls playing on TV you think you want to be out there.  I think about that time to times.   
Really I couldn't make my mind up when I was taking that break.  As soon as I'm back here, I just feel like this is where I belong.  Really just goes naturally from there.   
 Q.  When you say you couldn't make your mind up, you mean as far as coming back at all or when you would come back?  
INBEE PARK: When, and I was just thinking when I was taking the long break, I was just thinking, I think I can do this life as well.  Yeah, just kind of just thoughts like that.   
But I'm glad I came back out here and playing again.  Obviously days like today, that's the reason I'm playing golf.   
 Q.  And your putting, obviously one of the best putters of all-time.  You changed your putter.  Can you tell us about that?  
INBEE PARK: Yes, I changed to a little bit more Anser style of putter this week, because I think I was getting too used to the mallet style putter doesn't really shows mistakes.   
I wanted to see which way I was missing, what my stroke was doing wrong.  With Anser style you can tell much better.  I wanted to see my misses and good putts and bad putts.  That's why I kind of change it before going to ANA, so I can kind of see my mistakes and see which putts are the good putts.   
 Q.  You look to be putting as well as you ever have.  Do you feel like that?  
INBEE PARK: This week was kind of on and off.  Yesterday putting was off.  Today on the front nine it was great.  I just don't know whether that's going to just keep on going.   
Just putts on the front nine I think like 2013.  It's kind of on and off.   
 Q.  Did you feel ahead of schedule in getting where you want to be for the first major?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I didn't want to change the putter the week of the major.  Really wanted to try that at least couple weeks before going into the major.   
Yeah, I think the change has been working pretty well so far.  Hopefully works for one more day.   
 Q.  And the ball striking is getting where you want it to be, too?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah.  I feel I lost little bit of distance after playing about seven rounds of tournament golf.  Yeah, I got a little bit shorter, but I'm hitting the ball a little bit softer.  So I start to hit the ball a little bit better, but at the same time I lost a little bit of distance.   
So longer holes have been a little bit tougher to play, but obviously having a lot of spin on the iron shots was great.   
 Q.  Chella was saying how it was really motivating for her to be playing with you.  What was that like from your perspective?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, it's always fun to have a lot of birdies in between the two of us.  Chella is always a very consistent player.  She's a great player.  Just a matter of her putting, whether she's making a lot or making middle or making not much.   
So today was good putting day for her and me, so, yeah, both worked out to be a great day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT