RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 5, 2017
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You must be delighted with the round you put together?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I'm very happy with the round today.  Barely made the cut yesterday and trying to play some good golf out there.  Today, this morning, it was perfect conditions this morning for scoring.  Not much wind.  It was pretty warm and the greens were quicker than the last two days.   
So it was actually better to have the faster greens because the greens were really slow the last couple days and I really struggled with the putter.   
I putted great and hit the ball great.  That's something I have been really struggling for the last month or.  So but yesterday and today was great ball-striking days and trying to get some confidence from there.   
 Q.  You've played in pretty much all the conditions that Kingsbarns has given this week.  You must be so pleased to see the sunshine this morning.  
INBEE PARK: Looked like it was going to be a perfect day and we got some wind and the rain again during the round, and we're getting all sorts of weather possible.  That's what we have been getting for the last few days and that's what we expect coming to Scotland.   
 Q.  We see the rain starting to fall now and it's supposed to come in again later this afternoon.  Where do you think your score will leave you coming into the final day?  
INBEE PARK: Well, I just really have no idea because it just really depends on the weather and what the weather God's going to do.  Right now, I say just a little bit sprinkles of rain and not much of wind, so I think it is very scorable out there.  I think leaders should be going pretty low out there.   
So yeah, I'm just happy with the round for myself today.  Doesn't matter how many I'm back.  I'm just trying to play my golf tomorrow and that's all I can do.   
 Q.  8-under par 64, and you even had a putt to set a new course record.  How good was it conditions-wise this morning?  
INBEE PARK: It was nice and sunny and warm, and then during the round we got some wind and the rain again.  So yeah, it was very nice, very scoring conditions this morning.  We didn't have much wind, and it was warm.   
So it was a very good golf course out there.  We hit enough short irons to attack pins and I was able to hole some putts for birdies.   
 Q.  When you go out there early and you know the conditions are as scorable as they were, with the weather forecast this afternoon, how aware are you of making the most of moving up the leaderboard on Saturday?  
INBEE PARK: I think just a good mind-set.  Just try to think positive; that I can be still in contention and don't give up and play hole-by-hole, trying to make the most out of it.   
 Q.  How much did your experience in your previous success in this event help you every time you come back?  
INBEE PARK: Well, I think experience definitely helps in the British Open where the conditions change dramatically over an hour or sometimes ten minutes.  You've just got to think that you're never -- you just never give up, because you just don't know what's going to happen out here.  I'm just trying to play my own golf and hopefully I can give myself enough chances to make some ground up.   
 Q.  Were you thinking about the course record at any point during your round today?  
INBEE PARK: No, not at all.  I was really concentrating on my ball-striking because that's something I have been struggling for the last month or so.  You know, yesterday and today was a good ball-striking day, so that's what I'm really happy about.  The putter just came as a bonus.   
 Q.  So the putt on 18, you weren't aware what that was for?  
INBEE PARK: No.   
 Q.  And going into Sunday, you've given yourself a legitimate chance to win this again.  How confident will you be coming into the final day?  
INBEE PARK: I think trying to keep that same ball-striking feeling going on that I had for the last couple days, and hopefully I can give myself some chances and hopefully putts can drop.   
The greens were much quicker today, which was a big help for me because the last couple of days, I couldn't get balls to the hole and it was playing very, very slow.  So hopefully they keep that green speed.  It's a little bit easier to putt.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT