HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 5, 2017
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Please tell me your putter is near you; you haven't let it out of your sight.
INBEE PARK: Well, my putting was amazing today obviously.  Yesterday I was really disappointed with my putter.  I couldn't make any putts yesterday and obviously I made up for it today.
Today was pretty much, everything I looked at, it wanted to drop in.  It was very consistent ball-striking all week, and obviously there is a lot of birdie opportunities out there and I was able to convert the birdies -- many of them into birdies today.
Q. You were 8-under for ten holes that you played.  Anytime we saw you on the green, we gave you the putt.
INBEE PARK: Well, you know, I kind of felt like in the middle of the round there, I felt like, yeah, I could make it from anywhere on the green.  That was a little bit of luck, as well.  I hit some great putts, as well.  There was a couple of those putts that was a little off-speed, but it hit the holes and went in.
I think it was a great day and obviously a big relief for me after the few months that I did get off from golf, fighting off the injury.
Q. Are you surprised how well you played, given the injury layoff you've had and to come here and be a two-time champion here at the HSBC Women's Champions?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, it surprises me, as well, because I thought it may take maybe a couple months to kind of get back out on the Tour and to get my rhythm back.
You know, I thought I was going to be just a little bit rusty.  That's how I felt exactly last week.  This week was totally different.  Especially the final round was just what I wanted, and obviously it was a little bit inconsistent round like yesterday's round but obviously I made up for it today.
Q. And to do it in such elevated company; Michelle Wie was leading the charge going into the final round play, but to have the world No. 1, Lydia Ko and Ariya Jutanugarn in close quarters, you must be really pleased to come out with such an excellent performance.
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I think these are the groups of girls that has been actually fighting for the trophy every week while I was missing on the Tour obviously.
That's new for me, because when I was on the Tour, I was playing with different players, but I come out in a while and play with these youngsters.  They play some great golf, and obviously Ariya, I played for three days with her, and she played a very consistent game.  She holed a lot of putts and she was very good company.  I was able to tell why she was playing great golf.
Yeah, it was a thrill for me to get to play with a lot of these girls, and obviously being able to pull off a good in that group.
Q. We finish this tournament in rather strange circumstances.  You are the leader in the clubhouse, you are the winner, but we still have three players out on the golf course and surprising to have a suspension all of a sudden.
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I think this never happened to me before.  Maybe 15 more minutes out on the course.  But I guess it's a little bit unlucky.  Hopefully they get back out on the course as soon as possible and just finish it off.
Q. What will you do now?  How will you spend your time?  Your husband and your sister is here.
INBEE PARK: Yes, my whole family is here, so I'm sure I can find something to do.
Q. Could you talk through, how did you find your putting MoJo after last night?
INBEE PARK: I really did feel like I was putting good strokes on it but just didn't go in yesterday.  I didn't change anything.  I just kept telling myself, let's just be patient.  It's going to go in at some point.  It may not be today but it's going to go in at some point.  That was the mind-set I was really going for and I just keep trusting myself that I was putting a good stroke, everything's fine.  Just got to wait for it to fall.
Q. You didn't practice for ages last night?
INBEE PARK: No.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT