KIA CLASSIC
March 25, 2021
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Inbee, a 6-under 66.  That's quite a way to start your season.  You've got to be happy with that round.  How are you feeling?
 INBEE PARK:   Yeah, really happy with the round today, especially I putted really good on these greens today, so I'm really happy with that.
 I know it's going to be, you know, test of some patience this week with the putting green and obviously being my first week out I am probably a little bit rusty, so I'm just trying to get the tournament feeling going for next three days.
 If the results are good it's great, but if not, I mean, I'm just warming up.  It's a good warmup for a first day.
 Q. Good warmup.  Rusty and 6-under 66.  What can we expect tomorrow then?
 INBEE PARK:   I think I just got a little lucky on the greens today.  I was just on the right side of the bump today, so...
 Q. You historically have done really well here at Aviara.
 INBEE PARK:   Uh-huh.
 Q. You've played here ten times, never missed the cut.  I think your average finish is 10th.
 INBEE PARK:   Okay.
 Q. What about this course seems to fit you?
 INBEE PARK:   Well, the course is not overly long and it's -- you know, I hit quite a few short irons into the greens so I get opportunities for birdies.
 So it's just matter of holing some putts out here.  Obviously with the greens with the poana it's really tough to get the speed and the break right.  I seem to do quite well on these greens.
 Q. You said this is your first event of the season.  It's been a while since we've seen you.  What have you been doing for the past few months?
 INBEE PARK:   Well, I have been staying in Korea for a while and I came over to Las Vegas couple weeks ago and did some training for a couple weeks, and here I am.
 Q. Great.  Now how do you follow up today with tomorrow's round?  What's the plan for tomorrow?
 INBEE PARK:   Today was quite tough with the wind and the rain, so hopefully we get a little bit easier day tomorrow.  And obviously the weather was a lot more colder than I thought, so hopefully warms up little.
 Nothing really is going to change.  Just trying to keep that good putting stroke rhythm going and hit a lot of greens, fairways.  That's what I need to do.
 Q. You mentioned the weather.  This is not weather we associate with San Diego.
 INBEE PARK:   I know.
 Q. Do you remember a weather day like this before?
 INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I really don't remember because it has been always just lovely and I just really loved playing this week because of the weather.
 Today was quite cold and quite windy and quite rainy, which I thought we were in San Francisco at one moment.
 Q. Definitely is San Francisco weather.
 INBEE PARK:   Yeah.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT