ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2017
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-under 68 in your third round; how did it go out there today?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, it was a little bit windier than the last two days.  It was kind of tougher conditions, but I was putting well on the greens, so I was really happy with that.  I played the par-5s a little bit better today.  I was 2-under par on the par-5s, so I'm really happy with that, as well.  The back nine is the best off score so far this week, so that's really good, and I can get some confidence from there.   
 Q.  Heading into the final round, what is your mindset?  
INBEE PARK: Just doing the same.  You know, I have been playing pretty good for the last three days, and just trying to keep the same game plan and hopefully I can drop some putts.   
 Q.  Does the long break that you had -- you said it changed your perspective on things.  Does it also change the way you approach Sunday of a major?  
INBEE PARK: I don't think there is going to be much of a different there.  Everybody is trying to play as low as they can on Sunday.  If you have the chance to win the trophy, get a little bit more aggressive, I don't think that really changes the game plan.   
 Q.  With everything that you've accomplished in your career, do you feel as though there is no pressure now on a Sunday in a major?  
INBEE PARK: You know, it doesn't matter how many trophies I have.  It doesn't matter how many majors I have.  I think when it comes to a major on a Sunday, I think everybody is in the same position and everybody just wants to have one more, or one.   
 Q.  When Jack Nicklaus was winning all of his majors, he used to say he would go out early and figure out what number it would take to win.  Do you do that, and if so, what number did you think this was going to require?  
INBEE PARK: You know, sometimes I do and sometimes I don't.  I think this week -- everybody has been scoring really well the last few weeks, and it has been definitely over my expectations.  I think tomorrow, looking at today's scoring, I think may need 6-, 7-under from my position, so probably 16-, 17-under par.   
 Q.  I saw you and your husband on the practice green earlier.  What turned around your putting from yesterday to today?  
INBEE PARK: Well, nothing really.  You know, I have been putting really well.  I have been rolling the ball really good.  Just had breaks where I was just a little bit off the last couple of days and speed was a little bit off the last couple of days.  But today I was able to read them a little bit more correctly, and I was able to have some good speed on them.   
 Q.  Your major championship totals, you would go to 8.  You're already in like legendary company, but you would equal Betsy Rawls.  The only people ahead of you are like the true legends of the game.  Does that matter to you?  
INBEE PARK: Well, I haven't really thought that far, but I think it would be such an honor to put my name amongst all those great legendary players in the history of golf.  I have won a lot -- I feel like I've achieved so many things in golf, a lot more than what I have expected.  Really happy with my career.  Just trying to keep the rhythm still going, but still hungry for a major and still hungry for tournaments, that's for sure, living as a professional golfer.  Yeah, it's going to be a fun game tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT