ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2017
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  3-under 69 today, how did it go out there for you today?  
INBEE PARK: Just looking at the scores, I think everybody can think it was a good round, but actually really a nightmare on the greens for me today.  Strike the ball great.  I'm really happy the way I'm hitting the ball but just putting was very disappointing.   
I wasn't able to make -- I made about three 6-footers and that was about it.  I was missing everything.  So it's disappointing but I had two round of under par, which is good, and I got a tough day today.  27 holes and got it done, so happy with that.   
 Q.  You had to finish your first round this morning and play another 18 in the afternoon.  How did that affect you mentally and physically?  
INBEE PARK: Well, I think it wasn't too bad.  At least we get to play on the calm day.  So I was happy with that.  You know, I was striking the ball good.  So I was happy to keep that play going, and hopefully a few more putts drop on the weekend.   
 Q.  I know you're disappointed to finish bogey, bogey.  What will you be working on for tomorrow's round?  
INBEE PARK: Just the putter.   
 Q.  You're no stranger to the leaerboard.   How comfortable are you when you get to this course?  
INBEE PARK: I've played this course many times, so very comfortable on this golf course.  You know, I thought I knew a lot of the breaks but obviously I didn't today.  But I think experience is definitely going to help over the weekend and I'm really happy the way I'm striking the ball.  Just got to drop some more putts on the weekend for sure.   
 Q.  I don't think I've ever heard you say that putting is a nightmare before.  
INBEE PARK: I mean, I had a lot of putting days like that actually.  I think it's more disappointing when it happens to be in a major championship, so, yeah.   
 Q.  27 holes today wasn't a problem?  
INBEE PARK: Well, we were at least playing in a two-ball, so that really helped.  Everything was kind of going quick.  Yeah, I mean, we've done 36 before, so just try to stay positive about it.   
 Q.  How much did you have to play in the wind yesterday?  
INBEE PARK: I played nine holes, but I think the last couple holes was quite windy.  But seven holes was very inconsistent; it was very windy at one point and very calm at one point.  It was very hard to judge.   
 Q.  You're right near the top of the leaderboard still.  Still upset that you didn't capitalize on the par 5s --  
INBEE PARK: I'm 1-over par on the par 5s, which is not a great score on the par 5s.  Hopefully I can get that to under par over the next two days.   
 Q.  Are you at all surprised that you've played so well the beginning of this year?  Did you think you would have to ease back into it?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I thought it may take some time; it may not.  It was half and half.  It happened to be coming quite quick, so I'm really happy with that.   
 Q.  Why did it come so quickly?  
INBEE PARK: I think it's just working hard and just trying to stay positive.   
 Q.  Is there anything you were particularly worried about or just the entire game?  
INBEE PARK: Just my health.  Just being really free of injury and how I was away from the game for a long time.  So to get the competition feeling again back on the golf course was a worry, but it didn't take that long.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT