HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 5, 2017
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MATT HAAS: Happy to be joined in the media centre by 2017 HSBC Women's Champions winner, Inbee Park.   
Inbee, back in the winner's circle, how does it feel?   
INBEE PARK: Yeah, it obviously felt -- happy to be out here and see all my friends and to play golf in these conditions, I think that's a very big thing for me and it's something that I should be appreciating that I didn't appreciate before.   
So I'm happy that I got my putter back today.  Yesterday was I was a little disappointed with my putting.  I was hitting some good putts but just didn't dropping.  It was a little frustrating and disappointing, but obviously today was a very good day on the greens, and I was able to put myself in the winner's circle this week -- the faster, the better, that's what I always said.  Yeah, it's great.   
MATT HAAS: Speaking of the putter, how would you rank today's putting round among your best ever?   
INBEE PARK: Best ever, well, I putt really good in the Olympics, as well.  It's hard to believe it's been six, seven months since that happened and this is my second start since then.   Yeah, this is one of the best putting days.  Yeah, it's been great.   
You know, I was just in that zone today.  I think I putted good the first and second round, but nothing like today.   
MATT HAAS: Do you think taking that long stretch off after the Olympics and just starting back up last week helped you to be ready for this win?   
INBEE PARK: I definitely think so.  I mean, last week was a very good warm-up week for me.  I knew that at that tournament, I was hitting the ball great.  The ball-striking was good.  I knew that my putter and my short game wasn't exactly there yet.  I knew what I needed to work on this week, which is what I did this week, and it worked great.   
MATT HAAS: What specifically did you work on this week to get ready?   
INBEE PARK: You know, I just thought it was just lacking tournaments and lacking that actual tournament feeling.  Nothing technically was wrong.  I was doing pretty good on everything, but just speed was off a little and break was a little off.  Last week, away from the game, so I was going to be curious and worried about myself, how it's going to be.  Obviously this week gives me so much confidence to go on.   
 Q.  When you came to the 17th and Ariya pitched first to the pin a couple feet away, did you think, wow, I've got to hit a good one now, because she could get a shot back, or were you not worried?  
INBEE PARK: I told myself, you can't worry about things that haven't happened yet.  I had couple-stroke lead, and even she made that putt; and even if I don't make that putt, the worst case, it's a one-stroke lead going into the last hole, which is not a bad place to be.   
Obviously playing golf for a long time, I know that there is no guarantee in golf.  There is no guarantee that I'm going to miss the putt and there's no guarantee that she's going to make that putt.  I just said, let's not worry about it, and I just want to get the speed right on my putt, and the break was right, as well.   
 Q.  You said earlier that you felt rusty.  Was there a point during the tournament where you felt it suddenly turned, or was it something that changed gradually over the four days?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I think it's really gradually.  Last week was probably, I felt I was a bit rusty.  This week, I knew that the rust was just going down and down, and obviously first couple rounds, I had two good rounds.  That gives me a lot of confidence and I thought, you know, maybe I'm ready to win again.   
So I think a couple of good rounds, consistent rounds, really helps to get back.   
 Q.  When you went on that amazing run and holing those putts from all over the place, what was going through your mind?  Did you feel that you couldn't miss?  
INBEE PARK: I think it's always hard to make first putts, and then after, it gets easier.  Once you get the confidence going, then -- you know, maybe by the third birdie, I kind of felt like, you know, the putting, I just felt like it was in the hole.  I had to wait for the moment (ph) the whole time, and today was just that day, where I stand over the putt so confident that I can draw a line directly to the hole and it just goes exactly to the hole.  It was just that kind of moment today.  Very good concentration level.   
MATT HAAS: You have your sister here, and you had the parents here.  Husband obviously here.  What did it mean to have them here for your win here?   
INBEE PARK: Well, you know, I always say, if they come to every tournament in the year, they can pick and choose what tournaments they want to come.  It's hard to witness the winning, but they have pretty good odds in Singapore, and obviously it's always great to show some good golf and show them that I'm healthy again.   
I don't know what they were thinking about, but they might not have expected me to win the trophy this week.  They might have came here just to cheer me on, just to say that you can do it.  They probably just came to give me energy, but I think I was able to give them something back, so it's great.   
 Q.  Winning this tournament for the second time; you're the first person to do that.  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, first person to do that, I couldn't believe that, obviously that's great.  And also played on two golf courses, as well.  I always loved playing in Singapore.  We always get a great field of players here this week.  As a player, it's always great to compete with the greatest players and the strongest field.   
Yeah, there's a reason why HSBC is Asia's major, so yeah, really glad that I can put my name on this trophy twice.   
 Q.  Your grandfather is here, as well; how old is he?  Does he walk the course when you play, and will there be a big celebration with the family tonight?  
INBEE PARK: Yes, he's here.  He's 83 this year, and he's very dedicated.  Last week, I played 28 holes one day and he followed, too, and he's never taken a shortcut.  He always comes to the green.  My husband and my dad, they always take the shortcut but he doesn't take the shortcut.  He's just that into my game.   
 Q.  I just wanted to know, did the Olympics change how you are viewed in Korea?  Did it change your feelings or change your status in Korea?  
INBEE PARK: You know, I think the fact that definitely more people recognise me.  Yeah, but nothing really changes.  Still playing professional golf and I've got the Gold Medal in golf, but obviously a lot more people in Korea know what the game of golf -- what golf is.  I should say a variety of people; like little kids.   
 Q.  You talk about how this week -- how has this changed your targets for the year?  Is it maybe getting back to world No. 1?  How does it change?  
INBEE PARK: My goal was to win a major championship this year, and winning this one doesn't change my goal because I haven't reached my goal yet.  But obviously I feel like I have to get close to the goal because winning the major, it's something that you have to do -- and this tournament definitely gives me confidence.   
 Q.  Do you have a particular major in mind?  
INBEE PARK: Not particularly.  Any is fine (laughs).   
 Q.  Could we have your grand father's name?  
INBEE PARK: Byung Joon Park.   
 Q.  Do you have a message for your fans here in Singapore?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, it's hot weather in Singapore and we got some rain, as well.  You know, still to get that much people on the golf course to cheer us on is a great support, and I thank the fans who came out to watch here, and those who watched us on television, as well.   
 Q.  I was following you and most of the time you had a very calm exterior.  It didn't seem like you had emotions, but you had a facade; was there any excitement?  Were you anxious at any point during the round?  
INBEE PARK: You know, somehow I felt quite calm today, except the last hole.  The last hole, I got to the last hole and I thought maybe I can win this championship.  I had a little get of nerves on the last hole.  What you see is what I was doing.   
 Q.  I think to me, watching your calmness, when you made putts, calm, steady; how do you get that way?  Is there something that you can share?  
INBEE PARK: If there is something special I can share, I will share with you, but I mean, there is really nothing.  I always have been played golf with.  Experience always helps.  I had a lot more (ph) today than wining my first tournament; and the second, the third, the fourth, it get better.  And when there's pressure, I get calmer.   
I experience definitely helps and personally, as well, I don't get too excited or I don't get too mad.  I guess it's personality.   
MATT HAAS: Inbee, congratulations again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT