HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 3, 2017
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  67, 67, not too shabby for only your sixth competitive round in eight months.  
INBEE PARK: It's a good round today.  Obviously I got off to a very hot start.  I was able to make some putts early in the round and then I had a little bit of a mistake on No. 12.   
I had a couple of birdies on the back nine, so I was able to clean up my mess on the back nine.   
 Q.  You bounced back very well after the 12th.  What happened there?  
INBEE PARK: No. 12, I had a really good drive down the middle.  I just got a mud ball that was on the right side of my ball.  I knew it was going to go left because the mud was on the right but I just didn't expect that to go 30 yard left.  Obviously didn't get up-and-down from there.  It was a tough lie.  I should have finish with a bogey but that was a mistake.   
 Q.  Did you think you would find yourself leading this tournament going into the weekend?  
INBEE PARK: I'm always dreaming myself of leading and holding the trophy by the end of the week.  But obviously last week was my first start in a while, and I thought this week was going to be like a warm-up week for me.  But then obviously I knew that my long game was there last week, and I needed to work on my short game and my putting.  It has been better this week and it is going in the right direction.   
 Q.  And you're feeling it, are you, your short game and your putting?  That's what you mentioned before.  
INBEE PARK: My putting was much better than yesterday but my chipping today was awful.  I only chipped in a couple times but that was all mistakes.  Hopefully I can get that around a little bit and get better third and fourth day.   
 Q.  What do you think you need to work on?  
INBEE PARK: Well, I think it's very important to drop a lot of putts over the weekend.  For me, I think my game around the green is not great at the moment, so I want to hit a lot of greens obviously.   
I made some mistakes today.  On No. 12, I made a double-bogey.  I need to get that kind of mistake off of the scorecard.   
 Q.  What do you usually tell yourself when you make a mistake?  
INBEE PARK: I think it is very important to just forget about it and move on to the next hole.  What is past is past.  This is kind of the mind-set that I have.   
 Q.  What did you tell yourself after the double bogey?  
INBEE PARK: It was just really unlucky.  I had a really good drive down the middle and I had mud on the ball.  I was on the right side and I knew it was going to go left, and I aimed right but it went 30 yards left.  I hit a good shot but it's that unlucky bounce.  Making double-bogey was a mistake.   
I was already having a really good day.  I didn't want to ruin the day with one bad hole with an unlucky shot.  I think it's just trying to keep the calm emotions going.  Obviously there was a few birdie holes coming in, so I was trying to get a couple from there.   
 Q.  Your putting has been pretty good this week.  Have you 3-putted this week?  
INBEE PARK: No, I haven't 3-putted, but there's a few missed opportunities.  Obviously it's better than last week, so it's good.   
 Q.  Is it because the greens are slower?  
INBEE PARK: The greens are a little bit harder to read here.  Obviously I feel like I am not totally warmed up yet with so much break.  Yeah, hopefully I can get better every day.   
 Q.  It's only your sixth round, but are you surprised at how well you're playing in Singapore?  
INBEE PARK: I like playing in Singapore and obviously this course is a new course.  Somewhat the greens are quite similar to Serapong.  They are the same grass type, bermudagreens.  I think it kind of suits my eye, this golf course.  Yeah, I like playing here.   
 Q.  You said you're not totally warmed up, but you're on top of the leaderboard.  Can we expect a whole lot more from you over the weekend?  
INBEE PARK: Hopefully I can keep these consistent rounds going.  But just never know what's going to happen.  We're only halfway there.  I'm just going to try to play my own game.   
 Q.  Do you feel that since it's only your second start, you don't have so much expectations, and you are more relaxed?  Do you feel very relaxed?  
INBEE PARK: I think so.  I mean, a little bit, I said I was a little bit nervous that week, but I think that got much better this week.  Obviously expectation is obviously lower than what I have usually set for myself in the last few years.   
Yeah, just I had tough times last year, so the sooner I get back, it's better.  But obviously two good rounds here will definitely help with the confidence.   
 Q.  When you say you're nervous, is it just getting the jitters of competitive golf again?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I guess nervous and excited, because I haven't played competition golf for awhile.  Obviously to compete in tournament golf, it felt like forever.  Never took that kind of break in my whole career, so it was just something different.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT