KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 10, 2016
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How much was today's round as a result of the thumb?
INBEE PARK: Well, you know, today's round was actually -- I was going all right on the front nine, I was holding on pretty good.  And just on the back nine, I just couldn't get a rhythm of the swing.  And I missed a lot of shots to the right.  And it was just really frustrating and disappointing.  I just couldn't get the right swing to work.  I really thought that I could do it.  I really thought that I can play really well this week.  And I thought I was really ready, but I just wasn't.
Q. After such an emotional night last night, was it hard to kind of get going this morning?
INBEE PARK: Well, I say I think I was maybe too happy, and last night we all felt so happy, and I got congratulated by a lot of people until the late night.  And it really has nothing to do with golf, though.  I think to come out here, feel like I started pretty fresh, but it was just tough out there.
Q. Ariya obviously plays a different style of golf than yourself.  How would you appraise how she goes about it, hitting those 2-irons off the tee and such?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, you know, I think she had her tough time with the ball-striking when she had an injury, and obviously she's maybe not too comfortable with the driver yet.  But I'm sure she's going to really get used to the confidence.  And I think she's going to definitely get to hit a driver later in her career.  And I think to get over this slump like that and to be able to break through the slump and win and doing well is really great to see.  She's definitely a great, great player.
And I always thought that she -- like I asked my husband, like maybe three years ago or so, and I said if you were to teach another player, other than me, who can you think you can make No. 1 player?  And he said Lexi Thompson and Ariya Jutanugarn.  So they seem to play pretty well after a couple of years.  It was quite cool to see that.  Obviously they had good potential.
Q. Did you hear from anyone last night that surprised you?
INBEE PARK: Just about everyone that I really loved.  I don't think there was too much of a surprise.  Obviously I felt pretty lucky and pretty blessed to be congratulated by the people.
Q. What's your next step as far as playing with the thumb injury?
INBEE PARK: I think I really have to kind of rethink.  I really had the goal of playing well this week and do what I can do on this week.  And I think now having tried it three or four times with the injury and playing with the injury, I kind of have to rethink and maybe regroup.  I might need some time to maybe really get better and be back with the confidence.  I'm just going to have to sit down with my team and just kind of have to discuss it with them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT