HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 22, 2017
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So Inbee, how does it feel to be back on the LPGA tour?  
INBEE PARK: It's really exciting since I've taken quite a long break considering.   
Yeah, happy to be back, happy to be healthy, happy to be back on the golf course, happy to be playing golf.   
So, yeah, I'm really happy to start the tournament in Thailand.  This is one of my favorite tournament to play.   
Yeah, looking forward to it.   
 Q.  How much does it help that this is kind of a no-pressure event, no-cut, an event you've won before?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, this golf course is a great setup to test your game before the season starts.  Yeah, I had great results here in Thailand.  This course really fits my eye, so I'd really like to start the tournament with the confidence obviously.   
This tournament is only small-field tournament and it's a great event to test your game, so I love to be here.   
 Q.  Or you feeling health-wise?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I feel really good.  I haven't felt much pain at all for last couple months.  I think that's a pretty safe sign.   
I haven't played a tournament yet but I'm pretty confident that I can go through pretty healthy this season.   
 Q.  What was the practice regimen leading up to this season coming off the injury?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I mean, I took a lot of time off.  I didn't touch a club after the Olympics for about maybe four months.  I started practicing in December and until now I slowly got now practice time a little longer and longer.   
Now I'm back to pretty much regular routine.   
 Q.  Is there anything specific you worked on having that much tome off?  
INBEE PARK: I just try to get the feel back.  Obviously with the injury I my swing has changed a little bit.  I tried to get back to what I usually swung.   
Yeah, I think I'm really back to what I want to do.  The most important thing is that I can't be scared of my injury.  If I still have that feeling inside me my swing is going to change.   
So I am trying to get that fear off me, and that has been working pretty well.   
 Q.  Now that you're testing it in competition, anything you're worried about, or you feel really confident in your game right now?  
INBEE PARK: I can't really say much right now because I really haven't tested it for a while.  I've done it many times in practice rounds, but competition golf is really different.   
You know, once I get a couple tournaments in I should be able to know what I need to work on and what I'm doing great on.  So just taking couple tournaments, one tournament at time, and just trying to warm up and get the feel of the tournament again.  I haven't felt that for a long time.   
 Q.  Planning to play a schedule similar to years past?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah.  Going to try to make it that way.  I got to see how it happens as the season goes by.   
Yeah, just try to play as many tournaments as I can, but I'm going to try to concentrate on majors a little bit more.  Yeah, maybe a little bit smaller schedule this year.   
 Q.  Finally, goals for 2017?  
INBEE PARK: I would like to really add major championship trophy.  That's really the only thing I'm worried about right now.   
The main thing is just being healthy for the whole season and playing a normal routine and normal schedule.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT