OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 18, 2016
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Are you surprised you're playing so well, considering you haven't played a lot over the last couple weeks?  
INBEE PARK: I think first coming here, I didn't really know whether I was going to play this week or not due to the injury. Obviously didn't expect much of a result. It was more of, you know, whether I can play or not. So I mean, a good result is a great gift.   
But at the same time, I know I've been in the position before and I know in a good condition, I can do it. I think just trying to enjoy the Olympics and try to enjoy the Olympic golf, brought really good results.  
   
 Q. When did you make the final decision to play this week?  
INBEE PARK: About a month ago.  
   
 Q. What was the key to the round today?  
INBEE PARK: Today's round, I was able to convert the birdies. I missed a couple of tee shots, so I was in the sand area, and I was able to convert them into birdies. That's really the key for today's round.   
Then obviously I putted a little bit better. The golf course seems like it really gets used to the eyes, and we played yesterday, so it felt a lot more comfortable. It's just going to get‑‑ I think try to get used to the course as quick as I can. That will be really the goal for this week, because it's a new golf course.  
   
 Q. You converted those birdie putts, the six inside ten feet that you missed, you converted those today, that was the key?  
INBEE PARK: Yes, I made much more than yesterday, which was a good thing.  
   
 Q. Last night did you think it was going to be tough to follow up your round with a similar round today?  
INBEE PARK: I didn't what the condition was going to be. Today is luckily, we didn't have much wind. I was the second‑last group and we didn't have much wind. Just very lucky. Yeah, got to take advantage of those good conditions and we just don't know what's going to happen for the next two days. Only two rounds finished.  
   
 Q. Stacy said the second day of competition on this course makes a huge difference, and just knowing where to hit and place; do you think the same?  
INBEE PARK: I think so. First round, I think everybody was really nervous and they were kind of new to the golf course. So they were just kind of trying to see the golf course and everyone was just getting used to the golf course.   
But today obviously, everybody knows where to hit and next two rounds, I think everybody kind of really knows the golf course and the real game begins.  
   
 Q. 1 to 10, how pleased are you with the position, two rounds in?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I'm totally satisfied. I didn't expect that much from me coming this week with injuries and with hard times that I've gone through. You know, my mind‑set changed coming here. I just really try to enjoy and really try to show what I've just done for the last month. Yeah, that's what I really tried to do.  
   
 Q. With your back up against the wall and the pressure mounting, we usually see you perform your best. For those who might not see you play every week, what does that say about your perseverance, and all the pressure that came to you this week?  
INBEE PARK: I think I'm going to treat it just like a major championship that I've done before. I'm just going to try to treat nothing different. Just going to try to treat everything the same and try to do what I've just done for the last two days, trying to hit the ball in the fairway and trying to make some putts.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT