KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2016
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Really solid round for you today.  At the start of it, you were four shots back of Lydia Ko.  What did you think you had to do?
INBEE PARK: Well, she has been playing pretty steady all year.  So I knew I needed something really low today, obviously being four behind.  Today was a great round but just second and third day, I left a lot of putts out there.  A little bit of disappointing second and third round but it was a great finish today.
Q. After missing the cut last week in Phoenix, coming here and contending, where do you think your game is heading into next week's major at the ANA Inspiration?
INBEE PARK: I have been struggling with ball-striking to putting and everything until probably last week.  This week, everything started clicking together.  Started to hit the ball a lot more straighter and started to get a lot of confidence and obviously dropping a few putts gave me a lot of confidence.
We have a really important tournament coming up next week, so I really needed to push myself a little faster to get ready.  So this is a great finish for me and it's going to be a good confidence week for me.
Q. Is there anything you're going to tweak now for next week with your game?
INBEE PARK: Nothing really much.  I mean, it was tough to tell how my stroke was exactly on these greens, because sometimes you feel like you hit a great putt but it just doesn't go in.
Yeah, everything seems like it's really in a nice order and yeah, I feel good about the game.
Q. Definitely made a big chase at Lydia, what was the biggest key for you and the difference today?
INBEE PARK: I have been hitting the ball very steady all week this week.  It was just that difference in putting.  The first day and today was a great putting day, just second and third day wasn't the great putting day.
I'm really glad I'm hitting the ball really good and getting some confidence from this week for next week, and yeah, feel really good about the game.
Q. I know it's been a little bit of a struggle at the start of the season, unusual for you.  What did you kind of think coming into this week?  How did you feel about your game and do you feel like you're in a good spot for next week?
INBEE PARK: I wouldn't say I was 100 percent confident coming to this week, but I knew everything was going the right way and nothing was too wrong.  Just needed just a little bit of a tweak, and I just did that this week.  Went through a couple of good swing changes and a couple of thoughts on the greens and that just did it.
Q. When you see Lydia having a few-shot lead coming into a day and you're that far back, do you think you really have an opportunity at it?  Did you think coming into today that you could do that push to maybe get a win?
INBEE PARK: Well, you know, nothing is impossible, and obviously on this golf course anything can really happen.
I mean, it is hard to be four behind Lydia going into the final round but I just gave it my best and I think I was just maybe too much behind.
Q. I don't think she's 3-putted this week.  Is that impressive out here, given how big these greens are and the slope of them?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I had one 3-putt this week and I thought that was pretty good.  But I didn't know if she had no 3-putts.  I mean, she's a great short game player and a putter.
No surprise, but yeah, that's pretty impressive.
Q. The shot into 15 for you, tell us a little bit about that, because you missed the green and that ended up being a tough one for you.
INBEE PARK: The ball was a little bit above my feet.  I thought it was going to break a little left.  I just missed it a little bit and I pushed it a little bit.
Q. It was one of those back nines where you couldn't make any mistakes, right?
INBEE PARK: I knew there was a lot of opportunities, but there was a couple of wedge shots that I had to hit it close but I missed the opportunity.  But I got away with it because I holed some good putts, but yeah, I mean, front nine and the back nine, I think definitely there was a couple more that I could have done better.
Q. What was your aiming point on 18?  Did you feel like you could get closer than you did?
INBEE PARK: I haven't really watched the leaderboard today, because I haven't really been up there for awhile, and I just didn't want any kind of thoughts going into my mind.  So I didn't really know where I was and I just aimed a little left of pin and I just pulled it just a little bit.  I think maybe I was too afraid of the water.
Q. When you're trying to find something with your putting, do you work on this on your own or does your husband chime in and give you some tips?  I mean, you're such a great putter.
INBEE PARK: My husband helps me on everything.  Definitely I really rely on him on the golf course and off the golf course obviously.  He's been a great coach and I definitely take his advice.
Q. What were his putting tips this week?
INBEE PARK: He thought my stroke was looking pretty good all year and nothing was just dropping, you know.  I didn't really change the big thing.  I think it's just about time to go in.
Q. Just needed some patience?
INBEE PARK: Yeah.
Q. This course is very different from what you'll face next week but what does playing so well on the weekend help setup next week?
INBEE PARK: What I really needed was really a good finish and that's going to give me some confidence to go into next week and this is definitely going to do it.
Yeah, I mean, the golf course is going to look different and it's desert next week, and it might get the wind.  But we just are so used to the golf course and I've played that over ten years.  I'm pretty familiar.  Hopefully that can do some advantage.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT