INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 25, 2014
Mika Miyazato
Ai Miyazato
Sakura Yokomine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KELLY THESIER:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We would like to welcome Team Japan into the interview room here at the International Crown.   First off, ladies, congratulations. 
Mika Miyazato and Mamiko Higa won their match, and Ai Miyazato and Sakura came back from six down with seven to play to halve their match with Australia.   So they captured three total points today. 
First off, Ai, I have to ask you, because we watched that match unfold on the back nine, it looked like it was going to be an early finish for you and yet you found some way to hang in there and take it all the way to 18 and get a point.   How good does that point feel right now? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh my God, it feels amazing right now.   Until 12 holes, I and Sakura was like today is just the Australian's day, you know.   They played really solid and they kept making birdies and we just couldn't take a chance. 
So we thought that just today is just someone's day, but it was really good because me and Sakura was not really intense.   We just tried to accept the results.   We tried to accept the results and tried to move on.   We said that every hole is just an extra bonus. 
So it just happened, it was just amazing. 
KELLY THESIER:   Mika, you guys were done with your match, you got to pick up a victory over Karrie Webb and Minjee Lee.   Just take us through that match.   To defeat a Hall of Famer and win a point.   How does that feel? 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   We played badly, started badly, so it was a pretty good match.   But Karrie played so well.   But Mamiko played so well today, she did a good job. 
KELLY THESIER:   When you guys were finished with your match you went and followed this match, did you guys think you would be out there watching for as long?   What were you guys thinking for your teammates when you went out there?   They were down pretty big when you guys went out to watch. 
MIKA MIYAZATO:   Yes, of course. 
(Laughter.)
KELLY THESIER:   Didn't think you would be out there that long, right? 
Questions for Team Japan? 

Q.   What goes through your mind when you're six down with seven to play and suddenly you win one and you win another.   I'm sure there's a temptation to get ahead of yourself.   What's the thought process? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Well, it was obviously really lucky, because Sakura made a birdie on 12.   But right after that, we got the time from the official, they timed us and all of a sudden, Katherine and Lindsey, they kept missing the fairways and the greens.   And we had birdie chances and I think that was the break point today. 
It was just something clicked, and after 12, we kept the round going.   So it's match play, I thought it's just something that happens and the momentum is going to go the opposite way sometimes.   And I realized that you never know what's going to happen until the end.   And match play is great fun. 
KELLY THESIER:   You guys have captured six points in two days and are currently leading your pool.   You guys kept the same pairings today as you had in day one.   Have you guys thought about what you're going to do for day three yet? 
AI MIYAZATO:   That's a good question. 
(Laughter.)
We haven't made a decision yet.   Probably we should just keep going, you know.   Just, why not?   After two days and we got the six points, I think that's enough reason for keeping it going. 

Q.   I wanted to check on it, the feeling that the momentum is going to break, is that one point perhaps going to mean more points building the confidence?   Because both of you had to come back today, yours was early and yours was late.   The inspiration, maybe, for something bigger, maybe even winning the whole thing? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Inspiration from the other match? 
KELLY THESIER:   Yeah, how much does the one point that you guys won in this match, how much confidence does that give you going in and how big could that be in overall? 
AI MIYAZATO:   Oh, better than zero, for sure, you know.   The one point is huge.   These points are going to take over until Sunday, right?   So any points, we'll take.   But I saw Mika and Mamiko could won after 16 and that makes me really pumped up.   They won against Karrie and Minjee and I thought it was going to be a really tough match, but they did a great job. 
It was really inspiring, I thought.   So I think that both of them, I mean, the teamwork, both of our teamwork today I think was great. 

Q.   Can Sakura walk us through the birdie putt on 17. 
SAKURA YOKOMINE:   It was about 15 meters.   I used a 7‑iron and then I was so happy to sink that ball there. 
AI MIYAZATO:   Can I say something about it? 
(Laughter.)
I thought that pin position was really tough.   I mean just right next to the water.   And obviously four of us hit it to the left side of the pin.   Her putt was like almost up and goes down a little bit towards the cup.   So it wasn't really easy putt.   And my chipping wasn't like way too far past the cup.   I was like, you know, I messed up a little bit and hopefully she could hit it close to the cup and at least we can make par. 
But she obviously had a really good stroke.   It went in right in the middle.   I was just really excited about her, more than her, probably. 
(Laughter.)
I felt that way, anyway. 
KELLY THESIER:   Ai, this week is not about individuals, it is about teams.   How much have you guys kind of bonded together throughout the week?   Have you been doing a lot of things off the golf course together?   How do you guys feel about kind of your teamwork? 
AI MIYAZATO:   I think it's great.   Obviously the results are really good, but we're just having fun all week.   We all just really appreciate that we're taking this opportunity. 
To represent my country is just amazing, and at the same time, it's a lot of pressure.   But we love to play under the pressure.   We know we can do it.   So hopefully we can keep it going and see what's going to happen. 
KELLY THESIER:   Well, thank you very much, ladies.   Best of luck tomorrow and keep up the good work.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT