U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2014
Sakura Yokomine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Not a lot of subpar rounds today.  Obviously you were able to do that.  How happy are you with the way that you played.SAKURA YOKOMINE: I was told that I am only one of three persons under par.  So I'm very happy and excited about it.
Q. It puts you in very good position for the weekend.  How excited are you to be able to contend for a U.S. Open going into the third round?SAKURA YOKOMINE: Before I started the round today, I was wishing that I could make the cut.  So I achieved that goal.  So I'm happy just for that.  I haven't thought about the weekend yet.
Q. You had an eagle on 5?  Could you describe that?SAKURA YOKOMINE: So I was in the fairway and the tee was up and I used a 9-wood to the green and I had 10 meters on the putt.
Q. Did you play better today or were the course conditions different today or did you just play a lot better today?SAKURA YOKOMINE: Today I had a better feel on the greens.  So that is why I was able to play better.
Q. Your level of confidence for tomorrow.  You achieved your goal to make the cut.  You're in contention for this championship.  So just psychologically how do you feel going into tomorrow and what will your approach be?SAKURA YOKOMINE: I don't think I'm in the hunt yet for the title, but if I play better, if I play good tomorrow then I'm happy if I'm in that position to be able to chase for the title.
Q. Why don't you think you're in the hunt?  You're in the hunt.SAKURA YOKOMINE: It hasn't settled in yet.  I know that I'm tied for 7th, but it hasn't sunk in where I am in the tournament yet.
Q. Do you expect to be a bit nervous tomorrow going out?SAKURA YOKOMINE: Yes. (Laughter.)
Q. How will you handle those nerves?  I mean Karrie Webb said the other day all the U.S. Opens she's played in, and she's a former champion, and she says she still has to deal -- she gets out there and she's really nervous and that's her biggest obstacle.  Because all of you know how to play golf, but it's really the mental part of it.SAKURA YOKOMINE: I don't think that being nervous is necessarily a bad thing and I'm just facing being nervous and I will see how I do against that emotion.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT