WNBA FINALS: SPARKS VS LYNX
October 4, 2017
Candace Parker
Nneka Ogwumike
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Lynx - 85, Sparks - 76
Q. Candace, just after such a hard-fought series to kind of battle all the way back like you did and come up short, what's the emotions right now?
CANDACE PARKER: I mean, we're sad.  Obviously we lost.  Glad everybody enjoyed the series.  It was exciting.  That's all I've got.  I think it was a good series.
Q. Nneka, another physical game; what did you think about the way that things were called and to kind of have to leave early like you did?
NNEKA OGWUMIKE: I mean, it happened, so...
Q. Candace, from your viewpoint, what was the ultimate difference in this Game 5?
CANDACE PARKER: Honestly, rebounding.  That hurt.  Obviously it hurt not having her in the game.  That hurt, honestly.  But our start wasn't as up to par as we wanted it to be, but we cut the lead and we got back in the game, and a couple calls didn't go our way.  We just have to do a better job in the off-season of trying to figure out how to draw contact.  I think that's something that I have to do in the off-season is drawing contact so I can get the call.
Q. All night you guys were coming from behind; I would ask did it wear on you, but even at the end you made that great run to rally.  What does that say about the character of your team?
CANDACE PARKER: We're not going to give up.
Q. What did you think of this old barn, and did you enjoy playing here?
NNEKA OGWUMIKE: Yeah, I always enjoy playing in front of a crowd.  Always.  It's confusing when everyone says hostile environment.  I mean, it's not hostile in LA, but the gym was packed.  So I don't feel like it's hostile.  I'd rather be playing here in front of these people than watching from my living room in Russia.
Q. Candace, I know it's hard in defeat, but do you take some solace in what this series did in terms of bringing attention to the sport?
CANDACE PARKER: I think it brought attention to a lot of things, you know.  Obviously this new format has been good for our league.  I think it brought attention to things that we as players have to do better.  I think it's brought attention to -- obviously five games, it's good.  I think people can get into the series.  Yeah.  I mean, I think it's been good for the fans.  It seemed like the WNBA wanted it to go five games, and they got it.
Q. For either player, can you take us through what was said in that time-out when you're down by three and you seemed to have all the momentum on your side and kind of what the feelings are at that point?
CANDACE PARKER: You were out of the game fouled out.  No, obviously we wanted to get a stop.  We got Seimone falling backcourt, Sylvia caught the ball.  I was playing back I remember, and they got the ball to Maya.  I tried to make it difficult, tried to mess up her steps a little bit, and she hit a tough shot.
But I mean, I'm a firm believer it doesn't come down to that.  It doesn't come down to like the last possession.  It came down to other things, and I think rebounding was a big part of it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT