TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 5, 2019
Steven Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Since your win in Portugal, has it sunk in yet?
STEVEN BROWN: Probably not actually quite yet. It's been really nice this week, all the players giving congratulations and stuff.
Q. What was different that week?
STEVEN BROWN: That's a good question. I think I putted really well, which always helps. I don't think you can win without putting well. I was solid with everything else, really. Drove it really well and putted well, and then I was pretty good mentally and was pretty calm all week. Especially Sunday, surprised myself actually, being in contention.
One of those weeks where everything kind of came together at the right time and everything just fell into place.
Q. How have you enjoyed yourself so far this week?
STEVEN BROWN: Yeah, it's been great. I had a week off after the win, so it's nice. Didn't do much golf. Just trying to take it all in. Had a few days in the sun and get ready for this week. I want to push on for the rest of the season.
Q. Your first taste of the Turkish Open. What have you heard?
STEVEN BROWN: The course is always great out here. I played here a few times Challenge Tour. Played nine holes yesterday. Kind of what you'd expect, really, from these courses. You have to be good off the tee and quite tree-lined. So you can't get away with too many bad tee shots. Just keep it in play and try to hole some putts.
Q. You've obviously got the extended exemption. Has that changed your planning for maybe next year?
STEVEN BROWN: Yeah, definitely. I mean, I was kind of thinking these last two weeks, these could have been my last European Tour events for a while, you never know, and I'd try to just enjoy them. You have that mind-set; you don't know when you'll be back.
Yeah, it completely changed. I can really pick, choose the events and try and pick the ones -- this year I feel like I played way too much, played too much early and reaction to not playing great at the beginning of the season, made some mistakes scheduling-wise. Next year, make a schedule and try to stick to it and peak for the bigger events.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT