SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2010
Cameron Percy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Okay. Cameron, thanks for joining us for a few minutes. I know it's kind of late. We appreciate your time coming in. Bogey-free, 5-under, 67 today in Round One. Judging by the smiles on your face, you're obviously in good spirits as you turn around and come back in the morning and start Round Two. Just a few comments on the round today and how you're feeling.
 CAMERON PERCY: Just went out, just with the wind and stuff, I thought a round about par would be a good score. I was just playing pretty conservatively. There was not like only one par-5 you could reach in 2. I made a few putts and hit a few good shots and got right in the right spot. It's not that hard a putt. I did that. Actually, just missed one on last, I missed a 15-footer on last for birdie at as well, but I'll take 5-under for sure.
 DOUG MILNE: We'll go ahead and open it up for questions.

 Q. Did things get more difficult as the day went on? Did things dry out a little bit?
 CAMERON PERCY: The hard thing was if the wind was off to the left, the pin was on the left. If the wind was off to the right, the pin was on the right. It was hard to get it in close to the hole. You were trying to get it close to the hole, but it was really, really hard. Like a little down slope where you're trying to land it and it would land on that and kick through. It was hard to hit it close today with the winds.
 I thought I was going to die down, but it never did. It actually got stronger, I think, at the end there.

 Q. Will it be easier tomorrow going off early?
 CAMERON PERCY: Oh, yeah, I hope. I hope so. Depending on the scores this morning, I know it was pretty nice. The scoring was pretty good, I thought. I hope it's calm.

 Q. Just wondering, Kevin Stadler said after his round today that other than managing the wind, he felt the one of the keys that he thought of was hitting specific spots in fairways. Other than that, is there anything about this course that sort of helps you play conservatively, as you say?
 CAMERON PERCY: Like I know a lot of holes, I didn't really -- sort of trying to hold it up on the wind, something like that, but the greens are really big. So you can sort of err on the safe side. There's humps and everything. You sort of got to be aggressive and take the pins on, basically. 
 So even though there's all this green to use, you can't hit it out there because you got to putt up and over a slope. You'll have to 3-putt, which I imagine a lot people have done today.

 Q. How does this round relate to other rounds that you've played today?
 CAMERON PERCY: I honestly just played the way I played all year. A friend of mine sit me down own Tuesday, he caddies for Greg Chalmers, Mal Baker. He looks at my stats. I was like seventh on the Tour in proximity to the hole or something.
 He said, "Cam, you got to do something about your putting. It's just woeful, only 70 percent maybe from 3 feet." Said, "You're hitting it good enough. You just got to improve your putting." 
 I spent hours and hours on the putting green Tuesday and Wednesday, and it's made a little difference coming today. I hold about a 10-footer for par, which kept my round going.

 Q. Where is Mal from?
 CAMERON PERCY: He's from Perth. He's an Aussie, Malcolm Baker. He caddies for Greg Chalmers. He's helped me with my putting before. He help me at Phoenix, and I came in last (laughter). Okay.

 Q. Why did you listen to him then?
 CAMERON PERCY: I felt a little bit better today.

 Q. What specifically did you work on?
 CAMERON PERCY: I kept my putter down and worked on a routine. My eyes basically -- these goggles or glasses you can get and look through and see where your eyes are looking. I put them on, and I kept missing everything right. Driving me insane. 
 I put these goggles on and looked at the right. I was hitting them exactly where I was looking. Put these goggles and you train your eyes to look at the hole properly. It feels like I'm aiming left, but they kept going in today. Just a perception thing. Went, gave myself a routine and stuff today.

 Q. You've been setting up right of the hole and your putter had been going where were you aiming. Your aim was out. So it wasn't your stroke?
 CAMERON PERCY: Well, a little bit, but it was more my putter was aiming left. My eyes were looking right. Bad combination. I couldn't get it in from 3 feet. It was embarrassing some days. The greens were much better. It helps on your lines.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Real quick before we cut you loose. If you wouldn't mind running us through your birdies and giving us some clubs and yards.
 CAMERON PERCY: The second hole, hit it nice drive and 9-iron. Hit it to about 10 feet. 8, I hit a perfect drive, a 5-wood straight at it. Went in the bunker, and I hit a terrible bunker shot to about 8 feet, but I made the putt.
 Third in, I just hit a good drive. I could have maybe got there, but the pin was over a tee. I laid up and wedged it to about 3 feet. 16 I hit a nice 5-iron to 20 feet. Maybe not even that, and that went in nicely. 
 17, I think it was 28 feet, 9 inches. Rich Barcelo putted right next to me, and I basically putted over his line. Mine went in and his just missed. So it was pretty nice. It was pretty simple, really.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. I know it's getting late and you're ready for a good dinner. Best of luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT