SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2019
Cameron Percy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another good round for you. 68 puts you right there at 13-under par. You got to be excited.  
CAMERON PERCY: Yeah, very. Was really tricky when we hit off. Really windy. That affected the putting and stuff like that. Tricky pins that I couldn't get at. I think the guy shot 63 or 65.   
 Q.  63.  
CAMERON PERCY: Well, I thought it was tricky. Yeah, that's a great score.   
 Q.  You've been playing a lot of golf for a lot of years. You worked your way back on TOUR through the Korn Ferry Tour. Are you back on an upswing now?  
CAMERON PERCY: Yeah, I've said a few times now. I thought I was done. I fractured my wrist and I thought, you know what? My career is over. I got a second lease on life I guess.   
I can't do a whole lot, so I'm really concentrating on things that help me. I have a lot of routine stuff and things like that. So just basically concentrate on my routine and not worry about my golf swing. I don't have the energy or the physical ability to at the moment. Kind of helps me, which is kind of weird.   
 Q.  You are a laid back guy, but I know you're competitive. You got a chance to win this thing tomorrow.  
CAMERON PERCY: Exactly. I think I'm fourth now I just saw.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
CAMERON PERCY: Be off late tomorrow. Greens will be fast again. Keeping my wedges close. I've been hitting my wedges really close so that's made it really easy, and I putted really good today from about ten, fifteen feet.   
Keep doing that tomorrow, should be okay.   
 Q.  I know you're from New Zealand. I heard you introduced today from Raleigh, North Carolina. I said, I never heard anybody from Raleigh talk like that.  
CAMERON PERCY: Well, I moved there now and we play there, and my mate was a starter and he changed it to Raleigh and the TOUR just kept it ever since.   
My friend the next week was over from Australia and he almost disowned me. He was like, What the heck are you doing? You're not from Raleigh, North Carolina. I'm going home.   
Yeah, I live in Raleigh. I make any home there and the kids are there.   
 Q.  I heard them say that and I was looking around going, Wait a minute. Did they get the wrong guy?  
CAMERON PERCY: Yeah, yeah. I've had a few comments on that and a few people look at me. Got a lot of, Keep going Scott today. I'm like, looking at them like, are they talking to me? They think I'm Scott Piercy instead of Percy. Try and talk English in Australian and it doesn't always work out.   
I wanted to say happy birthday to my son. Happy birthday, Ashton. Happy birthday, buddy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT