BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Cameron Percy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great play today, man.  Eight birdies for 5-under par on a golf course that know one knows really.
CAMERON PERCY: Yeah, exactly.  It was beautiful this morning when we tee'd off.  Had a little breeze on a few holes which kind of helped us, and then some pins we wanted to spin back to, so kind of lucky early on and just made the putts.
Q. I've got to ask you.  We've changed states, we changed golf courses, and this place is pretty wet.  Were you excited to hear they were playing it up today, because there are some mud balls out there?
CAMERON PERCY: Oh, yeah.  I was part of the pro-am yesterday and there was no way you could have played it down.  One of the caddies come up to me and said, Can you believe they're playing it down?  Caught me on the putting green, and I carried on, but I was like, I can't believe they're going to do that.
Got to the first tee and said, Oh, we're playing it up.  They were playing a joke.
Q. The thing that's so amazing though is how good the greens are.  They skip a little bit, but they're not getting blown up.  They're really rolling.
CAMERON PERCY: The greens are magnificent.  That's one thing I was shocked at, too.  As wet as the golf course got, the greens are really nice.  You can hit some wedges.  You can skip -- normally they just suck back like crazy, but you can actually skip them in there, so the greens are magnificent.
Q. What are your thoughts going into tomorrow?  The forecast tomorrow is not good.  As a player, are you thinking about maybe I got to be ultra aggressive because might not go 72 holes?
CAMERON PERCY: Yeah, absolutely.  I didn't realize the weather was that bad.  I left a few out there.  Like I said, the par-5 I had a 3-wood in.  I thought I hit it in the middle of the green and we got up there and asked where my ball was.  They said, Oh, it hit the green and rolled back in the water.
I tried to play it because it was out of the water, but there was concrete under my ball.  So I hit concrete not water.  I couldn't see it.  So I made a 6 there, which was annoying.
Then the 1st hole I thought I holed my wedge shot and it went just a bit long into a bad lie and didn't get up and down.  I left a few out there today; hopefully tomorrow I don't do that.
Q. Talked to you a couple weeks ago at Greenbrier about your horses.
CAMERON PERCY: That's right.
Q. Did you get a chance to get any of the horse...
CAMERON PERCY: My wife did on Tuesday.  Something with the TOUR, and they went on a tour of a horse farm.  She said I would've loved it.  The guy gave me his number.  Come back, come do it.  I don't think I'll have a chance this week because this is my fifth week in a row and I'm exhausted.
Standing around a horse farm for two hours is not ideal for me.  But, hey, I've got his number and I would love to go back, so be pretty cool.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
CAMERON PERCY: It's unbelievable, just the sheer size.  I had to go near the childcare (indiscernible) airport.  Paddock after paddock, the grass is pristine.  They either cut it really well or they got a lot of horses eating it.
Q. Right.  (Laughter.)
CAMERON PERCY: It is.  Everything, the grass is pristine.  Beautiful.  Where I grew up in Australia, I grew up in a country town like this where we had town and it was all farming.  Feels very much like home.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT