AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 29, 2015
Cameron Percy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Cameron, just comment on your round for us.
CAMERON PERCY:   Started off nicely and then got going through the middle of it and then hit a little -- three-putted 2 and then the wind switched on me on 3 and I hit it through the green.   I was dead.   We got put on the clock.   That was a bit annoying.   And I rushed it a bit and then made a good shot on 7 and made eagle and I think I'm not sure what I shot but with that par 3 there, I'm not sure if it's par 3 or 4, I like where I am right now.

Q.   Pleased with your round?
CAMERON PERCY:   Yeah.   I didn't hit it very good yesterday.   I was in the trees and all that sort of stuff all day.   I putted like a freak on the first 9.   Today I actually hit it a bit better.   Much better today.   Yeah, just kept it going and played nicely.

Q.   Did you see this coming, these first two rounds?
CAMERON PERCY:   Not at all.   Playing like rubbish, struggling with my 3-wood and driver.   Hitting it everywhere.   Just adjusting clubs and all the stuff the last few weeks.   I've been a mess. 
Friend of mine got me a book on sports psychology.   I've been reading it this week.   I just tried to focus and it's working.

Q.   What's the name of the book?
CAMERON PERCY:   Gio Valiante.   I'm four chapters in.   Just a few things I've not been doing that, either.   That's all right.   It's helped so far.

Q.   Are you going to keep reading it this week?
CAMERON PERCY:   Try to read a chapter a night.

Q.   Did it help you focus more?
CAMERON PERCY:   Yeah.   Little things that I thought I was doing I wasn't so just helped for sure.

Q.   What did you think of the conditions?
CAMERON PERCY:   I can't believe it.   When I woke up this morning I thought there was no way I was going to play.   The first hole I drive it in the middle of the fairway.   I was in water.   I had nowhere to go. 
The rain stayed away, I suppose, and hitting out of the fairway and the greens are fine.   So, amazingly the greens are quite good, actually.

Q.   Little weird to see 14 playing at 104 yards?
CAMERON PERCY:   I quite enjoy it.   I love that tee shot.   Happy to get out there and drop it at 105 yards.   I got up and down so that was nice.

Q.   What happened here?
CAMERON PERCY:   I had a skin cancer cut out last week.   I got 6 stitches.   I have to keep a Band-Aid on it put stuff on it.   Somebody sent me -- text me about it.   It is what it is.   I got to put up with it.   Stitches.   Catch them on my hat.

Q.   Any pain at all?
CAMERON PERCY:   Got headaches and stuff like that.

Q.   8-under helps out?
CAMERON PERCY:   Correct.

Q.   Cameron, the season has been a little bit of a rollercoaster for you.   This is one of the high marks.
CAMERON PERCY:   Absolutely.   The last time I did well in Texas was San Antonio.   Maybe something about the wind that I like.   I'm pretty happy with where I am right now.

Q.   Absolutely.   What a beautiful eagle for you at 7.   Tell me all about it.
CAMERON PERCY:   Got a new 3-wood this week.   This one I actually turnover and hit a beautiful one up there and caught the slope and ran there and she went.   That was pretty nice.

Q.   Nice on the final hole as well.
CAMERON PERCY:   I just can't hit that fairway on 8.   You give me four 4s, I'll take it.

Q.   I understand you've been doing some reading this week, Dr. Gio Valiante on your bookshelf.
CAMERON PERCY:   I saw a guy called David Orr in Raleigh.   He's asked me to do this and try that and this.   He gave me a book to this.   I read it on the plane.   I've been reading a chapter each night.   Little things I thought I was doing I wasn't doing.   It's just doing a few things I hadn't been doing.   It's definitely helped.

Q.   It appears you're a quick study.   Keep it up.
CAMERON PERCY:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT