PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 7, 2013
Cameron Percy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Impressive start.   7‑under.   Tell me about your thoughts on today's start here in Puerto Rico. 
CAMERON PERCY:   Just I hit it on the fairway a lot.   I just had perfect yardages on a lot of the pins and I just hit it close all day.   So it was a pretty basic 7‑under in the end.

Q.   We were checking the stats and your putting was quite impressive.   Talk to me about that. 
CAMERON PERCY:   Yeah.   Just my son had my putter last week and I didn't have a putter this week until about 4:00 yesterday afternoon.   About 2:00 the Ping guy was on the green and I went over and tried a few putters out. 
I had about 15 minutes, went bang and tried a new putter out, and it felt really nice and I rolled the ball beautifully.   So it was, yeah, very unexpected.

Q.   I think I was told it was 10 putts on the back nine?
CAMERON PERCY:   That would probably be about right.   It wasn't many.   Yeah, it wouldn't have been too many because I hit a few fringes and stuff.   Yeah, not many.

Q.   Do you ever remember a day like that?
CAMERON PERCY:   Well, they were all pretty short except for on 12.   I holed about a 25‑footer on 12, just a little left‑to‑righter.   That was a nice one.   The rest of them were all five and six feet sort of thing.

Q.   Besides the putting, what else went well today?
CAMERON PERCY:   Just drove the ball really nicely.   I've been trying to not hit the ball too hard, so I just tried and hit three‑quarters drivers and just kept the ball in play and I did that today and it was quite nice.

Q.   Have you played the Puerto Rico Open before?
CAMERON PERCY:   Yes, this is my third time.   I really enjoy it.   I really like the golf course.   It's always nice and warm here.   It's been so cold lately I haven't been able to feel my hands for about a month it feels like.   So it's nice to get out and play in some warm weather.   So I really like it down here.

Q.   Currently tied for the lead for the players who have finished so far.   So it's a good start, promising for a long week still ahead. 
CAMERON PERCY:   Yeah, exactly.   7‑under in the first round, nice conditions in the morning, that's what you're trying to do.   So just hope we can keep it going.

Q.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT