JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 24, 2010
Cameron Percy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CAMERON PERCY: Today helped me keep my job. As I said, I still needed to make another $200,000 or $300,000 just to keep my job. Now all of a sudden after this, I bogeyed a few holes, and during the year the last hole cost me almost $150,000, $200,000. They're the ones that hurt right now. Or even looking at just the ones this week, I three-putted from 15 feet twice. You two-putt a couple of them, and things are different.

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 CAMERON PERCY: Just I need to work on my short game. I hit the ball good enough. Just short game I don't make enough up-and-downs. I was on the front of 13 four days in a row, and I made one birdie. I drove 15 every day. I was just ma bunker or on the edge of the green, and I parred it every day. I've just got to improve my short game.

 Q. How hard is it to keep to your thoughts of staying in the Top 125?
 CAMERON PERCY: It's pretty hard. I played with Webb Simpson today. He was cold early on and then he made a few birdies, and I thought he was the winner. I thought, well, I can't catch him, and then he hit it in the water on 17, and then all of a sudden, oh, I'm back in it now. It was hard all day because I thought I had done my job. 13, 14, 15 I didn't capitalize there. I thought, I've done my chances here. 
 And in the end he gave me a chance and I took it on 18. His putt didn't go in at 18, or he'd have been in the playoff, too.

 Q. Is your next tournament Disney or are you going to try to play something somewhere between then?
 CAMERON PERCY: I don't think I have anything on to be honest. I'll fly home tomorrow and just try and keep my game in order until then and go from there. 

 Q. Was it fun having all these people pulling for you? 
 CAMERON PERCY: Yeah, it was great fun. That 18th was fantastic with the amphitheater there. I didn't get put off by anyone. They were all quiet and respectful, so it was fantastic. Justin at the end there, he came up to me and that was fantastic. That was pretty cool. To be that young and to put on a PGA TOUR event and raise as much money as he does for charity, it's pretty cool to meet someone like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT