BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 10, 2016
Patrick Levels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Baylor - 40, SMU - 10
Q. The offense had a little trouble finding its rhythm.  The defense really stepped up today.  Can you just talk about you guys' attitude out there.
PATRICK LEVELS: Most definitely.  We're just a team.  We don't get upset or anything.  We just go out there and try to make plays to help our offense get going.  Sometimes they don't always come out hot.  So the defense got to step it up.  That's what we did today.
Q. Pat, you had some other guys go down.  I think Ryan went down.  At one point, Raaquan was out.  Talk about maybe some of the other guys that stepped in.  I know Lenoy came in and played some linebacker.
PATRICK LEVELS: Lenoy, and we had Tion.  But Lenoy, he comes to practice every day ready.  When he got in, we just told him, just listen to us.  We're going to help you with the calls.  If you get confused, just look at us, we're going to give you the call, and just go out there and play hard, most definitely.
Tion, he's a senior.  So we weren't too much worried about him at cornerback replacing Ryan.
Q. What's something that Jim Grobe, your coach, really kind of told you all at halftime about maybe picking up the intensity, trying to get out there and be more physical?
PATRICK LEVELS: Yeah, he came in and told us -- well, really talked to offense and said they have to step it up, and the defense to just keep playing hard and playing fast.
We just wanted to wait until our offense got rolling because we know eventually you can't stop them all day.  So just keep going out there, keep getting three and outs, not letting them get touchdowns, and forcing the field goals, and eventually Seth was going to get it going.
Q. Just how big were the interceptions today?  And did you think Davion might take it to the house?
PATRICK LEVELS: Oh, most definitely.  Orion Stewart with the pick six, that was definitely the play of the game to kind of turn the tide to just get it over the hump of kind of playing back and forth with them.
And Davion really stepped into a spot where someone busted coverage.  He stepped up, caused the pick.  I was hoping to cut it back so I could hit the quarterback, but he went ahead and ran out of bounds, but that was a big play for us, most definitely.
Q. Pat, early on -- you held them to field goals, but they were kind of gashing you all for most of that first quarter.  But after that, you all kind of shut them down other than that one drive.  Was there anything that changed from your perception?
PATRICK LEVELS: Well, they kind of came out this week with a tempo that we hadn't seen yet, and it was kind of just us getting the line and getting the calls and playing our responsibility and not kind of looking around lost.
We just said, you know what, if you don't get the call from the coach, we're just going to play this.  If we play our adjust, it's going to work out for us.  We can adjust to anything because everybody knows what we're supposed to be doing at all times.  It was just getting the calling and getting everybody lined up.
It was a little bit of an alignment issue.  So once we got that fixed, we're good to go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT