SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 19, 2020
George Kittle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
49ers - 37, Packers - 20   
 Q.  Can you explain the shirt?  
GEORGE KITTLE: Remember when Jimmy had a T-shirt with my face in his locker and he told everyone I sent it to him. I got this in my locker the same day; I just didn't show you guys because I was saving it for a special occasion. I think it's pretty good. He even signed it.   
 Q.  Does this qualify as a special occasion?  
GEORGE KITTLE: I guess.   
 Q.  What's your feeling -- (inaudible)?  
GEORGE KITTLE: Obviously hasn't hit me yet. I'm pretty excited. I think tonight's going to be pretty fun. But I'm just so happy. I mean ever since my rookie year, just the hard work, Coach Shanahan, just the three years of every single day, he always talks to us about how we're this close, just gotta get over it.   
But I just -- it all finally came to. And this whole season, ups and downs, we had injuries left and right. We had guys step up when they needed to from Skule to Brunskill -- to our defense, Marcell, Greenlaw; we had guys everywhere stepping up the entire season. And when we get to finish it on something like that where, I don't know, how many rushes did we have?   
 Q.  40.  
GEORGE KITTLE: That's awesome. I could have gone for 50. But do the kneels count.   
 Q.  It's 45 with the kneels?  
GEORGE KITTLE: 45 then. But it's just so fun to see Raheem, something like that. Just such a special player and he finally gets to show it.   
 Q.  When do you get the feeling that Raheem is going to have such a big impact, when do you kind of sense that?  
GEORGE KITTLE: I mean whether it's special teams or offense, you just -- the way he hits the hole, he gets so vertical so fast. And I think guys defenses they underestimate his speed. You can just see it, like, he'll hit a hole and the guy will take what he thinks is a good angle. And next thing you know, he's by him, doesn't even touch him.   
And his 0 to 60 is literally in two steps and it's so special especially with our offense, the way we do outside zone, inside zone, he can make one cut and get vertical. It's all we need.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT