NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 21, 2014
Dylan Ness
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 157 POUNDS
  (Minnesota) (26-5) 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Dylan Ness, University of Minnesota.  
   
 Q.   Dylan, you're known for your flashy moves to deciding matches, pretty much just a basic takedown, could you talk about that.   
DYLAN NESS:   Just wrestling smart.   A lot of it, my matches have been funky, but overall it's been basic, basic, basic at first, and then that's when I'm able to hit those big moves.   
And this match, they weren't really there.   He's pretty strong and he's funky himself.   And I just kept it safe, not to try to catch myself.   So I just kind of wrestled smart and stayed in position and kept wrestling.  
   
 Q.   Dylan, would you describe your style of living on the edge, wrestling on the edge?  
DYLAN NESS:   Yeah, I think most people would say that, definitely.   
   
 Q.   Could you elaborate?  
DYLAN NESS:   It's hard to say.   I feel like I just could be unpredictable.   You never know what I'm going to do out there.   I don't even know what I'm going to do out there.   
I just go out and wrestle, and most of the time it's like in basic or sometimes funky.   But I don't know.  
   
 Q.   Your move earlier this afternoon against Green, the elevator used again, even Dieringer talks about how crazy you are you to almost lay on your back to be able do that.   How are you able to do that?  
DYLAN NESS:   How am I?   Just‑‑ I don't really know.   Just from years of doing it since I was a little kid.   I don't know how I picked it up, I just did.   And just good hip position, legs, and just kind of that‑‑ I'd just say muscle‑‑ or it would be wrestling memory.   Just instantly I just know where I'm at and what I'm able to do from there.  
   
 Q.   You've been in the Finals before.   Any different approach or things that you expect to bring into this match based on the experience of the last time?  
DYLAN NESS:   Not really.   I think I'm just going to have the same approach.   I'm just going to celebrate today.   
Not even going to think about it, worry about it until tomorrow when I gotta get ready to go.  
   
 Q.   The Gophers have gotten back into the team race today with a really strong day.   How does that affect your wrestling out there?   
DYLAN NESS:   Really, I'm not sure if it affects it a whole lot, but it does give you a little boost when you're out there.   Just when you're‑‑ it's tough.   I want to go out there and wrestle the same every time, but it gives you a little more boost and kind of get my confidence more going and it just brings more excitement to the fans.   I think they're cheering a little louder now that we're in the team race.   
So I love the crowd, so I think that gets me going.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk a bit about your brother and his influence on you and what it would mean to you and the family to add another Ness NCAA champ?  
DYLAN NESS:   Influenced me a lot just from learning from him and just being my brother and being my coach and my best friend.   
And I've learned a lot from him, not just from wrestling, but life.   And he's also taught me to learn more about God and Jesus and what He did on the cross for us, and kind of learning‑‑ before it was kind of I always wrestled to try to be better than my brother and I focused a lot on that, and that brought a lot of weight on my shoulders.   I was bringing too much pressure on myself.   
And these past few years I've learned to wrestle for God and just go out there and wrestle as hard as I can to give glory to Him and keep the pressure off my back and not worry about competing with my brother, but just going out there and wrestling for God.  
   
 Q.   Take us through that last takedown sequence with setting up the ankle pick.   
DYLAN NESS:   I was going hard.   I felt like he was getting maybe a little tired, but he was going more in defensive mode.   A lot of times when you get in the defensive mode, you really end up wrestling on your heels, and I was able to catch him off and grab that ankle and drive through.   
And pretty much I was just pulling on his head, trying to get his feet moving.   And, like I said, he was in defensive mode, and I think he was on his heels and was just trying to run out the clock.   And he wasn't I would say maybe just not wrestling, and I kept wrestling and I was able to hit that pick and drive forward, get the takedown to win.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the challenge of Dieringer.   Obviously also a very talented opponent.   
DYLAN NESS:   What was the first part of that?   
   
 Q.   What's your thoughts about the challenge you'll have wrestling him and how you see the match going, if it's going to go your way.   
DYLAN NESS:   Yeah, I see the match going‑‑ it's probably going to be real close, probably going to be like my last, last match, last takedown or overtime.   We've wrestled each other a lot, know each other pretty well.   
Once you get to know somebody and wrestle them a lot more often, you kind of know what they're going to do and you kind of feel how they're going to wrestle and they kind of know how you're going to wrestle, and it gets harder and harder every time.   
And tomorrow could be a great match‑‑ it's going to be a great match.   I'm excited for it.   He's a tough competitor and a great wrestler, and he's had a great year this year.   
It's going to be a good one.   I'll be excited.  
   
 Q.   With someone you know that well, do you have one or two pieces of funk left that you can pull out of you?  
DYLAN NESS:   Oh, there's always enough funk.   Always.   But probably save it only if I have to.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT