NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2012
Dylan Ness
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   First question for Dylan.   
   
 Q.   You won the quarterfinal and semifinal.   Is that what was critical, what would make the difference?  
DYLAN NESS:   No, not necessarily.   Big difference for me was improving on my feet, my defense of when people shoot in and sprawling.   That was a big difference for me.   
Riding, I've been working on that also.   
   
 Q.   Talk about what today has been like.   You wake up the seventh seed and now you're in the championship.   
DYLAN NESS:   It's been an amazing, amazing feeling.   Just thanking God for putting me here, putting me on this team, putting me in this place, just everything He's given me and done for me.   Treating me with those losses so I can learn from them, become better.   
   
 Q.   We know your opponent, Frank Molinaro.   Your thoughts on another match with him?  
DYLAN NESS:   It's going to be a great match.   I've lost to him three times this year.   
But tomorrow night on that stage for that seven minutes, those losses don't matter anymore.   Comes down to one match.   
   
 Q.   I don't mean to keep on the subject of those three losses, but as a competitor, you have to forget about them.   Those losses have to be difficult to forget about, especially the Big Ten championship.   
DYLAN NESS:   Yeah, they've been real difficult to forget about 'em.   But just with the Lord helping me, just asking Him to keep that pressure off me, also my coaches and brother, just keep pushing me.   
After that Big Ten loss, I had my father just telling me getting second in the Big Tens is a great thing to have and be that for a freshman, just to come back and learn from it, keep learning from these things.   
Just forget about that loss, especially now that I'm in the finals with him.   And nothing else matters except for that seven minutes on the stage.  
   
 Q.   Talk about having your brother in your corner.   How much does he help you overcome the Big Ten loss?  
DYLAN NESS:   Having my brother in the coach's corner is amazing.   I never even expected it when I was growing up.   I just never figured that he would be a coach, be in that position he is now.   It's amazing for him to be there in my corner for me.   
   
 Q.   Not talking about this tournament, but the last two Big Ten tournaments, Frank went through there and I don't think an opponent scored a point against him.   What makes it so hard to score on him?   His style?   
DYLAN NESS:   He's just stays low.   I guess it doesn't help that I'm 6', 149‑pounder and he's 5', and five feed wide (laughter.)   
Yeah, he's tough to score on, stays low, gets the head position down when you shoot.   He's pretty quick, too.   I've taken him down, too, so I just have to figure it out tomorrow night.   
   
 Q.   In the Big Ten finals, (indiscernible) have you worked on that?  
DYLAN NESS:   Yeah, I've been working on getting leg rides pretty much the whole year.   Not necessarily been working on it, just in the finals I didn't have the right mindset, just wasn't out there, wasn't in the right mindset.   
I'm in the right mindset now and I'll be ready for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
DYLAN NESS:   Yeah, it means a lot to come out and get that lead right away which helped me out a lot at the end, considering he took me down at the end.   
Just like Becker (phonetic) and my brother told me, get on my offense right away and just believe the whole time that I can get my offense going and take him down, just keep pressure when I get on top.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Dylan.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT