U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2017
Julianne Alvarez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just talk a little bit about your play today for me.
JULIANNE ALVAREZ: Today I was hitting it really solidly.  I teed off in the morning, so the wind was a lot calmer for the majority of my round, so that let me hit it a lot closer to some accessible pins and had more opportunities for birdies.
Q. And then, like you said, with the birdies, 2, 3, 7, 8, 15, 16, you had a few of them.  A couple bogeys kind of knocked you down a little bit, but what was kind of the success to getting to those?  Was it maybe your iron play, driving it straight, or what kind of led to those do you think?
JULIANNE ALVAREZ: Yeah, I mean, I think out here it's key to hit it in the fairway because with the firm greens and the rough especially, you don't really know what it's going to do out of it.  Off the tee, I was a lot straighter on the fairways, which let me hit it a lot closer to the pins, and I was feeling hot with the putter, so some good putts today, as well.
Q. Were you knocking in some long ones or getting them close?
JULIANNE ALVAREZ: So my first birdie of the day I didn't actually use my putter, I chipped in on 15.  And then on 16, I drained a 40-footer, so I was like, well, this is going to be a good day.  And continued kind of that rhythm on the back nine and holed some pretty good downhill sliders, which can be pretty tough on this golf course, I think, on 7.  Yeah, so those ones stood out.
Q. Do you feel like was the wind maybe affecting your play in any way today?
JULIANNE ALVAREZ: No, it kind of picked up a little bit, but it wasn't as strong as in the afternoon yesterday.  I like to play in the wind.  I'm from Wellington.  It's a windy city, so it's my element.  Yeah, I feel good.
Q. Was there anything you changed between yesterday and today coming in, or do you just feel like you sank more putts?
JULIANNE ALVAREZ: I feel like because of the wind I was able to get more accessible.  The greens were softer in the morning.  They weren't firm and bouncy like in the afternoon.  So I think I was just able to hit them closer with the better conditions in the morning, and I converted a lot of them.
Q. Do you know Lydia Ko?
JULIANNE ALVAREZ: Oh, yeah, we're good friends.  We go way back.  It's funny because everybody seems so awestruck by Lydia, but I remember when she was 12 and we were playing like junior tournaments together, and yeah, we go back a long way.  We played on the national team together, so yeah.  Always up to a little bit of mischief.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT