SBS OPEN AT TURTLE BAY
February 16, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  We have with us Annika Sorenstam, the 2008 SBS Open at Turtle Bay champion.  This is your first victory since 2006 but second in a row that you've played in a professional event between the LET and the LPGA.  Doing pretty good. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thank you.  I could not have asked for a better start.  We all have talked so much about '07.  I think it's time to talk about '08.  And obviously I could not have -- my clubs do the talking this particular week. 
 I'm obviously very, very thrilled.  It's great to win tournaments.  There's some tournaments that mean a little bit more and they come at a special time.  I would say this is one of them, as you know for many reasons. 
 I played solid for three days.  It's nice to see, for me anyway, I'm hitting some good shots.  Playing some good golf.  It's been a while.  I mean that's what I love to do is just play good golf.  And this particular week it helped, and it was enough so obviously I'm thrilled about that. 
 And it's very gratifying to see that the preparation I've done paid off and now I really want to put '07 behind and say, hey, I'm a contender, and I intend to be that all year. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Let's go over your scorecard real quick.  No. 3. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No. 3, hit a 7-wood on the green, 2-putted from 20 feet.  No. 10, I hit a 9-iron to 12 feet.  Bogeyed 11.  Hit 8-iron.  3 putted from 18 feet.  The par putt was seven feet.  Birdied 16.  Hit a sandwedge to four feet.  17, pitching wedge to 24 feet. 

 Q.  How big was that birdie on 17? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It was huge.  It was one of those putts that I'm going to remember for a long time.  I mean, it's nice to have a one-stroke lead going into 18.  But to have two especially when it's a par 5, a lot of players had birdies.  Coming back like this, it's nice to have a little extra cushion.  So that was key. 
 I had a few chances out there today.  Didn't really take advantage of it.  I felt like maybe I was playing a little tentative.  I told Terry when we got to the back nine, let's just play golf. 
 In a way I was kind of protecting the lead.  And then I didn't really feel comfortable.  I felt almost more stress rather than just play golf and see what happens. 
 And I think that's what happened the last few holes.  It was just focusing on the target, hitting it and just going up there trying to make a putt. 

 Q.  Would you call that the biggest shot of the day, that putt on 17? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I would say I mean the putt that I made on 10 was big.  And then also the shot I hit in on 16 was good.  It was just good golf from the last six, seven holes.  I was never really in trouble.  It was just trying to make birdie.  But like I said, when you come to the last hole knowing you have a little bit of a cushion, you can give that little extra smile and breathe a little easier. 

 Q.  What does it feel like when you're looking at that number? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it's a big number.  I've had a few chances and I was able to do it.  And to do it here in '08, it's like everything is coming together.  It's pretty neat.  I'm very happy. 

 Q.  Do you get a little grief and stuff from your friends about stuck on 69? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Kiddingly, yes.  My sister had a shirt that said 70.  It's old now.  Had it for a long time.  Probably dusty.  A friend of mine has a bottle of wine that says 70 on it.  I'm ready to collect it now. 

 Q.  How old is the wine now? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's mature.  It's probably even better.  It's all strategy. 

 Q.  What kind of statement do you think this makes?  With Lorena playing so well last year and you were injured last year, what kind of statement do you think this victory sends to them? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You tell me.  I don't know how you feel about it.  But I feel great.  I'm excited to be back.  I got a win here.  I think that's going to be easier the rest of the year for me.  Again, knowing that I'm swinging better again and knowing that the desire is there. 
 Those are two key components to play well.  Last year the desire wasn't there.  And my swing was definitely not there.  Now it is.  And, like I said, those are two important components you need to play well and to be the top player out here. 

 Q.  Can you describe what it was like with your playing partners and Erica Blasberg and Momoko Ueda; you haven't played with them much but you played with them today? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think we were all excited to be in the last group.  I mean Erica I know is excited.  And then Momoko, I know she was really excited.  I think we're just all thrilled to be there.  I think the energy in our group was high.  There were times we were all a little tentative, because you get a feel for the position. 
 But it was a good day and I think we all had a good tournament. 

 Q.  (Question off microphone) 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm not sure if it is possible.  I mean if you won every tournament, you should.  I think the key for me now is to play well this year.  I am starting way behind in the rankings, because I really have not many points last year and the year before.  Not enough wins to even be up there.  All I can do is go from here.  The points will take care of themselves.  I just need to focus on what I can do and that's play good golf.  That's my goal this year.  That's just what I want to do and have some fun, go out there and play the way I know I can. 

 Q.  How is the back and the neck? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I feel great.  Maybe I should take this off.  It's kind of wearing down my neck.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  On 17 looked like you probably couldn't have done it with a sore back -- 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I feel nothing really.  I can work out as much as I like.  I can practice as much.  The injury's in the past.  Knock on wood. 

 Q.  The tournament, you talked about Momoko was a good player, but did you think she played that good? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  She played very, very well today.  She made some key putts.  She hit some really good shots.  She drilled it very well.  And to play in the last group, first tournament being a rookie like that is not all easy.  And she didn't show much, any signs of nerves at all. 
 I think on the contrary, she was pumped.  When she made that putt on 16, you could see her eyes.  They lit up.  It was kind of fun to see. 

 Q.  Did it go a little longer after -- 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes.  Didn't know it was uphill and to the green.  It does, especially when you see her putts go in. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT