ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2007
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk about how you think your chances are.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I have no idea.  I've done what I could do.  I've done my work.  We'll see what happens.   
  
  Q.  At 16 it looked like -- was that a plugged lie?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You mean the chip?   
  
  Q.  Yeah, the chip.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't know if it bounced -- it wasn't plugged because then I would have dropped.  But I mean, it's nestled down, yes.   
  
  Q.  What it like after playing almost perfectly through 6, to get your bearings on straight and just get back on the horse, so to speak?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That's probably the toughest thing you can do in golf is to get off to such a great start and then walk away after the 7th hole and be 1-over par.  It's tough to describe in words, but it feels like you get stabbed in the back with something, even though it was your own fault.  I mean, I was on such a high and then you're on such a low in ten minutes.   
  
  Q.  What do you say to yourself as you're going to the 8th tee to try to turn it around and get over it?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I didn't say much.  Terry said it all, just keep on going.  Yesterday I had three balls in the water, today I had two on the same hole.  I mean, I'm just very glad the way I came back, whether it's going to be enough or not.  I think I have proved to play very well this week to myself, a lot of good holes and a lot of birdies.   
  
  Q.  Is there any kind of a psychological benefit if you make it on the number, say, and you make up eight shots?  Is it kind of a psychological boost tomorrow or not?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I mean, it starts over.  Anything can happen.  Tomorrow is 18 and then Sunday there's 18.  Anything can happen.  I want to get a chance to play.  I feel like I'm playing good.  I had 16 really good holes.  Every day I've had that.  It's just I've got to finish with 18 to really score well.  But I'm close, very, very close.   
  
  Q.  Did you know your position?  At 16 when you missed that putt you were inside the 16 line and that pushed you outside.  Were you aware of where you were?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I was very aware, yes.   
  
  Q.  Did you know it on 18 with that putt, also, that you might need to make that to jump over?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I mean, knowing if you make birdie on 18 you're going to do pretty well.  I tried.  I mean, I played a very aggressive drive, 8-iron aggressive.  I wanted to have a good chance for birdie, and I did, I just didn't make it.   
  
  Q.  How many changes did you have to make basically in the game with the wind today, with the difference in conditions?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It is difficult.  I think this course is tough without wind, and then you put some wind on it, you just have to try to play smart, sometimes play for the wider areas.  You know, it keeps you on your toes from start to finish.  It doesn't seem like you get a break out there.  You step on the 1st hole and you just see that tough tee shot, and then it just continues until 18.  I think it's a true golf course; I really like it, it's just very tough.   
  
  Q.  On the second ball that went in the water you went up and took a drop and then what happened exactly?  Could you kind of walk us through that?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  My tee shot went in, and then I dropped, dropped in the rough.  There's no other area you can go, and it's sloping left to right.  You know, again, when you drop in this Bermuda, it sits down.  So I thought I had to be aggressive because I still had some water to carry, and I hit it very clean and it just shot right and it was long.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT