LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
August 31, 2007
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Annika, thanks for coming in today.  You are in third place.  You got off to a great start today.  You had four birdies in a row.  Can you talk about your round a little bit? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Of course.  I mean, what can I say?  I thought I played flawless today, I really did.  I had a lot of chances out there.  I was never really in trouble and I'm very, very pleased.  I drove it well, putted well.  Sounds funny when you shoot 7-under to say you left a bunch there, but I really feel I did that. 
 But making some great progress, just it feels really, really good, so I'm happy about that. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Can we go over your scorecard, starting with the four birdies in a row? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  8-iron to eight feet; sand wedge to six feet; 8-iron to 14 feet; 4-wood, chipped it up to seven feet. 
 Then I bogeyed 14, I hit 5-iron and 3-putted.  My par putt was six feet. 
 Birdied 16, 5-iron.  I almost made a 2, they told me.  I rolled in for eagle from ten feet. 
 Birdied No. 1, sand wedge to 16 feet. 
 Birdied No. 2, 8-iron to 17 feet. 
 And then birdied the six hole, the par 5, hit it short with a 4-wood and chipped it up, made a putt from eight feet. 
 Then I hit 6-iron and 3-putted. 

 Q.  What have your health issues been this year? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  What have my health issues been?  Well, I ruptured a disk in my neck. 

 Q.  When was that? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  April. 

 Q.  Are you feeling better now? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I mean, actually I don't really know how many tournaments I've played since I came back.  I came back for the Ginn Tribute I host in Charleston, and that's in June. 
 So I'm feeling better and better.  I haven't had any pain for two months.  This is my sixth tournament. 

 Q.  As far as what is most noticeable out there as far as your strength, maybe just your distance still isn't maybe quite what it was? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Close.  I must say the last two days, I'm pretty much hitting my numbers.  Maybe it's because I'm downwind a few times.  But overall, I'm hitting greens. 
 You know, today I believe I hit 16.  Yesterday I hit 16.  I missed four greens in two days.  I mean, that's so much better than I have been playing for over a year and a half, I would say. 
 So I'm very happy about that.  I'm excited to really have a good feel of my swing.  I feel like I have good control with the club.  This is what I enjoy doing.  You know, it's been tough the last -- like I said the last year and a half to not be able to really play the way I can.  Who knows how I'll finish this week, but just I want to have two really great rounds where I feel like I'm in control. 

 Q.  How do you like your position? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it's always nice to get off to a good start.  You kind of get the momentum going, you get a little excited and the adrenaline will pump a little extra. 
 I mean, I just kept on going.  It was one of those days where I would look at the fairway, I looked at the pin and try to make the putt.  I felt, really, I was on fire for a long time today. 

 Q.  You played in the afternoon, the greens may be potentially a little bit more bumpy or whatever.  Given it was an afternoon round, were the greens still fairly smooth for an afternoon situation? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I would say so.  I mean, a few bumps; to be expected.  But I think what we did get is a firmer course.  You know you're going to get a little bit more roll up the drives and the greens are a little bit firmer as well so you get a little roll. 
 I'm just comparing my round from yesterday morning to today, and it was -- it's a little different.  Especially with the wind blowing, it changes the course. 

 Q.  You finished sixth at the Evian; is that right, or Top-10? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Since you've been back, as far as at a midway point, is this the closest you've been to the top -- or, I can't remember, since you've come back from the injury. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, the way I'm playing, it is the closest, definitely.  Like I said I feel like in control. 
 Previous tournaments I've been having some good rounds.  You know, a few really good holes, a few really good shots.  But here, we're talking about hitting a lot of greens and hitting a lot of fairways.  That's the best I've had all year I would say. 

 Q.  When you say you were on fire, is that something you felt coming on? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, no, I just had a great warmup.  When you get off to four birdies and you're 5-under after seven, that's what I call being on fire. 

 Q.  Is it exciting to be in the final group tomorrow -- granted, it's only the third ground, but if you're Sherri Steinhauer who is a Solheimer on the United States Team, I know the Solheim is a couple of weeks away, but is that already in the back of your mind in a couple of weeks, going home and playing in the Solheim? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You know what, to be honest, it's not really on my mind, because this week is important to me.  I've not had the best season, and you know, I'm starting to feel like I'm playing some golf; that I really want to play well here.  This is really what's on my mind, and I've gotten off to a good start and I would like to finish solid in the last two round. 
 One day at a time.  It's fun to be in the last group, or second-to-last group, I'm not sure what the pairings will be.  At least I can look at the leaderboard, and it's been a while since I've done that. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT