RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2007
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COLIN CALLANDER:  Annika, thank for joining us, fresh from the Pro-Am, long day.  Give us your thoughts on the golf course this week. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'd be happy to.  This is a fabulous place.  I'm excited to be here, and, you know, it's a treat to play the golf course.  I love it here.  I've been here as an amateur many years ago, but it's just fantastic.  It's amazing to walk down the fairways and kind of remember some of the shots from TV, you know, that the men have played and just kind of absorb the history.  It does not get much better than this.  I'm thrilled to be here. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  You are being modest, you won the St Rule Trophy.  How does it compare then to now?  It's much longer now? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think it's a little longer, yes, it is.  I would say my game is a little bit different than it was.  I remember some of the holes but not all of them.  It's really kind of starting from scratch. 
 But it's just I think now, you know, I've been around golf a little bit more; I probably appreciate it a little bit more now than I did when I was an amateur just coming here and playing.  So like I said, it's a treat. 

 Q.  Were you able to pick up any tips from Tiger? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, I've talked to him. 

 Q.  Did he help you with anything specific? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, I have his yardage book, so hopefully that will give me some pointers.  But I play different tees and I've been hit something different shots, but I talked about it.  I talked about the course with him. 

 Q.  What did he tell you -- 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, he just told me to hit it left which I already knew.  (Laughter). 
 But you know, he told me to practise my long putts, just do a lot of lag putting, it's going to be key.  And he's absolutely right.  That's really the only thing I've been working on on the course.  I've been putting from 30 yards off the green, just totally different shots than I would use in the States.  But here, it works beautifully that way, and I would say those are the two big things he told me. 

 Q.  When did he give you the book? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  In Orlando a few weeks ago. 

 Q.  Did you ask him for it? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No.  He said, "You know, I have a yardage book, would you look to use it." 
 I said, "I would love to, are you sure?"  He said yeah.  I got it before he left for Scotland himself. 

 Q.  Are there any notes as well as yardage? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  How he played the holes? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No. 

 Q.  He won here a couple of years ago and didn't hit in any bunkers the whole time -- 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Why would it be any different for a woman?  Yeah, you just have to play smart.  You've got to know where the bunkers are and you have to hit it where you want to hit it. 

 Q.  You've been working with your coach yesterday, what were you working on? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I've been working a lot on my backswing and now I've got the backswing figured out.  Now I need to trust it coming down to the ball, especially when it's so windy like yesterday.  It was a little tougher, and you know, just a few things from the top coming down.  Today was a lot better, so I feel good about it. 

 Q.  Did you have any idea where you St Rule Trophy is? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  My trophy?  At home. 

 Q.  Is it in your trophy cabinet? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, it's not, but it's at home.  Yeah, I don't -- I haven't displayed all of the trophies to be honest. I haven't got room (laughs) 

 Q.  What would winning here again mean? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, I think it would be tough to describe in words.  You know, the British Open has always meant so much to me, especially being a European.  And then to come here this week with so much history.  I really think this is a milestone for women's golf. 
 You know, I try not to think about it.  I just want to come out and play and enjoy the place, and see how it goes.  But I mean, it's going to be history tomorrow when the first shot is hit and history again on Sunday when the last putt has been made.  This is a really incredible week and you know, I'm happy to be here and having a chance to compete. 

 Q.  How are you feeling with your injury? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I am totally pain-free but my strength is not back and I'm still recovering from trying to get better, but luckily no pain. 

 Q.  What was your score today? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't know my score but I played really well.  I made the turn at 3-under and that was about the last time I checked my score.  I think the wind was a little different today, not as strong, and the holes are playing a lot different.  You know, the Pro-Am is all about helping your team and it's not always about putting your own score together. 
 On a course like this, you really want to just kind of make sure that -- make sure you know exactly where the bunkers are.  I was paying a lot of attention to the course more than my score. 

 Q.  How would you assess your year? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I wouldn't say it's a great year.  I would say it's a different type of year.  I haven't played as much.  I haven't played as well.  It's been very, very different. 
 Off the golf course it's been a fabulous year, so, you know, I'm happy. 

 Q.  Has your links golf strategy changed over the years? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't think so.  I think the last few years getting some experience on these courses is just going to help.  I mean, I love this type of golf.  It's fantastic.  I wish we got a chance to play it more often, and I need to do it more often because it just creates a unique -- so many more different shots than in the States. 
 But I think it's wonderful to be here.  Strategy tomorrow is just to listen to my caddie, trust my swing and make putts. 

 Q.  Is it your intention to play a lot more golf or have you discovered you don't need to play a lot more golf? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it's a combination, I would say.  Right now I want to get back to 100 per cent.  I want to play to the level that I know how, and you know, I've had, I thought, anyway, I had a good schedule in January, and obviously the schedule has changed.  Now I think I've played eight tournaments, and by now I probably would have played about 12. 
 So, you know, I want to get back to where I'm competing regularly, definitely.  Not as much as rookie year or the first few years, but you know, a schedule where I play 18 on the LPGA and a few around the word.  I think that would just suit me perfectly. 

 Q.  Challenge for No. 1, is that a goal? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I want to get back like I said to play the golf I know that, and if I can do that is correct I'm happy and I'm sure things will take care of themselves after that. 

 Q.  Were you nervous when you were in contention last week at the Evian Masters? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, you know, it's been a while and it was fun.  I loved it.  I have to admit, a was a little nervous on Saturday, just playing in the second to last group and just at least looking at the leaderboard and seeing my name there, it's been a while. 
 You know, that's the feeling that I love.  I mean, that's why I practise and that's what gets me motivated.  You know, not being up there just makes you feel like -- I mean, you're part of it but then you're not really part of it.  It's the thrill of coming down the last few holes and having a chance -- again, that's where it's worth it. 
 It was fun, and I feel like I've played better every week since I came back.  We started with the Tribute was a very rusty tournament, and McDonald's was rusty and the Open was better and last week was a lot better. 
 Hopefully I can continue this progress and get really comfortable being out there and playing and scoring again. 

 Q. You said last week your injury was about 85% right. What about this week? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Maybe 86.  It's tough to tell.  I feel better every day.  I'm working out regularly and I think that's really helping.  You know, obviously it's tough to figure out exactly what percentage, but you know, I'm getting closer to a hundred but I would say it takes three to four months more. 

 Q.  How has it impacted you the most? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  My driving distance.  I hope not.  I feel like I'm further away than I really want to be.  I think with a driver, it's a combination of distance and accuracy.  I feel very comfortable with the irons and, you know, my 7-wood is the longer club and that's tougher for me.  I think a lot of it has to do with the strength and timing that I just haven't had for a while. 

 Q.  Does it help to be a long hitter to play here? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I would say it totally depends on the conditions.  I mean, yesterday, I don't know if it helps to be long.  I think it almost helps to be short so you don't get up in the air so when it kicks it, it rolls longer. 
 Today, conditions were different.  I think today distance helped and no wind, I think distance definitely helps.  

 Q.  Should the 17th be a par 5? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, the last three days were almost downwind, and yes, I am surprised.  But everybody tells me that the prevailing wind is opposite; then I think a par 5 makes sense.  
 But I think overall if you think about it, it really doesn't matter what the par; because yesterday if you would have shot 77, that would have felt like par.  I'm sure when we have no wind, you expect to shoot maybe 70. 
 So it's pretty irrelevant I think at the end of the day.  You just have to get it from A to B. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Annika, thank you very much, indeed, and good luck this week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT