HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2007
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Looked like you were right in it until 14 and 15. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  14 and 15, yeah, I had a good approach shot on 14, and I probably had a 6-footer for birdie and just hit on the edge and she made birdie, so the match was 2-up. 
 I thought I hit a good full shot in on 15 and then an aggressive putt but just made the wrong play.  It was a bad judgment call but she played very well today. 

 Q.  The putt on 15, were you trying to slam dunk it because you had to make it? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't know if I was going for a slam dunk, but I was trying to make it and it just took off a lot more than I expected obviously.  It's disappointing but she played very well.  She didn't really make a bogey all day.  It was just one of those days, I had two bad shots and that was it and it cost me the match. 

 Q.  You spun a couple of shots back -- 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Mmm-hmm. 

 Q.  Like Sybase last year -- 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Mmm-hmm. 

 Q.  Do you want to blow it up? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I guess I just have to work on the rest of the hole I guess, getting better. 

 Q.  Are you surprised at the amount of Top-10 players that have been eliminated in the first two days? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't even know what happened today.  I had my mind and my focus on my match, and I don't know what happened the rest of the matches.  
 Like I've seen in the past, anything can happen in match play. 

 Q.  Where is your game now in your mind, this many tournaments in your return? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think I'm playing well.  The last two days I have not made many mistakes.  I'm hitting fairways and I'm hitting greens.  My distance is back.  I think I'm disappointed because I'm playing well.  I do have to play some more, and it's a bummer now I'm out of the tournament.  You know, I need some rounds under my belt. 
 You know, I think I played well today.  It just wasn't enough.  Just got to keep on grinding.  Luckily I still did, so tomorrow I'm going to be here working on my game and get ready for next week. 

 Q.  Do you still feel any pain at all? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I feel great. 

 Q.  Can you just talk about the pressure that Wright kept up on you all day?  Kind of from the start they was hitting fairways, not that you were playing badly but she never gave you an opening? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  She's playing very well.  She played very well.  She didn't make any mistakes and she rolled in some nice putts and that's what you have to do in match play.  She never let up the pressure; I always had to make birdie or she would win the hole.  It's just one of those things, when somebody plays well, it's tough when there's really nothing more to say than that.  I'm disappointed and she played well. 

 Q.  What was it  -- I know it didn't help you get to the next hole, but when you sunk the 50-foot putt, did that end the day on a good note for you? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm not really sure what it did.  Obviously it's fun to make the putt.  Said to grind for her -- to finish the hole.  You know, it's just disappointing.  I played some good shots.  The tee shot was good, the second shot was good. I thought I hit a beautiful shot and ended up in a tough spot. 
 It was a birdie that mattered.  When you're up in that situation, you just have to play aggressive and the way she's been playing all day, you knew she wasn't going to give me a break. 

 Q.  Did you ever do anything like that before, like you did on 15? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  If I had, I think I had suppressed it. 

 Q.  The mental -- 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You don't want to know what I'm thinking, no.  (Laughing). 

 Q.  The one bunker shot, did it hit the lip in? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, it did.  It was a delicate shot.  I had to get it just right over there because the green is rolling very fast left-to-right.  You know, it was a little too cute. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT