MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 10, 2007
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Must be nice to end with a round under par. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I must say today I felt really good all day.  There was something special today.  The score might not show it, but I just felt -- I felt like my old self today.  I had a pretty good feel with the grip.  It was just a good day, it really was. 

 Q.  Do you feel like you've got your competitive legs back under you? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, that's what Terry told me.  I said, "We're competitive again."  I'm really looking forward to the Open.  It's been a while since I've looked forward to another tournament.  Now I have two weeks off and I'm really looking forward to it. 

 Q.  Do you feel like your return is sort of peaking at the right time for the Open? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm not sure if I will be peaking, but I really feel like it's coming around.  I've come a long way the last two months -- really the last three weeks in the last two months.  Today was a special feeling.  I can feel it again. 
 You know, I was in-between clubs a few times and I was able to hit with feel.  It's been a long time since I had that.  Last year was just, you know, I had no feel. 

 Q.  When you say you have the feeling again now, what does that mean exactly? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It means I feel it in the grip, in the club, in the backswing.  It's hard to explain.  I just really feel the grip.  I feel the club, in the backswing -- it's tough to explain.  I'm getting some of the distance back.  I mean, I flew the green on 16 and it was, you know, one of the biggest pitching wedge I've ever hit; it was just smooth.  Those are things that I'm looking for that makes me -- it makes me happy that I'm going in the right direction. 

 Q.  Did the practice on the putting green pay off? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  A little bit.  I think I hit some good putts today. 
 You know, again, this is only my second tournament back, and I thought last week it would take four to five weeks, so I think it's coming further and faster than I could have expected. 

 Q.  What will you work on to get back to 100%? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I need to work on all parts of the game.  I'm looking forward to getting a chance to practice.  I haven't been able to practice because I've had to pace myself.  I've been warming up with less than my normal routine and I haven't hit balls after the round because I have to pace myself.  Now I have two weeks where I can hit some balls and work on some things. 
 I feel better.  There's an excitement there that I have not felt in a while.  That to me is very important. 

 Q.  How is the body holding up? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's fine.  I'm thrilled.  I think two weeks off is going to do me really well. 

 Q.  On a scale, from 1 to 10 -- 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  My performance?  I think it's up there.  It's not the old me but it's a lot better than I expected.  To finish in the top 20 in a major, I'll take that.  . 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT