HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2007
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  Annika, congratulations.  You won in 20 holes, and that certainly was not an easy match for you; coming down to the end, it was neck-and-neck.  Can you just talk a little about what it was like out there?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I agree with you.  It was a thriller.  There was a lot of drama out there.  I thought we had -- you know, we played some good golf, especially the last -- well, the back nine.  It was birdies back and forth.  It was tough.   
 It was a fun match I thought.  You know, I missed a few shots, but overall I think I played really well, putted well and hang in there.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Did you have mind-set on 18 that she was going to make that birdie?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, you always have to think that.  I had a good opportunity myself.  I was very pleased the way I hit my third shot.  I had probably an 8-footer for birdie and just missed it on the right and still rolled in a solid birdie.  It's got to be expected, anything can happen in match play.   
 I think I got a good break -- I don't know if it was a good break, but I made a really good par on the 19th hole to carry the match hole.  I rolled in probably a 4- or 5-footer and obviously that was key for me.  I hit a 4-wood off the 20th hole, just kind of got it in the fairway and just kind of felt the rhythm again.   
  
  Q.  Having not played a lot of golf this year, is this something to build on just in terms of forcing yourself to make some key putts down the stretch? ?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Absolutely.  I mean, it's key for me to just get to play, and the more holes, the better.  I mean, I didn't really expect to play this many.  I mean, I didn't want it to be that dramatic.   
 It was a good match.  I really had to do my best and I really tried.  And I think it's good for me just to play, find my rhythm and playing.  We'll see, you know, whatever happens up to here, but it's good for me to really get some pressure on myself again.  I really haven't had that this year because I really haven't been in contention or I just haven't even played.  So it was really good.   
  
  Q.  Just the reaction, you mentioned the par you made on the first hole, the first extra hole; when you're in the rough, are you thinking purely just middle of the green, get up-and-down for par at that point?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I was.  I had 136, I believe to the pin, and I just wanted to be in the center of the green, and I know Katherine had probably between 15 and 20 feet; it's tough to tell from back there.  But middle of the green is always good and missed that birdie opportunity.  I came down with the clubhead open, shot went to the right.  Distance was fine, but left myself a tricky chip.  I hit it pretty good but it broke a lot more than I thought.   
  
  Q.  On the last hole, did your thought process off the tee change at all after you saw her drive it in the bunker?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, it did, yeah.  I had my hand on the driver, and Terry put his hand on mine and said, "Let's just have her hit first."  So then she hit and I looked at him and then I grabbed my 4-wood.   
 So it was match-play strategy, but it was thanks to Terry, not me.   
  
  Q.  What is it about match play that Cristie Kerr got beat today, a number of significant players; what is it about match play that does that?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think it just suits some players more than others.  This is not a format that suits a consistent player.  I have no idea what happened in that match, but I know Cristie is one of the most consistent players out here.  In this format, you can have a bad hole but if you bounce back with a birdie, you're really almost skating rather than losing.    
 I also think in this format, some players like it because they can be a lot more aggressive.  That's why you see a lot of upsets in match play.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  All right, Annika, thanks for coming in and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT