GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
June 2, 2007
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Annika, can you remember a time when you played a round like this where it was just solid rain, and how do you keep yourself going through it, because you had a pretty solid round out there today. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, it was okay.  I'm trying to remember, it hasn't been this year, because I haven't played.  But no, I can't remember really.  At the British Open, I can't remember if we've had similar conditions. 
 I thought It was tough today.  Constant rain, some wind at times.  The course changed a little bit because of all the rain.  Some greens are a little softer, some were not.  It's tough.  I had a decent round.  I left a few out there but I think with the wind and the rain, it made it a little tougher for me but not the normal distance.  So I had to adjust a little bit. 

 Q.  Can you take yourself away a little bit from the role as the golfer and put yourself in the role of the tournament hostess; how disappointing is the weather situation, especially since it's something you can't control? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It puts a little damper on the event but I don't think that much.  We had a nice crowd out there.  I was impressed to see the people come out despite the conditions.  I think the spirit is up with everybody and the players love the tournament. 
 So, you know, like you said, there's nothing we can do about it.  Just try and make the about out of it.  If you look at the leaderboard, it's got some names up there and some good golf still, despite the rain. 

 Q.  This is the first LPGA event ever held in the Charleston area.  Beth Daniels, by far the best golfer from this area.  Would you have liked to in some way include or honor her at this tournament? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, absolutely.  No, there's no doubt about it.  This year we felt like it was appropriate to get the founders, but I would say that Beth is next in line.  You know, fully aware that she is from this area, and she has done so much for golf and I admire her a lot, and actually spoke to her on the phone about it.  I would definitely like to see her involved and get honored one way or another, if not maybe next year. 

 Q.  Knowing the conditions out there, obviously, when you started your round, did it make it easier for you to kind of stay within that game plan that you've been talking about all week of knowing your limitations and getting yourself back gradually instead of all at once? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I mean, I didn't have a choice, like you said.  I mean, it was just trying to hit the fairways and trying to hit greens and stay out of the rough.  I can't be aggressive on par 5s. 
 In a way, yes, I would say so.  Today I just felt a little bit tired this morning.  I went to see the doctor that I've been working with.  He's here, and a therapist that I work with is here, too, so we talked a little bit about it this morning. 
 You know, the tests that they do, they tell me I'm fine, but I felt a little tired this morning.  I really couldn't get some clubhead speed.  You know, it's been a long week golf-wise for me.  Normal conditions, no, but I played six on Monday, nine on Tuesday, 18, you know, three days in a row.  So I'm not surprised that I'm tired; that my muscles are just feeling it. 
 You know, I'm going to ice right now and just kind of give it a little break. 

 Q.  Will that impact what you do next week?  Are you still planning on going to the LPGA Championship? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm going.  There is no doubt about it.  I do think that I have to adjust my practice schedule next week.  It's good that I'm playing this weekend, but body-wise, I'm not really ready. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT