MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 8, 2007
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You said before the tournament started that you didn't have real high expectations, has that sort of changed after these last two days?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, it's about the same.  I mean, you know, I'm excited, though, because I'm having several good holes.  I'm hitting some quality shots.  Unfortunately I still have some bad shots in me, and therefore, I don't want to raise the bar too soon.  I'm just happy to have two rounds under par.   
 I think I have right now a good frame of mind and I just want to try and keep that.   
  
  Q.  Do you think No. 5 really got the wheels back on track?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, that was huge.  I was struggling a little bit on 2, 3, 4 and 5.  To come back was key and that was important for me.  Like I said, I have a good frame of mind right now and I just want to keep it that way and not think too far ahead.  For me it's all about plodding along.  I'm going to hit some bad shots but if I can save some like I did today and I can putt well, I made a few solid 5- and 6-footers to keep it going and that's the key here.   
  
  Q.  Is it hard not to think of yourself as a contender, do the competitive juices take over?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm a competitor and I might be a little injured physically, but let me tell you, mentally I'm not.  I'm probably strong as ever.  So that's really what keeps me going.   
  
  Q.  How did you feel in the heat coming into the last hole?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It was hot.   
  
  Q.  They said you had a lot of power the last few holes.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I don't know what happened here.  I just bombed a drive and bombed an 8-iron so maybe I'm not that tired.  But to go out and play another nine, there's no way.  I feel exhausted, I really do.  I didn't hit a lot of fairways, so for me it was all about scoring and trying to save some stuff.  That wears on you, too.   
 So I'm looking forward to some rest and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  Do you think it's more difficult to be competitive nowadays than in years before?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, absolutely, there's no doubt about it.   
  
  Q.  Why is that?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Because the players better, the depth is there.  Everybody is getting better every year.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT