KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2007
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Better today? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  A little better but still not really what I like, but baby steps I guess.  Be positive about it.  I don't really know what I'm doing differently, that's the funny part.  Try to hit fairways, try to hit greens. 
 I made a birdie on my second hole.  I hit it close to about three feet. 
 Made a bogey on 4, my 13th.  I hit a pitching wedge to about ten feet.  I had about five holes in a row that I felt really good. 

 Q.  The scoring, what do you expect tomorrow? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Overall?  I haven't really given it thought.  When you're teeing off on the 10th hole in a major, it doesn't feel like you're in a major anymore.  You totally lose -- I didn't have a single butterfly today.  It's so different, more trampling -- inaudible -- and trying to get something going and maybe get into the tournament. 
 But you know, it's not like I'm out there really focusing on the score, what it should be and what is it now.  It's far from a major feeling of what it should be. 

 Q.  What does that leave you for tomorrow?  More of the same to try to feel your way back? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I've just got to find it again.  A good round would kind of kick-start it.  That's what I'm hoping. 
 Starting to see some good momentum.  One tournament I'd like to finish well, move on, I have three more major, I have the Ginn Open and the Ginn Tribute, and I can still do a lot.  I just need a little encouragement.  You know, that always helps. 

 Q.  What do you feel about Lorena, she will be No. 1 -- 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Lorena is playing some great golf.  Obviously she's the best player right now.  So I want to congratulate her.  I think she's probably more concerned about winning the tournament than anything else.  

 Q.  (About expectations from athletes and Tiger's success.) 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't know what a regular fan feels but I can tell you I admire him.  I mean, he's a great athlete and what he accomplished in '97 was fantastic.  I remember watching it and it was amazing to see how he made it look so easy, how he was in such control.  To see somebody work so hard and all of a sudden, the unveiling, that was cool. 

 Q.  As someone who has worked with him, is there anything about his game that you seek to incorporate to your game? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I have learned a lot no doubt, his short game, the way he concentrates.  He's inspirational. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT