GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
June 1, 2007
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  1-under today.  You have to be pretty happy about that.  Can you just talk about your round and your tournament.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Sure.  No, I'm very happy.  You know, to shoot -- I'm 1-under today and 1-under total for two days.  I think that's a lot better than I expected.  I think the course is very tough, especially with the conditions.  Both the fairways and the greens are getting very firm.   
 There was some tricky pin placements up there.  I mean, I was just trying to hit some fairways and some greens and roll in a few putts.  It was fun.  I'm enjoying myself out there and my expectations are not very high.  Just trying to go out and hit a few good shots.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Can we do your scorecard really quickly?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Really quickly?  No. 1 I hooked my tee shot left, 9-wood over the green.  Chipped it and 2-putted from about two feet.   
 I birdied No. 2, 7-iron.  Made a putt that was about eight feet.   
 And then I eagled No. 3.  I hit a 9-wood over the green, chipped it in from twenty feet.   
 Bogey No. 9.  Missed my tee shot left, and then I hit the green on four and 2-putted from about seven feet.   
 Bogey No. 11.  I can't remember what I did on 11.  Oh, yeah, thanks.  Yeah, I hit my second shot left and it was just this close (indicating)  to the lip there, so I just hit it out and I hit it to about four feet and missed the par putt.   
 I birdie 17.  I hit an 8-iron to about 11 feet.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Questions for Annika?   
  
  Q.  Can you elaborate a little more on the eagle on No. 3.  What club did you use to chip in, and did it hit the flag with authority or did if just trickle in?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It was just right.  Hit a lob wedge.  Took the ball back in the stance a little bit, got it rolling on the green, and pretty much went into the center.   
 The funny thing was that Laura had just drove in a long putt for three herself.  We walked away with two eagles and one birdie on that hole.   
  
  Q.  Why do you think it's going better than maybe you would have expected?  Do you feel better than you thought you would, or did your touch come back quicker?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm not sure if my touch is back.  I just think if you have not been competing for six to seven weeks -- I mean, I feel rusty.  I feel like -- it's not just a feeling.  I know I'm not hitting as far as I used to, so therefore you have to make adjustments.   
 My caddie and I have to think differently on the course.  It's at least one more club, and when you have been hitting the same club for five, six years it becomes a routine.  If he says 150 I know exactly what club.  Now when it's 150 I'm thinking, Is it one more or one and a half club more.   
 I don't have the height that I did, so I have to adjust my game and it's difficult, especially on a course like this where there's a lot of carry and you need to know the undulations on the green.  Club selection is very important.   
  
  Q.  After going birdie and eagle so early in your round, did you start to feel maybe, Wow, maybe I'm even ahead of my own schedule and I can get back in this?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I did for a little bit, but then I told myself to calm down.  It was a fun feeling.  I was really kind of feeling it again.  But then, you know, a long ways to go, and, you know, I've got to pace myself.   
 I hadn't really been looking at the leaderboard, and now I'm 2-under par and all of a sudden I'm staring the leaderboard down.  I tell myself to just go back and play your game and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  Are you concerned about the lack of length or having to play the extra club now?  Do you feel like your length will come back?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I hope it will.  The main thing is I'm not a 100% yet.  I think I would be worried if I was 100%.  I still he have a long ways to go.  I'm not worried.  I will continue to pace myself and hopefully I will get it back.   
  
  Q.  You seemed like you were enjoying yourself out there today.  I mean, is that because of how good you felt, or maybe do you allow yourself in rounds now maybe to enjoy it a little bit more than you did earlier in the your career?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I always enjoyed it.  This week I'm just happy to be back.  You know, when you've been home away from competition you just appreciate it when you're back just feeling better and no pain and starting to hit some golf shots and be able to hit some drivers and score again.   
 I think that's a great feeling.  You know, I enjoyed the break, but also I miss it.  I miss the competition.  I'm happy to be out here knowing it's going to take some time, but still making birdies.  I'm still competing and I'll be playing tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  If I could ask you about Mack Kline, she finished up her two days here and seemed to enjoy herself no matter what her score was.  Talk about having her here and maybe what she brought to this tournament for you.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think it's been great this year here.  I know this is a dream for her.  I'm happy that we were able to give her the opportunity.  You know, I saw her earlier in the week and she had a huge smile, and, you know, I seen her today and she seems still happy, and that's what this is all about.   
 It's just been a great addition to the tournament.  I mean, I'm happy for her and I'm happy she had a good time.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Annika, thank you very much.  Good luck this weekend.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT