GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 31, 2007
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  We are going to get started.  Thank you all for coming in.  Annika, you had a pretty strong round out there.  Talk about your first round coming back at your tournament.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.  I mean, I'm going to tell you I'm extremely happy with my round, you know, considering the circumstances.  Obviously, you know, a year ago I wouldn't have been happy with it, but now I'm very happy with it.   
 I mean, I made five birdies.  I think that's a lot more than I could have asked for.  I knew I was going to make a lot of mistakes.  I knew it was going to tough out there.  It's only my second 18 holes in six to seven weeks.   
 It's difficult to go out there and put a score together.  At home I've been playing, struggling with three holes, six holes.  I sit in a golf cart and just go and play.  It's different than walking 18 holes and playing and putting a score together.   
 I'm extremely happy with the round.  You know, I have no idea where this put me.  I'm sure I'm several shots from the lead, but that's not really my goal right now.  I'm just trying to get into the swing of things, and, you know, I finished with the last two birdies, so it's better and I'm happy about that.   
  
  Q.  After playing a six-hour Pro-Am round, yesterday how did your back feel yesterday and when you came to the course today and what about now?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, yesterday I was tired after the round.  I didn't feel much in my neck, but I iced it twice and then I had this neck contraption that I lay in it and it just lifts up and gets some space in between the vertebras.   
 But I felt fine.  It was funny, I woke up this morning and I was sore but it was in my calf from walking.  So I'm a little bit out of shape.   
  
  Q.  Were you getting any massage or any therapy in the fitness trailer today?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No.  I mean, we have a plan, and if I don't feel any symptoms I'm just going to continue to ice it and do this neck thing that I have.  If I start to feel something they're going to -- I don't know what they have in mind, but then they told me to get in there.   
 Right now hopefully I can ice it three times today and I won't feel anything tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  You closed your round I guess with three birdies your last four holes.  Would that be as your round went on you felt better than you perhaps expected to, and perhaps felt more like yourself towards the end of your round?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I like to say the more I played the more comfortable I'm going to get.  I think really the hardest thing for me is to find a balance where I'm aggressive enough to hit the ball and not too aggressive where I'm hurting myself.   
 There was a few times out there when I felt like I was just -- my tempo -- normally we operate my tempo from one to ten, and when I'm swinging well it's six to seven or something around eight.   
 I think at times I was swinging like four, which means I have no club head speed.  I was just -- it's almost like I was decelerating.  That's the bad shots I hit.  My caddie said, Well, just don't be afraid to hit it.  Just hit it.  So, again, I think I have to find a balance where I'm still swinging aggressive but not as hard or not as fast.   
 That's quite an adjustment when you have to think about that and where the wind is and where the ball is going to bounce, et cetera.  I just think in the end I was just more comfortable.   
  
  Q.  With this tournament having your name on it, obviously you want to have the best field here.  What are your thoughts on Michelle withdrawing?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I just heard it outside.  Why did she withdraw?   
  
  Q.  Her wrist.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, that's a bummer.  I'm sorry for her.  You know, that cannot be fun.  I know what it's like to have an injury.  I guess mine healed better than hers.   
  
  Q.  You said yesterday that you accomplished your first goal by finishing the round.  So I'm sure your goals are changing as you're discovering how you're playing.  So looking ahead, what do you think would be a good goal?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm changing slowly.  Like I said, level par I would have taken that any day.  If you would have told me on the tee I would take it.  I think if I can do the same thing tomorrow I'm going to be happy.   
 It's a long way back, and I have to be patient.  Like I said, it's a different situation I'm in and I just have to deal with it.  I don't want to rush things.  I want to take my time and build up the foundation and be strong.   
 I'm happy to go back, and it's great to post a score.   
  
  Q.  Is that patient approach going to be tested next week when you have a major, and couple weeks after that?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, it is.  It's tested even today.  I mean, there was a few times out there early in the round.  I was 2-over I think after five holes.   
 You know, my caddie put his arm around me and said, Be patient.  You're not hitting as far as you want to or as straight as you like, but we can still score.  Just make up and down and make birdie on the next one, and I did.   
 And then when I got to the 17th hole I said, Well, what do you think about my attitude?  And he said, You're being great.  So that means a lot to me.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT