JOHN Q. HAMMONS HOTEL CLASSIC
September 7, 2006
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Annika, thanks for coming in and joining us today.  Defending champion here.  Looking to three peat.  Want to just talk about being back.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, obviously I'm very happy to be back.  Tulsa has been great to me the last few years.  I have some great memories.  You know, coming off a win last week, I feel pretty good.  So I'm happy to get going again.

THE MODERATOR:  Do you want to talk about your win last week.  Came back, shot a 10 under to win.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, it was quite a finish, I must say.  One of the lowest rounds I've had in my career.  To do it on a Sunday when you have a chance to win, you know, coming from five shots behind, maybe didn't seem possible, but in a way it felt possible.

Then to, you know, finish up the way I did with two birdies, to win the State Farm Series pool was pretty cool, as well.  It was a great week.

THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Annika.
Q.  At the end of your career when you look back, whenever your career ends, what do you want to be able to say about your career?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think today I'm probably going to be able to say a lot more than I ever thought I could say, especially the way I have played the last few years.  But, you know, something that I'm obviously very proud of is the Hall of Fame, you know, the World Hall of Fame and the LPGA Hall of Fame.  I'm very proud of shooting a 59.  I'm proud of winning who knows how many majors, but at least 10.

I think a lot of times I'm going to have to pinch myself and say, Is it really true?  I've achieved a lot more than I thought I ever really could.  Today I'm pretty much satisfied with what I've done.  Right now I just keep on going because I feel like I can get better and I keep on going because I feel I love the game.

If something would happen and I decide not to play, I'd still be very, very proud today.
Q.  How important was the US Open victory in Newport in July, not only for getting that monkey off your back after a decade, but to get your season kick started again?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think every time you win a major is a special week, special moment.  As you know, the Open has always been very special to me in so many ways.  You know, it's kind of ironic, I think.  I end up winning the championship that I cherished the most in a year that's been a little bit up and down.  It's kind of funny how things go.

Obviously, I welcome it.  You know, it's just a little bit of a statement for myself.  I'm still working quite hard on my swing.  Hasn't really been there all year.  It's been clicking a few times, but it has not been as consistent as I would like it to be and definitely not as consistent as it's been the last five, six years.

I think when I look back at this year, I'm going to remember obviously the Open.  Also I'm going to remember I've had some strange finishes.  I've had some strange shots sometimes where normally I would finish strong.  So it's a memorable year in a different way, I would say.
Q.  What about off the course, becoming a U.S. citizen?  How neat was that process?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I mean, it's something that I'm proud of and something that has taken me a long time, but also a commitment I wanted to make.  You know, I've been here since 1990.  This is my home.  I thought that was the right thing.

I mean, I've been quite busy off the course.  That was obviously one thing that's taken some time.  But I'm also in the process of opening an academy.  I'm in the process of designing some golf courses.  I'm in the process of making a fitness DVD.  I'm doing a lot of stuff off the course, which has taken a lot of time off practice and competition.  But it's a way for me to plant a seed for the future, looking for a career past competing.
Q.  How has your mental approach changed from when you first got on the tour till now?  Is it easier for you to approach a game mentally as opposed to always constantly having to work on your swing?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I work on my swing every day.  I worked on my swing 15 years ago.  I'm still working on it.  Feels like there's always something to improve.  If it's not the long game, it's the short game.

I think when it comes to approach, I'm a lot more comfortable playing, being on the first tee.  I'm a lot more comfortable if I'm in the hunt on Sunday.  I have a lot more confidence today than I did when I came out.  But I do think when I was a rookie, I had a lot more adrenaline, a lot more motivation, a lot more excitement because it's the beginning.

Now this is my 12th year.  I've achieved a lot.  I've done that.  Now it's more I know how to do it, I can handle it, and I feel very comfortable.
Q.  You've had some pretty good runs in your career.  You had a stretch where you won five in a row over the winter break.  Can you talk about what it takes to make a run like that, what Tiger is doing right now compared to your run, what kind of a groove you have to be in for that to happen?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You obviously have to be in a great mode mentally.  I think your mind has to be able to shut off the previous weeks.  You obviously have to be playing well.  I also think you need to have some good breaks.  I mean, there's tournaments where I played really well and I have not been able to win.

There's a lot of factors that makes you win a tournament, especially if you start thinking about it.  When you go on a little run like that, it's fun, the momentum is there.  Again, you feel probably very comfortable.  I did anyway.  I felt very comfortable on the course.  I felt very confident.  That's just something you have to ride as long as it lasts.
Q.  Do you keep up with him regularly?  For a while, you were trading majors, messaging each other.  Do you still have the competitive relationship a little bit?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think we will always have that, no doubt.  I watched him win Sunday.  I think a lot of people did.  It was exciting.
Q.  Even though you're not on the same tour competing week in, week out, when you see he's winning majors, how much does that drive you to not maybe one up him, but how much does that drive you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think it's just more for fun than anything.  I have my own goals.  I motivate myself.  It's always fun to watch somebody who's playing well.  I think it's great for anybody to watch somebody who's good at something.  I think it's inspiring.  I would say that's for sure.

But like I said, it's different tours.  I have my own goals.  I have my own players that I play against.  It's just something that we kind of kid around and laugh about a little bit.
Q.  This has been a time of year where you've kind of gotten rolling after you won this event the last two years.  Obviously you would hope to keep what started last week going and finish the same way?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, absolutely.  I would love to do that.  I have played well here in the past.  Like I said earlier, I love the golf course.  It's a an old traditional, with smaller greens, tight fairways, tree lined, I love that.  Obviously, I would love to play well this week, continue with my own momentum and start my own little run, then finish strong because, you know, the year hasn't, like I said, been as solid.  If I'm going to have a chance at the Money List and Player of the Year, et cetera, I need to do something.
Q.  Why does Cedar Ridge suit your game so well?  Is there a particular aspect of the course, certain stretch on the course that you get dialed in?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, like I said, I like this type of course.  It's an old traditional course.  Again, small greens.  It's a course where you have to be very accurate.  You have to hit fairways.  With this Bermuda grass, it's tough.  The rough might not look thick if you just kind of look quick glance.  If you get up there, the ball can nestle down in some quite tough places.  It puts a premium on your driving.  It definitely puts a premium on iron shots.  There's some longer par 3s.  You cannot reach all par 5s, which means you have to lay up.  The third shot has to be pretty good.

Those are the type of courses I like to play.
Q.  As a competitive person, what is your favorite way of winning?  Do you like to have it over with after the first round, so to speak?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't think I've ever had it over after the first round, not even when I shot 59.  Well, that was the second round.  But, still, you know, I would say a win is a win.  I'll take it any way that it can happen.

Obviously, it was special to come from behind the way I did on Sunday.  I have played in tournaments where I've had a five  to six shot lead.  I find that very difficult.  My biggest comeback was a 10 shot I think in LA.  That's quite a comeback there.  That was very special.  I didn't expect that.

Like I said, I'll take it any way.  Playoffs are fun.  But it's also kind of fun to have a lead, kind of walk down the last few holes, be able to breathe, not have to worry too much.
Q.  Two years ago you shot 9 under, 10 under to win.  Last year was 5 under.  Somewhere in between this year you think might be the winning score?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, probably.  It seems likes they have lengthened the course a little bit on a few holes.  Doesn't seem like we got a lot of roll in the fairway, which makes the course a little longer.  Again, scores might be a little higher.  I would say the weather    if we get some wind here, this course is very tough.
Q.  Five years ago you really embraced fitness, working out.  Do you think it sent the message that to beat you you have to out work you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think it also sent a message that we're pro athletes.  If you're going to be competitive here, you have to be good in all the different aspects of the game.  I think fitness is definitely a part of it.

It has helped me tremendously not just about hitting the ball further, maybe being a little bit more consistent.  But I think long term with all the traveling that we do, with the hectic schedule, you have to   knock on wood   I haven't had any injuries.  Oh, that's a rock (laughter).

You know, I think that's just very important, especially nowadays when they talk with me and they say you're one of the older players here.  You feel pretty good.  I'm 35.  Nowadays, there are teenagers here.  You have to be very competitive.

I think fitness has done a lot for me.
Q.  Can you describe what your workout consists of nowadays.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's pretty much the same, I would say.  I do different programs.  I don't do a program more than six to eight weeks, then I change them always to make it fun and a little different.

A lot of it is lifting weights.  I don't do a lot of cardio.  I feel like I get enough being out here and so forth.  You know, lifting weights to get stronger.  I focus a lot on the core, with a lot of medicine balls, the Swiss ball, a lot of balancing stuff.  Three times a week during a tournament, about five when I'm at home.
Q.  Some people watch the leaderboard, some people don't.  How often do you pay attention to the leaderboard?  Is it a big deal?  During the final round you're going to look up occasionally.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  To me it is, yeah.  I mean, I'm a competitor.  I love to know what's going on in the tournament.  If you're in the hunt, I think it's even more important because, especially coming down the stretch, you need to know if you need to play aggressive.  Who am I chasing?  What do I need to do?  If you're leading, you like to know by how many, who is chasing you.  I mean, those are all important information when you're out there playing for your strategy and your approach.

I'm definitely a leaderboard watcher.  The more leaderboards, the better.
Q.  We asked Tiger at the PGA if he ever feels sorry for his opponents.  He said no.  Do you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Why should you?  I mean, we're playing well.  I mean, I think you ask anybody out here, it's an individual sport.  I think we're all as competitive as it gets.  You just play your own game.  Everybody has a chance to win starting out tomorrow on the first tee.  We all start from scratch.

I don't really feel sorry, no.
Q.  You could be fifth best or 10th best and still make a very nice living, but it's important for you to be the best.  Why?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I'm a competitor.  I'm as competitive as it gets.  It doesn't matter really if it's golf.  When I play tennis, I was the same way.  Play cards, I like to win.

For me obviously it's about trying to reach my own potential as a golfer.  But also to see how good you can get.  You compare yourself with other players.  I look at other players and say, What is she good at?  What does she do, et cetera.  You find pointers from everybody.  Just collect it all and try to be as good as you can.
Q.  Is it a little scary to look at what you've done already and say you haven't reached your potential yet?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, think I'm very close, to be honest.  I still do feel I can get a little better.  I think my short game is finally getting to the point where I'm happy.  But now my long game, I don't know, I misplaced it a little bit and I'm just looking for it.

I'm looking for that day when it all comes together.  I would say Sunday was very close, or maybe that was it.  I'd like to do it more often.
Q.  What is your favorite card game?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, I play it all.  You name it.
Q.  Talking about the course, there's been talk of the rough being a little too thick.  What are your thoughts on that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think it's just fine.  Like I said, it puts a premium on driving here.  It doesn't mean you have to hit driver on every hole.  If you feel intimidated by the rough, you can hit a 3 wood or 4 wood, something like that.  I think that's what it should be.  You should be able to put the ball in the fairway and that's how you score.

I think it's a strategy and you got to play what makes you feel comfortable.
Q.  Having won this twice in a row, you're certainly viewed as the favorite.  Is there anyone in the field that you look at as a person that is really your chief rival at the moment?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  If you look at the Money List, can you see who is playing well.  If you look at the last few tournaments, you know who has been playing well.  I would expect her or they to play this week as well.

I think the key for me is just to go out and play my own game.  I feel really good right now.  I have a nice little run.  I've won the last two tournaments I played in.  I'd like to continue.
Q.  Only need three more to catch Tiger.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That's right.
Q.  How often do you look at Player of the Year standing?  Every week?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No.  I mean, I haven't looked at it in weeks.  You pretty much have a good idea where you stand.  Just look at the amount of victories, top five finishes, that's where you get the points.  I mean, I know I'm trailing.  I'm going to need some wins, some top finishes to have a chance.
Q.  Being the competitor that you are, is that a matter of pride that you want to win another Player of the Year title?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Absolutely.  By the end of the day, that's who I would say, you know, had the best year and who has been the most consistent, has the best finishes.  Scoring average, Player of the Year, Money List, those are all three measures, things I look at to measure how you played and how the season has been.

THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT