U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2006
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  This has to just feel terrific for you.  I mean, I heard you saying it was a long road, but as far as the U.S. Open goes, this has to feel awesome.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, yeah.  It doesn't get much better than this.  It's been a long and tough week.  You know, they say that the big championships you've really got to earn, and I felt like I worked really, really hard this week to earn this.  Pat played really well, and when you have to go into a playoff like this, really anything can happen.

I mean, obviously it feels awesome, and to win this championship again after ten years means a lot to me.
Q.  When did you allow yourself to think that if nothing went drastically wrong, it was yours?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I figured if I had a five shot lead and three to go and I would hit it in the fairway on 16, I felt pretty good about that.  Then made par on 16 and still had a little five shot cushion going into the last two and I felt good about that.
Q.  What do you think it actually came down to for you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think overall my game was really solid.  I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  I putted well; I might not have made a lot, but I only had one or two three putts, and I think that's rare in championships like this when the wind has been blowing because you're not going to be very close to the pin.  I think I've been very solid throughout the week, and I've been patient most of all.  When I hit in the rough, I said I'm just going to try to play it safe, try and make par from wherever I ended up.
Q.  Playing 36 holes yesterday you seemed to be on a mission.  You got that two stroke lead right at hole 1.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I felt like here's my chance.  You never know how many chances you will get.  I said I'm just going to come out here and play.  That's what you've got to do, just play.

Pat is obviously a very, very good player, and I said, I can't give this away, I've got to earn this.  I just kept telling myself that all day long.
Q.  To win this like this in a playoff, do you think looking back it may be a little sweeter since it took so much to get to this point, as you said, the biggest tournament you play?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, it took a lot, a long week.  To win a championship like this, a lot of things have to go right, and I felt like this was my week early on.  A lot of things have gone right.

It's hard work, and like I said, you've got to win these championships.  Ten years, it's a long time, but I've learned a lot and maybe that's what I needed to win this again.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT