HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2006
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANA GROSS RHODE:  You just defeated Virada Nirapathpongporn.  Talk about the round.  It was a close round.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I thought we both played pretty good.  I was 4 under making the turn and I was minus one.  She won the 10th hole and then she made the long birdie putt on 12 to get the match to 1 up for me.  And then I won the next hole, but then she won it back and I won 15 and I won 16.

So it was a little bit back and forth in the end, but I thought the golf was pretty good.  And you know, really, it's the first time I've got to know her a little bit more other than just waving from far.  So I think she's very nice and we had a very good time today.
Q.  How did you birdie 15 and what you did at 16?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  15 I had 8 iron, 145 to the pin and just drove it slightly past, I rolled in a putt just from the fringe of the green about 12 feet.

Then on 16, I hit 7 iron in from about 25 feet.  She had to take an unplayable, and she had    I gave her a putt, so she gave me one, just to give up the hole.
Q.  You said you were 4 under at the turn?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  At 9.
Q.  So didn't take you long to get your golf legs back, I'm guessing?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, it's funny, because I didn't get a chance to see the course before today.  Once I was on the first tee, everything just kind of came back to me.  I played here five times last year.

So you know, the conditions are very similar, and my caddie was walked the course.  I felt good about it.  Can I hit it where he tells me; that's the key.  It's one thing to know the course but if you don't play it the way you had in mind, it doesn't really matter.  I thought I hit some good shots today, drove it really well and rolled in some putts, so I'm very pleased.
Q.  Was there any carryover effect from last week and was there a point out there today where last week as over and the bubble sort of burst?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, you know, obviously I'm trying to focus on today.  Today is a new day, new tournament.  But I had a lot of people remind me of last week and congratulated me throughout the round which is very nice.  That's nice, but here I am and what matters now and trying to stay focused in moment.

I felt good.  I'm striking the ball well and hitting fairways.  It's a big change from the last few months.
Q.  Tell me what you know about your next round opponent, anything?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't really know who it is to be honest.  I haven't had a chance to check any scores, so maybe you can tell me.  The match is not finished?  Well, we'll see then.  (Laughter).
Q.  The chip in on No. 3?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  48 degree sand wedge.
Q.  What did you think of No. 2, the par 5, the long par 5?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  What happened on No. 2?  No. 2, I hit a sand wedge to about 15 feet.  Had a putt uphill and I rolled it in for birdie.

Obviously today was all about me and Virada and how we played back and forth.  The strategy is a little different.  For example, on the last hole I was more focused on getting on the green and having a chance at a birdie putt.  If I was chasing her and she would have hit it really close, I'd play a lot more apprehensive.  So.

I think the strategy changes a little bit throughout the round.  I love match play.  I think it's a fun format.  A lot of things can happen.  It's not just about being consistent.  I think in match play, you need some birdies to win some holes.  So it's really a fun event and I'm happy to be here.
Q.  Is there a correlation between the Solheim Cup and this event or is it two different animals because you're playing Europe and the United States?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Obviously it's match play, so that's the same thing.  But other than that, the atmosphere is a lot different.  You're playing, you know, for yourself, and if you don't win here, you're out.  The Solheim Cup, it's like the next day, you can kind of get together with your team and cry together.  But here, you're on your own.  So I would say there's not much similarity.
Q.  Do you feel like being who you are you can walk to the tee and have that aura against some players that realize, I'm playing the No. 1 player in the world?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, that's a good question.  Maybe you should ask some of the players.  I feel very comfortable right now.  I feel very confident about my game and I'm excited to be here.  Like I said, I played well today.

I'm going to fight this to the end.  I feel very good about everything.  I'm not worn out or anything.  I like this golf course.  I think with all the rain, it's going to favor some long hitters.  No, I'm in good shape, and I don't know how the other players feel about it, but I feel confident when I'm on the tee for sure.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT