U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2006
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RHONDA GLENN:  Ladies and gentlemen, Annika Sorenstam, who will be in an 18 hole playoff beginning at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning with Pat Hurst.  Annika, I don't normally use this phrase, but you gutted it out today.  The birdies on 15 and 16, where did you find it within yourself to make those two long putts at that point in the round?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I felt like I was playing quite well, and I had a few chances.  You know, I was just excited to be in the position that I was in, and I came here to play, and I'm right where I want to be.  Let's do something about it.

I guess I was playing with my heart.  This is what I wanted to do, and it happened.
RHONDA GLENN:  And then would you explain once again about 17?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  17, I hit a 6 iron.  I'm not really sure where that landed, but it took off, I think, and ended up over the green, and I chipped it back to about seven to eight feet and two putted from there.
RHONDA GLENN:  The playoff tomorrow, you've already pointed out that it's stroke play and not match play.  How many playoffs have you been in?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I've been in quite a few, but nothing like this.  It's been one hole or two holes or maybe four at the most, but this will be something new for me, something unique, so we'll see how that goes.
RHONDA GLENN:  What will you try to do in this playoff?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I haven't really gathered all my thoughts yet, but I'm sure I'm just going to go out there tomorrow and play my own game.  It will be a little bit head to head, but then again, it's stroke play, and anything can happen on this golf course.

I mean, I'll be keeping a close eye on Pat, but I'll be focusing on my own game at the same time.
Q.  If you could run through what was going through your mind as you watched your putt on 18 roll toward the hole and then when you saw it just slip past.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I mean, it was probably about 22 feet, a little downhill, a little right to left.  I played it about a cup and a half on the right, and when I looked up it was looking pretty good.  I asked it to break a little bit, but it just didn't break enough, but it seemed like it hit the edge of the hole and rolled past a few, maybe a foot.  It looked good for a long time, so obviously I was hoping for it to go in.  It was a great attempt.  When you stand up there on the green and you know what's going on with all the people watching, it just happened that I made such a good stroke and such a good try at it.
Q.  Annika, how did you gather yourself after the poor finish on the front nine?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, those holes are tough, especially    well, both 9 and 8.  Actually I thought I played 8 really well, and I only made one bad swing on the 7th hole.  I just felt like it was    that's not the way I've been playing all week.  I just felt like I'm glad I have nine more to go.  I was only at the time I think one or two behind, and I figured anything can happen on this golf course, and I just    I mean, I gave it recall.  That's really what I did.  I was just trying to play within myself and play the course the way it's been played the last three days and just keep on going.  I said I came here, I want to play, I'm not going to give this up.
Q.  How tired are you now, and is that going to be a problem tomorrow, or is it not a problem to get up for a playoff tomorrow?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think it's different to wake up and be in a playoff for the Open than maybe something else, like another just casual day of golf.  I think tomorrow I'm going to be as excited as I was today.  I have a chance to do something tomorrow that I've been wanting to do for a long time.  I don't think that's going to be a problem.  I am tired at the moment.  I'm looking forward to a dinner and some rest and then a big day tomorrow.
Q.  I just wanted to get some clubs.  The club you hit into 7 and then the ones on 15 and 16.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  7, I hit 9 iron.

15, I hit 7 iron.

And 16, I hit pitching wedge.
Q.  You spent a lot of time with her today.  What do you know of Pat as a person, as a golfer, and have you said anything to her since the 18th hole?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I know Pat quite well.  We're about the same age.  I mean, I've played with her many times.  I live in Phoenix, she lives in Phoenix.  She played college golf I believe the same time as I did.  She went to San Jose and I went to Arizona, so I know Pat from way back.  Her and her husband have a house in Tahoe and so do I.  We're pretty much neighbors.  Like I said, I know her from way back.

She's great to play with.  She's fast and easy to talk to, so I thought my pairing was really good.
RHONDA GLENN:  Did you say anything to her after the round was completed?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it was pretty much, okay, Pat, see you tomorrow.  Get some rest (laughter).
Q.  After the way the front nine ended, do you feel fortunate to be in the playoff, or at this point do you feel like you wish you could have got it done there when you had the lead?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, of course I wish I could of finished it off and made a par, but it's easy to sit here and say what I should have done and could have done.  You know, it's been a long day.  You know, I'm happy the way things turned out.  I gave it all and so did Pat.  I think by the end of the day it's the results that matter.  It's what you produce, it's not what you did for a few holes.  It's 18 holes that matters, and you've got to finish it.  That's what this game is all about.
RHONDA GLENN:  Is there any sense that after ten years that you're back in it now and that this is an opportunity that you are determined not to let go?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I am determined.  I have a strong mind and a strong will.  You know, this means a lot to me.  I'm going to try to do the best I can.  I feel like I am prepared, I have all the experience I need, and I like this golf course.  I just can't get my own way; I've just got to play.
Q.  What lengths were the putts on 15 and 16?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  16 feet on 15 and 15 feet on 16 (laughter).
RHONDA GLENN:  How about on 18?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  18, about 20, 22 feet, 24.
RHONDA GLENN:  Go get some rest.  Thank you so much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT