U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2006
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Did you enjoy your round?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Did, yeah.  It was a good day.  Tough day, I must say.  The wind is still blowing quite a bit and the course is still long.  Some tougher pins I thought today.  I'm happy with my round.  I'm going to grab some lunch and get some rest.
Q.  Coming in you just had a birdie earlier on the front nine and then bogeys on 6 and 9.  I'm sure you're disappointed at that.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, but those are tough holes.  6 I'm hitting 4 iron in, and here on 9, I'm hitting 7 wood from the rough and really soggy conditions.  It's just a tough golf course.  I think there's some holes you're going to make a few bogeys and hopefully you make some birdies along the way to keep the score decent.
Q.  Earlier in the round when Natalie was making a bunch of birdies and you're plodding along with pars, were you okay with that or was it difficult to stay in your game when someone else is
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I think I'm pretty good at just minding my own game.  This is a 72 hole tournament, and just because somebody is having a good run doesn't affect my game.

I think on the contrary when you see somebody make birdies you know that they're out there so it's more of a positive, I think.  For me it was about staying patient, trying to hit the fairway and hit the greens.  I've said that 100 times, but I think it's really important at a championship like this, especially when the conditions are the way they are.  This is a tough course, a long golf course.  You can't really make a lot of mistakes.
Q.  Facing 36 holes tomorrow, what's the bottom line?  What's it going to come down to?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think patience obviously, but I think you're going to have    you have to be in good shape.  You have to just hit one shot at a time.  That's my game plan.  I'm just going to go out there and do what I've got to do.  I love this golf course.  I'm going to try and hit fairways and try and hit greens and try and stay out of trouble; that can get you on this golf course.
Q.  What kind of a drop did you get on 9 and were you entirely pleased with it?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I was probably    it was probably a good drop.  My ball was plugged, so I was in the rough and I plugged it.  It was so soggy, it was not even worth dropping for casual water because who knows where you're going to end up, so I just    it landed pretty decent and I just hit it from there.
Q.  Were you in casual water after you dropped it and could you have asked for relief if you wanted it?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  If you really had my gravity, yeah, I maybe could have gotten a few drops, but it was borderline.  I said I'm just going to hit it from me.
Q.  You could hit 7 wood?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I could hit 7 wood.  That's probably the club I would hit anyways.  I was in the rough, so I couldn't expect much of a better lie.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I think    I don't know if the wind pushed it or something.  It was sitting on the lip for a little bit and then dropped in.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT