U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2006
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RHONDA GLENN:  Ladies and gentlemen, Annika Sorenstam, who had a 71 today, for a 2 under par total of 140.

Annika, I just want to say something.  As you were walking off the 9th green there was tremendous ovation from what would be a relatively medium sized crowd of people, and it's the first time I've heard real affection from the crowd for you.  I know you were a little ticked because you just bogeyed the hole, but do you notice things like that?  There's real affection for you, as you were leaving the course.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I have noticed it.  I noticed it coming here really on Monday.  I just    I really feel a lot of support from a lot of people.  I've never been here, so I don't know these people.  But they've been very, very friendly, and this whole town has been friendly.  And I really feel the support when I'm out there on the golf course.  I hear a lot of people scream my name and it gets you going, it gets you pumping, for sure.
RHONDA GLENN:  It's different, though, than it used to be.  There was always a tribute to you as a great player, but now it seems everybody sort of, if I may, loves you as a person.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That's very nice, thank you.
RHONDA GLENN:  Tell us how you feel about your position now.  Right now you're tied for the lead.  There's a lot of golf left to play today.  Are you happy with where you are?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I'm very happy.  It's tough out there.  I think I'm more tired than anything.  As I reflect on the last two days, I'm very happy with the way I played.  This is a tough golf course.  I think I'm going to say the same thing as yesterday, but it's long, and with the wind it's just mentally tiring.

If you would have told me I was going to be 2 under after 36 holes, I would have said, "I'll take it."  I'm very happy.

It's going to be a long day tomorrow, and I think the key for me now is to get some lunch and rest the rest of the day, and totally recharge my batteries and give it my all tomorrow.
Q.  You finished about 1:00.  You've got a normal turnaround time going    although an early round tomorrow.  Most of your closest pursuers are late day tee times who have a short turnaround.  How much of an advantage is it for you to have that time to recover and also to stay within your routine?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I must say that I've been lucky with the tee times this week.  First of all, I had a late one on Thursday, so I didn't come out here.  I mean I was at home just resting, and when it was canceled, I had a late one on Friday.  So I got to sleep in again and got some more rest.

To be the first one in now and have a normal day and get some more rest, I'm lucky, I really am.  The tee times have been in my favor this particular time.
Q.  Are you surprised at all that it's been a ten year drought as far as the U.S. Open title has gone for you.  Can you pinpoint anything that it might have been?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think drought, there's a lot of people that never win the U.S. Open, I have won two.  And that's kind of the way I look at it.  I've been close a few times the last few years.  It is a tough championship to win.  There is a lot of great players here that have a chance to win, and there's a lot of things that need to click for you to win.

Having said that, I don't really count the years I don't win a certain event.  I'm just happy that I have two championships like this, and I'm excited to be back every year.  It's fun to play.  It's always a great challenge with a great golf course.  It's all about enjoying the moment and trying to play some good golf and then we'll see what happens.
Q.  How much different did the course play today than yesterday?  Obviously sunny day, windy day.  Are you getting any more run on the fairways at all or are balls basically stopping where you put them?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think it was about the same.  When I got here this morning, morning tee time, maybe the wind might not be as strong.  But I felt like it was quite strong all day.  It's still soggy in the fairways, for sure.  The greens are maybe releasing a little bit more, but not much.  I would say the conditions are very, very similar.
Q.  Could you talk about the physical and mental aspect of playing 36 tomorrow with only about a 45 minute turnaround time in between rounds?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, it's going to be a long day, there's no doubt about it.  I think the key is obviously to get some good rest but then also to try to save some energy between shots.  I'm tired after 71 shots.  Tomorrow is going to be probably double that, and that takes a lot out of you.  The key is to go out there, hit one shot at a time, try to relax between shots.  And then when you're done, first round, you've got to eat something good to keep the energy so you can finish the next 18.

For me it's more going to be the mental part than the physical part; I'm not really worried about that.  It's just can you stay focused for all those shots.  If it's windy, then you have to think so much more about the different shots.  So I think by late in the day we'll be all exhausted.
Q.  When is the last time you played 36 in a day?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That's a good question.  I obviously don't do it very often.  I'm trying to think if we've done it on the LPGA in the last few years.  I don't remember.
Q.  Solheim Cup?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Solheim Cup.  Yeah.
RHONDA GLENN:  Would experience and patience serve you just as well in a 36 hole day as youth and energy.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, you have to be patient.  And I think hit one shot at a time.  You can't get ahead of yourself.  It's going to be a tough, day, it really is.
Q.  Do you start tomorrow thinking you've got a little bit of an advantage because of your fitness routine you have?  In your mind are you a leg up on everybody else?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't know if I think about that, but when I come out tomorrow I'm going to feel like I'm ready.  I know that it's not going to be something that I can't handle.  I know that I'm not going to have to worry about the physical part.  All I have to worry is about hitting good shots, picking the right clubs and making some putts.  That's all I'm going to worry about.  The other part is just going to come and I'll be fine.
Q.  You've been talking a lot about the physical grind, all the thought that you do in these physical rounds.  I'm wondering, are there things    is there such a thing as maybe too much knowledge?  Are there things that make this thing harder to win as you know more?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think it's harder to win when you want it more, knowing that you can win it and your game fits the golf course.  And those things are more what's in my mind, rather than having a lot of knowledge.  I love having a lot of knowledge.

I think experience is very helpful.  I think knowing how you hit the shots and knowing how the ball affects your shots, et cetera, I think that's good knowledge.  I think just the excitement and knowing that if you're playing well, that the course fits you, that's how to do it.
Q.  It's been said very often that Tiger raised the bar, forced people to raise to his level.  Do you feel that you did the same thing?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it's been a good run for a few years, so I think everybody pushes everybody.  I think I'm pretty good at setting some goals.  I think I'm pretty good at pushing myself and trying to reach levels.

If you look at the game today, women's golf is better than it's ever been.  I'm thankful for the people that kind of paved the way early on for me and showed me how it's done.  And I'd like to say I'm one of the ones that's done it for the next generation.
RHONDA GLENN:  Let's do the card.  Let's start on the front nine.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Birdie No. 5, 4 iron to 14 feet.

Bogeyed No. 6, short of the green, chipped it up, two putted from 7 feet.

Birdied No. 7, sand wedge to 16 feet.

Bogey here on No. 9.  I hit a 7 wood just short of the green, chipped it up to 8 feet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT