MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 11, 2006
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
So everything kind of fell together?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Some of it.  I still made some mistakes out there.  I think I came out strong.  It was quite windy early on and maybe still a little bit, but I hit a lot of good quality shots today, gave myself some good chances and started with a nice birdie on nine and made four in a row and just really put myself in good position.

So, you know, it's just a bummer to finish where I did.  Other than that I would have been jumping with joy.
Q.  Did you think that 7 at least had to be a number?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I was shooting for actually of 65 today.  And then in the end I was like, I just got to try to get to 7.

You never know what can happen.  I mean the back nine is tough.  But like I said, if I could just get in with 6, because I had 6 all day, and it would have been, you know, it would feel a little sweeter right now.
Q.  What did you do on the putt, obviously you were trying to make it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I just hit it too hard and I had maybe an eight footer coming back and missed that.
Q.  Did you get a good look from Heather on the chip at all?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I saw, yeah, I saw it.  But I'm in the moment.  I mean, there's only so much information you can grasp sometimes.  Sometimes I just play my own game.  And I saw it was quick, but standing over there and you have to make 7, you know, and sometimes things don't compute.  And I just rammed it way too hard and I was thinking, wow, you saw how fast it was, what are you doing?
Q.  After a really good round like that is it a little more frustrating what happened yesterday and do you wish you could have those two strokes back?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  What can I say?  It was a mistake and you have to deal with it.  And today I thought, let's just go and makeup ground instead.  There's nothing I can do about it.  But I could tell you I was very cautious where I stepped, what I picked up, I wasn't going to do it again.
Q.  On that run of birdies there, did you kind of look at that as your last chance to get back into this?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I knew I had to go low today, I didn't have a chance, I mean, otherwise, to come from behind, two hours starting earlier, my goal was to get on the board, put a little pressure on everybody, because if you get in first, then you have a number to shoot for.  And that's not easy to do sometimes.  Who knows if it will be enough, probably not, but I gave it a run and I'm going to leave with that and that's pretty much all I can do.
Q.  It sounds like the game's been there all along and sometimes it just doesn't come out.  Is that what it is?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, it's a mixture of some really bad shots still.  I don't really know why.  I have some things to work on, but have I some good shots too.  I'm not playing the way I did last year, why I don't know, but I would say I'm probably playing 75 percent of what I'm capable.  So I'm just waiting for those other 25 percent.  I must have misplaced it somewhere, I'm looking for it.
Q.  As well as you played today, especially with the weather, you're still not entirely pleased?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I had two three putts.  That's two right there.  Yeah, and it's tough greens, big greens, but that's two right there.  I would start with those.  And then I would start with a few other things and then I'll be happy.
Q.  Changing gears to the Open.  Have you seen the course before?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I have not.
Q.  Just talk about how different a test that one is compared with the other two American Majors?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I heard a lot of good things about it, it's a links course, it can blow a little bit.  I'm sure the course is a lot different, but maybe this is a little preparation.  But I love Donald Ross and hopefully my game is turning around.  I saw some highlights this week and maybe two weeks off will do me good.  So having that in mind I need to be ready, I need to be rested, and not worry too much about my game.  I need to come in with a fresh mind.
Q.  Two weeks off?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.
Q.  Do you usually do that before an Open?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, there are certain tournaments I have to play.  I just can't choose as much as I would like.
Q.  And the mentality I guess going into a U.S. Open, is it any different than a McDonald's or a Nabisco in terms of the setup and that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's really the No. 1 Major, I would say, so, but they're all very important and the U.S. Open always means a lot to me.  And I haven't won it in a while and I have had the chance a few times.  I've been very, very close, so I'm looking forward to it.  And like I said, I'm just wanting my game to turn around and it will be a lot more fun.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT