SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 3, 2006
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Annika, thanks for coming in.  You're at 9 under for the tournament.  One shot behind Ai Miyazato.  18 holes to go.  You are the defending champion.  You have another shot at winning this tournament.  Talk about your day.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I'm happy about that.  Today I thought was kind of a strange day.  We had some funny weather throughout the day.  Some wind, some rain, and then a little break and then back out.

I'm okay with the round.  Not the greatest round.  I felt like I played a little better, but had a lot of putts that didn't go in, especially on the front nine.  But then I had a good back nine.  So that's good.  Hopefully tomorrow will be a better day, more solid weather and better golf.
Q.  How much different did the course play today than yesterday with the conditions like they were?  Was it more difficult?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think the course is very different because we had a lot of rain last night.  Some greens were about the same, some were softer.  We didn't get as much roll in the fairways.  We had to adjust a little bit.  And then with the wind, I thought it was a little stronger today, especially when you play down towards the water, No. 2, No. 6 and so forth.

It's just a different course.  Scoring wise, I'm not as low as yesterday, but when you put the rain in, it makes it a little tougher to score.  But still the opportunities are out there.
Q.  A lot of people don't know a lot of about Ai Miyazato game.  You've played with her before.  What do you think of that?  What did you notice when you played with her in terms of her game?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I've had the chance to play with her a few times, actually, in Japan and for special events, TV matches and so forth.  I like Ai a lot.  She is a very neat young player, just a neat person, very friendly, very respectful.  Her game is very solid.  She hits a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  I think she has a beautiful putting stroke.  She knows how to win.  She has a great resume from overseas.  She's impressive.
Q.  She was in here before and she mentioned that you were her idol.  What are your thoughts on chasing or playing, trying to catch someone tomorrow who has looked up to you for so long?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  So long?  (Laughter).  You want to rephrase that?

No, I mean, obviously I'm flattered and I take it as a compliment that players look up to you and the things you do and the way you play.  Tomorrow, whoever I play with, I'm not sure if I play with Ai or whoever, I'm going to go out there and play my game.  I'm in position to do some good things tomorrow and I'm obviously ready for that.  I'm been waiting for it.  It's been kind of a dry two months for me.  So I'm going to go out there and do my best and I won't really focus on her game.  I won't focus on whoever the third person is going to be.  I'll play my own game.

And if I'm chasing, I'm going to play aggressive and make as many birdies as possible.
Q.  The front nine you had three birdies, three bogeys and three pars.  What was so unsteady about your game?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It was a little bit up and down.  The first 11 holes I still only had three pars.  Well, I 3 putted on No. 2.

And then on No. 6, I missed a short putt.

No. 7, I three putted.  So just mistakes around the greens I would say.  Other than that, when I had a good birdie opportunity I made it.
Q.  You had a chip in on 11, was it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I chipped in on 11 from just about a little less than 30 feet, so I hit 5 iron    not the chip, but the first one and then I chipped in.
Q.  The experience you have on this golf course, the success you've had in this tournament, how much of an advantage, if any is that for tomorrow?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, obviously I know the course really well.  I have some great memories.  I think the key tomorrow    well, first of all who knows what kind of weather we'll have.  If it's windy, it makes this golf course a totally different golf course.  The greens are going to be softer.  We can be a little more aggressive with our approach shots.  We'll see.  I'd like to feel like I have the experience.  I have been here in this situation many times.  But bottom line is you have got to play well.
Q.  Do you still remember your first LPGA win even though you have had so many since?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  The first one happened to be the U.S. Open in '95 at Broadmoor.  I'll never forget that one.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us over your card.  What was the first putt on No. 2?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I would say about 32 feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  And the second putt?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Six feet.

No. 4, I birdied.  I hit sand wedge to 16 feet.

No. 5, I hit sand wedge to seven feet.

No.  6,  I hit 9 iron over the green, chipped it and missed the three footer.

No. 7, 5 iron short of the green actually just right on the green, but three putted.  My par putt was 5 feet.

No. 9, I hit a little chip shot to six feet, made it.

No. 10, I hit a sand wedge to 5 feet.

11, 5 iron short of the green, chipped it and made it from 28 feet.  And then I parred it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  No. 7, how far do you think your first putt was?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I was just on the front    the pin was 22 on, so if I was 5 paces on.  It's about 50 feet, I guess    no, it wasn't that long.  It was probably 40 feet, 38 feet.
Q.  Are you saying that you've been waiting for this.  So you're feeling like you want to go get it more than even usual tomorrow?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I feel like I've played some good golf the last few months but I have just not been able to score well and I haven't been able to finish.  I think that's what I meant by tomorrow, that I'm ready.
Q.  I know 18 with the weather delay and stuff, but when you were done and you got up to putt, the little creatures, the gnats, were they more of a deterrent trying to concentrate than the rain?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It was a little combination of both.  The rain, you get used to it.  I don't think you get used to the little gnats.  They're constantly annoying.  Once the wind, the little breeze goes away, there are quite a few of them.  You just have to focus on your putt, just like everybody.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT