SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 2, 2006
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  64 today, 7 under, and you're tied for the lead.  You said yesterday you make birdies on this golf course.  Made a lot today.  Let's talk about your day, and then we'll take questions.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.  Well, obviously I'm very happy with the round.  I thought I played some good golf today.  The mixture of good drives and good shots and I rolled in a few putts, so I'm very pleased.  Didn't really have any bad shots out there.  You know, very solid.

I had a lot of chances, especially in the front.  I mean, I had a lot of lips, I thought.  So obviously I'm very happy with the finish.  Finished with birdie, and it's a solid day today.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Okay.  We'll take questions.
Q.  Is there something, a shot or hole, that got you going on the back, you know, really sort of jump started your round?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I would say, you know, the eagle on 9.  I mean, that's not the back 9, but it's kind of the beginning of it.  I hit 5 iron to seven feet, and that rolled in the put for eagle.  So I kind of got the momentum going.  Made a birdie on No. 10.

You know, I just had a lot of good shots I thought.  I played smart today.  Played the center of the green.  Hit a lot of fairway woods off the tee jsut to put myself in good position.  I had good clubs rather than playing a little bit more aggressive, so it seemed like it worked today.
Q.  You had talked yesterday about things maybe not clicking.  I know it's early, but    I forget what hole it was    but the long put for birdie just off the green.  Is that an example of things that went right today that maybe hadn't been there past couple of weeks?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, definitely.  I would even say a few shorter puts than that.  For example, the put on    let's see here since we changed order.  13, up the hill, that was about eight feet.  I've had a lot of those I have not been able to convert either for birdie or for par.  But today that one rolled in and obviously it was a bonus to get that a long one in the front three like you mentioned.  I just have not had that in several months.

That's obviously a key to score low is to make them for birdie, but it's also a key to make them for par and keep the momentum if you had it going, and I just haven't had that.  So today, for me, to make those when I had a chance means a lot.  I had a few lips, but I really didn't leave anything out there.  I really took advantage of my round.
Q.  Can you tell me about the approach shot on 18 when you were I don't know how many yards out and you almost put it in.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I had 105 to the hole.  I missed my tee shots to the left, so I jsut laid up.  And in 105 yards hit my 48 degree wedge and hit it a little soft and not spin it too much, and carried it pretty much on the number, about 101, and took a nice bounce.  I heard it was very close.

It was obviously one of those putts where you just want to finish with and you don't have to pay attention to the line.  Lise Lotte asked me if I needed the pin tended.  I said, "I don't know if you can get the pin out by the time I hit the hole, so let's not try it," But it was a fun finish.
Q.  That hole's been good to you.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.  Two more days.  I love that hole.
Q.  On the first hole, you took a drop.  What was going on the lie of the ball?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I was on the back on that?
Q.  Right.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.  And I just want to make sure that we get a great drop.  If it's paved then I knew for a fact we would get a drop.  But it's kind of made of seashells or something else.  I wasn't sure.
Q.  Specifically on the path, on the white stones?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.
Q.  You talked about the conditions today.  Didn't seem to be a lot of wind.  How was the course playing?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You're right.  There's no wind and, you know, really good for scoring I would say.  Just perfect temperature.  I mean, I was actually expecting some rain and thunder today, so I get here and was it beautiful and it stayed all day.  So I was amazed, because I was expecting a long day.

But, no, good conditions for scoring.  I mean the greens in the afternoon get a little slower, but I think I was aware of that and played a little, more aggressive on the putts.  Just have to hit them a little harder.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  There's a ton of bugs, but I use that Off and it works.  I'm glad.  It's quite tough on some of the holes.  If you don't get the breeze they can be quite annoying.
Q.  Looking at the board, is this more subpar scores than you can remember at this place in a while?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.  I mean, I think I've seen it all here.  Like you said, no wind today.  This course is    you can make some birdies because it's not long.  Some Par 5s you can reach into, and some of the Par 4s you have short irons in.

You know, when you get some breeze here, the wind picks up, especially some of the    the second hole and the six hole    then it makes it quite tough.

So this course can really have all kinds of conditions and can go from where you can score to also where par is a good round.
Q.  Any reason why the putts start to fall today?  Had you been working on anything, or...
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Just been doing the same.  I've been patient the last few months.  There's some times where I've been frustrated.  But the only thing I can do are keep working on the things I'm doing.  No big changes.  Just, you know, roll in a few.  Get the right speed and that's all it takes.
Q.  I'm not sure what your philosophy is on the course.  Do you pay attention to the leaderboards, or are you just interested in what you're doing?  Like, for example, on 18, do you know that you're one stroke off the lead there and wanting to get up there?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.  I'm a leaderboard watcher.  I always have been.  I would say I pay more attention on Sunday rather than the first day of the event, but I watch it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  You want to take us through your score card?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, yeah.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Start with 3.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No. 3 I hit a five iron and two putted from 12 feet for birdie.

No. 9, I made an eagle.  I hit also a 5 iron, and like I said six, to seven feet for eagle.

Birdie No. 10, sand wedge to seven feet.

13, pitching wedge to eight feet.

15, 7 iron to 30 feet.

And on the last hole, sand wedge from 105 and just tapped it in.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I had 84 to the front.  I think the pin was down.  Let me have a quick look.  Yeah, 84 plus 13.
PAUL ROVNAK:  You guys all set?  Okay.  Thanks.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT