MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 10, 2006
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Annika, thanks for coming and speaking with us.  We always appreciate your time.  You've played in five events this year, you have the one win and four more Top 10s, you're fourth on the Money List, talk about your year to date so far and we'll take some questions.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I'm happy to be back here.  This is a great place and a great tournament that we have throughout the year.  You know, the start that I've had has been a little bit so .  So I got off to a great start in Mexico, but after that it's been a little bit so so.  So I am looking forward to a great week here and we'll see what happens.
Q.  A little bit so so in what regard, ball striking or putting, both?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  A little bit of both.  I think the last month, I've been hitting the ball really well, just nothing has really kind of come together.  Phoenix, I felt so good after Mexico and then in Phoenix I started, it was just a mix, with some good shots and bad shots.

The last month I've hit it good but just haven't been able to make anything and really not scramble.  Make something bogeys and making a lot of birdies.  Got to get rid of the bogeys so I can score a little better.
Q.  Last year, I remember you making a point of saying you were having trouble reading the greens here, and I was wondering if you had noticed anything in practice rounds about the greens?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thanks for reminding me.  (Laughter).

No, this is a new year, and I think the greens have kind of settled down a little bit.  The course has really grown in since we were here last.  They are really, really rolling smooth.  This is as good as I've ever seen it.  You know, I'm just going to go out there and read them the way I normally do, and let's hope that it's the right way.
Q.  You said you're off to a so so start, how much of that, it seems like the competitive level is at a higher level than it's ever been before out here?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, there's no doubt, there's no doubt that the level is better.  The players in general are getting better and it seems like they are hitting the ball further.

When I say "so so," it's more the way I feel about my game.  I'm looking at my scores, and I feel like at times I'm hitting the ball better than ever, but I'm not scoring as good as I should.  So I'm using myself as a reference when it comes to the way I play, but there's no doubt that the competition is getting tougher.
Q.  Can you talk, for years it's like you've been the hunted, do you still feel it's like that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I've only played five events.  So, you know, I think it's too early to say anything differently.  I mean, I'm going to play quite a few events now.  I always start a little slower than some other players and we'll see by midsummer, by the end of the year, we'll see.  I still have some really high or lofty goals that I want to achieve, so I'm not stepping back by any means and I love the position I'm in.
Q.  What are your lofty goals you want to achieve?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Majors.  I want to win majors.  The more, the better.
Q.  Just as a follow up to that, we all know, you've said publicly you want to win a Grand Slam, how much of a letdown was it for you after Kraft Nabisco for you this year, if there was any at all, and is that part of the, I don't want to say malaise, but is that part of the so so business?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, a little bit.  The tough thing when you set a goal like that is every tournament, you have to do it in a sequence and when you don't do it, it seems like the whole goal goes away.

You know, my goal right now is just to focus on the next three.  I've never won three in a year and if I did, that would make it a super year.

When I look back at my career and when I'm at home and trying to set some new goals, those are the type of goals that get me motivated today.  I can't just go out and say I'm going to win an event here, win an event there.  I really need to push myself.  I really need it do things that nobody else have done, otherwise I think I'm not going to be excited to play and practice.
Q.  Last year you came in here with a streak intact and the first round just got away from you, how much pressure was there last year when you came to this tournament?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Maybe a little bit of pressure, but then, I mean, I love to be in that position when I can do something that, you know, very few people have done.  It's not like I push myself.  I go out and I play and I see what happens.  Luckily I've been in positions where I've had a chance to do several things, break several records and I love that position.

Like I said, that's what keeps me going today, to be in that unique situation.  I didn't get off to a good start, you're right about that and it was difficult to come back after that.
Q.  Just following up on an earlier question about being the hunted, is it hard, and is that a burden that you carry in a way when you've been as successful as you have; that everyone else on the Tour is has you in their sights?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I take that as a compliment.  I like the position I'm in.  It does get tougher and tougher because the competition gets better every year and I also have to find different ways to get better myself.

When you're chasing somebody, then you can see it.  But when you're up in front, you have to kind of find your own little vision of where you're going, and I've enjoyed that.  It's been challenging and made me think about things that I probably wouldn't have thought about and be more creative in my practice and so forth.  Like I said, I see it as a compliment, and I'm not ready to give that away yet.
Q.  Where do you want to improve your game?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, short game is something that I've always fell like I can improve.  We're talking putting, chipping, bunker shots, just a little bit more imagination around the greens, not just a flat chip, maybe a little bit more feel, just check the ball a little bit more.  I think I can do that, but it takes a lot of practice, and then keep on doing it.
Q.  You spoke earlier of majors, do you ever think about Kathy Whitworth's 88 and approaching that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Obviously I'm aware of it, and I get reminded a few times.

When I joined the Tour, I never thought I could win a single tournament so, that wasn't really a goal that I had from the beginning.  But then the last few years, I've won a few more, and you know, I start thinking, is that something I could do.

It still just seems to me very, very tough.  I'd rather just focus on each year and take it as it comes, and for me, it's the majors that I like to do well now and we'll see what happens.  We'll see how long I want to play and see how long I can keep on grinding and stay up at the top.
Q.  Can you tell me a little bit about Lorena Ochoa's skills as a golfer and if there's anything that you see that keeps her from being a dominant player for a number of years?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I don't see a reason why not.  I mean, she's got good short game.  She has a lot of touch around the greens.  You know, very handsy type of player.

But I think she's got a good mind set.  She's been one of the top players since she came out on Tour which is five, six years, I'm not really sure.  She's had a few chances to finish strong and she hasn't.  But this year, on the other hand, she's come out with a bang and she's playing very, very consistent.
Q.  You talk about your goals, majors, given the field that's here every year, how important does this stack up on your list of goals?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  This is a big event for many reasons.  I mean, player wise, the Top 50, I'm sure they are all here.  Tough golf course.  This is a first class event.  You see it with all of the bleachers, you see the way the golf course is set up.  It makes you feel like it's a little bit of a major the way the setup is.  This is a great event and I don't want to miss it, and I don't think anybody else wants to.
Q.  You've been in the Top 10 here most of the time but it's not like we've come to the 18th hole on Sunday with you having a big chance of Sunday, what's your attitude coming into this, do you think about that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I don't really think about that.  Certain weeks, things go your way, certain weeks it doesn't.  I mean, I like this place a lot.  I like to play well here.  Right now I feel like I'm ready to play well, so we'll see what happens.

I always fight to the end, and I think in the past I've been able to come back with a good round on Sunday and climb up the leaderboard.  Hopefully I don't have to climb that far this year.
Q.  Tomorrow is supposed to be really iffy weather, do you consider yourself a good crumby weather player?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think I've had some success in bad weather.  You know, when it's windy and rainy, it really puts a premium on ball striking which I don't mind because I think that's one of my strengths.  But then again, it makes it a lot complicated with the umbrella and the towel, you have to really be organized.  It's just a lot more work.  It does separate you from the field if you're playing well.
Q.  I wonder, looking at Paula Creamer, can you imagine yourself at 18 doing what she did last year.  And do you see any sophomore slump the second year?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  She's only played in a few events
Q.  Too early?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, she's young and she has a lot of potential.  I think she proved it last year.  She had an incredible rookie year.  I mean, it's just getting her feet wet a little bit and getting into coming back.  Her expectations are very, very high.  I mean, it wouldn't surprise me if she would be back sooner rather than later.
Q.  Were you surprised by what she did last year?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It was impressive, very impressive, yeah.  She's a good player.  She strikes the ball really solid.  I think her iron shots are very, very accurate and I think her strength is probably her putting.
Q.  Do you monitor your stats at all, and so, which ones to you are most telling in terms of driving accuracy, distance, greens in regulation, scoring?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I've always believed in stats.  I've been keeping track of my stats since 1987.  So I go way back with that.  I think stats are very important.  They really tell you kind of    it really dissects your game.

It's tough to just pick one.  If I can just pick one, that would be greens in regulation.  It means you have a birdie putt if you hit a lot of greens.  But to hit greens, you have to hit fairways, and there's a lot of stats that are important, but I would say those two are the most important.
Q.  You've been I think top 20 in driving accuracy at least the last two years and I looked today and you're 118.  Granted the year is very young, but is there anything to read into that, have you been really crooked off the tee?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It doesn't feel like it but the stats normally don't lie.  I've been working on my driving quite a bit last few weeks, and it feels a lot better.  I'm playing a little bit more aggressive off the tee.  But still, it is important to hit fairways.  I think being able to score better, that's one part of my game that has got to improve.
Q.  You go to each one of these tournaments and basically get asked pretty much the same questions with a different spin.  Is there a question that you've always wished that someone in the press would ask?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I do get a lot of the same questions.  (Laughter).  I'm sure there are many questions that I have not been asked and probably some I don't want to be asked.
Q.  What do you wish they would ask, how to make a souffle?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  How to make a souffle.  (Laughter).  I'm not really sure.  I think, we come here, we're here for golf, we talk about golf and I think that's very appropriate, it's about the game and who I'm playing with and my expectations.  I don't really expect anything differently, I really don't.
Q.  Michelle last week made the cut in the men's event.  I wonder what your impression of what she did last week, how important was that, was it significant?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it's always impressive to make the cut in a men's event, especially that not too many women have done it before I think Se Ri Pak did it once.

Yeah, she's young and she has a lot of potential.  Yeah, I would say that's a big step for her.  It's tough to follow it over here.  I'm not really sure how she feels about it.  I have no idea how she played or anything but I think making the cut was a good deal.
Q.  This is one of those old questions, I'm afraid.  Throwing yourself out of the equation, who are some of the other golfers in history who you consider the greatest, if you can name two or three or four?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That I have played against or just in general?  I would say Patty Berg and Kathy Whitworth would be ones that I never saw them play but more in the modern era it would be, I mean, Nancy    there's so many.  Patty Sheehan, Betsy King, and that's just to name a few.  I hope I didn't forget anybody.  There's so many out there.  The ones that play very active today, obviously Juli Inkster, Hall of Famer.  Yeah, there are many.  It's tough to pick the greatest.
Q.  Have you been invited since your one men's event to play again on the men's Tour?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Have I been invited again?  Yes, I have been invited to play again.
Q.  Are you going to do it again?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I'm not going to do it, no.  Not an official PGA event.  I have played in different Skins Games.  I've played in TV matches and I love that.  I hope I get invited again to those type of things.

But I'm not going to do an official event like I did at Colonial.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT