GINN CLUBS & RESORTS OPEN
April 30, 2006
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
How did you putt today?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  The longest birdie putt was four feet, so you tell me.
Q.  That's one way to fix your putter.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That's what I decided to do.  I hit it beautifully again.  I felt like I could have been so many under.  Just a really good day.  It was a long game.  I think I putted well, but nothing went in.  Luckily I had a few that were just three or four feet.
Q.  That stretch, 10, 11, 12    10, went maybe 7 or 8 feet, I think it just went by.  Was 11 the one where you hit the stick out of the sand?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, it did.  14, I had a great chance.  I had a lot of chances on the front nine.
Q.  You had grand aspirations for this tournament coming in.  What's everybody saying and what's your take on how this thing went?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I think everybody is saying the same thing.  I'm very impressed, me personally.  I think they've done a good job in every way.  The course is a lot tougher than I thought it would be, but then again we've had a lot of wind.  And I've played here a few times and I've never seen the wind blow this much.  But the greens were really tough and in great shape.

It's a first class event.  They take care of their players and it's professionally done.  Look at these bleachers.  That shows a big commitment.  So I think they've really surpassed themselves.
Q.  How would you assess yourself right now five tournaments into the year?  How would you assess how it's going?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Results wise I'm not so pleased, but I'm happy with the way I'm playing.  I'm going to keep on grinding and hopefully it will turn around.
Q.  You've been aware and involved in this tournament for several months now.  Does it live up to your expectations?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Definitely.  They've done an excellent job.  I was proud to be associated.
Q.  Is there one area that is letting you down more than anything else?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Just the scoring part, which is the biggest part.  I'm working on everything, at least this is the last week I've been hitting it really well.  I'm hoping it's turning around, I really am.  I have a lot of chances, I'm just not converting anything.  And when you don't then you make bogey and it's frustrating.  That's how I feel it's been the last month or so.

I'm going to take the good things out of this week.  I'm hitting it well.  It's been tough with the wind, so hopefully it's turning around.
Q.  What's it like everywhere you drive in this town seeing your face shining from    supposedly there are 20 billboards?  They are all over.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I've only seen like two.  It's been great exposure for the LPGA and obviously for me and Cristie.  I mean, I wish other tournaments would do the same thing.  That's a great way to reach out to the locals and get the support.
Q.  Have you ever been bungee jumping?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No.
Q.  Did you see the video of you who know doing it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, but I heard about it.  He's crazy.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT