AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2014
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome.   Thank you for being here this week.   It's been a great week.   You've added a lot to this event quite frankly, and it's been a pleasure working with you.   Let's talk a little bit about your round today.   You started off blazing with birdies at the first two holes.   Give us a rundown. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yes, I mean, that's what I was hoping for.   I think we talked about that yesterday when I said here I need to get off to a good start, and I did that, and then on the third hole I lipped out for another birdie, and then it was just very solid golf after that.   I tried.   I was a little bit more aggressive today than I was the previous few days, and you know, I felt pretty good.   I know we stopped and we had a long delay, but I thought, two points and some birdie opportunities the last few holes.   I felt very optimistic, and then I heard the eagle drop, and then I heard the birdie drop, and then obviously to finish up with a birdie, that was pretty hard to top. 
You know, overall I would say it's been really a fun week, and I'm so glad that I was invited and decided to play.   I mean, the guys have been tremendous.   It's really a first‑class event.   You know, I do‑‑ I was hoping for a few more points.   I don't know if 76 would have been reachable for me the way I played, but maybe a few more, then I would have felt very comfortable and pleased.
THE MODERATOR:   Which leads us to the next question about next year. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   About next year?   I don't know if the guys want me back or if American Century want me back.   But it's been fun, it's been a lot more fun than maybe I thought it would be, just because I don't really play, I don't know what to expect.   I felt so welcome amongst the guys, so it was fun.   We'll see when this settles, but if I do come back, then I know it wasn't lack of trying.   Maybe a little bit of lack of competing.   I've got to change the way I approach next year if that's the case to come out here.   These guys can really compete, so I need to be a little better prepared. 
THE MODERATOR:   Do you think, although the delay was a major inconvenience, do you think it helped the last couple groups?   I heard the wind was blowing out there pretty hard prior to the horn going off. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It was.   It wasn't easy out there.   Early in the mornings it's no wind, the greens are smooth, and the yardage is really playing what you have.   But in the end when the wind picks up, you get the ball up above the trees, and these guys hit it high, it's not so easy to keep it in play here, and then of course with the rain we had, the greens are softer, a little slower, no roll.   Like I said, it wasn't that easy as early in the week, and I thought, well, I've played in rain delays before, I can handle this.   So three pars just wasn't enough. 
THE MODERATOR:   You ended up in your first event here tied for second.   What do you think it would take to win this? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, you know, I really wasn't expecting a tie for second, especially just parring the last hole, but you know, I think that Jeremy had to play a little aggressive, and that's just the nature of many of the guys here, and it's all or nothing.   You know, I guess overall, it's my best finish of the year; what can I say?   (Laughter.)
So yeah, not too shabby.

Q.   I wanted to ask you about two holes.   The second par‑5 on the front you went 3‑wood, second shot, put it in a bunker, then you went into the other bunker and you did manage to get a point and save par.   I was just wondering about your choice of clubs because you hit two really good irons to get those birdies on the first two holes. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, you know, that's a hole that yesterday I was aggressive on, as well.   I mean, today the strategy was be aggressive.   We had 215 to the front as far as what we call Tahoe yardage where we do the yards minus the elevation, and I have that in my bag, so it was either that or lay up with a 6‑iron, and I thought, I'm chasing, I can't lay up with a 6‑iron.   I felt if I get in a greenside bunker, that's kind of an easy bunker shot for me.   Unfortunately I pulled my 3‑wood and ended up in the bunker left of the greenside bunker, so now I had a 40‑yard bunker shot, which I consider one of the toughest shots in golf, and hit it a little fat, and of course it was plugged in the greenside bunker. 
In hindsight you can say if you lay up and just get on the green, but I did make par.   I really didn't lose anything.   There's some holes when you play aggressive you get rewarded and some you don't, and that was the case. 

Q.   And then the bunker shot where you flew the green?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I'd like to forget about that one.   I'm not sure really what happened on that hole in general.   Bad tee shot, bad second shot, bad third, okay fourth but a great 5; what can I say? 

Q.   I saw you had your two kids there and your husband on the bag.   Is that the first time your kids have‑‑
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, it's the first time they've seen me play in a big event like this and not just in a charity event.   That was very special the first day on Friday, they came to see mama tee off and my husband said they were clapping when they called my name.   That's very special, and I mean, that is obviously the reason why I don't compete anymore.   I've got my hands full at home.   It was nice for them to see this is what I've done for so many years, and this is what I've been practicing for a little bit. 
Maybe they got a little bit of an insight even though they're very young.   They're just four and three, but to see them and have them there, it meant a lot.

Q.   Do they want to take up golf professionally?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I hope so.   Our girl who's four, she loves to come out with me and ride in the cart and she loves to hit some balls with me once that while, and I would certainly welcome that.   What sport can you play all your life, and I think this tournament especially shows that.   I mean, these guys, their careers are in other areas and come out and play at the age that they are and be so competitive, that says a lot about golf.

Q.   You've talked all week about how much fun it was but you also made it no secret that you wanted to win and be competitive.   Is this a much different competitive atmosphere than you're used to?   Was it nice to kind of blend having fun with staying competitive?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I think it's easier for me because I don't compete now, so I am competitive, but if I was competing on Tour I'd be a lot more competitive, and my expectations would be a lot higher.   I teed off on Friday and I really didn't know what was‑‑ what's my score going to be because I don't do this for a living anymore. 
You know, you have to have that attitude because I mean, you stand there on 17 and if you're very serious and if you can't block that noise out, it's going to be difficult, but that's what makes this tournament fun and that's what makes this tournament so special, and that's why I wanted to play here. 
For me it is easy to find the balance of being competitive but still walk away and have a smile on your face.   You come home and you cook dinner and you take care of the home.   Before it was back to the hotel and analyze and then you go to the gym, and that's just not my life anymore. 

Q.   Had you decided beforehand what you were going to do with the prize money? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   You know, I got that question before I teed off, and I said I haven't really thought about it.   I still haven't thought about it, but I'm certainly‑‑ my foundation is a big part of my life nowadays, so it's going to be beneficial out of this. 

Q.   How did your caddie do this week for you? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, my caddie is still here and he's still smiling.   We get along very well on the golf course, and it was great to have my husband Mike on the bag.   He did very well.   I know he's equally as competitive as I am. 
But I'm glad to have him with me and we can share these special moments together. 
THE MODERATOR:   I just received a text from NBC in New York and you are invited back next year. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Thank you. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much, Annika.   It's been a real pleasure this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT