MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 12, 2006
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Annika, when you started with two birdies the first three holes are you thinking it's coming together here?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I was hoping it was going to turn around, I really was.  But then just kept on going the way it's been going for a while.

So obviously I'm very disappointed, I feel like I'm playing good golf, it's just not turning out.
Q.  That putt, after the two straight birdies, there was like a 15 foot putt that kind of slid by on the right.  Does that take away the good feeling that the two birdies gave you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, you're not going to hit perfect strokes all the time and you're not going to make everything all the time.  It's tough when you feel like you're hitting good shots and you feel like you can't convert it.  I don't remember if it was the 15 footer there or 5 footer there, I'm not sure what, but I just kept going and going and trying.
Q.  It's been four years since you've missed a cut.  Can you comment on that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's mostly disappointing.  I mean, I feel like I'm playing well.  I've practiced all week and just this year is not really going anyway at all.  I have to keep on grinding and keep on going.  That's really all I can do.
Q.  The next couple of days, will you head home, what do you plan on doing?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I have no idea what I'm doing.  It's not over until it's over.  We'll see.  It's a long day left.
Q.  Were you aware of the streak, and if so, how much pride do you take in the fact that it had been so many tournaments since you messed a cut?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I know it's been a long time since.  It's just not something I keep track of.  I like to keep track of wins.
Q.  Are you grinding a little bit out there, just trying to make it happen too much?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That's a good question.  I think I'm just playing the way I normally do.  It's just not turning out.  Today I hit 13 greens, yesterday 14 greens.  There's no reason why I can't make any more birdies.  I mean, it seems like there were birdies out there because the people in my group made them, so I know they are there.  I just have to keep on working and keep on grinding and stay positive.
Q.  Do you get to the point where you walk up to a long putt and think:  "I hope I get down in two from here?"
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I never have those thoughts my mind.
Q.  No. 10 tripped everybody in your group up today; the last three years running is the toughest hole.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's a long hole, especially today it was a little bit into the wind, and the pin is in a tough place, long right, and makes it a difficult hole.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT