KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 2, 2006
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
(Inaudible)?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I needed a lot more, though.  Today was a little better.  Today I just    it was a little more slow today and I made a few mistakes.  I made a lot more birdies today.  I made five.  I had a few chances out there, so today was a lot better round.
Q.  If you compare this week to last year, can you make any comparisons?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I can make a lot of comparisons.  I scored a lot better last year.  I had a lot of momentum going, I hit a lot more greens, just a big difference.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I wouldn't say mentally, no, I think I've been really strong this week.  I have been drawing on a lot of experience this week.  I think if I didn't have experience and if I wasn't as patient, I would probably be 10 over by now, so I'm happy about that.
Q.  What will you do now [Grand Slam] (Inaudible)?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't know.  There are three more majors.  I know I'm working on the right things.  Like I said early in the week, I feel good about my game, it just didn't turn out.  I do want to say that competition is tougher and tougher.  And courses like this, if you don't really hit it perfect, it's tough to score.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, I am.  Like I said, I feel like I can find five shots today and probably five every day, that's 15 shots.  That's the way I look at things.  I try to make a perfect round.  I left a lot of strokes out there.  But on the other hand, I fought really hard.

That's what I'm going to take from this week.  It doesn't always go your way, and when it doesn't, you have to make the most out of it.  I would say that I really have.  Minus 2, I feel like I could be a lot better, but I'm not.  That's just the way it goes.  I'm happy for the effort.  That's for sure.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I want to win majors.  I've said that the last five years, and I'm going to continue to say that because I think that keeps me motivated.  I've come so far and achieved so much in my career, that's what I can gear up for.  I'm disappointed about this week, because that's what I live for.  But luckily there are three more and I'm going to try do the best I can.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  They are all crumbling down the stretch.  I'm sure that makes it exciting for the TV watchers.  That shows what a major championship can do to you.  It's a tough golf course.  It's tough down the stretch.  To be 10 under the first day, you wouldn't think that they would come down the last few    I don't know what they are now, but maybe by seven, you know.  It's tough.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I want two more rounds.  I'm not going to give up.  It's in me, it's just a matter of when is it coming.  Today was better.  And yesterday I had to play nine holes.  It was better.  Too bad I don't have any more holes to play.  I wish I had more.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT