AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2014
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Annika, what did it feel like out there? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   First of all, I felt a lot better today, just standing on the first tee.   I didn't feel as tight and as nervous.   But the front nine, I must say it was probably one of the worst putting displays that I can recall.   Certainly the last six years. 
So I was just trying to be positive and keep reminding myself to extend to the target and just see the ball going in and just really didn't happen on the front nine.   Then the back nine, got a little upset at myself and said let's play aggressive, let's forget about the pars and just hit the ball past a hole. 
We all know if you're never up, never in.   So that was really my motive for the back nine.   Seemed like the back nine‑‑ certainly I'm happy the way I finished both rounds to get some more points.   And it's just what I need. 
So obviously tomorrow we're running out of holes.   I've got to be aggressive early on.   If I can get the start I finished with and maybe have a little stronger finish, maybe put a little pressure on the last group, that's really all I can do. 

Q.   Going into tomorrow's final round, I believe you're six points behind the leader.   You mentioned you need to get more aggressive.   What does that mean for you?   You're a fairly consistent player, fairways, greens.   Aggressive means you're going for pins?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I think that's the only way.   I think if I look at the way I played, I'm hitting fairways, I'm hitting greens.   I have many opportunities.   It's just that on the greens I have not been able to perform. 
So to me it's just going to go out there, maybe fire a little bit more at the pins and then wherever I am just feel like this is more of a match play and go for the putts and not have this type of lag putting that I'm doing.   That's not really working. 
But that's what this format is all about, is the more aggressive, the more it pays off.   I just have to make sure I don't get too aggressive.   But, like I said, I'm behind.   So now I'm the chaser.   So it's kind of fun, because then you know what you need to do. 

Q.   Jack Wagner said he went to cross‑handed on hole 7.   Have you ever changed your stroke in the middle of a round like that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Not in the middle of a round but throughout my career I've tried a lot of different things. 
And it's funny, I try and get ready for this.   I've been taking a few lessons on my swing.   And maybe I should have taken some lessons on putting.   It's funny how some parts of the game just don't feel the same and some parts feel the same.
So just fingers crossed that everything will come together tomorrow.   But overall it's been a terrific two days.   And I can't tell you how nice the guys that I've played with, they've just been super. 
And again, I'm very impressed with just how they play.   Stephen, who is active in his sport, and he's got a beautiful swing.   They don't make a lot of mistakes.   I admire these guys tremendously, and also the characters.   It's been a lot of fun. 
And what can I say on 17, it's certainly not been the environment that I'm used to playing with. 
That's what makes the tournament so special.   All the fans, they're so supportive of everybody and the cheering, you stand over there and you cannot even imagine a quiet sign there, probably be shot down.   So go out there, have some fun.

Q.   Early on seemed like every putt you missed you missed right.   Did you have to make an adjustment on the fly to get around that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I mean, literally what happened is I don't extend my putter to the target, I stop.   And when you stop the face is open and it goes short right. 
I mean, I would say most of them, some of them are pushed but some of them were just short.   Especially the one on the par 3 is at five, had a long putt.   I left it eight feet short and missed an eight‑footer.   So that just cannot happen. 
These guys are that good.   I can't make those mistakes and leave those‑‑ the amount of points out there.   It's just something that tomorrow I just gotta, like I said start over and be aggressive and think about positive things.

Q.   About a year or so ago, year and a half ago you sliced your finger cooking chicken.   Has that affected your game‑‑
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I wish I could blame it on my finger, but‑‑ (laughter).

Q.   The photo you sent out is pretty‑‑
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It was pretty gross.   Yeah, it was.   I love to cook.   And I think I was a little sloppy with the knife.   I got a super sharp knife in the kitchen. 
And it just went through the plastic and in my finger.   And it was pretty at the time‑‑ so I went to urgent care.   They were great and if you look at my finger now you couldn't tell. 
But needless to say, I'm a little bit more cautious in the kitchen nowadays.

Q.   Now the story goes you went skiing the next day?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, that's true.   You don't use your fingers.

Q.   Was it a powder day?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I go out any day, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT