GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 27, 2021
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Annika, a little bit of a different day out there.  But I got to ask, last night did Will sit you down and give you any advice?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   He did.  Yeah, we went through the game plan and I had a good feeling this morning.  I was ready to do that, and unfortunately I did not follow his plan.
 Not intentionally, but it was a hard day at the office, as they would say.  Just didn't happen at all today.  I was trying really hard but just short-sided myself on a lot of holes.
 But I must say I think the course was set up really fun today.  I really enjoyed the way they moved up 4.  I really enjoy some of the fun pin placements, but it was tricky.  I just didn't hit it solid or straight enough to be able to have a chance for some birdies.
 It was a rough day, but happy to be here, happy to be playing and just kind of hang in there.  Just, again, the purpose is to get experience, so I was trying to follow my routine and do everything I do on every single shot.  I did that, so I'm pleased about that part.
 Q. Was Mike giving you any pointers as you were going through trying to pick up the spirits a little bit?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I mean, yeah, we did have a good time.  Of course when you make bogey after bogey it gets a little tiring when you don't really make any birdies.  Like I said, I'm really happy to be here and just keep on trying.  We put every effort into every single shot.
 Just wasn't meant to be today.  Another day tomorrow.  I got two bonus days this week, so that's a good thing.
 Q. You were playing with Kristen Gillman who is an Annika alum.  What was that like for you to see her up close again?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I know, we talked about that.  She was asking me about some of the tournaments.  But I think this is her third year out here now.  Yeah, it was really nice to see.  We are proud of the Annika alumni and what we've achieved, to see the great success that they're having.
 Again, it's fun to be inside the ropes with those players that we had those tournaments with and some of them I've given clinics to and then I'm out there with them, so it's cool.
 Q. You talked about the stamina needed is a little bit different.  Did you run out the gas or do you think it was emotionally tiring?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I don't know.  I don't really have an excuse because I -- you know, I hit it really well this morning and I felt good.  I felt are good on the greens today.  I felt like I hit some good putts.  I really just didn't make anything.
 I think the biggest issue was I was on the wrong side on a lot of the holes and I didn't hit enough greens to really be able to score.  I mean, it seems like when the flag -- like No. 1 it's tucked left; I'm hooking it left.  No. 8 the flag is tucked right; I'm on the right side.
 So it's just I put myself in really difficult positions and it's hard to score, so it gets tiring.  You get tired when you have to really just fight for pars.  Yeah, I'm tired now, but that's just kind of part of the deal.  That's why I'm here getting back into it and trying to score and do the best I can.
 It's a little bit about the journey, so just keep on going and trying to not focus on te results so much, because obviously that would be a little depressing.
 Q. As we head into the final day tomorrow, you said it before, this is all about experience.  You got two extra bonus days.  What are you most excited about to conclude with this tournament tomorrow?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I mean, really I felt good this morning.  I had good attitude, everything.  So I'm going to try and keep doing same thing.  Hopefully things will be different.  I think I'll go hit some balls after lunch and figure out why I'm spinning the ball in different directions.  Normally I hit the ball straight and today was everything but straight.
 It's hard to play this golf course when it's windy and when you have some rough, so maybe I have to tweak my swing a little bit.  Not really sure what to tweak at the moment.  We have to figure that out.  But I need to hit it straight to have a chance at all to shoot under par again, because that would be fun to leave it on a high note.
 Q. We talked about this off camera but did Ava get to volleyball?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, she did not.  It was canceled so I didn't have to have a plan B, so that was okay.
 We do have a birthday party tomorrow, so I have to coordinate that.  Not my birthday party, but Henrik Stenson has a birthday party for his son, so Will is going to go there.  He might leave on the 13th hole and go swim and have a cake instead of watching me.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT