AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2014
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How would you describe this first round for you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Shaky.   Tight.   But a lot of fun.   I loved it.   I just didn't really want it to end, because I was getting a little looser.   But I was tight early on.   I mean, I felt it, I don't know, I was holding back for really no reason.   Maybe because I don't play and I'm rusty. 
But I had a lot of fun.   Especially coming into 17, I've never played that type of environment.   Normally it's quiet.

Q.   Davis Cup golf for you. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, it was fun.

Q.   First tee wasn't anything like Colonial first tee, was it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, not like Colonial, but nervous.   I felt, like I said, I didn't really swing through.   I was tight. 
Yeah, I think that's a good word.   All of a sudden you have to put a score together.   And I didn't have a good feel on the greens.   I was really tight.

Q.   Every time you stepped up to your ball, John and John were 40, 60 yards past you; do you pay any attention to that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I played with Smoltz before.   I knew that his ball would be launching by the time it passed mine.   But for me it's just not an issue. 
I do have longer clubs in.   For me, I know I can play this course.   I just gotta play a little bit more relaxed tomorrow and find a feel around the greens.   It's hard to feel when you're really tight. 
So maybe one round will loosen me up, get me more comfortable.   The guys could not have been any nicer.   I think they play well.   This is not their sport.   And for them‑‑ I mean, they really didn't make that many mistakes.

Q.   Fairways and greens and how many drivers did you use?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Most of them, there was just the one that's 11, I hit a 3‑wood off the tee.   But it's driver for me. 
And I was just trying to think, that hole, when I hit 3‑wood, John Smoltz hit a driver and it was 315 to the front.   And you really don't hear people say I'm going to swing it easy, 315.   So I was like okay. 

Q.   What do you think about Chad Pfeifer being in the lead at 24 points?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Impressive.   It's impressive.   Like I said, I knew there was going to be points out there.   And I have to‑‑ the key here is to make birdies.   And I only made two.   You really don't get rewarded for 18 pars.   And I had 15. 
So I have to be a little more‑‑ like I said, if I can be more aggressive and really release the club, then maybe I can get 24 tomorrow.

Q.   You had the biggest gallery all day. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Did I? 

Q.   I think you attracted a lot of female fans and a lot of fans who want to see an LPGA Hall of Fame golfer.   Did that mean anything to you at all?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Of course.   It's very nice to get the support, I felt the support from the beginning when they asked me if I wanted to play. 
And I feel it from the guys, too.   They welcome you here.   And Charles Barkley has been tremendous.   He said ten times:   I'm glad you're here. 
Very, very nice.   Like I said, I'm kind of the golfer here, they're the celebrities.   So we have a big crowd.   But the guys I play with, they're Hall of Famers in their sports. 
And so it was just kind of a fun group to talk together.   One of the holes we talked about when we stepped away, when I stepped away, when Elway stepped away how he knew it was and how Smoltz, when he would step away.   So we kind of relate in our different fields.

Q.   Were you able to gather yourself on 17 when they were yelling and screaming?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yes, funny, it's like they love you, and you're like, oh, thank you.   You're trying to just focus. 
And I mean, that's what makes this event so special.   And I know in the past, I'm not going to say I was the one yelling, but I've been on the beach with my friends in the boat.   So I know what it's like.

Q.   You're three points back.   Looks like about fourth place.   Is that where you want to be?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   You know, it doesn't matter where I am today.   There's only one place on Sunday.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT