THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 10, 2005
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Annika, thanks for coming in and speaking with us.  Another good day today, one and one, three and one for the tournament.  Everybody is tied 8 8 going into the singles tomorrow.

Just your thoughts and we'll take questions.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I mean, it's going to get as exciting as we all hoped for.  The matches have been so close.  I mean, first day, second day.  It's very, very close, and it makes it really, really exciting.  Tough holes down the stretch.  Tough greens, you name it, this championship is going to have everything, and I'm pretty happy with the way I played today.

I had a few holes that maybe weren't so great, but then again, I had some good wins, especially when I played with Laura we hammed and egged it pretty well.

I haven't played with Laura in the past, never something like this.  For me, it was quite a good change up.  Didn't really know what to expect, but we got along great and had a great time.
Q.  Can you talk about the quick turnaround and how the morning ended, and then you had to get right out there, what happened on the 18th in your morning match?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: In my morning match, I hit a poor tee shot.  It's one of those shots you don't want to hit.  Totally wrong time and totally wrong shot.  All you can do is forget about it.  I kept telling myself, don't let this ruin the whole championship, don't let this ruin the afternoon match, just let it be.

You know, I think I did that.  I came out strong, I made birdie on the first and Laura backed me up with birdie on the second, and after that we were off running.
Q.  Annika, do you sense the team is excited to be tied 8 8 or more disappointed you didn't capitalize on the 5 3 lead you had going into today?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think overall we're happy.  I think the US team is very, very good, solid players, home soil.  For us to be tied, I think it's a good thing.  We have to go out there tomorrow and win 6 points.  I mean, it's going to be hard, there is no doubt, but we knew that going into this championship and, you know, we have never had the chance    well, we have had the chance to win, but we've never done it.

I think everybody is so pumped up, because we have a chance tomorrow.  This is what we all came for and have been looking for.  When you have to do something like that, it just doesn't get much better, and that's when we get all pumped up.  We're going to fire away early tomorrow.
Q.  The idea that the Americans have tended to do better in singles, is that something you might be able to rally around tonight?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think everybody knows that.  Of course, when the pairings are done, we look at history, and you know, again, we have a challenge ahead of ourselves.  The only thing we've got to focus on is that we have all won tournaments on our team, and tomorrow here's a chance to win a match.  We've got to stay positive.

Like I said, I know this is our chance.  You only get a chance so many times, so, you know, that's a lot of adrenaline that's going to be, at least for me, that's all I need to get going.
Q.  Annika, what do you think of    how you have been talking, what are the lessons when you've let the singles slip after having had a lead?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I think what we're going to remember this week is that anything can happen on the Back 9.  I think we proved that the first day, and, you know, even my morning match this morning, we were 3 up and I fell like we could have been 4 up and ended up losing the match.  You've got to keep that in mind it's never over until it's over, especially on this course, when you have some tough holes down the stretch, with these greens, if you don't hit it on the right side of the flag, they're very difficult.  Anything can happen in the back.  We've got to stay positive and grind and never give up.  I think that's going to be the recipe tomorrow.
Q.  Any more questions?  Okay.  Thank you.

Thanks Annika.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT