HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2005
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Do you feel like it slipped away?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Not that it slipped away, but just all of a sudden took a total change.  I thought I had a great chance to make birdie on 14, and it was a huge break.  And all of a sudden I just couldn't seem it make a single putt.

So I'm very disappointed.  I thought I was doing really good.  I was patient and just play my own game, and instead, all of a sudden nothing could happen.
Q.  You were up two with five to play, did you play a little bit more conservative after that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No.  I mean, actually, I was up two with four to play.  15, I hit the same club I hit all week.  I thought I hit a great approach shot.  I had about 12 feet, she had 15 feet; she rolled it in and mine just hit the lip.

On 16, I hit a drive to the left.  I had a tough shot and I couldn't make up and down and now all of a sudden we were even.  It changes really quickly.

I made a bad mistake on 18 and that cost me it all.
Q.  Does this format identify the player playing best this week?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, you know, match play is different.  In match play you've got to play a little different.  But when you say who is the best, is that match play or is that stroke play?  It's tough to say.  Whoever is winning is having a good strategy and playing match play well.
Q.  Was it tougher this afternoon to play this second round or easier because you're more familiar with the holes?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Neither one.  I'm familiar with the course.  I got familiar with the course two days ago.  You know, it's a little bit grueling to play 36 holes, but I think the players that are here this week are in good shape, and the weather is a lot better today.  So I really don't think that was a factor.
Q.  Did the slowness of the greens make some of this happen?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, they are very slow.  All the rain that we've had, they are very slow.  I don't think they have been able to double cut them the way they wanted to, but they are the same for everyone.  You've got to learn the speed; that's really what you have to do, hit more aggressive putts.  These are greens where the ball would die, so you have to try to hit the back of the hole.
Q.  A lot of people will tune in tomorrow and not recognize the names, are you concerned for the future of the event?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't think that's a concern.  They will get a chance now to know four other people.  I think the course itself is going to look great on TV.  The setup, the layout, it's fabulous.  I think the sponsor is happy.  We've had a great field.  There's been some great people here, great exposure for the sponsor in general.  When you have match play like this, you have to expect to get anybody in the final.
Q.  We asked you the question the other day, when you played Joanne, did she feed off the fact that she had nothing to lose playing the best player in the world, do you think that applied to Candie?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No.  Candie is a good player.  She needs all the credit.  She was seeded coming into this week, and she played really steady.  She was 2 down and she turned it around.  That takes a lot of strength.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT