WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 24, 2005
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  This tournament, you haven't played here in a couple years, you did win The Inaugural event in 1999.  You placed second (indiscernible) 2001.  This was the first time you saw Tartan Fields feet.  Can you talk about your impressions of the course so far?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.  No, I mean, I'm happy to be back in Ohio.  This state has been very good to me.  And my fist impression is the course is a good one.  I like it.  (Indiscernible) type of golf course, wide fairways, big greens, (indiscernible) greens, greens with all kinds of different pin positions, possibilities.  I mean, it's different from one to two clubs (indiscernible) three clubs (indiscernible) depending on where the pin starts.  So you really can hit the ball well here, I think.  And today we had some wind, a little different than yesterday.  So I'm excited to be here.  It's a good golf course.
PAUL ROVNAK:  We'll take questions.
Q.  Annika, is your game in a position where you feel like you can have a great week this week?  Do you feel good right now?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I mean, I feel very relaxed.  I've been on vacation for two weeks, so I feel relaxed.  I've had a chance to practice quite a bit the last two days.  And I'm happy to be back out on Tour.  I needed a break.  But now I feel good again, so I'm looking forward to a great week.
Q.  Are you the kind of player like many champions that expect to win every time you tee it up?  Or coming off of vacation, do you feel it could be more of a transition week for you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I set some high goals.  I put a lot of pressure on myself.  I expect to do well every time I come.  If I didn't feel like I was ready, I wouldn't be here.  Having said that, the competition is tough out here.  You have to play your best to have a chance to win.
Q.  Annika, Cherry Hill (sounds like) didn't really suit you (indiscernible), they kind of took your driver away.  Did that break your momentum (indiscernible) come up with a new challenge to reinvigorate yourself?  Did you come up with a challenge for yourself subsequent to the U.S. Open?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, there's challenges every week, I think.  And I was a little bummed after the U.S. Open.  But, you know, I went home and I recharged my batteries.  And I tried to play well at the Match Play, I tried to play well at the British.  And particularly at the end of the season, there's a lot of big tournaments left.  So I have plenty of goals, I have plenty of tournaments to play in.  I've got to look at the season, the whole season.  And it's been a great season.  One tournament is not going to hold me back and it's not going to pull me down.  So it's just a matter of moving forward.
Q.  Annika, with the way that they've (indiscernible) the dates for this tournament now, I know that when it was at (indiscernible) you played there all three years, I believe.  Do you see yourself coming back here possibly more than once every four years with it being later in August (indiscernible) Swedish Tournament?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  The scheduling, it's very important, as you mentioned.  This tournament, I think, has been the same week or maybe the week after the Swedish.  And being over in Europe it's always been hard for me to come back on Tour so soon from that trip.

So it's good for me that the tournament has changed.  I've always played good in Ohio.  I've always liked this type of golf course.  So if it fits in my schedule, I'll be back.  I mean, that's really the way I look at things.  You know, I don't play two or three in a row and then take a week off.  If the tournament is right there, then I'll be there.
Q.  Annika, it's almost as if all the young guns and the younger players are trying to bump you off center stage a little bit or have a little bit.  What do you think of that and is it good for the game and do you see that as a challenge (indiscernible) versus the wily veterans?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: (Laughter.)  No.  I mean, I enjoy seeing newcomers.  I think we all enjoy seeing the young guns, so to speak.  They've got great attitudes, great games.  And, you know, it's the future of women's golf.  I mean, I think we should all welcome that.  And it's fun to see.  It shows that women's golf is growing and the next generation is really tough.  So it's fun to see.  I mean, I'm glad to be a part of it.  And, obviously, I'm not going to step away too easily.  I'm very competitive and I like the spot where I'm in.
Q.  You've done so much to get the game where it is.  Where do you see it going in the future with some of these up and comers and just the shape that the LPGA is in right now?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, of course I'd like to see it continue to grow.  And, I mean, I really believe that we are going in the right direction.  We are definitely moving forward.  I think there is a lot of buzz around the LPGA.  And hopefully we're just scratching the surface of a lot of great things to go come.

And, I mean, the bottom line is, is how we play.  I think performance is everything.  And now in the last five, six years we've seen some great golf and I think that's a big factor of why there's so much going on in our Tour.
Q.  You climbed about every mountain in golf.  Where does the Solheim Cup fall in your scheme of things?  Do you still get excited about it?  Does it still make you nervous?  Do you think about it ahead of time?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I mean, I love the Solheim Cup.  I do for the reason that it's a team event and we don't play a lot of team events throughout the year.  It's a great honor to be selected and kind of represent your country.  You know, I represent Europe.  And once we do get together, it's a lot of fun.

It's not really something I walk around for weeks or months and think about.  I have not been to Crooked Sticks and I don't intend to go there until the week of the tournament.  So, no, I mean, I'm sure I'll be a little nervous on the first tee.  I mean, it's a lot at stake (indiscernible) for sure, so it will be fun.
Q.  The Americans are making a big issue of having to do well in foursomes because they say the Europeans are more experienced in it.  How much more have you played (indiscernible)?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, the last 10, 11 years.  Not much.  That's pretty much all we play.  So, you know, I don't really think that's a factor.  I mean, I think once we get together as a team, you've got to play as a team.  And I think that's what the European team has done really well.  If you think about it, there's a lot of European players that I don't know and I will get to know.  So I don't really think we have an advantage or anything like that.
Q.  How much did you play over those two weeks off?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  How much I played?  I played really    actually, hardly anything.
Q.  Is that a typical vacation for you, that you just kind of like pull the clubs out occasionally or hit balls or not at all?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, normally, if I have two weeks off, I'll take the first week off and then I will practice really hard the second week.  This particular time I just took it really easy the two weeks.  I needed a break.  It's been a long summer.  And, you know, over in Europe, we're quite busy, especially with hosting my own tournament over there, it kept me busy.  And I just needed some time to relax and kind of recharge my batteries.
Q.  Did that give you any concern to think you might be a little built rusty?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Not really.  I've played this game long enough.  I know I'm not going to hit every shot perfect.  But once I start playing again I find a rhythm.  And it's a lot more fun when you're rested.  And I'm more excited to be here than if I would have practiced a lot.
Q.  How would you rate your season this year compared to previous years?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, so far I'm very proud of the way I played.  I got off to a super hot start.  The first eight tournaments I played really well.  And, you know, maybe not as solid this summer, but, you know    and winning Sweden was important for me.  So I'm looking at the rest of the season, hoping to continue playing like this and finish the way I started.  That would be great.  Then I'd rank it up there for sure.
Q.  The last two Majors of the year were won by Koreans who    I think it was their breakthrough win for each one of them.  You've been out here long enough to have a theory on what makes them so good and why does it seem to be there's so many of them and they're so good so quickly?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think one of the things that I've noticed is they have a great work ethic.  And they just work really hard.  And, you know, I don't know whether so many, but it seems like it's a booming game over in Korea.  And I'm sure Se Ri Pak had a big influence over there when she came out of her rookie and won Majors.

And I think now, you know, eight years later you've seen the proof of that.  And they just work really hard.  And, you know, I have a trainer that works with several of the Koreans and he says that he would tell them how to do one exercise and they don't forget.  I mean, they have the greatest memory.  And they have the greatest form when it comes to being in the gym.  And it seems like when you look at their swings, they have great swings.  And so there must be something to that.
Q.  The LPGA Tour has done a great job of the players connecting with the fans and all the different Pro Ams that take place and everything.  You played in one today.  Talk about that, the Pro Ams, and just the way you guys try to connect with the fans in the gallery.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I hope I connected with my guys today.  We had a good time, and we're still talking after the round, so I guess that's a good sign.

No, I mean, it's our way to say thank you for their support.  And without these sponsors, we wouldn't have an event.  So for me, I think it's very important to    you know, to interact a lot on the course and help them a little bit with their swings if they want to or just talk about what we do on Tour, et cetera.

So today is a very important game.  For me, my game is maybe a little secondary.  I just want to focus on them and make sure they have a good time.
Q.  (Question about vacation.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Where have I been?
Q.  Yeah.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  In Florida.
Q.  (Indiscernible) happen to see Tiger Woods at all there?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  If I saw him in Florida?
Q.  Yeah.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I haven't seen him.
Q.  (Indiscernible) your career sort of parallel with Tiger's (indiscernible) game, and now with the younger gals getting a lot of the credit, do you think you've received the credit you deserve through your career?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I mean, I don't really look at it that way.  And I never really analyzed it.  I feel very fortunate to do what I do.  And I've received a lot more than I ever thought I would.  And I'm just very happy with my career and I feel very fortunate.  I mean, I've got some great sponsors, high quality companies.  I mean, that's one sign of being recognized.  So I'm very happy.
Q.  Have you put much thought into how long you'll play and what you'll do after your playing days are over?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Of course I think about that a little bit.  I mean, I think I've said many times, as long as I enjoy the game and as long as I feel motivated to go out and practice every day, then that's something I want to continue to do.

But I have other interests outside of the golf course.  And of course one day I'd like to pursue some of those interests.  Hopefully it's going to be around golf because I love the game so much.  But I think it's very tough to stay on this competitive level for so long.  It takes a lot of hard work, it takes a lot of stress on your body, a lot of travel.  And one day I'd like to try something else.
Q.  Is there is a chance these younger players have sort of piqued your interest again, competitive wise, in terms of trying to prove that as an older player you still have it (indiscernible)?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You just referred to me as a veteran and old (laughter).

No, I mean, like I said, I think it's exciting to see the new generation.  But having said that, I have personal goals.  And whether there is a young one or veteran pushing me, or whatever, then that really doesn't matter.  I do this for myself.  My goals are very personal.  And I need to feel good about myself and my game.

And this generation of young girls is not new.  I mean, we've been having these young players come up, like Lorena, for example, Natalie, and so forth.  This is something that happens every year, you get a new, fresh face.  So the only thing I've got to do is, you know, if I want to stay competitive, I'm going to continue to play really hard and push myself.  Otherwise, somebody else will take my spot.
Q.  (Indiscernible) two weeks you didn't touch a club, what did you do?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  What did I do?  Actually, I went to Discovery Cove one day and swam with the dolphins.  So that was really relaxing for me.  I've been on the boat, I've been wake boarding, working in the house, different stuff.  Just taking care of personal things like dentist and all that kind of stuff.  That's about it.  That's two weeks.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you, Annika.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  All right.  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT