U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2005
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. On the theory that you are not out of it till the last putt drops, what is your plan for tomorrow?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  My plan, obviously I have got 18 more holes to play and I am going to give it all.  This is a chance I am not going to give up I am going to fight to the end.  Hopefully I can drive it well tomorrow.  Hopefully I can putt it really well.  I am just hoping for a great day tomorrow.
Q.  What happened on 6 on the green?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  6, 8-iron putt, putt, putt.  (Laughter).

Not much more to say other than that I tried really hard on every putt.
Q.  What is your emotion going into tomorrow, thus far this week, are you frustrated?  Are you disappointed that you are a little further back than you'd like to be?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I am definitely a little further back than I wanted to be.  There's no doubt about that, but then again, if I look back at the way I played and the shots I have hit and the decisions I have made, I just, I don't think I have done so poorly.  I haven't hit the greatest shots, haven't made the greatest putts, but for the effort that I have given, I am pretty happy.

I have shot 1-under on the back, I mean, it's a little light in the tunnel, so I am just going to bring that momentum into tomorrow.  I have to play hard tomorrow.  I have nothing to lose and we'll see what happens.
Q.  Is that something to build on, the way you played the back nine?  Will that be something to build on?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think so.  I played solid on the back.  Made a few par saves, just a tough golf course.  Once you are in the rough, it's so tough to get out.  You lose a shot, three-quarters for sure.  I've got to hit it straight tomorrow maybe a little more aggressive, short irons in, so I can hit at the flags.  The greens are going to be firmer.  The pins today are one of the toughest I have ever seen.
Q.  Any second-guessing on the level of aggressiveness you had?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  For tomorrow?
Q.  No, for the last three days.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't think I understand.
Q.  Are you going to second-guess your level of aggressiveness --
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, not at all.  Like I said, I think I made some good decisions out there.  I am playing the way that I had in mind.  I might not hit the ball exactly the way I wanted, but I think the way I am thinking on the course, the decisions I am making, I stand over the ball and I make -- I am committed to my stroke, et cetera.  There's not lots I really want to change.

Obviously I'd like to make some more putts and so forth.  Sometimes it just doesn't go your way all the time.  That's really what is happening this week.
Q.  You still want to be more aggressive, is that what you are talking about?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Might have to hit driver on few more holes, so I can have shorter irons in, so that I can fire more at the pins.  Really depends on the conditions.  If it's like this, the greens are going to dry out.  You have to play for the front and it makes it difficult if you have 6-iron or 5-iron in your hand.  It would be great if I could have maybe an 8-iron.
Q.  Is there a low round out there on the course?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I hope so.  We'll find out tomorrow.
Q.  There are a number of players you are going to have to climb over --
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Right now I am not really concerned how many players that are in between me and the leaders by the end of the day.  I think plus 4 could be a good score tomorrow.  Having said that I am at plus 6.  I know what I have got to do.
Q.  Yesterday you said six shots was nothing.  With one round to go is six shots still nothing?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Maybe a little bit (laughs).

I am running out of holes, but I need to get off to a good start tomorrow.  I need to climb on that leaderboard and show them I am still here and I am serious and we'll see.  I don't think I am going to need a miracle round, but it needs to be good.
Q.  Did you catch the 8-iron?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I hit a good 8-iron there.  I am totally surprised -- that rolled about a foot, the first previous five holes, a lot of my shots released 10.  It's very difficult sometimes to judge it.  Maybe the wind was a little stronger than I thought it was, and then again, but when you are between clubs the last thing you want to be on that hole is past the pin.
Q.  Can you think of a circumstance when you have been in this situation and won?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I have come from 10 behind.  It wasn't the U.S. Open but it was a tournament with the same type of field.
Q.  Do you feel the crowd is pulling for you any differently than as a trailer?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I feel great support from everyone.  Really been trying to get me going and I have a tough start but they were on the 10th hole, they were like, "This is your time."  I could hear all these comments.  It's very encouraging and inspirational to stick with me even though things weren't going my way.
Q.  Do you know the details of Arnold's final round here in 1960?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I don't.  Tell me.
Q.  He was 7 down -- 65, he shot.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I know what I have got to do then.
Q.  Which tournament was it where you came back 10 --
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Office Depot in L.A.
Q.  Which year?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I have to look that one up.  Probably three, four years ago.
Q.  Ten shots, final round?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes.
Q.  Are you disappointed that you haven't taken advantage of the par 5s a little more?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  To be honest with you, I can't really take advantage of them anymore.  I wish I would have birdied the 11th hole, because I can reach that in two, but other than that the par 5s are playing really tricky, I think.  Normally par 5s are my strength but here I am laying up.  I got 100, 120 yards left and that's really my -- my distance advantage really doesn't give me any benefits here.
Q.  When you are on the 5th tee, why can't you hit a wood or what is it about that hole that you won't hit driver?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I just think it's a three-shot hole.  It's going to take a really big second shot to get over that bunker.  It's uphill and I don't know if you have been in that bunker, but once you are in it, you can't see the pin, so it's just to me, really is not a really a benefit.  It gets really narrow up there with the driver.  Then you got a 40-yard bunker shot, no, I rather hit a wedge in and try to hit it close.
Q.  Any such thing out here as too young anymore, given some of those names of teenagers 15 and 18 and 17?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Doesn't seem like it, does it?  I mean, right now if you look at the leaderboard, they are playing some excellent golf.

I want you to know it's a really tough golf course.  It takes precision, it takes touch, it takes a lot of things to play well here, and they are demonstrating right now they've got it all.
Q.  Is patience still going to be a virtue tomorrow?  Do you kind of throw patience --
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I think patience at a different level, you know.  I think I can.  Like I said, I've got to step it up, be a little more aggressive but then I still got to be patient if I don't start making putts or if the bounces aren't going the way I wanted.  You have to find a good combination of that and the aggressiveness.
Q.  Talk about tomorrow.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Tomorrow I will be chasing.  I know what I have got to do.  Like I said, there's nothing that's going to hold me back.  I don't have to look behind me.  All I need to do is look forward and hopefully that's going to be the key for me tomorrow.
Q.  Outside of the four putts, how effective do you think you were on the greens today compared to the first two days?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think I probably putted the best the first day.  Today my speed wasn't as good, but you know, I made some -- the second hole I made a good putt.  One on the first hole, then one on 16 I made one.  It's really kind of up-and-down; I make a few and miss a few.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT