U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2005
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tough day out there, Annika, how did you feel generally about the way you played?  I know the putting was a trouble spot for you.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I thought I played pretty good until the last three holes.  Obviously I am disappointed with the finish, but I tried the best I could, and only thing you can do is keep on trying, not much you can do sometimes.

Right now I want to forget about this round and come back tomorrow.  Hopefully it will go my way.
Q.  Do you think you will go to more drivers tomorrow than you have been?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, we have got 36 holes left, anything can happen.  I am going to continue to play the way I have.  I don't think my course management is anything wrong with that.  It's just, you got to make some putts.  I think if I would have done that today it would have been a different story.

So of course, depends on the wind, some holes play longer than -- yeah, maybe I will, but I don't think there's anything wrong with the way I am playing the course.
Q.  Anything difficult about reading these greens?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I am not sure.  I hit some great putts today.  It's difficult to be in the afternoon; it gets very bumpy.  If they don't hold their line, it's tough to make them.  I am happy with the speed.  I think it's just one of those days.  Sometimes you just can't analyze things, got drop it, move on and come back tomorrow with a fresh start.
Q.  Yesterday you were kind of in between clubs on 18.  Wind on your back, is that why you stuck (inaudible)?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Like I said, it gets quite narrow up there.  With a driver I put a lot of things into play.  Today I hit 4-wood in.  It is a long hole but I think certain holes are just long, you have got to just play it.  Doesn't make it easy with the driver off the tee, very difficult hole.
Q.  Enough time to catch up you think, 36 holes?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, yeah.
Q.  Tell us about the feeling the fourth, the fifth time the ball doesn't drop, it stays there right by the hole?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, the thing is it's golf.  It's happened before, and you know, it's just sometimes you get frustrated that it's happening this week, but it's just the first two rounds.  Anything can happen.  There are birdies out there because I haven't made them so I am going to go out there and find them tomorrow.
Q.  Anything particular in your putting that you will work on?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I am happy the way I am stroking it.  I hope for fresh greens tomorrow, shorter putts.  I am not going to change anything.
Q.  Was it aggravating using a 4-wood, you are not getting to the fairway --
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think at the time it was just -- I felt like I was playing really good.  I had several chances, had a great one on 14, great one on 15, and I thought I got a bad break on 16.  Then I am in the rough on 17.  It's just all added up.  Sometimes you have got to get it out of your system.  I was frustrated at the time.
Q.  Some players talked about not really spike marks on the green but more depressions from their shoes, is that what it is?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, there's a ton of it.
Q.  How do you feel just in general with your position now?  Obviously the first two rounds you tried to position yourself for the weekend.  Obviously six shots back you don't think is too far.  Do you feel pretty good?  Obviously your game is good --
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I mean, I probably -- if I would have finished with three pars, I probably would have been ecstatic.  But then again 36 holes, is a lot of golf left, and six shots behind is nothing.  That can change in nine holes, can change in four holes.  I have been there I have done that.  I know what it feels like.  So obviously I have got to make some putts, got stay in the fairway.  I have to play some good golf, no doubt about it.  But I am a fighter and I am not going to give up until the end.

This is a really long ways.  I still feel pretty good about it.
Q.  Did the delay hurt or help you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Neither one.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT