HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2005
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Annika, thanks for coming in.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thank you.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Congratulations on your first round win, 2&1.  Looked like it maybe was a little closer than a lot of people thought, but probably not you.  You went 1 down and then even, and then came back on the back nine to go 2 up.  Just talk about your day.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, it was quite some good golf I thought in the group, very consistent throughout I thought.  I hit a lot of fairways.  I hit a lot of greens.  I had a little difficulty with the speed of the greens.  I thought they were quite slow after the rain, and I could just not really adjust to it.  I felt like I hit a lot of lips on too short on the low side but hit a lot of greens and really didn't make many mistakes out there.
Q.  I believe someone asked you this yesterday, but when you feel like an underdog, is it at all difficult because people who go up against you have pretty much have nothing to lose, they are expected to lose, is that a challenge for you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think, you know, match play is so different than stroke play.  If you look at the way I played, you know, I'm very consistent.  I make a few bogeys, I make a few birdies and then I grind and grind for four days.

Match play, you only have 18 holes, sometimes not even that, when you have to fire a few birdies out there.  It doesn't really matter who you play, I think anything is possible in match play.  If somebody gets off to a hot start and makes a few birdies, doesn't really matter if you have a high number.  That's why, you know, I never really look at it as an underdog or whatever.

Match play is just so different.  You've got to go out there, play your own game, try to be aggressive.  You win with birdies and you very seldom win with pars.  The strategy is a lot different.
Q.  Did you see that in Joanne today?  Did she play more aggressively than she would in a stroke play event?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You know, I haven't played with Joanne in a long time, so I'm not really sure how she's been playing.  Her first bogey came I believe on the 14th hole.  And I ended up shooting I think 3 under today but no bogeys, and that's really good in stroke play but in match play it might be so good.  She made some great save shots.  She made some great bunker shots.  I felt she played pretty good today.
Q.  You talked about having to be more aggressive, did you feel that you indeed were?  Were there any shots today where you said, "Okay, ordinarily I would lay up and I've got to go for it"?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I felt there was a few where I got a little more aggressive.  What is it, the 14th hole, the par 5, I played my second shot, a 4 wood; hit it up there on the green.  If I would have played the stroke play, I might have played more left and just gotten on the green.

Let's see, 15, again, I fired straight at the pin.  There was a few holes out there where    9 is another example where I tried to reach the green in two.  I tried put a little pressure on Joanne early there.  Didn't really do that, but that was my plan, anyway.  It is a little more aggressive than I probably would in a stroke play.
Q.  Just the conditions today, what did you think?  It was awfully hot and there was a delay around the 10th hole or so.  Did that work to your benefit at all?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It was hot today.  I thought it was very steamy, actually; the rain yesterday, the course is really wet.  I don't know if it was to my benefit.  It's the same thing for everyone.  You just have to be patient.  When you play match play, you just try and stay really calm.  That's my trick.  I try not to get too wound up at the top or too wound up if it's too slow.  You've just got to play the game the way it turns out to be.
Q.  I was wondering what your thoughts are on Birdie Kim, she didn't win today, but she certainly has our attention.  Interested to know what your thoughts on her?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm sure she's got your attention.  That's great.  Not every everybody wins the U.S. Open, or on your first time in general.  I'm sure she was on a high coming in, except this is a new week and you start over.

I have no idea how she played today, but you know, everybody that is here this week are great players.  The competition is really hard and I'm sure her mind was still on Denver, at least mine would have been.
Q.  Speaking of greens, do you think that was compounded by the fact that you were coming off fast greens from Cherry Hills last week?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Probably, yeah, definitely, to come from really fast from really slow greens.  The rain is obviously what's making the greens a lot slower.  I'm sure they can't overcut them the way they want to.  They are in good shape.  I've just got to hit the putts a lot harder.  It just feels like when you have downhill, you have to have a little touch, but you have to hit them hard.
Q.  Was there a point on the back where you were still concerned about the match today?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You know, I try not to think too far ahead.  I just try to mind my own game, hit one shot at a time and kind of stay in the present.

You know, when I was younger, I used to think a lot more about what holes are coming up and certain scores that might have happened.  Right now I just play one shot at a time and hit my own game.  I never feet rattled.  Just keep on playing and play good, and the putts were rolling in and just not think too much about it.
Q.  When you see a player like Se Ri Pak who you battled with for so many years struggle as she is now, what do you think, and what do you think is going on with her?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You know, I haven't played with Se Ri all year, so I really don't have an idea.  I do know that Se Ri, as we all know, has a lot of talent and is very competitive.  I'm sure she's working really hard to figure that out herself.

You know, time will tell, but I know she works hard.  When you come here, she's always on the range, and when you leave she's always on putting green.  It's definitely not lack of practice.  I think she's one of the hardest workers out here.
Q.  Just curious, how often do you play matches in practice rounds or at home with friends?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Really, I don't play a lot of match play, obviously not on Tour and not really at home, either.  I think at home we play more skins games if anything.  Therefore, I think it's great to play a match play tournament.  It's really part of golf, it's a huge part history wise, we used play a lot of match play.  I think it's a lot of fun to come here, especially after the Open; it's a totally different mindset.  I think it's great we have this tournament.  I'm happy to be here and playing in this event.
Q.  When you talk about strategy coming into this match play event, how did it change for you, when for probably the last nine holes, you were the one teeing off first, so you can't really react to what Joanne was doing; you just, as you said, have to play more your game?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, you have to play your own game.  There are times when you pay attention to your opponent, but if you pay too much attention, you kind of lose yourself and worry too much about her shots.  Playing first, just have to try to hit a good drive.  And if it's a par 3, just hit it close and put pressure on the other person.  I think that's the strategy you have to do when you're hitting first.
Q.  Does the gallery treat the No. 1 player differently in a match play situation than in a stroke play situation?  Do they root differently?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  What was the question?
Q.  Do they root differently?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm not really sure.  I felt a lot of support out there today.  I feel that a lot of weeks, they are very supportive and cheer me on.  I think that people like coming and watching golf, they appreciate good shots whether you're seeded No. 1 or you're seeded No. 23.  I think everybody comes here to watch good golf.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Could you just go over the holes where the match turned in your favor?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No. 8, I had 87 yards to the pin and I hit a sand wedge and I rolled a putt in, it was about eight feet, and that was to take the match to even.

13, I hit another sand wedge to, let's see, that was about 12 feet and 2 putted.  And Joanne, she made a bogey there.  She missed a tee shot on the right.

Par 15 is a par 4.  I hit 8 iron and rolled in a putt that was ten feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT