MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 12, 2005
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Annika, congratulations.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Thank you.
Q.   This is obviously your second Major this year, the 9th of your career, I think the 5th in the last ten Majors you won.  You're halfway home to the Grand Slam now.  Talk about that.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Obviously, I'm very, very happy.  This has been a great week in so many ways.  As you all know, I have some really lofty goals, and to come here and feel pressure, not just from myself, but from everyone, to come here and play so well for four days, obviously, I'm very happy to win and make this another victory, so very, very pleased.
Q.   Take questions.

How difficult was it to stay focused when you had a 7 shot lead with nine holes to go.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's almost tougher to hold the lead than to chase somebody because then you know what you really got to do and you see a number.  You know, I think     well, I know I've tried to tell myself how to think when you have the lead.  Focus on your own game and don't look at the leaderboard so much.  It's easier said than done.

I was very nervous playing today, and come out, and I started off pretty good in the Front 9 and got a little shaky in the end, but I'm just glad it's over and that I won.
Q.   Why were you nervous?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Why?  Well, it's a Sunday in a Major championship, and a lot at stake, three in a row, you name it, I can think of about 10 reasons why I was nervous.
Q.   From our viewpoint, your lead was 6 early, 7 early, and 8 at the turn, and the 3 shot was cosmetic at the end.

Is it the idea that when you have a lead, it's hard, and if that contributed to butterflies, anything on the golf course.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think it's more there's a reality that I might win.  The fact it could be yours.  That's what makes me nervous, that it can really happen.
Q.   The US Open, there's enough pressure as it is.  Have you given any thought of the added pressure there, the media scrutiny should be even more?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I try not to think about that now.  Today I came out here to play the best I could.  My goal was to win here and I've done that.  I'm not thinking a second about tomorrow or the next week, and definitely not for two weeks.  I'm going to have a week off and I'll totally rest.  I need to rest.  I worked hard for this and I want to enjoy it.  I don't want to start thinking about something two weeks from now.  This is what I wanted, and I want to be able to enjoy this right now.

I know it's going to be a lot of pressure.  That's the goal I set, and if I want to achieve my goal, that's what I will have to accept.  Right now I want to absorb this.  This is a wonderful feeling and I'm very proud for what I've done.  I want it to settle in my heart as well.
Q.   Speaking of absorbing, is there a part of you that can step back from the domination of six wins, the last couple of years, and sort of see all that and look at what this has been about, just absorb it all?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I have to be honest, I do have to pinch myself sometimes when I look at my results.  I mean, I feel like I'm just a little girl from Sweden that came over here to follow my dreams and hope to win a few golf tournaments.  When I look at my bio in the LPGA book, I get overwhelmed, definitely.  I just feel like sometimes, have I really done this?  Is it really true?  There's a lot of times where I want to be able to absorb everything and just cherish every moment.

It's seems like I go to the next tournament and I win it, and I want to enjoy that.  I wish I had more time between tournaments so I can enjoy.
Q.   It appears to a lot of people it's inevitable now, you don't feel that way, obviously?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I don't look at it that way.  I mean, maybe all of you do.  I want you to understand that it's very tough out here.  The competition is very tough and you can't take anything for granted.  I'm playing some good golf.  I have this whole year, and the last few years but, you know, you can't take anything for granted.  I'm thankful for every victory that I get.

It's hard work out here.  I grind a lot when I'm at home.  This just isn't just come here and show up.  It's hard work.  When you win, you really cherish it.  You've got to enjoy it.
Q.   This is the first year the tournament had been held at Bulle Rock.  Can you compare this course with DuPont where you won twice?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I like both courses.  I must say, this is obviously a little different.  I thought the rough this year was really tough, the greens were really fast.  Obviously, the par 5s were a lot more difficult on this course than at DuPont.

You know, this course is a little bit of a mix between Pumpkin Ridge and another course we played at the Merit Club in Chicago.  They're very similar with the treelines.  I think both courses are great Major courses.  It putts a premium on driving and a short game which I think you should have at a Major championship.
Q.   So you haven't had any kind of scouting report at all about Cherry Hills?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I haven't.  Other than that, it's an old traditional Donald Ross and I love Donald Ross courses.  I was over there and wanted to see the golf course, but it snowed.  I haven't seen it.  It will be the first time in about a week or two.
Q.   When will Terry go out?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: He will be there on that Monday when I show up.
Q.   Not before that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm not sure.
Q.   Annika, did you sleep well last night?  Can you tell us how nervous you were at the beginning?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I was very nervous.  I slept well, but once I stepped on the tee, it all of a sudden hit me.  The cheers on the first tee, and all the people that were there, it hit me that here I am, and I have a chance to win this championship.

I have been trying to mind my own business once I leave the golf course, and I think I succeeded very good.  Once I got here, I realized it was a big day.
Q.   You didn't seem this nervous or feeling any pressure at all after the first round when you were behind by a stroke.  What was your thought process as the week was going on?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think, as the week goes on, it gets closer to Sunday when it really matters.  I have been in the position where I have had a good round here or there, but it's not over until it's over, and that's Sunday on the 18th or 17th.  I think that's when the nerves really start to factor in.  Anybody can have a good first round.

Having said that, it's all about putting four rounds together in a Major championship.
Q.   If we had said to you early in the week that you were going to be 3 over on the par 5, would you have envisioned building such a commanding lead?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I still find it amazing.  I didn't play the par 5s the way I like, normally it's my strength.  This week it's my weakness.  It makes me want to come back in a few weeks and try to play them again.

Having said that, I'm just glad it's 18 holes that counts, and I guess I figured out some other holes, just not the par 5s.  It's a confidence boost.  I don't always have to birdie the par 5s to win tournaments.
Q.   (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Probably at the US Open it's been like that, the setup with the first tee with all the people around it.  It's a huge teeing area, people on the putting green and the stands, and then you look up and see all the people.  It's a pretty cool start.
Q.   Was there any sense, hearing the cheer, it was kind of a cheer of coronation and you had 18 to go?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I felt more like they were very supportive.  They were clapping for everyone.  It seemed like they were happy we were here.
Q.   In looking at the leaderboard and noticing what Michelle Wie was doing or Paula Creamer was doing, are you impressed by how, at this age, what they're doing, Michelle Wie finishing second here as a 15 year old?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Oh, yeah, I'm very impressed.  I think they're both, obviously, very good players, and then how to play, and I mean, Paula has won her first tournament already.  That's very impressive.  She had a great round today, and Michelle had a great round, too.

For me, to be out there and see them climbing, it's fun, not just because it's two great people making birdies, but they are the future.  You know, I felt like when I come out here as a rookie, I was the future, and now I'm seeing another generation.  The Tour is really in good hands, it's fun to see.

It's not just about tournaments and purses, it's about the golf, and if you look at it, it's pretty fantastic, their performance, under these tough conditions, I think they need a lot of credit for that.
Q.   On different levels, what Michelle did, is that as impressive as it is for you to win this?  Is it as impressive for her to do what she did?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't really know how she feels about her game.  I'm sure she's very happy with her finish.  You know, I'm not going to compare my results with hers.  I think I was under totally different pressure.  This is what I wanted.  I came here and I won.  Michelle had an outstanding performance.  There's no doubt about it.
Q.   Given the changes in your life off the course, is it as hard this year to enjoy the successes you have had, and do you have to find different ways to motive yourself, or is it the same?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Obviously, playing well and winning tournaments at this particular time in my life, it's kind of important because it gives me some sense of satisfaction, I guess, is a good word.  It's something that I can control right now, and it gives me a little piece of mind that my career is doing well.

On a personal note, I have some things I've got to work out.  I'm not saying that victories is replacing happiness off the golf course, but hopefully I will find that if you combine the two, I think I'll be happy one day.
Q.   What will you do this week to prepare for the US Open, and do you wish there is was a longer gap?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't make the schedule.  I've got to take what we've got.  I'll do whatever I can to be ready.  For me, it would be two Majors in a row.  I don't think I've ever had that before.  It's not something I would perfectly want to have.  Again I've already played three in a row, so I need a week off that week.  I'm heading to Pine Valley to play golf tomorrow and Merion to play some more golf after.  I'm going to have a good time and play golf for fun, no competition, and that's my week.
Q.   Need a fourth?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm not sure.  You know they don't let ladies out until on Sunday.  So, for me to go there tomorrow is a big deal.
Q.   Do you keep your score when you're practicing?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: In the next two days?  No, no we're going to have some champagne and wine tonight.  I might have to play the ladies' tees tomorrow.  I don't know if they have any ladies' tees.
Q.   Are you the first woman to play Pine Valley?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm not really sure, but I heard it's very difficult.  They made a special arrangement for me.  I feel very privileged.
Q.   Did you have to win today to get that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm not really sure, but I guess I passed it.
Q.   You want to take us over your card.

(Scorecard done.)
Q.   I'm not completely familiar with the schedule, the Tour schedule, but have you been to Colorado to play since '95?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't believe so, no.
Q.   The last three, I think, Opens have been somewhat frustrating in different areas.  Now that you're far removed from them, do you look back at a couple of them and give yourself credit for turning up a good number?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I want to say that definitely with Meg Mallon last year and with Juli Inkster the year before, I mean, they really played some good golf.  I thought I played good.  I was very happy.  I felt when I left that place I gave it my all.  There was nothing else I could have done.  Sometimes that just happens.  I definitely feel that way.  We'll see what happens this year.
Q.   What do you recall about Broadmoor?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Broadmoor?
Q.   Your last trip to Colorado.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Obviously the altitude plays a role there.  I remember the trick to the greens there was a shrine up on the hill, and everything was breaking away from it.  I think that was the key on the greens.  I think Cherry Hills will be very similar with the elevation.  I've heard the greens are small.  I have heard it's quite narrow there, so maybe I won't be hitting the driver as much.  It's going to be all about placement.
Q.   Do you remember your emotions or what you were thinking winning the first time there?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think I pretty much just came from way from behind.  I really had no expectations.  I almost missed the deadline to enter, so it was just     you were supposed to enter on a Tuesday, and I didn't know the rules, and I got in at the last minute.  Meg was leading most of the time, I believe, and I came from behind and made a few birdies early on the Back  9.

All of a sudden, I was up there.  And I remember, and I'll never forget this, I hit a 6 iron as an approach shot, and I don't even remember taking the club back I was so nervous, and somehow managed to 2 putt.  I just was sitting there, waiting for what was going to happen.
Q.   Did you ever imagine that would be the first of many?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No.
Q.   Who are you playing Pine Valley with?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: A member there and two other friends.
Q.   Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT