MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 7, 2005
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Annika, thanks for coming and speaking with us.  We always appreciate your time.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Thank you.
Q.   Major this week, you said you want to win the Grand Slam this year, you won the first one, Kraft Nabisco.  Why don't we get that out of the way and talk about it right away.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Sure.  Obviously, I'm happy to be here.  This is a big week for all of us, and a lot is at stake.  I have my goals set way back, and now I'm here and I'm ready to play, so, you know, there's not really that much to speak or talk about.  I'm here to play the best I can.
Q.   Take some questions.

Annika, it's fairly unusual to announce a goal of this magnitude.  Tiger has always shied away from it, for instance.  Bobby Jones only admitted years later he set out to do it.  Why have you announced it so publicly?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Because this is what I want to do.  There's no secret what my goals are.  I think you have to be open what you want to do.  I think it's easier to deal with certain things when it's right there.  It's not a secret to me by any means.  I set my goals last year and I didn't achieve it then.  Then I thought this was a natural goal again.  You know, it's in the back of my mind.

I don't walk around every day saying "I want to win the Grand Slam.  I know it, and I'm going to try to do the best I can and prepare as much as I can.

If you look at the last two weeks, I think I'm as ready as I can be.  Things happen for a reason.  Who knows what will happen this week.

To answer your question, I'm not shy to explain my goals at all.  On the contrary, I would rather let it out and play and see what happens.
Q.   How do other players react to that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't know.  You can ask them.  I haven't had a player come up to me and say yes or no or "What are you thinking?" or "You're crazy."  These are my personal goals, and this is my way of trying to find ways for me to get better and keep me motivated into this game and push myself to go practice every day.

If I didn't have lofty goals, who knows what I will be doing today.
Q.   What did you learn about the golf course today?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's very wet, but it's very good.  It's a great golf course.  I like it.  It's quite tough, and the rough is very thick.  I experienced that on the last hole.  It's extremely deep.  I think the key will be driving.  I want to stay in the short grass.  I think you really got to be able to control the ball this week.  That's the key.  It's a true course for a major championship, I think.  You have got to have all your game here.
Q.   Does it lend itself to scoring or will you have to wait for it to dry out?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's really tough to say right now.  My caddy was here over a week ago.  He said it's very dry and very bouncy.  And I was on the first tee and I said, "Oh, really?"  It rolled 3 feet.  We'll see what the next few days will bring.  It might change the way I play if it dries out.

Right now, you can fire straight at the pins.  Some holes you've got to fire past the pin because it's spinning back it's so wet.
Q.   Annika, you say that this is the idea of going for the Grand Slam, to keep you motivated.  If you were to do it this year, what will you need for motivation after that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I guess we've got to talk after the end of the year.  This is a very lofty goal.  Obviously, nobody has done it on the ladies' side.

If I don't achieve it, it won't be the end of the world for me.  To me, that's what motives me.  It's not always about the end of the journey.  It's kind of the journey itself.  If I would achieve this, obviously, that would be amazing.  I'm already proud of what I have achieved in my career.

If I win the Grand Slam, I don't know what to say.  I would be totally overwhelmed.
Q.   Have you played the course before today?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No.
Q.   Does that give you any kind of advantage or disadvantage, the fact that everybody is kind of coming into this thing, this is really everybody's first time on it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You know, I don't really look at it that way.  For me, I come here and do my regular preparation, which is two days of 128 holes.  I came last night and putted a little bit.  That's just the way I normally prepare for things.  I'm not going to overdo it because it's a major.  I'll stick to my game plan and play my own game.

I think I got a good feel for the golf course today and I know I will get a better one tomorrow.  I think I'll have plenty of information what to do out there.
Q.   Annika, you won your first major ten years ago.  How much did that, your winning a major, kind of jump start your career, and specifically your play that final round?  Did that give you confidence?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Definitely it jump started my career.  When I came out here as a rookie, I never thought I could win a single golf tournament.  All of a sudden I'm holding the US Open trophy which, to me, is the biggest tournament in the world.  It gave me a boost of confidence.

Since then, it's been great.  Obviously, I love what I do, and I have not been shy to push myself or set really high goals.  Again, that's what motives me and keeps me going forward.
Q.   Given the success you have had at DuPont, were you disappointed when they announced they were coming to Bulle Rock?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Not disappointed, I was surprised.  I finally figured out the golf course and then we moved.  I did like it over there, and had some great friends in the area.  When you travel every week and get familiar with places, it's a nice feeling.

Yesterday I came here and didn't really know where my hotel was, didn't know really where to eat.  You kind of start over sometimes.  It's nice to have good routines and know where to go.

Having said that, it's always good to see new places as well.
Q.   Your friend said you once finished second on purpose to avoid giving a victory speech.  Can you tell us how you've grown?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's the truth, I'm still pretty shy.  All I want to do is play golf.  When you have to win you have to stand in front of everyone and say important words.  It's not something I feel comfortable with.  I tried to do it for a long time.  They said one time when I finished second    I think the coaches figured out my plan, and said "I think the second place needs to say something too," so there I stood.  So, I figured I'd rather win.  I'm learning, it's something I'm dealing with.
Q.   How does second place feel now?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, they say second place is the first one to lose.  It makes me want to go home and practice and figure out what I did wrong and how I can beat that person.
Q.   How much has the Tour changed since you were a rookie, and is it tougher now?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Competition now, it's totally changed.  I mean, I think the golf is getting better.  If you look at the players, they look stronger, and I know they hit the ball further.  The competition is tougher.  The younger players are more complete players.  College, obviously, helps them to mature and grow.  The coaching is getting better.  I think it's on many levels.  You totally see a change.  This is my 11th year.
Q.   Annika, look ahead, what is your opinion of the LPGA's plan to institute the seasonal points race next year and finish it up with the $1 million winner prize at the ADT?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I mean, it's a very interesting concept.  I think before I answer that I really need to read what it's all about.  We were informed about it last week, very, very briefly.  I have no idea really what the point system is all about and all the rules.  I would really like to find out myself.  It's totally something everybody is talking about.  Hopefully something good will happen.  I think I can comment on it then.
Q.   Can you compare how you're playing now or last year?  Is this the best you've ever played?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think overall I think I'm a lot more solid player.  My strength has always been the long greens.  That's still there.  I'm able to put it all together with a good short game.  My chipping has improved and bunker shots.  All that together makes me a more solid player than in the past.
Q.   What is left to improve on?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You can continue to fine tune.  There's some stats I still want to improve.
Q.   When you played in the Colonial, I believe you came away thinking that chipping and banks and short game is where you had to improve.  What have you done     you obviously have.  What have you done?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's all about practice.  It's all about learning different shots around the green.  I'm trying to use my imagination a little bit more.  I've always been a player that uses one club and hits the same type of shots all the time.  You have different grass and greens, so I'm learning to adjust a little bit.  It's the key to be able to go up to a shot and not be afraid.  I used to look at it and go "bogey."

A lot of times I'm able to hit the shot, and I have been practicing and working with some of the guys to see how they do, and I feel like I've improved a lot.  Still I have a lot of room for improvement.  Again, it's long bunker shots is one of the shots, and shots around the greens with high rough.
Q.   Can you name some of the guys you have been working with?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, Tiger is one of them that I have been working with.  He's just a phenomenal guy at his short game.  If you want to learn from the best, he's the one to look at.
Q.   Where were you doing that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: In Orlando.
Q.   Is it true you once challenged Tiger to push ups and he refused?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Not push ups, but pull ups.  I don't know if he refused, but he looked at me like "I don't think that will help me."  It didn't take long until he beat me, and so I kind of forgot about that thought.
Q.   Annika, you look at the Tour and, like you said, all the younger players, you know, making the Tour a lot more competitive.  Do you take any credit for some of the popularity the Tour has gained since your success?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't really take any credit for that.  Obviously, I'm happy to be a big surge in women's golf.  This is a good time to be a woman golfer, I think.  The LPGA has come a long ways the last few years, and it is fun to be a part of it.

The tournaments are getting better.  Like I said, the golf is better.  It's a good time to be here.  Obviously, I'm happy I chose golf to be my profession because I love it.
Q.   Do you remember the last time you walked off a course feeling you played really well and you did not win a tournament?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I can remember the US Open in Kansas, I believe.  Is that where Juli one?  Juli played really well on Sunday, and I thought I had it, I really did.  Actually, last year also at US Open, I thought I played really good.  I thought if I birdied 17 and 18, I'll win this championship.  Then Meg played excellent.  I watched the coverage and saw she made it from everywhere.  It's one of those times where you totally feel they beat you.  I gave it all and I felt like it was a good day.
Q.   Annika, you have a tough stretch coming up here.  Can you talk about that?  Does that give you an advantage over some of the other players?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't know if it gives anybody the advantage other than who was playing good right in the middle of the summer.  If you want to peak sometime during the season, this is it.  A lot of big tournaments are decided this month and next month.

This week the Open, Rochester, you name it, we have a lot of big tournaments in the summer.  I try to pace myself.  I started a little slow this year and didn't play too many tournaments until the last few weeks.  I'm hoping that's going to be my key, that I'm rested and can play well now.
Q.   Annika, any lingering thoughts about playing with the boys again?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, actually I don't have any plans to play with them at all other than just practice rounds here and there at home.  You know, I love it here.  This is where I want to play.  I want to win tournaments.  I want to continue to get better.  I want to continue to improve as a golfer.  I think I can do that by practicing with them and playing with them.

The Colonial is one of the greatest things I've ever done.  The way I look back at it is I want to remember that, how good it is.  For me to do it again doesn't necessarily mean it's going to be any better.
Q.   What type of player is this course best suited for in your mind?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, this week you have to drive it well.  You have to place the ball in the right places on the greens.  Right now I would say ball striking, somebody who hits the ball well.
Q.   Annika, Ty was in here this morning, and he said he, as a Commissioner, had been blessed by having you on the Tour during his time as Commissioner, and he said in the same way that David Stern had Michael Jordan and Tim Fenschem has Tiger.  How does that make you feel to be in the same sentence as Tiger and Michael Jordan?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's overwhelming.  I want to thank Ty for saying that.  That means a lot to me, obviously.  Do I feel that way?  Well, it's tough for me to say.  I look up to both MJ and Tiger in different areas, but I never looked at myself like that.  If I contribute in any way, I've always wanted to do that.  I love what I do.

If I can be a role model for a little kid or for a bigger kid, that would just mean a lot to me.  I feel very fortunate for what I do, and this game has brought me so much.  When you get complimented like that, it warms your heart, definitely.
Q.   Would winning a Grand Slam, this is probably a stupid question, but winning the Grand Slam and bringing more recognition to the women's Majors, would that be your idea of taking the game to a different level?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I don't necessarily think a Grand Slam would do it.  I think if you look at the Tour and what we have achieved, all of us the last ten years, I think it would be enough.  I really do.  You know, we need to somehow be seen on TV.  People need to come out and see us play.  I think that's the key.  There's a lot of excitement on our Tour.  The Grand Slam would definitely help it.  It wouldn't hurt it.  There's a lot to see out here every week.  Last week, the Koreans shot 27, that's 8 under par.  I shot 59.  The scorers are out here.  You have to come out and watch.
Q.   The only other person who won the Grand Slam retired from the game.  Last year you sounded like you were not as interested to continue to win golf tournaments.  If you won this week, would you consider retiring?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Now my life has changed a little bit the last few months.  I have less responsibilities at home, and I'm throwing myself into it a little bit more.  This is my way of moving on with my life.  Last year, things were different a little bit.  This is the way I'm adapting to my changes.  Obviously, I'm very happy.  I'm doing something I love and something I can control.  Right now golf is kind of what's on my mind every day, and, I mean, now I'm setting new goals, and now I'm pushing myself because I know this is what I want to do.
Q.   Just back to your win at the Broadmoor real quick, your play in that final round, that tournament, did you always know you could play like that or did that kind of give you the confidence for how you play on Sundays?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think it gave me the confidence how to play on Sundays.  I had never really been in contention, I believe, until that particular day.  The tension was not on me.  I was playing kind of in the background.  I don't think anybody expected anything.  Not myself, I didn't either.  All of a sudden, I was playing steady and climbed up the leaderboard.  I think sometimes a win like that from behind can really help your career, because, like I said, I didn't really expect anything.  I think it would have been a lot different if I was playing with Meg that day in the last group.  Who knows how I would have done.
Q.   You talked about excitement on the Tour.  Is part of that seeing a 15 year old amateur hit a ball that far?  Michelle Wie and with the exemptions, is it fair, or does it not matter because the exposure is good?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think the exposure is good.  I think Paula Creamer should get credit for winning, you name it, the young ones have great attitudes.  They're not afraid of anything.  They come out here and they want to be pro before they're 18.  They're ready to take that big step.  That's exciting for me to see.  I think they're ready.  They hit the ball a lot further.  They're a lot more mature than I would say I was 11 years ago than right now, which I'm older than I want to admit.

Then you see Juli last week, she's still ready to win tournaments.  You get a range of players.  What more can you ask for?  I think that's what we all want.  The game is growing.  Everything is here.  People come here.  These are their dreams, to play on the LPGA.  It doesn't matter where you're from.  I'm from Sweden.  There are Australians, Asians.  This is the dream we all have, and we're here to play.  To me that's pretty cool.
Q.   Not that it's an obituary, but what would you like to be remembered for the most?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think I want to be remembered as somebody who loves what I do; somebody not afraid of challenges and who wanted to be up there and test myself.  I really love the challenge to have the shot on 18 on a Sunday to win a tournament.  I had an opportunity in Phoenix, I don't know if you tuned into that, but on 18, I had a chance to hit this career 4 wood, and I did it.  That's what the dream is about.  I want to be remembered as somebody who loved the challenge and wasn't afraid to face it.
Q.   Thank you, Annika.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT