LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 28, 2005
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL LAMP:  We have Annika Sorenstam here in the interview room, 2 under par, 70 today.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  3 under.
Q.  You're 10 under par for the tournament now.  Let's go over your score card first.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I birdied the second hole.  I hit 5 iron to the green, 2 putted from about 14 feet.

Then I birdied 12.  I hit a 4 wood on the green and 2 putted from 15 feet.

And I birdied 17.  I hit a sand wedge to three feet.
Q.  Talk a little about your round.  You're just two shots out of the lead right now.  Just your thoughts entering the final round.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm in good shape.  Right now I'm more concerned for how I feel tomorrow than how I'm going to play.  Today I was a struggling out there.  I haven't felt good all day.  I haven't felt good the last three days, but today was the worst.  I'm going to get some hot tee or soup or something and get some sleep and be ready for tomorrow.
Q.  Is it a bug or something that you have?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm not really sure.  I hope it's just a little bug.  I saw the tournament doctor today and he put me on antibiotics and some cough medicine.  I couldn't sleep last night.  I was coughing all night.  Just pain and aches, I guess.  I don't know why, maybe the weather, coming from hot weather to cold.  I think I just need some rest.
Q.  Last year you were in a similar position.  I think you were one back going into the final round.  Do you feel you're at your best when the pressure is on?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm two shots behind, I know what I have to do.  I'm be chasing tomorrow and keeping a close eye on everyone.  I'm going to follow them and try to beat them by one or two.  When you're in the lead, you don't know what to do, you play your own game and look forward.  Now I'm right behind them, I'm going to chase them all day long.  I'm going to play aggressive and we'll see what happens on the back nine, if I still have to play more aggressively or more conservative.  We'll see how it goes.
Q.  Do you feel pretty good about your round?  Did you overcome some things?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  On the front nine, I was seeing double on some holes and I had to sit down several times.  During the break I took a nap in the car.  I went out and felt a little shaky, but then all of a sudden I got some energy.  I don't know where it came from.  And I felt good for six or seven holes, and then the last few I felt bad again.

I am right there.  I hope I feel a little better so I can swing through the ball a little better.  Right now I'm taking one more time club because I don't have the strength, so I'm adjusting to that.
Q.  The rain delay was a blessing in disguise?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It was enough, but then when my phone rang and they told me it was time to go, I didn't want to go.  I think sleep is what I need, because I didn't get much last night.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Today I was just walking around, not making too many mistakes.  I was trying to conserve energy.  It would have been great if I finished with the pars I had on 15, 16 and 18.  I would have been in super shape, but it just didn't happen.  But considering how I'm feeling, 3 under is pretty good.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, sure.  This is the first time I'm sick.  They always said, "Beware of the sick golfer." I don't know what that means, but in my case, I swing a lot slower because I don't have enough energy, and that sometimes can be a good thing.  You don't over think because you're tired and you have to save your energy and you just kind of go with the flow.

Off the top of my head, I can't tell you what particular tournament I played sick.  In Canada I was very sick and shot 2 under par.  There were times I haven't played so great, but I know I haven't shot myself in the foot.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  She shot a fantastic round today.  I haven't played with her in a while.  I look forward to that.  It will be an exciting finish.  You have quite a few players at the top of the leaderboard.  Depending on the weather tomorrow, if it's nice and sunny, I think you're going to see some birdies.  I'm going to play aggressive tomorrow and see what happens.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, she hasn't played much over here.  I haven't played much with her.  I don't think I've played with her in a practice round.  Today was really the first time I got a good feel for how she plays in all these years.  I thought she played great today.  She putted extremely well.  She was in trouble a few times, but there were other holes she rolled it in, very solid.
Q.  How much different is the course condition today than the first round?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: The greens are a lot softer.  The fairways are softer.  They don't roll as much as in the past.  The holes that comes to mind is the third hole.  It's playing a little different.
Q.  (International flavor at the top of the leaderboard.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  This is my 11th year.  I don't really look at it that way, because to me a player is a player, whether they're from Korea or U.S. or Spain or something like that.  I just have to play my own game and play the best I can.  There are a lot of International players.  There are a lot of players from Asia coming up the last few years.  Paula Creamer winning last week was great, being the youngest, but being an American, that's good to see.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT