LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 27, 2005
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL LAMP:  We've got Annika Sorenstam here in the interview room.  Annika, 4 under par today.  Let's start off with your score card.  Birdie at No. 2.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Okay.  No. 2, I hit an 8 iron and I 2 putted from 35 feet.
JOEL LAMP:  Birdie at 5.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I hit also an 8 iron and just hit it on the right side of the green, chipped it up and made a putt from three feet.

Birdied No. 9, 8 iron to 16 feet.

No. 10, sand wedge to six feet.

No. 11, 7 iron to 5 feet.

12, 7 wood just short right, chipped it up and made a putt from nine feet.

I bogeyed 14.  Hit a sand wedge to the green, chipped it up and 2 putted from 12 feet.

And then bogeyed 15.  Hit a pitching wedge in the green side bunker, hit it up and 2 putted from 11 feet.
JOEL LAMP:  Just talk a little bit about your round.  You're right there tied for the lead right now at 7 under par.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm pretty happy.  I mean, I got it going there for a while and then made a few mistakes coming in, which is unfortunate.  But other than that, I've had some really good holes.  I think I'm putting well, just a few swings got away from me and cost me bogey.  Other than that, it's pretty good.  I'm happy to be at the top of the leaderboard, or shared as of now, but a long ways to go.
Q.  Also, if you would, talk just about little bit about being able to get done today instead of having to come back in the morning.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That's the good news.  It's been a long day for a lot of us.  For me to be able to finish, it gives me a peaceful evening and I can sleep in.  I'm not really sure what time they're going to tee it in the morning, but I'm sure it will be around 7:30, 8:00.  I'm going to have a good, casual morning.  Other than that, it should be a really long weekend for some players.
JOEL LAMP:  Questions?
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think you're absolutely right, there's been some streaks in there.  Once I have a birdie or an eagle I keep on going, but then it seems like when I make a bogey I do same thing.

I mean, overall today, I think I putted better.  I didn't have a 3 putt today.  I improved from four times yesterday.  I don't really know.  I think I hit a lot of good shots at times and then all of a sudden I hit a bad one and ended up in the bunker on 15, with a pitching wedge, that just blows my mind a little bit.  I have got to work those kinks out, obviously for the weekend, but hopefully the birdie streaks will continue.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I thought they were quite a bit slower.  We got a lot of rain, I'm not really sure how much, but you can really tell.  But then again, I thought the course was very playable.  You didn't see any puddles of water, at least on the back nine I was playing.  It was slower, but that was to be expected, but it dried out otherwise.  The fairways were dry.  You didn't really have mud on the ball, which I was totally surprised.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Ever.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You know what, I had the right yardage to do it today.  It's just I was on the left side, actually more in the center really.  I had to work the ball too much right to left and I don't think I could have gotten there.  Too many trees in the way.  The distance was perfect, but I didn't have the great angle I did yesterday.
Q.  (No microphone.)  What did it turn out to be, four and a half hours?
JOEL LAMP:  Four.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I had lunch I think twice.  I went to the trailer and got stretched, I was on the phone, sat in the car and listened to music, signed a lot of autographs, and that's four hours.
Q.  How frustrating is it when you're sitting there waiting?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm used to it.  It's going to happen once in a while.  This year I haven't really had anything.  This is my sixth tournament and this is the first time I've had a rain delay.  It's not really a big deal.  That's just the way it is.  You have to deal with it.  The more you think about it, the more frustrated you get.  All you have to do is just play golf.  The same for everybody, just stay positive and loose.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  We might talk a little bit Swedish.  But, you know, this weekend, there's a lot at stake this week and you just focus on what you've got to do.  I know what I've got to do so I'm not going to chitchat that much.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I don't sleep on purpose.  I don't mind having a delay, but otherwise you have to play well here.  Just because you're making a few birdies and it feels great, you can't just take it for granted.  All of a sudden I make two bogeys and there I am.  You have to focus, you have to hit it in the right places, and maybe if the greens dry out in the next few days they're going to be quite fast
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I started on the par 3.
JOEL LAMP:  Thanks a lot, Annika.  Have a good evening.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT