KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 27, 2005
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Congratulations.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  This is your eighth major, fifth win in a row, tying Nancy Lopez's record, your third win here, also your 59th win, which is I know is a special number for you.   People always ask what your thoughts are so, I'll ask it:  What are your thoughts?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  My thoughts, well, I'm very excited, I'm very happy, I feel great.  I could not have asked for a better week obviously in many ways.  You know, I had a lot of things go right this week.  I felt really good. I felt calm.  Hit some good shots.  I got some good bounces.  I've been driving down the street, it's been green lights, everything is perfect.  Good music on the radio, you name it.  It's been a great week and obviously today was a special day for me to have my family here.  I will remember this Easter weekend for a long time.
PAUL ROVNAK:  You didn't have a bogey the last two rounds, so before we take questions, let's go over the four birdies today.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Okay.  The second hole I birdied.  I hit a 7-wood just short of the green and chipped it up to six feet.

No. 4, I hit an 8-iron to eight feet.

No. 5 I hit an 8-iron to ten feet.

Then on 11 I hit a 7-wood just short of the green and 2-putted from about 40 feet.
Q.  What percentage of the tournament -- (Laughter.)  What is your next event?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I've got a Kraft outing tomorrow morning.  I'm playing in the Tavistock on Tuesday, and then I'm not really sure to be honest.  I'm going to take some time off, let these three weeks sink in, and I'm probably going to take a little break.
Q.  Do you normally in Las Vegas?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I have played there.
Q.  I think that's the next one.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't think I played there last year but I have played there.
Q.  So you are not saying you're going to play that yet?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I'm not saying anything.  (Laughter.)
Q.  You just mentioned that this week was one of those weeks that everything went well.  Is that in your mind serendipity or do you believe things are meant to be?  Is this your time?  Is it meant to be?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I do believe in things happen for a reason.  I believe in that type of stuff.  I don't know if it's good bounce is always a good sign, but hitting good shots and things going your way is always positive momentum.  This is a long year.  I got off to a great start; I'm happy about that.  I want to enjoy this.  Who knows what will happen the rest of the year, and so far so good, and I'm very happy about that.
Q.  Is this the first leg of the Grand Slam?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it's the first tournament, the first major.  I want to get to ten.  Now I'm on eight.  I'm on my way.

So, you know, I mean last year, I think I told everyone what my goals were and then I didn't get to come in here and hold the trophy or be soaking wet.  So kind of my goal went down the tubes, but now I am here and I'm soaking wet and now I'm looking forward to the rest of the year.
Q.  Of your eight majors now, this is the largest margin of victory in any of them, do you feel this is the best performance you've ever had in any of those majors?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It was very solid.  I must say I drove the ball really well, and I think that set up for some low scores.  I was aggressive off the tee which led me with sand wedges, with wedges, which is I think the only way you can play this golf course is to be able to attack the pins.

It was just solid short putts I was solid with.  I did make a few mistakes and then I recovered really good.  I think mentally I was so patient from start one.  You can ask my caddie, I think I've been in good spirits.  I was a little nervous on the tee the first few days.  I was nervous today.  I was never at a point where I was too nervous.  I felt like I was in control all week and obviously that helps.  I think there are tournaments where I've hit the ball better, but overall this is probably as solid as I've played in a long time.
Q.  Did you expect your mother, your sister and your caddie to join you today in the lake?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I did.  (Laughter.) We had talked about it a little earlier.  My caddie had talked about jumping from the bridge.  He asked me if I wanted to join him, I said I would do it, and I looked at the bridge and I didn't know if I was going to get up on the bridge and said, no, I'm going to pass on that.  It was great to see my mom and my sister.
Q.  Are you as impressed as we are that you didn't bogey the last 53 holes of the tournament, that's almost three full rounds; and the only 3-putt you had was the last hole for par.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, if I would have asked me, are you going to be happy with no bogeys the last two days, I would have said definitely, yeah, you're probably crazy.  But I made some great putts today, especially 13 was a great par save.  I made -- I really didn't have any 3-putts, the one you mentioned, I didn't have one whole week, so I putted really solid.  My speed was off, but then I really recovered well on the short putts.  Maybe in the end my mind wandered a little bit too much with looking at the leaderboard a lot.  I was thinking a lot and maybe I should have focused.
Q.  What did you hit?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I hit a 7-wood.  I had 202 to the front.
Q.  Cristie and Rosie talked about putting pressure on you early, and Cristie hit it close on the first hole, of course, and you had the putt for par.  How long was the putt, and again, was it like yesterday where you make a putt like that, and, in essence, slam the door on it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, Cristie hit it close on the first hole.  I want to say she had like a 4- or 5-footer and I had probably like a 7-footer for par.  So for me to roll that in first is obviously a key, but then again, they rolled it in.  So they had to get off to a good start to keep the pressure, and then every time -- I think Rosie made a birdie on 5, I rolled one in on top of it.  So I always felt like I was right there and I always felt like I was in control.

I think that was the key as well.  The momentum kept going.  I never had to worry.  I thought I was going to make a huge mistake or anything like that.  I just felt very comfortable all day and played my game.
Q.  It seemed the door really slammed at 11 where she birdied a couple holes, had a birdie putt and didn't make it and you did; was that a key turn of events?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, it was key, especially for me, it make birdie there.  I hit a great drive and I set up for a great birdie.  I 2-putted from about 40 feet.  Rosie got hot on 9, she made a bomb, and on 10 she made a great birdie.  So she was starting to show me she was there and she wasn't going to give up.  Again, that was a turning point, it really was, but I think also the par putt on 13 was good for me.
Q.  It seems on a regular basis now, we are talking about different hurdles you are surpassing, passing people on the career title list or matching Nancy Lopez's record, when you're seeking motivation for just playing good golf, how much does history and making history play a part?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It does play a part.  I mean, I try to look at things mostly for myself, but what am I capable of, what is exciting to me, what would be important to me.

So having said that, I figure out for me first and I look at some of the records and say if this is possible and this is not and putting that together, that's what gets me motivated and gets me going in the morning.
Q.   Players are hesitant to express their goals to the media or the public, and yet there's been talk, and I don't know how accurate it was, that a while back you were thinking of toward the wane of your career, and then there was talk about how Mickey Wright's record, you may be wanting to achieve that kind of record of winning the most LPGA tournaments in history.  Could you comment on that, please?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I don't think I've ever said I'm going to try and catch Kathy's record of 88.  To me that has always seemed so far ahead.

I am so happy what I have achieved, I've won now 59 times and I have another 29 left, 30 left?  I mean, that's just -- it's amazing.  So that's not really's goal of mine, not right now anyway.  I've always said that if I enjoy playing this game, I'm going to continue to play it.  Obviously right now I'm very much enjoying it.  I'm playing really good golf.  I feel I'm starting to reach my peak and I want to get there, so that's what keeps me going every day.
Q.  What would have to happen for you to not start enjoying it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  For me to not what?
Q.  For you to not to start enjoying it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You mean what I do?
Q.  Yeah.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, sometimes a lot of pressure, especially for me and myself, there's a lot of demands on time and so forth.  I want to be able to be myself and just have fun, as well.  Sometimes that gets kind of put in the back seat, if you know what I mean.  It's all about hitting a good shot and it's all about making a putt when you need to.
Q.  What's the hardest part about winning the Grand Slam, is it like the fact that the LPGA is on a new course or the scrutiny and the pressure?  What makes it so difficult?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think one of the big factors is it's spread out through the whole season.  You've got to play well in March.  You've got to play well in May, what else, June, and maybe August.  So talking about peaking at certain times the rest of the year, that's not always so easy, and different type of golf courses.  This one is a course that we come back year after year, you figure out how to play it.  The LPGA McDonald's championship is going to be totally different.  I finally figured out the other one and now they move it.  (Laughter.) And now that's going to be a challenge.

And also with the competition out here, everybody wants to win majors.  Everybody gears up for that and you have to play some really good golf.  So having said that, there's a lot of factors that play a roll.  In the summer, someone is going to be hot somewhere and it's going to be difficult.  You just have to be so precise and in tournaments you need good breaks, you need good momentum, and some weeks you just don't have it.  If you're in control of that, it would be a totally different story.
Q.  You said that -- I think you said that you're starting to reach your peak.  I think you've just won five straight tournaments and seven out of your last nine, so does that mean that there's room for improvement?  (Laughter.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I guess there is.

Well, what I mean by that is I'm getting better and better at every part of the game, and it's all coming together.  I mean, I've always felt like I was a good ball-striker.  I've always felt like I was a good putter but didn't seem like I could really put them together, and it seemed like one week I drive well and one week I putted well.  I'm able to scramble and that's what it takes to win tournaments.
Q.  It seemed like you really had the crowds and they are very receptive to you despite having a pretty good lead the last couple of days, the crowd just seemed to enjoy you even more, do you feel the energy of the crowd and the gallery, does that help you or hinder you?  Do you enjoy it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, I love it.  It definitely helps.  They are very golf knowledgeable here.  They clap for good shots.  They are supportive to everyone.  But there's nothing like coming up, for example, the 18th hole and the fans are screaming and yelling at certain things.  It's electrifying.  I get goosebumps every day whether it's Thursday or Sunday.  It's the best walk in golf when you go there and high-five the crowd, they are so into it.  That's what it's all about, coming here and playing in front of people that just love to see you play, it's a fantastic feeling.
Q.  Yesterday and today you made it look so easy.  Was it as easy as it looked?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, it's never easy.  You know, somebody said to me, well, you did make it exciting.  Well, for me it was exciting.  You know, you never know what can happen out there.  It's never over till it's over, and especially on a golf course like this, there's some tough holes down the stretch and you know, I was just trying to be patient.  I was trying to stay very, very calm and trying to hit the shots that I knew how, but certain holes where I tried to play aggressive so I would have short irons in and not have to worry about playing from far back and just put it center of the green especially when the pins were tucked.  I wanted to make sure I had very makeable putts.  It was a very good week when it comes to the rhythm of my swing, the distance control was good and it's just one of those weeks.  Like I said, it just went my way.
Q.  Not that the rough was such a factor for you this tournament, but do you feel the rough is thick enough out there and hard enough out there?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, definitely.  I was in rough today on 13 and I had to grab a sand wedge and hit it out.  I believe it was on the 15th hole, I picked up a piece of grass and that was kind of what I determined the length of the rough and it was about four to five inches; and it's very lush, they have had a lot of rain as you know.  So I thought it was very thick and tough at times.
Q.  There's a sentiment out there that what you've done if women's golf is not really appreciated as much as it should be in the mainstream.  Do you feel that's the case, and do you care?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Of course I care.  I mean, I think I get a lot of recognition in what I do.  I think people understand my success on the golf course.  I mean, I feel it in my home country.  I feel it here.  I feel it among my friends.  I feel it amongst you guys.  Sometimes maybe I take certain things for granted, you know, I win another tournament, but when I go home I really sit and enjoy it.  I really look back at each tournament and I say, "That was a good job."  I think that's very important.  I don't want to just come here and go and forget about it.  There's a lot of hard work behind every tournament and I don't want to forget that.
Q.  It seems pretty normal for you to be in contention in major tournaments, but how long did it take for you to feel comfortable at this kind of level?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's taken me a lot of years, and like I said, I mean, I was nervous today.  But then again, I felt comfortable knowing that I was playing good golf and I think that's really what it takes to win a tournament.  It's all about experience.  The only way to get it is to do it many times over and over.  It is a special feeling in majors, the crowd, the course, you name it, and the pressure, it builds up and you have to be able to handle it, and I've learned that through the hard way but also through the good way.
Q.  Do you feel it's important to play in Europe?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, definitely important.  I play about three tournaments a year, obviously being a European, it's important to me, and also I want to be part of the Solheim Cup so, there for I go back and play.  Evian is a special tournament, it's obviously the highest purse, one of the highest, it's a beautiful spot to go.  So it's definitely part of my schedule.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you, Annika.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT