ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2004
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Welcome, Annika.  You are a two time ADT champion, have had a very successful year, coming off Japan.    Can you tell us a bit about what you did the last week and how you feel about coming in this week.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I came back from Japan Monday.  I went to Tahoe for about five days, did some painting.  I did everything but touching the golf clubs.  Then I flew to Orlando and worked with my coach for a day, then I drove down here.  So I am ready.

No, but I'm happy to be here.  You know, this is really a wonderful spot.  You know, I've done well here in the past.  When it's the Tour Championship, it's always great to come here and be able to play.
Q.  What were you painting?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Two bedrooms, a living room, two bathrooms.  I've been busy.
Q.  (No microphone)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, I could.  It's therapy.  No, I mean, I enjoy being a little handy and doing stuff.  Took four days with a little help of my husband and my sister.  But we had a good time.  You know, we're hanging out, so it's okay.
Q.  The last two years, you played a lot less tournaments, playing 17, 18, instead of 22, 23.  What are the positives and negatives the playing less for you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, the positive is the obvious, you know, I have more time at home and less on the road.  I think the negative, which I thought would be, but I haven't really noticed any, I wouldn't play as much, I'd be a little more rusty when I'm out on the tour, not be in the swing of things all the time.

But I'm surprised how consistent I'm playing the weeks I've played.  Schedule wise, I haven't played as much.  But then again, I went to Australia early in the year.  I went to Sweden and played.  You know, I feel like I have been away as much, even though I haven't played as much.

You know, the schedule has been pretty good.
Q.  It's also cost you a  couple Vare Trophies because you're not going to get the number of rounds in.  Do you think it's going to extend your career by playing less tournaments, play another couple years?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I hope so.  I mean, I think the key is, you know, just have a good time.  For me, it's all about quality, playing well when I'm out here.  I want to have quality at home.  I want to live a life, as well, not just be traveling and competing, even though I enjoy it very much.

You know, at this level, I can only do it for so long and so much.  So for me I think the key has been scheduling and doing a little less is hopefully more for me.  We'll see if it will extends my career or not.

I am disappointed about the Vare Trophy.  I've mentioned it before.  It's something to me that is very important.  I think it shows who the best player is because it's about consistency.  I mean, you count every shot the whole year.  So it means a lot to me.

But, you know, that's the way    I mean, I had to do it this way.  Hopefully one of these days they will change the rules and I'll be back on top there.
Q.  You were sitting here a couple years ago and you made it sound like you might not play much longer.  Did something change?  Are you just playing too good to stop?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I don't think two years    two years, I don't know what you thought I was saying.  I'm pretty sure I said that I'm going to continue to play as long as I enjoy it and as long as I feel motivated.  You know, I still feel that way.

You know, I have now, two years later, I've achieved more than I ever expected to do.  You know, I'm getting up there where I'm starting to feel very satisfied with my career.  There's still a few things I'd like to achieve, but I'm getting up there.  The motivation is, you know, really have to push myself to get up there.
Q.  Ty had a policy enacted a couple years ago, I may be wrong, that everyone was going to be required to play every tournament over a four year span.  Are there tournaments you're going to have to do next year to meet that policy?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think I have one more year where I can pretty much do whatever I want.  After that I've got to pay attention to where I'm going.
Q.  What do you think of the policy?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  The policy?  I understand the policy.  I don't necessarily agree with it, but I understand why we have it.  I think it's tougher for the player because there are certain places where, you know, there's certain courses where your game    where, you know, you just don't play well.  To go to a place where you don't feel good about it, I mean, it's just not right.

I mean, I'm all about quality.  I want to play well when I do.  To come to a place where you just don't feel right about the golf course, it makes it a lot tougher, you know, especially to motivate you to go there and play and have a good time.

So what can I say?  Like I say, I understand the rule, but then again I find it very hard.
Q.  You'll play whatever you want next year and then retire?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That's a good plan (laughter).
Q.  Could you take us through last year, starting they 15th hole, setting up like your iron shot, how you were making birdies, Meg was ahead of you sort of setting up birdies as well, and you were having to counter them?  Were you aware what she was doing?  What was going through your mind?  If you can just recall sort of recall those last four holes, how they transpired.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  To be honest, I don't remember last year.  I do remember I finished second, and I do remember that Meg played really well down the stretch.  I believe she made five birdies.  I just couldn't really get going on the back.  That's pretty much all I remember.  I don't remember the shots or anything.

I wish I could help you.
Q.  Was that normal for you, that sometimes you just sort of subconsciously block out perhaps things you don't want to remember too much if they weren't real positive?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  There's a lot of things I don't remember.  I mean, it's like I go to the next tournament, and I have forgotten about shots.  A lot of times we come to a tournament and my caddie will say, "Do you remember this shot?"  And then, yeah, I do remember.

On top of my head, there's a lot of shots I don't remember I hit.  It's like I just move on and don't really think about it.
Q.  How did you like playing with Mr. Trump today?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I enjoyed it.  I've had a chance to play with Mr. Trump a few times here.  He's a funny guy.  He loves to talk about the stuff that's going on in his life.  It's fun to listen.  It's an interesting guy.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'd like to win some majors.  I mean, I've said that for a while now.  It's getting to the point where I really want to win some majors.
Q.  Do you have a number?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I've said 10.  I still think it's very possible to do it.  I feel very good about playing in the majors.  This year I had a chance to win at least one more and really couldn't do it.  So definitely for next year, I'm going to try and do it again.
Q.  Could you talk a little about Grace?  You're paired with her tomorrow.  What do you think she holds for the future of the tour, what your impressions are of her game?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I'm very impressed by Grace.  I have been for years.  She's a good player in many ways.  She is a long hitter.  I like her attitude.  She's very aggressive on the golf course.  She's got a good temperament, I think, to play out here.  You know, she's great for the tour.  I've always enjoyed playing with her.

You know, this year I think I've played with her a few more times.  We did a shootout in Boise where she was my partner, and then I did something in China where she wasn't my partner, but we still had a good time.  I've had a chance to see her up close and personal, and I'm impressed.
Q.  I know what you just said about remembering certain shots.  I've been asking different grade players what is the one most important shot that they hit in their career, why was it important, and what happened.  Can I get you to pick out one that just stands out?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I mean, I have a list of shots in my head.  I mean, I don't forget them all.

I mean, I holed the bunker shot at the Skins Game.  I'll never forget that shot.  I wouldn't say that was the most important, but it was one of the coolest shots I've hit, you know, at the right moment.

The sand wedge I hit at McDonald's, that one is very important.  I hit over the trees on the 16th hole, that pretty much set me up for a victory.

You know, I've hit    I mean, like a month ago, I hit a great 4 iron on 17 at the Samsung.  I guess I didn't single one out for you, so I'm sorry about that.
Q.  Just one?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, right now it's the McDonald's sand wedge that I hit over the trees right now.
Q.  There was a headline in a golf magazine recently that says, Does anyone realize that Annika won nine times, too?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I just saw it about half an hour ago.
Q.  How timely.  Are you a victim of your own success, the fact you've done so well for four years in a row now, people don't appreciate it as much just because to them it might seem like it's become routine?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I think maybe people take it for granted.  But, you know, I definitely don't.  I mean, I'm very proud of this year.  You know, I think I played some excellent golf.  I think I've been more consistent this year compared to previous years.  And I thought last year was very consistent.

So, you know, I think when you don't play as much, maybe people don't pay attention.  But, you know, I'm very happy with my year.
Q.  The last couple years there's been like a milestone, the Grand Slam last year, Colonial, 59 one year.  Is there anything like that this year?  What has made this do you think such a special year?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, for me personally, it's been that I've played less and still played at the same level.  You know, I have not practiced as much.  I stepped away from the game a lot more this year, and I'm still able to be up there.  People from the outside might not see that, but me personally I've noticed that.  I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing.  But at least now I notice I can do things on the side and still be able to compete out here, which is a great combination for me, because that's really what I want to do down the road.

I am very hard on myself, and if I would come out this year and I wouldn't have played as much, then I probably would have questioned my decision, should I play more or should I do something else.  I've not worked as hard.
Q.  Was that maybe combined perhaps with a keenness to play?  When you did come out, might have been a little more keen to play than if you had played more tournaments?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, that could be it.  And I also think when I do practice, I have learned how to practice with more quality.  There is a purpose to every practice.  When I was younger, I would be out there all day and I would just hit balls forever.  But when I think about it, I wonder if I really thought about every shot, if I really had a purpose.

Now, you know, I'm restricted on time.  I've got to make the most out of this hour or two hours, whatever I have.  And, you know, I think the experience I've gotten through all these years is really helping me.  I've absorbed a lot when it comes to different shots.  I'm better at figuring out what chip shot to hit.  I'm better at figuring    you know, I can just see the shots better.  I don't know where that comes from.  Maybe just all the years out here.

But I can really see shots better and I think I'm making a lot better decisions on the golf course.  I really don't know why, but maybe I'm fresh when I'm out there and I'm doing it right.
Q.  Can you summarize the last three holes, what they present, how they kind of represent what this golf course presents to the player, why they're such good finishing holes?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, they're very tough holes.  No. 16, I mean, it seems like it's always windy here.  16, second shot to a tough green.  Bunkers on the right, water on the left.  The ball    hitting it from a high spot to a lower spot, so the ball is in the air a lot longer.  With the wind, it's just really tricky.  It's not long, but you have to be so precise about your irons.

17 is a long par 3.  The wind, again, plays a big role.  It's a great par 3.  It looks really intimidating from the tee.

18 is a tough finishing hole.  I mean, all you see is water on the right.  It's a good hole.  I mean, they moved the tees back, it's going to be longer this year.  If we get a little wind, maybe even 6 iron in.  Might be challenging that way.

Great finishing holes.  I really think there's a lot of holes out here that are tough.  The 1st hole is probably one of the toughest holes I've ever played because it so narrow and everything.  It's a course that's grown on me a little bit.  I have a lot of respect for this course, especially when the wind blows.
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the talented group of 20 somethings that have come on the tour, what that says about the next few years on the tour?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I mean, the growth seems to be incredible here.  You mentioned the 20 year olds.  Now they're teenagers.  Really makes me feel a little old.

The girls are wonderful.  You see a lot of players are strong at an early age.  Fundamentally they're really strong.  And then after that, I mean, you've got even younger ones like Michelle Wie, of course.  I think the growth is excellent out here.  I think for the future, there's a lot of good golf to be played out here.
Q.  Will the Grand Slam be the goal again next year?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think so, yeah.  You know, it's something I really want to do.  Obviously, it's very, very hard.  You know, when I didn't win it Kraft Nabisco, it's kind of like here you have a goal for the whole year, it's only March and the goal is gone.  But I was trying to be motivated and win the next three.

But it was hard, it really is.  But, you know, that's what goals should be.  I mean, that's why I practice and that's what keeps me motivated for the challenge.
Q.  Do you know when you're going to start next season?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I haven't really seen a schedule.  I mean, I've heard a few tournaments, but I haven't really seen some dates.
Q.  The World Cup?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, that would be the first one.  I haven't decided if I'm going to play it or not.  But I have to decide pretty soon.
Q.  Your level of dominance seems to be about where Tiger's was.  There was kind of a revolving door challenge, Se Ri, Karrie or Meg.  Do you get a sense a challenge is coming, Vijay is coming, so to speak?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I hope he's not coming (laughter).
Q.  If you can play along with this parallel here.  Do you get any sense at all that whatever the size of the gap is that you've established is shrinking at all, or getting bigger?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I mean, I'm sure it is shrinking.  When you have a player on top dominating, people catch up.  It's just a matter of time.

It's tough to be on top.  It's tough, you know, to try and take the next step.  I've always found it easier to chase something or somebody.  You can just look at a tournament.  I'd rather really come from behind, then I know what I got to do, than maybe have a five shot lead.  I find it a lot tougher that way.

I mean, with the depth that we have out here, with the players, it's just a matter of time.
Q.  Do you still feel like when you show up at this tournament, you're the player to beat?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I like to feel that way, yeah.  I mean, I always feel like when I come to tournaments that I'm ready.  That's one of the reasons I'm going to go back to the answer about the scheduling.  I want to be ready when I come here.  I just don't want to come and just be and just play.  I mean, I want to play competitively and be ready.

You know, this week I feel the same way.  I mean, I worked with my coach the last three days.  I really feel good about my game, and I want to play well here.  I want to win.
Q.  Do you and Tiger keep score whenever you play?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, we do.
Q.  Do you give him any strokes?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I don't give him any strokes.  I don't get any either, so...
Q.  Have you ever come close to beating him?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Not really, no.
Q.  What do you mean "not really"?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I haven't been close (laughter).  Maybe, you know, in five holes or something.  Not in 18.
Q.  Talk about the Skins Game, the dynamics of that, not only him, the Maryland Skins Game.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, for me obviously it's a kick.  I mean, to have a chance to play with those three guys, it's a dream come true.  You know, I highly respect all three of them.  I think it's going to be a lot of fun.  I know I'll be hitting first into the greens.  You know, I'm expecting that.

But who knows.  You know, I might hole a bunker shot unexpectedly.  It would be okay.  So I'm really looking forward to it.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I was a little nervous, yeah.  But, you know, when I holed that shot on the 9th hole, after that I was having the greatest time.

You know, I did feel a little pressure.  A lot of people would say, "What are you doing in the Skins Game?"  All I did was to get an invite.  I wasn't going to turn that down.  To me, that's just a highlight of the year.  Now to come back, I mean, it's unbelievable.  So I really want to make the most out of it.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't know.  He's played a lot.  He has had a lot of success.  I mean, he's the Skins king.  I can see why now.
Q.  You mentioned the obvious disappointment of losing the first major of the year, and with that losing your goal.  Were you surprised that you were able to go ahead and do what you've done since then, have a fantastic year?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I mean, I've always motivated to play well when I do play.  But like my main goal was kind of gone.  But, you know, there's still tournaments out there that I'd like to win.  You know, I still have been practicing enough to win tournaments.  So even though I didn't win the ones I wanted, I can still win out here.

Overall, when you look at the season, if you look at the Money List and the Player of the Year, I mean, it's all about winning tournaments.  So I wasn't just going to give up and forget about the rest of the year.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT