ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2004
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANA VON LOUDA:  Congratulations, Annika.  56 wins, eighth win of the season, LPGA win, and your third ADT Championship.  A tricky ending there with the playoff.  The spectators can't believe your second shot.  Go ahead and talk about how the win feels.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Obviously I'm thrilled, thrilled to be sitting here and holding the trophy.  This has been a great week.  When you come down to a Tour championship you know the Top 30 in the world are here, and you know you have to play your best on a tough golf course like this.  To be able pull it through after this year, I'm very happy about that.

I'm very proud of this year.  To win eight times on the LPGA, 10 worldwide, and I've only played, I want to say, 20 tournaments, so I'm thrilled really.  It's wonderful.
DANA VON LOUDA:  Let's go over your card.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I bogeyed the 5th hole, I hit a 4 iron in the middle of the green and three putted.

No. 6, I birdied.  I hit sand wedge to 16 feet.

7, I birdied.  I hit a 5 iron to 31 feet.

No. 9, I birdied.  I hit 4 wood short of the green, chipped it up and made a putt from six feet.

16, I hit 9 iron to six feet.
DANA VON LOUDA:  Talk about the playoff hole.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  The playoff hole, it wasn't as pretty as all the previous holes we played.  But I saw Cristie hit it in the water on the second shot.  I was going to play it safe on the left side of the green, I pulled it a little bit and chipped it up and 2 putted from seven feet.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  7 iron.
Q.  Just how difficult is it when you just missed that birdie putt on 18 to win in regulation, to regroup and go back out there and play in the playoff?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Today on the first tee my caddie said, just 18 more holes, give it all, and I'm done.  I'm thinking, okay, we have more holes to play.  It's just trying to dig deep and get the last energy out, even though in this situation you get a lot of adrenaline pumping and that obviously helps.

I didn't really wait very long.  I was back in the cart and away we went.  I really didn't rest very long.  I wasn't thinking too much about the birdie putt, it was more about, okay this is where I am, this is what I have to do, let's do it.
Q.  You made a big putt in regulation on 16 after missing an opportunity at 15.  Talk about the emotion there.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I saw that Cristie birdied 15.  I hit forward, it was a little aggressive to try to get on the green and get an eagle or a birdie on 15, and then I walk away with a 3 putt.  I was a little disappointed about that, but felt good about my position because I was playing well.

I came to 16, hit 4 wood off the tee and hit 9 iron to six feet.  And I had that putt before, I knew it was going to break right to left.  And the question is, can I do it when I need to.  That was the key, to make birdie on 16 and then to finish the way I did.
Q.  Talk about how much that toys with your mind a little bit, when you're in a playoff and your opponent puts it in the water and you change modes.  And secondly    if you could start there.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, when I hit it there    before Cristie, we had decided I was only four yards from where I was in the regulation, so I knew exactly what club.  It was a 7 iron.  I just had to hit it four yards further, and I was fine with that.  Then I saw her ball go into the water.  Terry looked at me and said, "Okay, this changes things.  Do you want to hit a 6 iron long on the left side?"

I said, "No, 7 is fine.  I'm just going to aim it more left."  I was a little nervous.  I knew where I was going.  I made a good turn back and I felt something coming over the top like unconsciously wanting to go more left and hit it, as we all saw, on the left side above the bunker.  But it was dry.  That was the key.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm not sure.
Q.  Part of you, given that you had kind of a tough chip up there, that was not really    it was anticipating Cristie making 5?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, you know never know.  Cristie has been playing so well all week.  I played with her yesterday.  She made a lot of putts.  And you've got to expect your opponent to make putts or chips at that time, otherwise it would take you by surprise.

It was a little tricky.  It was a little touchy type of chip.  I just wanted to make sure that I hit it on the left side and the ridge would take it.  It didn't break as much as I thought, but it was right there.  I could have    if she would have chipped it, I still had a chance to win.
Q.  I guess every putt is important, but two other putts I've seen were the one at 7, because Cristie was starting to get a little ahead a bit, and the par save at 17 seemed pretty big.  Run through what you were thinking on those holes.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I agree with you, those were big putts, especially on 7.  That's a tough par 3 right there.  The tees were all the way to the left.  I haven't played there before.  I had a 5 iron and then I just rolled in a big putt, 31 feet, with a break of three or four feet.

I haven't felt like I made a lot of putts this week, but when you roll in that, you forget that and say, okay, I guess it does even out at the end.  The par save I made on 17 was definitely a key, because of course I thought about the bogey I made there earlier in the week.  I saw the line right away.  It was six feet, right to left, and I just forced that putt in.
Q.  Where do you go from here?  In other words, we talked a little bit about 50 wins, the 10 wins this year.  How do you approach the off season and then coming back next year?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, the approach to the off season is going to be I'm looking forward to it.  I'm not going to do much in the off season.  I want to relax, obviously recharge my batteries.  But my season is not over with.  I have got some big stuff for me next week.  I'm going to try and get ready for that, and then I have a few outings at the end of the year.

I hope to get in a good break.  I'm not planning to play anything in January.  I'm just going to rest, and when I feel rested I hope my goals will come to me just like that and I get fired up and go out and practice again.
Q.  Cristie had said maybe you had the advantage energy wise in the playoff because she had to come off and wait and she kind of felt her adrenaline go down.  And you said you were able to keep your adrenaline going because you went straight back to 18.  Would you agree with that assessment?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I don't know how she felt, but every time you have a chance to win a tournament, my adrenaline will always pump, whether I wait or not.
Q.  I'm sure everybody wants to win in style with a birdie or an eagle, but when you win like today, I'm sure you don't care either, it's just another win.  Can you talk about that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I really don't care.  A win is a win.  If Cristie would have hit it to a foot, I don't know what I would have done, but she would have put the pressure on me and I would have done something as well.  I've learned that lesson the hard way.  By the end of the day, the trophy is in my hand.  I'm happy.
Q.  Where did you learn that lesson?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Watching the British Open didn't hurt it, one time, a long time ago.  I think you're a champion whether you make bogey or birdie.  That's the way I look at it.
Q.  Were you at all concerned when the year started that playing less might hurt your consistency, and now that you've been able to do what you do, does that make you feel like maybe looking at the next year, you don't have to worry about taking that approach, you can play less but still play as well as you always have?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's going to be tougher.  If you don't play as much, in my case, I would be a little rusty, and the players are out here grinding every week and more in the tournament mode.  It does make a difference.  I have to make the most of it when I'm home, I've got to be able to rest and practice and come out.

This year it turned out okay.  To play 20 times and win 10, that seems like the right recipe for me, so I really don't know why I should change anything, if you think about it.  Maybe if I want to improve this year, but I've come to the point in my life where I'm so satisfied with what I have achieved that it's tough so start in January and think, I won 10 times, I want to win 11 times.

I just can't have those thoughts in my mind, that's too hard and it would wear on me too much.  I'm just going to continue to plan, schedules the amount of tournaments that I want to play in and hopefully be ready to play then and give it all and we'll see what happens.
Q.  Do you feel at the end of this season like you felt the last few, or are you any more looking forward to the off season?  What is your frame of mind?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm looking forward to the off season, definitely.  And I think I have the last four or five years, because I give it all when I'm out here.  When I'm done, I'm done, and I just went to relax.  It doesn't mean I don't enjoy it, I love what I do, but it's like anything, sometimes you need a little break to come back and enjoy it more.
Q.  Are you more exhausted at the end of this year than you were at the end of last year?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's tough to say.  I think mentally I'm more tired, but physically I'm not because I haven't played as much.
Q.  Do you think your reputation, your record, whatever it is, is of any benefit to you when you start a playoff off against somebody?  And the second part of that question is, what do you think of Cristie as one of the young emerging challengers to you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, to answer your first question, I think it's tough for me to say how they look at me when I'm standing on the tee playing against them.  I can tell you that obviously I feel very comfortable in this position.  I've been in playoffs before.  I've won tournaments before, and I know how I react and all that.  I think that's very important.  That comes down to experience.

For me, I feel very comfortable.  I think Cristie has really emerged as a great player this year to win three times.  She played excellent yesterday, I thought.  She was very aggressive.  She hit the driver very well.  She putted excellent.  Today she went out there and it wasn't easy today and she shot 4 under.  And that's a great score.  She's improved a lot and I think she's become a great player out here.
Q.  The Rolex executive joked about all the watches you've gotten.  What have you done with them?  Do you give them to family members?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, I've been fortunate.  I have a bunch of Rolexes, not because of the LPGA, but also my affiliation with Rolex for ten years.  I have a few Rolexes.  This is actually my Hall of Fame watch I got last year.  I've had a chance to give out to some family.  I mean, they all wear Rolexes; of course, my caddie, my ex caddie, you name it, friends.  It's a great Christmas gift.  It puts me at the top of the list, I'll tell you that.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it's going to rank up there.  Maybe not the best year.  Last year was the Colonial, I thought that was an incredible year.  And the year before when I won 11 times, obviously.  It seems every year has a little different feel to it.  This year is great because I didn't play as much, but I was still able to be up there.

Two years ago, I played like crazy in the end and tried to catch Mickey Wright's record, and last year at the Colonial it was something special.  I'm happy about them all.  They're wonderful years, and I don't want to trade one for the other.
Q.  What were your goals at the start of the year, beyond the Grand Slam?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That was pretty much    that was my goal.  That's what I said to myself, if I win four tournaments, I'm happy, but they have to be four specific ones.  Obviously the steam    I lost the steam after Nabisco and then had to kind of reevaluate and keep on playing.  But it wasn't    I want to be Player of the Year and so forth, but I didn't say I had to win eight or so many tournaments, it was the majors I focused on.
Q.  You keep saying at the end of this break that's when it comes to me, what my goals are.  When and how does it come to you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It could come any day.  Normally I don't touch a club for four or five weeks, and then I start to itch a little bit and then I want to practice.  And when I'm out there it comes.  It could be a Wednesday or it could be Saturday, I don't know.  It's just like that, okay, it would be great if I did that.

Because I have come so far in my career, it's nothing that is still out there.  If you asked me what my goals were my rookie year, I never would have said the Grand Slam, but that's something that's evolved, because now I think it's possible.

Who knows?  After Christmas we'll see what crazy ideas I get, and I'll work through with that.
Q.  If you were to play the same kind of schedule you did this year and had another great year without thinking too much about eight or ten wins or something like that, and then all of a sudden you're at 66 career victories and then Kathy's mark    I know you've talked about this before, but all of a sudden Kathy's mark is a little bit closer.  Do you think at one point you may reconsider that it is obtainable?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That's a very good question.  I never thought 88 was possible, and I'm still so far away from it.  But again, I've come so far ahead than I ever thought I would.  I always said I would continue to play this game while I enjoy it and feel motivated.  I just wonder if I can continue on this pace.  If I don't continue on this pace, there's no way.  If it does happen, obviously that would just be incredible.

That's not really one of my goals.  Maybe if I reach 75 maybe then maybe I would, but then you've still got another 13, and that could take five years.  I don't know.  It really sounds so impossible to do that.  I guess you should never say never.
Q.  Lastly, and I'll hang up and listen.  Vijay said maybe a year and a half ago about Tiger, that before Tiger was starting to tail off result wise, he said all runs come to an end.  Everyone didn't really believe him at the time, but sure enough, it happened.  I'm wondering how you sustain success for that long and how do you think Tiger has been able to do it?  How long do you think Vijay can go?  I would just ask that from a fan's perspective, and not only how long can you keep going, but what will allow you to keep going?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I try not to think about when will my streak end.  I try to look forward and not backwards.  What really motivates you is the goals of winning certain tournaments.  It motivates me to get better.  And I think the last    say the last two years, you know, a lot of people say, well, what's going to happen.  I'm still looking to get better.

I've had the chance to practice with the guys and now my short game has improved tremendously.  There are still parts of my game that can improve.  If I can still work and get better, I don't see a reason why it should end.  If I get an injury or if my motivation disappears or if I'm not getting better, if I'm getting worse, then yes, it probably will.

But when I'm out there I don't think about those things.  Like I said, I think forward, I think positive.  I think with all the experience I'm getting every year, I'm getting better.  I'm learning shots, and playing in the ADT Skills Challenge the other day, just watching the guys, sometimes I feel like a beginner around them because they do a lot of shots I don't have.  So I always tell Henry, my coach, I want to work on that shot.  He says okay, so we work on that shot.  There are still so many shots I think I can get better at that I might need in the future to get better.
Q.  Go back to 18 in regulation, the putt that you left, was that right on the lip or was that an inch or so off?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I was just on the edge.
Q.  What was going through your mind at that point?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  After I saw it didn't go in, you mean?  Tap it in and let's just finish it up.  Not much more than that.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm done painting, now I just have to put in the floor.  Just kidding.  Somebody is doing that.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Off season, I work quite a bit.  Four or five times a week and then combine that with skiing.  I stay very active.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I probably do a little bit more heavy stuff in the off season.  During the season I do less heavy weights, I do more reps and lighter and more core stuff.  In the winter, it's heavy duty lifting.  Do you want to come and join me, Doug?
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I believe the deadline is November 30th, so that gives me another week.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, right now I'm exhausted, so it doesn't feel like you want to enter a tournament right away, especially because my season is not over with.  I was really excited to hear about the World Cup and that it's back on the schedule, so that's a positive thing.  I'm just trying to figure out if my break is going to be long enough and if that's going to prevent me from getting more tired by traveling all around the world and not be able to perform in the tournaments, like the majors, that I want to do.  So I guess I have to look at the schedule and see if it fits.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I have felt that before.  I haven't heard anything about this particular one.  But again, I haven't said yes or no.  I would love to support every tournament if I could, but it's tough.  This would give somebody else an opportunity to go to South Africa and play, too.  I can't be everywhere every time.
DANA VON LOUDA:  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT