U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2004
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Another long day in a Major.  Sort of like at the LPGA.  Can you talk about that.  The long morning and then the afternoon.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, it's been    yesterday obviously it was a long day.  Didn't get a lot of sleep.  Because of the thunderstorm in the middle of the night.  And then get up at 4:30, come out, play a few holes, make a quick turn and then go out and play, you know, a really tough golf course where you're out there grinding for five hours on every shot.  It totally wears you out.  I'm just glad I'm done for the day, I get to go back and take a nap and do nothing.
Q.  Can you talk about the first hole you played, to finish your round.  16.  What happened there?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I made a double bogey.  I missed my tee shot to the right, hit it, felt like I had to lay up.  Then I thought I hit a great approach shot, but it spun off the green and then I had a chip and 2 putt.
Q.  Could you describe your birdie holes on the 18 that you played.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Sure.  Let me grab my card.  Well, I started on the back and I birdied my first hole, which is number 10 here.  I hit a 7 iron to 13 feet.

Then number 12, I hit a pitching wedge to five feet.

I birdied 18.  I hit a 7 iron to 10 feet.

I birdied 3.  I hit a 4 wood short of the green, chipped it up to about three feet.

Then I bogeyed the 8th hole.  I hit a 9 iron and 3 putted.
Q.  Are the greens there for the taking right now?  Are they slow enough where you can roll them in?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, the greens are very receptive because of all the rain.  But then again there's some really tough pin placements out there.  You still cannot be aggressive.  A lot of pins are tucked in the corners, where, when it's this soft, the ball is spinning too, which makes it really hard.  Which means you want to fly it past the hole and spin it back, but then you can't really fly it too far past.  So they're receptive, but I also think that makes it difficult because you want to be aggressive, but then you really can't.  Several times today I took a club more just to make sure that I didn't spin it.  Just like on the last hole.  Just more of a bump shot so it would sit right there instead of trying to fly it and spin it back.
Q.  Do you like your position?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, I do.
Q.  Can you talk about the decision making process on No. 1, whether to pull out the driver and hit it over the creek or to lay up with a 7 wood.  Is it all just a matter of the wind?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's a matter of the wind, a matter how you feel like you're playing, a matter how you feel.  I felt great     well, I came off 18 from a birdie, I feel really good how I'm hitting my driver.  I told my caddy, "This is what it's all about, this is fun", I stood over the ball and just ripped it.  And I was happy about the decision.  Maybe it wasn't the smartest, but I felt like it was fun to do and so I did it.
Q.  You hit it over and it was the only fairway you missed all day, technically.  You were in a little bit of the rough on the
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, it was a straight shot, but I didn't reach the fairway.  I still had a good lie so it didn't really matter.  I gained 40 yards on just laying up and that's why I did it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT