U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2004
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk a little bit about how hard it was to sit around this afternoon?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think mostly it was the rhythm.  I felt I came out and I played really good, I hit some good shots.  And then I wanted to continue.  And it was kind of on and off.  And it's hard to now find the momentum again.  But once I started playing I felt good.
Q.  What was the easiest thing when you came out this afternoon?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I kept hitting the ball well.  I hit a lot of good tee shots, I'm hitting good iron shots, I'm happy with the way I'm playing.  I'm being very patient.  Maybe I could have made a putt here or there.  But these greens are not so easy either.  We got used to the pace and then with the rain they got slower and they didn't break as much.  But I just need to be patient and I feel really good the way I'm playing.  It's just I need to be patient.  There's a long way to go.
Q.  What did you think when it started to rain again, when it started to pour?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  When we were on the course?
Q.  Yes.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, first of all I saw that the sun was shining and I thought, is there going to be more lightning or are we going to finish, is this it or are we going to get to play some more.  I wanted to play.  I knew it was going to be a long day tomorrow.  And it's a long tournament anyway, so it was just, I wanted to keep on playing and didn't think too much about the elements.  Just trying to get the ball in the hole.
Q.  There's been some discussions about 16, 17 and 18.  Knowing tomorrow that you'll head out to 16, how do you feel about that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, that will wake me up, that's for sure.  To play 16 right off the bat.  But that's fine.  We wanted to play as many holes today as possible.  That's why we finished with 15.  We're going to have 21 holes tomorrow, that's going to be plenty.  And it doesn't matter what hole I play.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT