U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2004
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Annika, just a general feeling about how you like where you are at this tournament right now?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think I'm in good shape.  I have a chance to be up there tomorrow.  I think I've played some really good golf the last three days.  It's going to be a fun day tomorrow.  Obviously I'm chasing somebody tomorrow that's playing really well, so I got to shoot a low score, I believe, tomorrow.  So I'm looking forward to the challenge.
Q.  Talk about the eagle on 13.  Tell us about that.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I hit a 6 iron in and left it about 8 feet short and made the putt.  So I think that was a big turning point for my round because I felt the momentum and then I was able to make birdie on the next hole.  So that was really a key hole.
Q.  15, where you bogeyed, you tried to get up and down, after you hit your first putt you looked back at the green.  Was there something on the green that you didn't like or did the ball skip?  You kind of looked down at the green after you struck the ball.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I guess I was unhappy I didn't make the putt, that's all I can think of.
Q.  You're obviously paying attention to your own game, are you at all surprised seeing Jennifer holding as steady as she has been and actually going lower as the day went on being in the final group of a Major like that.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Obviously she's playing really good golf.  She has a lot of confidence.  I think her win in Atlanta has really turned her game around so it's working for her and this is probably a course that fits her game really well.
Q.  Is it better to be playing with her or to be a group in front of her?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It really doesn't matter.  I've been in so many situations through the years.  I've been leading, I've been chasing, I've been last group, you name it, I've tried it all.  So I think tomorrow I'm just going to go out and play my own game.  I know what I got to do tomorrow, I will be watching the leaderboard, I got to go low.  It doesn't matter what group I'm in.  Maybe it's better that I'm not with her.  I will post a low score first and we'll see what happens.
Q.  Chasing would be better than being chased is what you're saying?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Obviously, I like to lead a tournament.  But I'm not leading, so what can I do about it?  Nothing.  I'm chasing, I got to do the best I can.  I've chased before and can I do it.  So that's just the frame of mind I'm going to have.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT