MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 8, 2004
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:   You've been playing very well lately, second place last week and a win the week before this.  Talk about your game this week and defending your title.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Sure.  I'm excited to be back.  I feel like I'm ready to play this year, ready to defend my title.  I have been playing really well the last few weeks and very happy about that.  I feel like I'm coming into my rhythm a little bit.  I got off to a good start this season and then lost a tournament, but I'm excited about this week.
NEAL REID:  What do you remember about the tournament last year, other than the rain maybe?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I remember the rain.  I  remember the playoff, I remember hitting 7 wood on to the green in the last hole.  I remember a lot of things.  This place has always been really good to me.  I haven't won     I always like it for different reasons.  To walk away a winner last year meant a lot to me and to win another major and to win one I had not one, wonderful memories from last year.
Q.  Grace Park, winning the Nabisco this year, are you surprised it's taken her so long to get to this stage, such a heralded golfer coming out of college?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I don't know how many years she's been out here, but has not been on tour very long, I don't think.  I'm not surprised to see her up there at all because I've always respected Grace's game.  I always thought she was a really good player.  And most of all, I really like her attitude.  She's very motivated.  She works really hard, all of those things together is a great combination.  It's just a matter of time for Grace to win the first major, I don't think anybody was surprised.  She's been up there many times and I think she wanted it really badly.
Q.  In general what kind of shape is the LPGA Tour in right now, and if there is anything you think needs working on, what do you think that is?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I think the LPGA is as good as it's ever been.  Just the amount of people that come out to tournament, we get a lot of exposure lately.   Sure you hear that all of the time, tournaments are growing, purses are getting hire.

As a player, I can tell you that the game of golf is getting better.  To win nowadays you've got to play really good for four days.  Consistency is there.  But I'm sure there are things to work on.  The LPGA is happy with where we are, but I think we should work toward better things, so I think we are definitely on the right track.
Q.  At the beginning of the year, you wanted to win all four this year with, that in mind, is there any more pressure looking back at what you had     inaudible?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Of course I felt pressure.  To win all four you've got to win the first one and knowing that, that's a lot of pressure, but I've won there before, I love the golf course.  I felt like I was playing really well coming off a win at Phoenix at the Safeway.  I felt really good about my game, and you know, things just didn't click that week for whatever reason, and maybe I put a lot of pressure on myself, or when I want something badly, I try too hard.

You know, after that disappointment, it was time to set up some new goals, and now I want to win the next three.  So now I have pressure on myself this week.  If I don't win here, I'm not going to win the next three.  That the thing; that's what makes it so hard.  I love the challenge.  I love to see if I can win when I want to win, especially this week, anything can happen, but that's what keeps me motivated nowadays is a challenge.  You know, that's what makes me want to practice and if I  don't practice really hard, I don't get into it.
Q.  The past few years, you've been control of the Money List and Player of the Year stuff, has that given you the first challenge you've had in a couple of years?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I always felt I had challenge.  To find new goals and keep me motivated and keep on practicing because I'm getting to the point in my career where I feel very, very satisfied with what I've achieved.  If you would have asked me ten, 11 years ago, if I would be happy     I would say you're crazy, there's no way but here I am.  There's a point where you're happy and I'm getting there.  Therefore, the majors is what I want.  Yeah, when you get close on the Money List, Player of the Year, I mean, I want to be the best, very close.  Of course I look at that and that keeps me a little motivated, but it's the majors I want to win.
Q.  You HINTED at the complacency that you're facing right now, do you think a couple years down the line that may cause you to stop playing?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Maybe.  But we'll see.  I mean, I've always said as long as I enjoy the game, as long as I wake up in the morning and feel like I want to work hard and continue to grind on my swing or whatever it is, I will do that.  But you know, when you start to feel satisfied in other things look for more attractive things.  Yeah I look around for other things to do.  One day I want to pursue those interests that I have.
Q.  Have there been times, mornings when you're home practicing, when maybe you're planning to get up, go practice and you just decide, no, I'm not going to do it today or no, I don't feel like it today, is that happening?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Oh, yeah, it's happening.  It does happen, but I don't think that has to do with me being out here for 11 years.  Just you're tired at times.  You come home from two or three weeks on the road, and it's nice to be home, get a good night's rest and take it easy in the morning.  Of course it happens.

But I always try to be prepared before I come to a tournament.  If I've had a week off, then I practice at the end of the week just so I'm not rushing when I come out.
Q.  Were there times when you were younger before you achieved all this that if you felt like that you just pushed yourself to through it and made yourself practice?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, I've always listened to myself and my body.  And if I didn't feel like practicing I wouldn't go.  But I think when I was younger in college on my first year on tour I was so excited that I would be out there all day.  Nowadays, I might go out there for a few your hours.  Before I would be out there until it was dark.  Being a rookie, I wanted to play well, I wanted to get my card, I wanted to win a tournament, I wanted to win a major.  I had these things to look forward to.  Now I've achieved all that, and it's just the majors I look forward to.  I'm not as excited as I was when I came out.
Q.  You said the PGA Tour was a one shot thing.  Is there times where you ever wonder what might have happened if you tried it two or three or four times, because a lot of people feel you would have had a much better chance, PGA Tour players have said that.  Have you ever in your mind said, "If I tried it a couple more times what maybe I could do"?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I think about that, but I do think I got a true test at the Colonial.  It was such a great week, and I feel inside if I would have made the two  putts here and there, I would have made the cut, but I guess we all say that. I know inside, some of the putts I could have made.  Just I was nervous and everything was built up so much.  You know, I really wasn't in my element.

So looking back at that, I think I could do better.  But, you know, I want to win tournaments and I'll never win tournaments out there.  That's the thrill I'm looking for is to be in contention on Sunday and hold the trophy.   That's what really matters.  If I would play a few more PGA events, I would probably get more experience and probably get better but I did feel a responsibility for this tour and one time     a lot of experience, so I'm just thankful I'll be there.
Q.  The criteria is for the Hall of Fame     26 years old and all of a sudden you qualify      the longevity     inaudible?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I think it was great that they changed it to the way they did.  I hear comments like the LPGA is the hardest Hall of Fame to ever get into, and that's why they changed it and it's very hard.  Right now, you're only talking about Karrie Web and Se Ri Pak, I believe.  That's it.  They are young, but they are very, very good and you can't forget that.  I think to compare     they didn't want to have a lot of old people in there.  They want to have one or two players every year, and it should be like that.  I think fans want to come out and watch these Hall of Famers.  I think the criteria is really tough, it's going to give the players credit of how good they are.
Q.  You mentioned trying too hard to win a major and not winning the Nabisco, was that a problem at this tournament, trying too hard to win it and what got you over the hump last year of settling down to be able to get the Championship?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, after I won the U.S. Open in  '96, I won two Opens in a row and I thought, "Oh, I can do this, this is a piece of cake."  And then I came out and I didn't win a major for years because I tried too hard and I wanted it so badly.  You know, I know how I react and how I swing when I felt that way, and that's kind of what happened at Nabisco and that's what happened at a few majors.  It takes awhile for me to control it and change it.  Yeah, it's happened here in the past.  I remember finishing third one year.  I know that I hit the ball really well but never really scored well here.  I think last year, I played more aggressive off the tee and just said, whatever happens, happens.  That was a great attitude that I had last year and I ended up winning.
Q.  Do you have a number many mind of how many majors you want to win?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I think ten sounds like a good number
Q.  Inaudible?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  13?  Well, that means I need 14.  If it happens, great.  If I'm still playing then and I continue to feel good about it, maybe I will try that.  Those records to me, I just find it very hard to compare golf 20, 30, 40 years ago to what it is today because it's so different.  You know, these are my personal goals.  If I turn out to be in one of the record books, I'll be happy, but it's not something that keeps me going.
Q.  Inaudible?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I am very competitive.  I like to win the two majors, but I do want to win the     finish second because I don't play enough, that could happen because I have cut my schedule down to 15, 16.  Some of these ladies they play 30 events, so it's hard for me to compete with the money because the purses are getting higher.  If I win two majors, that will give me a good chance for the Money List.
Q.  Wonder if you could talk about Michelle Wie getting the exemption to the U.S. Women's Open and your opinion on someone that young playing tournaments out here?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I mean, I've always supported Michelle.  I think this is she's a wonderful player and does a lot of good to the Tour.

My stand on the U.S. Open invite, it's up to the USGA.   It's nothing I can control.  I think it's great for women's golf.  So, you know whether she's too young or not, it's not my decision.  So I haven't taken an opinion on that.  I do think she's very, very good and very talented and hopefully in the future she will play full time on the LPGA and will be wonderful.
Q.  Has there are been a time in the last couple of years where physically you haven't felt like, "oh, when I was younger I could do this and I can't do that now?"  I know you're still in great shape; has anything come across your mind like that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, yeah, it does, but with all of the workouts I'm doing, with all of the travel, of course it takes a toll on the body.  I feel it.  I haven't had an injury.  I'm thankful that I can play and compete, but it's tougher every year, it really is.  Physically and mentally, probably a combination of it.
Q.  After playing against the men, do you change anything in either your approach, preparation or anything?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I didn't have a change in the way I prepare for a tournament, but I have worked so much on my short game and have learned a lot of shots around the green, I use my lob wedge much more than I used to.  And I think that's the biggest change for me since I started practicing with the men and Colonial and practicing with some of the guys, the way they chip and the aggressiveness they use the chip and run much more.  It's really helped me a lot.
Q.  Did anyone in particular work with you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I mean, at the Colonial, Sergio gave me some pointers.

I had the opportunity to practice with Tiger before the Colonial and I still practice with him.  He teaches me a lot of things.  I think he has the best short game in the world, and it's great to see how he does it, how does he hit his shots.  He tries to teach me some of them, and either I'm a slow learner or he's just very good; I can't learn as quick as he can.  But it's fun to see and really be able to try to hit the good shots.
Q.  They are going to be completely renovating this course before next year's tournament, I wanted to ask you how you feel about this course as a championship course, and what will it be like next year to come back and find a course that is basically going to be different, not just slightly altered, but will be a different course?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I didn't know they were going to tear it down, so I don't know what the changes are going to be like.  But I do think this is a great major championship golf course.  It's long, it's kind of narrow at times.  We always have rough here and we have tough greens.  That's what you're looking for in a major championship.

We've had a of different winners and a lot of them have been playing well at the time and I think it's a true test.
Q.  Is there a way to make a course like this better, do you think?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I think there's some greens that you could probably redo, flatten some greens out, other than that, no, I think it's pretty good.  It's really good for the ladies, I think.  It's long enough, some of the par 5s, some you can reach in two and some     it's get really exciting, you get some really tough par 3s; I wish we had more of that throughout the year.  I think this course has a lot of different things to offer.
Q.  Last year when you came here, there was so much more attention on you coming off Colonial.  This year, is it a little bit easier to focus on the golf coming here?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Oh, definitely.  Last year when I came here I was actually     from the Colonial, it's funny because we still talk about the Colonial, but obviously not the same level.  I do feel I can accomplish more on my game and what I've got to do.  I feel very rested.  I haven't played too much this year, and so therefore, my energy level is much higher than it was last year.
Q.  Could you curtail your schedule even more than you have this year and still be competitive when you do come out?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I think that's really, really tough, just because the other ladies play so much, and I want to be competitive, be up there on the Money List, that's going to be really hard.

Also, right now, an international member, I have to play a minimum of 15 events, so unless they change that rule, I have to play 15, or I can just become another member, I guess, lose my European status and I don't want to do that.
Q.  Did you watch the Colonial this year?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I watched of coverage.  It wasn't as exciting.  (Laughter).
Q.  Why?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I just watched a little bit on Saturday.  Actually  I do, I find it really exciting.  Again, I like to see how they play.  Obviously, the Colonial I wanted to see how they played.  I remember watching it and said, you know, I hit so and so on that hole, I hit 6 iron.  It's fun because I know the golf course and how it's set up.  So mostly I watch the majors, the men's majors.
Q.  Does this course play longer when it's wet and raining or when it's dry?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I don't think it's ever been dry.  I think it's always been so wet, and the rough here is so big, you just can't advance it hardly anywhere.  And then you don't get a lot of roll off the tee, so some of the holes play really long.

But also, I think it's a course, when I think about it, if it's try dry, I bet it could be hard, too, because it could roll off in certain places, the rough.  I guess that's a true test of golf when you can play in any condition, it could be tough.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, when I started, this is first few years as a pro, when I tested clubs at Callaway it was '93,  '94.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, the question is, where would the men be then?  I don't know, maybe one or two women probably, but that's about it.  I don't think     I mean, it is so much strength and it's so much speed.  They can generate that.  Michelle Wie hits the ball a long ways.  I don't know what her clubhead speed is.  You have somebody like that with a good swing, good fundamentals that can generate speed     I would love to see many women get there, but I don't think that will happen.
NEAL REID:  I know you mentioned to me earlier, you're wearing your "Annika" line today this week for the first time.  Tell us a little bit about that.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, we had a launch party in January at the PGA Show, and this is the first week that I'm wearing it.   It's going to come out in pro shops, I believe, in July.  So this is a little bit of a teaser of what's coming out.  We timed it right for the McDonald's Championship.

Some of it, but a lot of the input that I give is comfort, that works on the golf course.  I wanted something a little sporty, something feminine, something with quality, but mostly needs to be functional on the course.  One of the things that's important to me is if I wash it, I don't want to iron it.   When you travel so much, I want something really easy and they have come up with some really good stuff.  Cutter and Buck, it's called Annika Line, but a lot of the stuff still has to do with cutter and Buck, and they have decided on the colors and some of the design.  And I just told them some features I wanted.  I'm not really into clothing.  I've never been a fashion expert by any means, but I know what's comfortable and what I like.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT