KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2004
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Congratulations on the win last week, two for two so far this week.  Everybody knows one of your goals this year is to win all four majors.  It must feel pretty good coming into this week with your golf game the way it is?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm feeling very good about my golf game.  It's an exciting week.  I'd like to win all the four majors.  When I said that, I put a lot of pressure on myself.  It's something that means a lot to me, but I'm going to take a week at a time, a shot at a time and go from there.
Q.  How does the course look out there this week?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   To be honest, I haven't seen much of the golf course.  I played the Pro-Am on the other side.  I walked a few holes on the back nine.  Everybody says it's in good shape.  I've always liked coming here, I've enjoyed the golf course,  so I assume I'm going to like it this year again.
Q.  After last week's win you moved up 49 for your career, past Nancy Lopez.  You're now the winningness active player on Tour, going for number 50 this week.  Talk a little bit about what it's like to go for number 50.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I try not to think about it to much.  Obviously I'm very proud of what I've achieved.

Passing Nancy, I wouldn't say it's a goal of mine, but I've looked up to Nancy.  She's done a lot for women's golf and she's pushed myself to get there.  It was a special win last week.  50 will happen this week or not, we'll see, but like I said, I just want to focus on one shot at a time and not get ahead of myself.
Q.  Annika, all four majors, was there nothing left for you to accomplish, was this pretty much it?  That's a pretty lofty goal since no one has ever done it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It's a very lofty goal, I know that.  I figure if I talk about it and feel I get more comfortable thinking about the thought, I know nobody else has done it, so it's a very lofty goal, but if you believe it in your mind, I believe I can do it.  I'm going to take it a tournament at a time, a long ways to go, I love challenges and this is something that really keeps me motivated, something that makes me want to work harder.  That's why I want to set one of these goals.
Q.  Was winning all four of them a goal before last year when you came so close or did that just kind of get things motivated a little bit more?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   A little bit, yes.  I think looking back at the last two years, I really had a chance to win 7 out of 8.  You need good breaks, you need some good luck, you need to peak at the right moments.  There are a lot of factors that have to all come together and you have to play well at the courses where the majors are at.  It would obviously be great to do it.  I've achieved a lot in my career and I'm very proud of that and now I'm looking ahead and looking for the next thing to do.
Q.  Annika, I have two questions.  The first question is, do you have any plan to join the PGA TOUR again any time soon?  And the other question is, there has been recent criticism about the Korean players, especially them not plunging into the culture here.  And Jan Stevenson also made some harsh remarks about them.  I want to know your thought about it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, the first question is going to be an easy answer.  No, I don't plan to play on the PGA TOUR again.

To answer your second question.  It was unfortunate

what Jan said.  That's just her opinion.  Personally, I believe the Koreans have taken women's golf to another level. I think they're very good for our Tour.  I support them and I'm behind them.
Q.  What is your opinion about the defending champion is not here?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   My opinion that she's not here?
Q.  Yes.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I think she has good reason not to be here.  She just had a baby a few weeks or something ago. I'm sure we all miss her.  She's a great player, but family comes first.
Q.  Many golfers have a big goal.  Often they don't go public with what they want to do.  You have said you want to win this Grand Slam.  Why did you say it?  Why did you go public with it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   That's what I want to achieve. Like I said, if I don't achieve it, it's not going to be the end of the world, it's what I'm looking forward to this year. People say you're putting a lot of pressure on yourself.  I don't feel it this way, it's just me knowing what I want to do.  I don't know.  This is what I'm like.  Some people want to share their goals, some don't.  This, to me, these are my goals on the golf course and that's what I'm working hard towards achieving.
Q.  When was the last time you talked to Tiger?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   The week before Phoenix, so about two weeks ago.
Q.  He has won four majors in a row.  Have you talked to him about your goal this season?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   We haven't really talked much about that.  I mean, I've asked him a lot of questions, how did it feel to win all the four majors and so forth, but we haven't really had a deep conversation about it.  Obviously he did something incredible and that's just something I want to achieve, as well.
Q.  Annika, you are a perfectionist.  What part of your game are you going to improve now, you're looking to improve, which part of the game?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I keep on working on every part of my game.  Lately it's been my short game, chipping and putting, which I believe I can improve a lot there.  Just overall, this is a tough game and it feels like I can always get a little better.  It feels like I'm constantly working on something.
Q.  Can you talk about playing less events this year? Was that a decision to kind of prepare yourself better for the majors and was it patterned after anybody or did you come to this conclusion yourself to do it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I want to focus more on quality in the big tournaments.  This is my 11th year on Tour and I have achieved a lot of things.  I figured this year I don't want to travel everywhere and every week, so it's just a personal decision.  Trying to get some time at home, get some rest, and also when I come out, be ready to play.
Q.  You think this will help you prepare for the majors?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yes, we'll see if it works or not.
Q.  We're almost a year removed from Colonial, and when you left there you said this is going to make me a better player.  Did something about the Colonial experience help you set the goal of winning the Slam this year?  Was clearing that hurdle part of the step of coming to the next goal in your career?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Maybe a little bit, but I think, like I said, having a chance to win 7 out of the last 8 kind of got me motivated.  However, playing in the Colonial really helped me become a better player and I think I learned so much on the golf course and off the golf course from that week. Playing with the guys obviously helps, it's made me tougher. When you play under pressure like the Colonial, being under the microscope, it doesn't get any harder than that.  I feel more comfortable being there and performing under pressure.
Q.  As a follow-up, since you played, Suzie Whaley played, Michelle Wie played, Se Ri Pak played, and Laura Davies played.  Do you think that's going to be the end of it, or do you think the box has just opened and we'll see more and more on different Tours, et cetera?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I have no idea.  Like I said, I'm not going to play anymore.  I don't know what the other ladies are up to, what they want to do, but I've had my share and it's a great experience and now I want to play tournaments here.
Q.  Annika, you were really complimentary about Michelle Wie recently.  Do you have a piece of advice for her?  For instance, not to burn out or any kind of piece of advice that you would offer to her?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I think it's very tough from somebody from the outside to give her advice.  She's 14 years old, she has achieved so much already.  She's very talented. Obviously they know what they're doing, herself and her family, so I mean I just wish her all the best and good luck. She has a fantastic future ahead of herself.  By being out here she's going to get a lot of experience that's only going to help her.
Q.  The last time you played here in the desert you beat up on a couple of guys that are probably still a little bit sore, and you arguably had one of the greatest shots in Skins Game history.  Have you thought about that on your way back to the desert?  Do you hope to keep that impetus and keep the ball rolling?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   That weekend was really fun, to hit that bunker shot at that time.  It doesn't get more exciting than that.  I have a lot of wonderful memories from that week and hopefully the momentum will carry on this week.
Q.  Considering your Grand Slam is your big goal this season, how tough will it be to regroup for the rest of the season if you don't win this week?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, then I have three more to go for.  I will keep on grinding.  It's majors I want to win. I try to stay positive.  I try to have a good outlook, so obviously I haven't thought about that question because that's not the way I want this week to turn out.
Q.  You've been first here twice -- second here twice, obviously something about the golf course and you jibe.  Do you feel like tougher golf courses maybe not separate you from everybody but maybe eliminate some of the competition because you can play tough courses well and other people struggle with them?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   First of all, I think this is a tough golf course, it's longer than we normally play.  The setup is always great, thick rough, fast greens.  When you have a tough course like that, if you don't play well, it will be tough for you to score here, also what you need in majors is patience and I believe I have a lot of that.  Putting that together, hopefully playing well, it seems like that's what I've done when I come here, I'm focused and motivated to play, and I think that's why I've seen good results.
Q.  If you do win all four majors this year, do you see yourself at a point in your career where you could walk away?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, I can, but I don't know if winning four majors will be it, but I will tell you then I would feel very complete.
Q.  More than ten years in the U.S., do you feel like an American?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I don't, but I like it here.

What is the biggest difference between Sweden and the U.S.?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, No. 1, the weather, especially this time of year.  I don't know.  I've been here 13 years.  I like the people.  I got used to the culture over here.  It's just really easy living here.
Q.  Similar to Tom's question, scaling back your schedule, is that the first step in possibly stepping away from the game altogether, is that a trend that's going to continue?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I think cutting down on my schedule right now is something I want to do.  The last three years has been a lot of travel and I feel like I've been everywhere in such a short period of time.  I felt like I want to focus on the big tournaments, have some great quality time at home and just not wear myself out.  Every year at the end of the year I'm so beat.  I don't want to have that feeling this year.
Q.  Since your win, Rosie Jones came out with a very popular piece or very well-known piece in the New York Times announcing she is a lesbian.  Is this good or bad for the LPGA Tour?  Do you have an opinion?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I think time will tell, for sure.  That's a decision that Rosie made and we're all different.  That's her decision.  That's her reason.  That's pretty much all I know.  I haven't read the article or anything, I just heard about it.
Q.  With everything that happened to you last year, do you feel like a role model?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I don't know.  That's a tough question.  Obviously to be a role model is very flattering and I always felt if I can get a young boy or young girl to start playing the game, I would feel very good about that.  It's such a wonderful game.  But then again, that's a lot of pressure.  That's a lot to put on somebody's shoulders, but I do love what I do.  Like I said, if I inspire somebody, that's great.
Q.  Give me your most compelling memories of playing with Michelle Wie in the final group here last year.  And maybe looking outside in from the past year, since then, what's struck you about her game?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I mean, overall, she's so talented.  It must be great to be 14 and hit it that far, and I love her attitude.  I think she's very brave on the golf course and just outside the golf course.  I think she has improved since I played with her last year, just watching her on the range, et cetera.  But still, she's very young, she has a lot to learn and I think she will do that by being out here.
Q.  If and when you decide to retire, is that decision going to be made with your husband, talking to him, or is it going to be your decision solely?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It's totally up to me.  If I enjoy to practice, if I enjoy to compete, I will keep on doing that.  When you love something very much, obviously that's not something you want to go away from.  The game of golf has given me so much, but again, there comes to a point you can only do so much, this is my 11th year on Tour and I'm feeling very satisfied with what I've achieved.
Q.  Talking about Michelle Wie, at what level were you in your goals as a teenager?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I started playing golf when I was 12.  At 14, I was a total beginner.  It's very hard for me to compare where I was at that age, but a lot of things has happened since then, obviously.
Q.  Would you have been mentally prepared for a life on the Tour?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   At 14?
Q.  Yes.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No way.   I don't know if I can handle it today really, but I'm still learning.  It's tough to be out here, the traveling part, competing every week.  I think she does a good job.
Q.  When you won the Weetabix you started your final day watching the beginning of Saving Private Ryan.  What DVDs have you got this week?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I haven't planned on watching any movies, but I'm sure I'll find one that will be inspiring before I go out and play.
Q.  Thanks Annika, good luck this week


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT