ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 2003
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Thanks for joining us today.  Coming into this week after an exciting week in Singapore.  Start out with a few comments about last week; then how you feel to be back here.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I had a great experience at Singapore.  Obviously again had a chance to play with the guys, enjoyed it very much.  It was quite warm and humid, but the course was longer than I expected because it had rained a lot and was playing about 7,000 - doesn't sound maybe that long because the guys are used to that, but I didn't get a lot of roll, but I hit the ball really well.  I putted really well, and obviously had a good time.  I made a few Skins, and I was excited about that.  But then again it is nice to be back here at Trump.  I feel a little jet lagged.  I came home Monday morning, 5:30 AM, travelling for 30 hours.  Hopefully I will feel really good tomorrow but the last few days have been tough. 

MODERATOR:  When did you arrive here?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Tuesday afternoon. 

MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.   Last year there was a lot on your mind as far as why you wanted to win here.  (Inaudible) What is your inspiration this year?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, inspiration is to win.  I love to win.  I feel like I am playing good golf.  It would be nice to end the season on a winning note, being the defending champion, I like to repeat obviously.  I have a chance to make some money here to be over two million.  There's a lot of good reasons to play well this week. 


Q.   You have had a great year.  Only thing you are not is going to accomplish is the Vare Trophy because you are not playing enough.  How disappointing is it for you?  Did you ever get to a point where you where you thought about adjusting your schedule for that?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I mean, to be honest, I am very disappointed that I won't win the Vare Trophy.  I always considered that one of the highest awards to win throughout the year.  I think it shows a lot of consistency and you know, I am over it now.  But when I found out I think the summer -- end of the summer that I couldn't make it, yeah, I did try to adjust my schedule.  Still wasn't going to be enough.  I had voiced my opinion.  I have done that.  I am over it now.  And I am excited about Player-of-the-Year and the money title.  It's something that I have got deal with.  I haven't played enough on this Tour but in general I feel like this has been one of my longest years ever.  Playing Colonial, playing three different Skins, Solheim Cup, you name it, I feel like I have played a lot of golf this year and I can  -- my body tells me I have.  It just doesn't add up.  It's unfortunate I think because a lot of the tournaments we have nowadays are three days, so I am going to end up playing 17 events which is good enough for a lot of other things, like getting into the Hall of Fame, being a national member, but it not going to be enough for that.  So I know the rules.  Got to deal with them.  But obviously I am sad about it.


Q.   When did you find out?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Probably early September.


Q.   They are playing five less tournaments now than they were two years ago.  Do you feel that need to be looked at?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Definitely needs to be looked because we're going into more three-ay events; also we're starting in march where we used to start in January, and you know, you are taking two months of tournament golf off like that, so you know, you have to cramp in that many tournaments, adding every other tournament like Solheim Cup, et cetera, it is just very tough.   I have always been for quality and not quantity.  If it is a question of how much you play, then I am not going to compete in that.  I like to focus on quality and win tournaments.  It's sad because I think it is a very prestigious award.


Q.   What happened this week, could you have imagined this year being much better than it was?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I am very happy about this season.  It has been great in many ways, and I was a little worried earlier in the year figuring how do I top 2002.  I knew it was going to be tough to win more tournaments.  But with the experience at Colonial, winning two majors, Solheim Cup, Skins game, I mean, I have -- end of this year I felt like I have done everything and I am excited to have had the opportunity so I do think that this year is more memorable than 2002.


Q.   When you look back on this year, what do you think you will remember the most from it?  What would stand out the most to you?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's got to be the Colonial for sure.  I mean it was just such an incredible week leading up to it then afterwards, I mean, I still think about it.  I am out there today people talk about the Colonial.  So I mean, it was such a wonderful week that I will always remember that one. 


Q.   What have you been able to take away from that week that you have been able to apply now to the other tournaments?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think I am playing better golf, I've had a chance to practice with some of the PGA guys, I have learned a lot on short game.  I think my short game is as good as it's ever been.  Same thing with my putting, I won two majors, thanks to a good short game.  So and the experience, I mean, the pressure at Colonial, wooh, doesn't get any more than that.  To be able to handle myself in these tough situations, is really helped me.


Q.   At Colonial at one point your knees buckled.  You connected with people in a way that you never have. (Inaudible) did you feel that something happened there?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't know if I can feel the connection, but it was a special moment.  I think people saw me as being human, that I have feelings.  I think a lot of times they don't think I do because I wear sunglasses, you can't see my eyes and I am -- people think that I am acting very cool on this Tour even though I have emotions inside.  At the Colonial it was just so much, that's just the way I reacted then.  I think people saw that. 


Q.   What have you learned playing a round of golf with Donald Trump?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: He's a good businessman, that I can tell you.  I enjoy his company.  He's a funny guy.  He said some funny things.  He respects the game a lot.  He knows a lot about the game and to be here, I think he's a wonderful host.  I think it makes a great Tour Championship, so I mean, I am happy to have a chance to play with him and very thankful for his hospitality.


Q.   How did Colonial impact your deals?  (Inaudible)?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I didn't get anymore deals.  Because my shirt is already full and my bag is full.  So  --


Q.   (Inaudible)


ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It is not just about having deals.  I am proud to be representing the companies that I am with already and you know, certain things I stand for and it works out great that way.  You know, the opportunity to play in Singapore and next week in Skins, I mean, those are opportunities that are new and I don't know if that's thanks to Colonial but probably and those experience I look forward to.  But other than that I am very happy with what I have and you can only do so much.  I like to focus again on quality than just being associated with everybody and, so, I think it's fine the way it is. 


Q.   (Inaudible) after this year, have you given anymore thought how much longer you are going to play.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I feel like I have experienced a lot in my career and I am coming to a point where I feel very satisfied and you know, I do like to win more majors.  I do believe it's possible to win four in a row, same year, that's what I am going to try to do next year.  I am going to go out full force and see what happens.  After that I am going to see how I feel, you know, to be on top and to continue to play well there's -- you got to practice a lot.  There's a lot of sacrifice and the question is how much more do I want to do that.  I think it's coming to a point where I have achieved really what I want.  There are other things in life that I haven't achieved that I want to give the time to do it.  So I have not set a deadline or a time or a date, you know, as long as I enjoy it I want to continue.  But it's tough to motivate myself every year and every day because that's what it takes to be on top and to continue to stay there. 


Q.   How do you motivate yourself each and every year now that you have won every major, you have played in a PGA TOUR event what do you have to do to constantly motivate yourself to continue to win?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That's a good question.  Right now you are talking to me at the end of the year where I feel like I have been everywhere and my energy level is pretty low.  I do know I need some time to just recharge my batteries and maybe then the goals will come naturally.  But like I said, it's the four majors that I am going to go for next year.  So those goals are pretty clear.  Other than that, I don't really have anymore. 


Q.   Understanding you are not going to play another men's tournament what goes through your mind when you hear a player like Retief Goosen say, would love to have her back?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Obviously I think take it as a compliment.  It makes me feel good inside and you know, that he thinks I have a good game and he respects my game, but it's tough when you stand on every hole with a 5-iron or sand wedge trying to hit the green and you know you have to make a long putt to make a birdie.  I want to win tournaments.  I like being Sunday in contention to win a tournament.  I won't get that if I played out there, I won't have many chances like that.  But I do enjoy the challenge to get better and that's why I went there.  I wanted to see you know, where do I need to  -- what do I need to practice, what do I need to improve, et cetera, so I think it was really good for me.  But this is where I belong.  This is my Tour and I want to break records.  I want to win more tournaments.  I want to  -- I want women's golf to grow and you know, we should be able to do that without making appearance on the PGA TOUR.  Instead of watching one woman on the PGA TOUR you can watch 144 here.  I don't see a need why this has to be done much more. 


Q.   (Inaudible)


ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's obviously great for Michelle.  It's going to be a great experience for her.  I hope she goes out there and has a good time.  She's so young, I mean she has so many years ahead of her.  I don't see a need for her to rush out there so early.  But now she has an opportunity to make the most out of it. 


Q.   You are talking about coming back next year try to win all four majors.  Are you not committing to anything beyond next year or are you just kind of  -- I wasn't sure  --

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I was talking about my goals for next year.  I don't have any goals for 2005 yet.  (Laughs).


Q.   Do you think you will be playing in 2005?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Oh, I am sure I will be playing, yeah. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: My season is not over yet.  Next week is a really big week with my induction into the LPGA Hall of Fame; then the Skins game on the weekend, and then I play another event after that.  So I won't be done until probably mid-December.  But after that I am just going to do nothing, maybe go skiing a little bit, relax, spend sometime with my husband, but other than that, not much. 


Q.   (Inaudible)


ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I am planning on going to Australia in February. 


Q.   Would you consider more (inaudible)?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: The Skins games are -- I think they are so different, but playing last week and then playing next week I mean, I am getting my share.  I am happy to get invited to these and you know, I don't want to get too greedy.  I am thankful for these opportunities. 


Q.   Second year in a row more players in this field that are from outside the United States than inside.  Talk about the International flavor and how much the Tour has changed?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It is changing and it just shows that you got players from all around the world that want to come and play on the LPGA.  I think that's very, very positive and you know, it's great for the game.  We're all playing better golf today than ten years ago and I am sure, 30 years ago, it really become a World Tour and I think it's good for the game.  Going to Singapore, I mean, I heard so many comments from people that you know, we don't get to see women's golf or players very much, good that you are here, I think that's good for the game that we have players from all around going to different places, just showcasing the best golfers in the world.  So obviously being a foreigner I think it's totally okay.  (Laughs).


Q.   You mentioned about how people saw that you have emotions.  (Inaudible) how much of the change was a conscious effort on your part and how much was just a natural progression of your personality coming out more?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: The way I look at it is I think the Colonial was first of all, something that I wanted to do and it's easier to be yourself when you are doing it.  I felt in the past that people wanted me to be somebody that I wasn't.  I felt a lot of pressure to you know, to really to be like Nancy Lopez which I think everybody in this world wants to be like, but when you are not, it's very tough.  But at the Colonial it was just  -- everything just came naturally because that's what I wanted to do, and I could be myself, you know, and that helped.  When I was reacting the way I was it was just natural and people accepted me for the person that I am.  I didn't have to be somebody else.  I think people know who I am now. 


Q.   Did you ever think when you entered the Colonial that after everything had happened you would have a big impact probably on golf for young people to see that you were able to do, did that cross your mind?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, it didn't especially when I was asked the question if I wanted to play.  I was thinking about myself and it's something that I can do, but then you know, the months leading up to the Colonial, I just realized that suddenly everybody was involved, I mean, it was golfers, non-golfers, everybody had an opinion, I think then that's kind of when it entered my mind maybe this is a little bigger than I expected.  Afterwards I can really tell that it was a big impact.  Obviously for me personally and also for this Tour and the people that don't really play golf, they knew about it, so obviously it is very positive.


Q.   How did that make you feel?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Makes me feel great.  I have always wanted to be a role model.  I always wanted to be help women's golf in one way or the other and always wanted to be a better player.  I think everybody was a winner really. 


Q.   Talk about playing with O'Meara, Couples, Mickelson, talk about next week's Skins game.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: They are all great players.  I respect them very much, and it's going to be tough.  I know that.  But I can probably -- I mean, experience I got last week I know I can win a few Skins, especially the way Retief has been playing the last few weeks, you know, I think my chances are par 3s, I noticed on the par 5s and 4s when they hit the driver they just hit the so much further, but I am happy with my game right now.  Hopefully I can continue to play like this, and make a birdie on the right hole and win the right skin it will be all mine. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT