THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 13, 2003
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARTIN PARK:  We'll start with Annika.  I think Suzann will join us in a minute.  Annika, that was quite the most incredible match we've seen for a long long time.  What are your thoughts on those final few holes. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I agree with you.  It was really an exciting match really from the first hole where we were tied with a birdie, both teams.  It was good golf all the way.  I could really start to feel it after the 14th that I was getting really tired, and I kept telling myself just make one more birdie, one more, and maybe we can  -- both Kelly and Laura played so excellent that we had to give it all.  Obviously the putt on 17 I won't forget in a long time.  And then also the putt from Suzann on 18 was really a clutch putt.  What a great day.  Obviously a good one for Europe, but also for women's golf.  I thought it was excellent.  It was really really fun to play and to be a part of it. 


Q.  Were you surprised with that putt on the 18th?  Were you surprised they chose to putt first?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No.  I figured they were going to do that.  Kelly had such a long putt.  I figured they wanted to put the pressure on us early on.  It seemed like she kind of rushed a little bit.  I don't know if she had a proper stance.  They were kind of talking about it.  I don't really know what happened.  Laura putted so well all day.  It was unfortunate for her on that hole.


Q.  Had you been in that situation, would you have done that? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I probably would have, yeah.


Q.  Would you say something about Suzann before she gets here, about playing with her?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Of course I like playing with her.  That's why we played together.  I like her attitude a lot.  I like the way she plays.  She really gets fired up, and it keeps me going.  I thought we made a good team.  Yesterday and today.  Especially in the best ball I thought we were going to do really good.  I'm just glad that we played well.  I've enjoyed it.  I know Suzann is going to play really well in the future years on the LPGA.  She's probably going to win really soon.


Q.  How good?  What do you think of her future?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's tough to say.  She does play on the tour already, and she's I assume top 35, maybe in the top 30.  So I think that says it all already.


Q.  Annika, apart from this last match, are you pleased with your game over the two days? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah.  I've hit a lot of good drives I think both days.  And I think I putted really well.  This afternoon I hit some iron shots which I haven't been so pleased with this morning and yesterday.  But when I needed it today, it was there especially the 9-iron I hit on number 9 and really on the back 9 I had some good irons.  I'm pleased.


Q.  Back to the putt of Diaz, was there any question of her standing in Suzann's line?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I know they talked about it.  By Suzann said it was okay.


Q.  How long was your second shot at the 18th yesterday and how long today?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I hit a 9 iron both times.  Yesterday I had 129 and today I had 145.


Q.  What was the club you used and what was the distance for the second club on the 17?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  17 I hit 7-iron today.  It was about 148 to the flag.


Q.  Someone suggested it might be difficult for you to concentrate and really focus because you really think it's fun to be here.  How do you comment on that? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It's fun to be here.  That's what this is all about.  I can still concentrate.  I think that's one of my strengths.  It kind of helps me to look at the crowd and see when they're doing the wave and how they're cheering and seeing the flags and seeing friends.  It kind of makes me relax between shots.  Otherwise I have a tendency to think about every shot all the time.  Every when I'm walking I think about the next shot or I think about a shot before.  But here I was kind of looking around, enjoying the atmosphere and seeing everybody.  I was laughing.  But then once it was time to hit, I was ready.


Q.  If you compare this crowd to the other Solheim Cup crowds, how do you compare?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I want to say there's so many more people here.  And obviously they're on our side.  I know they're on my side because it's incredible.  Every hole we went down, they were cheering, "Go Europe, go Annika, go Sweden", etc.  It's really  -- the atmosphere is incredible.  You see them and you really want to play well.  You don't want to let them down.  You want to show them you can do it.  And being over here in Sweden, there's nothing I would like better to win on home soil.


Q.  You don't feel some kind of pressure from the audience that you have to look happy and show emotions and stuff like that just to please the crowd so to speak? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I don't feel I have to, but when they come here, I want to say thank you.  I feel like clapping to them because I think it's great that they're all here and really making this a fantastic event.  We don't get a chance to play in front of so many perform so many times.  Definitely not with this attitude that they have.  I just want to enjoy every moment.


Q.  Annika, where would you rank the putt on 17.  Is that one of the best you've ever hit under the circumstances?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah.  It was a really good putt under the circumstances.  One of those putts that you'll never forget.  I've had putts to win Majors.  I've had putts to win tournaments, but this was to kind of get a point in the Solheim.  Everybody was watching.  I saw all the team members, the other team was there.  It seemed like all the crowd was right there.  To hit that putt when you really want it is very special and very memorable for sure.


Q.  Did you feel like that gave you momentum for 18 and winning the 18th, a momentum for tomorrow?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.  I think they felt really good about going into 17.  I think they were looking at least a half point.  Suddenly you see that, it takes the fiz out of you a little bit.  We had the momentum on 18, but then Laura hit an incredible shot from the rough on the left side.  And then I felt like, "Oh, no, here we go again" and now I've got to hit it really close.  It really never ended.  It just kept on going.  We thought a 3 was good enough and suddenly we have to make 3 to tie.  It was so intense all the way.


Q.  You're obviously well prepared physically.  How do you feel now after 72 holes?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I'm tired.  I'm worn.  Physically I don't think there's a problem, but it's just mentally.  Especially when it's match play.  It seems like it changes so much all the time.  You're up and then you're down.  And then you look at your opponents and you think, "Oh, I have a chance" and suddenly you don't have a chance.  Emotionally match play is more draining, and I think that's why I'm really tired.


Q.  Regarding women's golf on television, how do you feel  -- apparently you guys have to tee off at 7:30 tomorrow morning so that everything is over the Solheim Cup is over so they can show the last round of a men's tournament. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, it's just very very sad, I think.  I personally think this is the premier LPGA or LET tournament.  We're showcasing the best women's golf.  When we don't get a good slot like that, it's obviously  -- it doesn't feel right.  But TV is important.  We've got to do that.  But one of these days I hope we get the respect and get prime time.


Q.  What were your thoughts on the last hole with Suzann?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I said, "Thank you".  I was exhausted and I wanted her to make it.  It would be a great finish.  I was relieved.  It's been a long day.  We fought so hard.  When I saw it drop, I was just like, "Great, this is over, we got a point."  Obviously I was very happy I played with her.


Q.  Annika, is it your understanding that Laura could have putted on the 16th if she had wanted to when you  -- she having putted and missed the 4.  She looked as though she was going to putt for 5?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Exactly.  It looked like she was going to do it.  And we just said it's good.  Obviously I thought she was going to putt to show Kelly the line.  We just said, "Hey, it's good", and I don't really know what she was thinking.  And then Suzann said it again.  And she picked it up and left.


Q.  You think she's entitled to? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I'm sure she's entitled to if she wants to.  I think that's what the rules say.  But we said it was good.


Q.  Do you think it's fair on the fans to have to get up at the time that they have to tomorrow? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, to make it a successful tournament, you want everybody here.  You have to be a die hard fan to come out at 7 in the morning.  Let's put it that way.  I know there was a lot of people here on Friday already at 7:30, and I thought that was incredible.  It's just unfortunate that we have to do this.  Like I said, I wish we had the respect from everybody that we could be on prime time, and I think the people would be here and it would be a wonderful tournament.  I still think it will be.  But you've got to get up early.  As a player it's a little different because you've got something coming.  But to watch golf, like I said you've got to be a die hard fan.


Q.  Does TV dictate to the organizers? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It seems like it does, yes.


Q.  What do you think it takes to get more respect?  More than this?  What can you do?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I have no idea.  I don't know what you guys thought, but I thought it was exciting golf today.  It doesn't get much more exciting I don't think.  Even if you birdie every hole, I don't know if that's what it's going to take.  We can just do our best and hopefully fans, sponsors, media, everybody realizes that and we can change it.


Q.  Do you have the feeling that playing the Americans that they really want to beat you?  You're the best.  It's good for their record, "I beat Annika."  Do you feel like it's that in the atmosphere?  Is that something you sense?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah.  I sense it.  Not just this week.  I do sense it.  It seems like a lot of players, they kind of take their game to a different level, and that's why it's always so close in these matches.  It seems like they always play so well.  But I take it as a compliment.  I really do.  If I was playing the number one player in the world, I'd like to beat her. 


Q.  What time will you have to get up tomorrow morning to be at your best on the first tee? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   If I could sleep in until 10, that would be lovely.  I haven't seen the pairings.  I don't know what time I'm out.  But our team  -- let's just say our team goal is just to be prepared.  I know if I'm not up first I don't have to be there at 7.  I'm just going to try and sleep as long as I can, get the best  -- an hour and 15 minute warm up and just go.


Q.  Do you have any plans for tonight except dinner and go to sleep?  Play cards, just relaxing? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I have a table tennis match which I was supposed to play yesterday, but I'm playing Shani Waugh, one of the players.  She thinks she has a better chance to play if I'm really exhausted.  She said, "Can we play tomorrow?"  I'm playing her tonight.  But that shouldn't take very long. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT