THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 13, 2003
Carin Koch
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Carin, the dynamic duo back in business.  How important did you feel it was to get back to winning ways the two of you?

CARIN KOCH:   It was very important today.  I think foursome is really good for us to play together.  We had a good time.  We felt like we should probably be a few more up.  I started missing a few putts in the beginning and we kind of let them get into the match.  To finish it off like we did feels really good. 


Q.  I forget which hole it was, I think it was probably 4 where you actually sunk the first putt of the day.  Your relief was clear there.  How difficult is it actually to feel relaxed at all out there, is that just impossible? 

CARIN KOCH:   It's very hard.  You just really want to do well for the crowds here and for your partner, for the team.  It's very exciting and a little bit nerve-racking, but a lot of fun.  In foursome it's hard to get into the game really because all of a sudden you might go a few holes before you putt.  And you hit a shot and then you don't hit an iron shot for a few holes.  That's the beauty of foursome play.


Q.  Annika, I know you're playing this afternoon, so you need to go prepare.  What about this atmosphere here today.  It seems to have cranked up 10 fold. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Definitely.  The crowd is incredible.  It's so much fun to come here and play in front of them.  Carin and I were trying to cheer them up, but we didn't really need to.  They were doing it all.  Obviously I'm happy that Carin and I won in front of them.  It looks good for Europe at this point, but it's a long ways to go and every point is going to be important.


Q.  You're going to play again this afternoon, aren't you  that's four rounds of four.  How are you feeling?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I try not to think about how I feel.  There's a lot of golf to be played.  I'm going to try and keep all the energy I have.  Try and take a rest when I get a chance.  I like to do well for the team.  I'm going to give it all I got. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT