THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 18, 2013
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Describe your emotions just having seen the team between for the first time on American soil?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It's amazing.   I'm so proud of the girls and so proud to be the vice captain for Liselotte Neumann, it's been an amazing week. 
We could make history and we did it.   So I'm just enjoying the moment.   I think this is fantastic for European golf, especially to say that we have done it and the Solheim Cup now is really becoming very significant. 

Q.   What was the key moment do you think of the week?   What was the turning point?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Obviously Saturday's four‑ball, winning all the matches was a very big accomplishment.   It put us in a great spot for Sunday and not putting pressure on ourselves in the singles, like we have in the past. 
But we just kept hanging in there, making sure that everybody played their own game and that every point was important and not rely on anybody else. 

Q.   Lotta said that sending out the five rookies in that series of matches was gutsy.   How would you describe it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I would say it was very gutsy.   It was kind of hit or miss.   And we hit it.   So we're thankful for that.

Q.   How do you explain how well the rookies have done this week?   Some people say they haven't got any scar tissue, they haven't been beaten by people, they just go out and enjoy it. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, but I also say, they might be rookies when it comes to Solheim Cup, but as far as rookies in general, they're not.   Look at Jodi, for example, she almost won the craft, she was in contention at the U.S. Open.   You got Beatriz Recari winning two tournaments.   They're not rookies as far as that goes, and they showed it this week. 

Q.   5‑5 for Caroline.   Talk about that. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It's amazing.   It's tremendous.   So proud of her the.   She wanted to play all five matches, she was playing great, and for her to be one of the ones that really clinched the trophy was amazing.   So I'm so happy for her. 

Q.   Will you be captain the next team?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I'm going to enjoy this one.   Let's put it that way.   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT