MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 3, 2003
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.: Welcome, Annika, thanks for joining us today.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Thank you.

Q.: You've had quite an interesting last couple weeks.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That's for sure.

Q.: First the Colonial, and last week in Chicago, I was wondering if you could just talk about your last couple weeks and how you feel coming into this week.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: First of all, I feel great, happy to be here, especially coming off last week, the way I played, and the way I played at Colonial as well, I was hitting the ball real well, so I'm ready for this week, ready for a major.  I had a chance to play the golf course so I'm excited about this week in general.

Q.: Annika, emotionally, mentally, how are you, especially given all the attention and other commitments you've had over the last two weeks?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I feel really good, particularly physically I feel great, and mentally I'm looking forward to this week.  I think after the Colonial, when it was all over and said and done, you know, instead of a relief, now I'm ready to move forward on this tour. 
And because earlier in the year everybody was talking about the Colonial, even though I had, at the time, maybe six -- or five tournaments to play in, everything was about the Colonial, and now I'm done with that and I'm ready to move forward.  So I think mentally that's a relief and I can focus on what I do here, and that's play well in the majors.

Q.: Annika, given that, you know, a lot of people who didn't know who you were before you played in the Colonial now know who you are, there has got to be an expectation that she's the one that played against the guys, she's supposed to win.  You talked about it's a relief.  Do you feel any pressure now where I've got to win a major now, I played in the Colonial?  Do you feel any added pressure coming into this week?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I don't.  The pressure I feel is from myself, and I've felt that since I started playing on this tour, and I want to do good on the majors, but I don't feel any extra pressures because I played with the guys, because before it was like people thought, she has to play well before the Colonial to show she can go there.  Now I don't feel I have to play any better. 
I have high expectations for myself.  I push myself all the time, but I don't feel it from anybody else other than myself.

Q.: You said you were a little relieved, hoards are following you around, continuing to ask you about what happened weeks ago.  Do you wish this was all over with or do you understand this comes with the territory?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I understand it comes with the territory and I'm getting used to it and I'm learning to handle it a little better, and it's great that everybody is still following my career and coming out to the ladies tour.  I think that's positive, and I would like to see you guys every week.

Q.: Would you do it again?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Do what?

Q.: If another invitation came your way, would you do it again?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I will not.  It was a one-time opportunity.  I don't know if I could handle it again, but I wanted to test myself, and it was a challenge, for sure, but I want to leave it at that.

Q.: What did that experience teach you about your own game, strengths and maybe weaknesses?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That I hit a lot of fairways, I hit a lot the greens, and I've got to work on my short game, but I already knew that, but I think I learned a lot, just playing under the microscope with all the pressure, that's an experience that I learned a lot from, and hopefully I can use that this week or the US Open or other majors.

Q.: Annika, Vijay Singh has been taking a lot of heat because of what he said about you.  What would you say to him if he was here and you had an opportunity to whisper in his ear?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I never thought about that.  I don't know, I said it a few weeks ago, everybody is entitled to their own opinion.  He said what he felt, and now people are asking questions about it.  I had nothing to do with it, even though it's about me.  I did what I wanted to do and I had a great time, and I am very thankful for the opportunity, so that's where I want to leave it at.

Q.: I noticed you had a chance meeting with Suzy Whaley the other day.  I was wondering what you chatted about and if she asked you for advice, and if you did give her advice, what would it be?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: We talked very briefly, but she said congratulations, you did a good job, and I told her good luck, you can do it, have fun.  That was about it.  She was on her way in one direction and I was on the way in the other direction, but I'd be happy to talk to her if she wants to talk to me about it.  I loved the experience.  I think it was wonderful and I hope she has a good time as well.

Q.: I mean, if you were talking to her and she asked you what advice you could give her, what would it be?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Play your own game, have fun, enjoy the week.  That's what I did, I tried to play my game and make the most of the week.  I wanted to see how the guys practiced, I wanted to see how they played the course, I was just absorbing things the whole week, and golfwise, it was the best week of my life.

Q.: Annika, after the Colonial and all the stress that you went through and the emotional feelings, when it was all said and done, coming out last week winning, were you concerned how you were going to settle down and play?  Were you surprised when you shot 62?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think so.  I was excited to be back on tour, and I was excited because I was playing well, but coming back and people talking about it, and I was still kind of geared up and wired for the week.  I didn't know if I was going to be able to focus for 18 holes, and I got off to a good start, and the momentum kept going, so I was pleased.

Q.: Is there ever an opportunity for you to get away from the hype and frenzy?  I noticed today you were signing a lot of autographs in between holes in the practice round.  Were you able before to play without having people follow you, without people watching?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: There was a few more people watching when I practiced and played, but today it was a great practice round.  There was a few people out there, but they were very supportive, and it wasn't a distraction to sign autographs.  It's part of it.  It's fun that they come.  I teed off at 8:00, and when they come out that early, I think they deserve an autograph or two.  When I'm home, I can do the things I like, so I have plenty of time for that.

Q.: Annika, what people are staying in touch with you since all this?  Are you feeling like a rock star?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: A rock star that can't sing or dance, but I don't know, I mean, honestly it's been a great year, and more people want to watch, and I love what I do, and they come out and respect you, and I think they are all coming to watch.  It's fun.  It's part of the whole deal.

Q.: Annika, do you feel this week that there is still carryover from last week of how you played on the course?  Do you feel you'll be back to normal, how you feel on the course this week at all?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think so.  I mean, I guess if you want to call it back to normal last week.  Once I get inside the rope, it doesn't matter where I am.  Outside it was more hectic than I'm used to, but once I'm inside the ropes, I know what to do.  I've got to hit good drives and make putts, it doesn't matter where.  It's the same thing this week.  This is a big tournament but I've got to focus on my game, and if I can do that, I think things will be all right.

Q.: As mentioned earlier, Vijay Singh has taken a lot of flack.  What are your feelings in general about a professional athlete speaking out on something that doesn't have to do with sport?  There has been Iraq, all kinds of things, how do you feel about it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think everybody is entitled to their opinion.  Some people voice it; some people don't.  That's not my call if they do it or not. 

Q.: Annika, with four majors so far in your career, generally how do you feel you've played in the majors?  Are you happy with how you played?  Are you disappointed with how you played?  What's the general feeling about how you performed?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: My general feeling is the last two years I've played very good in the majors.  Last year I finished first, second and third in three of the majors, and I'm very pleased with that.  As long as I'm in contention on Sunday, I'm happy, especially at the US Open last year.  Juli Inkster went out and shot a dream round, I believe, of 66, and I played good golf, there was just nothing I could do. 
This year, again, I finished second at the Kraft Nabisco Championship, and again, Patricia played excellent, so as long as I'm there and playing good golf, this is a very competitive tour where everybody is as hungry as I am.  Sometimes you pull it off; sometimes not.  I've learned a lot and I've been more consistent, that's something I'm pleased about.

Q.: How do you feel about your performances in the majors?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I always try to push myself.  I have set goals, there is certain things I have to work on, my short game, that keeps me motivated, and the majors is what means the most to me.  I've won 44 times, but I want some more majors, so that's my biggest challenge, to see if I can pique when I want to.

Q.: When you played the Colonial you seemed to have a real good relationship with the people you played with.  I wonder if you made any plans to stay in touch them.  Are you going to follow how they do in the men's tour?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I will definitely follow them.  They were the greatest guys, they were so much fun to play with and so supportive, so I hope they win a lot of majors, both of them.  I've E-mailed both Aaron and Dean and spoken to Dean on the phone, so hopefully we can continue to keep in touch and, who knows, maybe our paths will cross again on the golf course.  I'd love to play with them again.

Q.: Do you think you've come away from the Colonial experience having gained some personal growth?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: What kind of personal what?

Q.: Personal growth.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm sure  -- i mean, I learned a lot.  Right now I don't know, sitting here two weeks later.  There was so much that happened last week -- or two weeks ago.  It's just a memory .  I mean, the people, the support, but most of all I realize that I really love what I do, and I think it's something I'll never forget.

Q.: I know you can't speak for other players, but I was wondering what the general reaction was of the other members of the LPGA Tour as far as what you did.  Was it universal support, jealousy, something that maybe they don't have to deal with as much pressure because you're taking it all on?  What has been their general reaction?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: When I came back to Chicago, I mean, everyone was so excited and they were hugging me and saying you did great, we're so proud of you, telling me the Colonial  -- they were all watching the big screen, and I heard several people say I couldn't focus because I was watching you when it was my turn to putt. 
It's been very positive, a lot of great feedback, a lot of cards in my locker from players, and when you hear that and see that, it means a lot, especially from your peers who are saying that and doing that.  That means a lot.

Q.: When you saw Nancy Lopez for the first time, could you tell us what she said?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Nancy came up to me yesterday on the putting green, I talked to her before the Colonial, and she was supportive from the beginning, and she called me and wished me good luck and said she wanted to do this if she had a chance 25 years ago, so I felt like she was on my side from the beginning, and yesterday she came up again and hugged me and said great job, and was really thrilled and excited.  And she said she wished she would have been there to experience everything, and to hear that from Nancy is special.

Q.: Annika, why not try the guys again?  You were so close in the Colonial.  Why not do it again for that experience?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Because I went there for one reason and I've done it.  This is my tour, this is where I want to play.  I want to win tournaments.  I have goals that I want to achieve, and I tested myself, and I could not have asked for a better week.  It was a dream scenario in every way.  Obviously, I wish I would have made the cut, but inside I know what I'm capable of, and that's why I went.  It wouldn't be the same to do it again, and it couldn't be any better.  It was perfect for me.  That's where I want to leave it at.

Q.: There were many young girls out there today, what are your feeling about how you have affected them?  Do you feel any added pressure that they look at you as a role model?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't feel any added pressure, but it's great to see more kids, and I actually saw a lot of kids last week, young boys and girls, and I said it before, that if somebody sees what I do and understands that I'm following my dream, and I hope a little girl or boy will do the same when they grow up.  I'm doing what I want to do, and never limit yourself, just keep on going, and that's what I've done the last two years here, and that's what it's all about, just have fun and go with it.

Q.: On the topic of younger girls, do you have any advice for Michelle Wie?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think  -- first of all, she's a wonderful player in every aspect, she's just so young, she has a bright future ahead of herself.  With her attitude, at that age, she can go a long way.  I wish her all the best, obviously, but I do hope she comes out to the LPGA Tour and wins some tournaments here as well.  I think she would be a great asset for The Tour, so take one step at a time.  She's 13 years old now.  In 10 years she'll be 23, and that's when I came on The Tour.  She has so much time ahead of herself, just enjoy the journey.

Q.: Did anybody talk to you about Babe Zacharias?  And my second question is:  Do you think the men who didn't make the cut in the Colonial should be invited to play the LPGA?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I haven't really talked about anybody about her experience.  I read her book, though, the Commissioner, Ty Votaw, gave me Babe's book, and that was exciting and motivating.  And regarding the guys, it was just one week, anything can happen.  Those guys have won PGA tournaments.  They are all fantastic players.  They have their tour, and I think they should continue to play their tour.  This is the ladies LPGA.

Q.  One more question in reference to the Colonial.  You averaged 268 yards.  I'm wondering how you do that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: 276.

Q.: How do you do that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: A lot of hard work.  Good timing sometimes, good equipment, Callaway has helped me a lot, great balls and new great Big Bertha driver as well.  Coming in with all that helps.

Q.: You lift a lot, don't you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I work out a lot, yes.

Q.: That helps out?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I mean, a few years ago I think I was maybe 20, 25 yards shorter, so it's very helpful.

Q.: Annika, with Colonial behind you now and how well you played the last couple years, how long do you see yourself continuing?  You've done so much already.  Do you see a point where you say, I've accomplished everything I want to accomplish, and move on to something else?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, that could easily happen.  I've always said that if I enjoy the game and I wake up in the morning and feel like I have goals to achieve, or I'm motivated to practice, I will continue to do this, but I have other interests that I'd like to pursue someday.  If that's a year or two from now, or five, I don't really know, I'd like to just take it as it comes, and right now I enjoy what I do and still feel like I can become a better player.  I don't know.

Q.: Could you ever imagine Nancy Lopez after 15 years being out here?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No.  I mean, I admire the players that have been here so long and played great golf for so long, with the family as well.  I don't know if I could handle that.

Q.: Annika, the Colonial was a great success, you come back, you win, is the phone ringing a little bit from commercial endorsements?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't know.  I haven't seen anything yet, but then again, I got a lot of logos on my shirt.  I am pretty happy with the companies that I'm with already, so I don't know, I just try to play good golf and see what happens.

Q.: Annika, would you like to see the LPGA set up courses for tournaments like the PGA Tour, and not just majors, but all tournaments set up, maybe greens faster, or the rough higher around the green?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'd like to see our courses set up the way they are this week.  This week is fantastic.  They are in great shape, we got some tough rough all around the golf course.  This is a great layout, first of all.  I mean, I could play here every week.  The greens are very smooth, and it's just a great golf course.  You have to hit the ball well, and you can't get away with bad shots here, and if you hit them good, you'll score well here.  That's what I love about this golf course.  So this would be a great course to set up future tournaments like.  I'd like to have this every week. 
The tougher we have it, I think the better we get.  You will see that this week.  Some of the lies and the shots you have this week, it takes a lot of practice, a lot of skill, and the more we do this, the better we all get, so this is a great example of a course I'd like to play every week.

Q.: Annika, you mentioned things you wanted to accomplish on this tour, where does winning this tournament rank?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Way up.  Way up.  I won four majors, but I never won here.  I finished in the top five several times, I think top three twice, I believe.  I know I have the game for this course, and I've won majors, so mentally I can do this.  I haven't performed as well as I should for four days, but hopefully it will change this year.

Q.: Annika, a lot has been made about your physical fitness and your regimen that you go through.  One player described you as a fanatic about your regimen.  Can you take me through a typical day or typical week of actually what you do to work out?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It varies a little bit.  Obviously, I work out more in the off-season than I do in the season, especially at bigger tournaments, but I like to get in three days of workout in a tournament week and probably five in an off-week, but the programs that I do, they vary a lot.  I do a program for six weeks, then I do medium for six weeks, then heavy for six, then I may go light for six weeks.  I try to do a lot of things.  A lot of it is regular weight training.  I lift a lot of weights heavy, I do until I can't lift it any more.  I don't do as much cardio as I used to, so it's a little different training than in the past, but I'm seeing some results, too, so that's why I keep on going.

Q.: Annika, you have a fine record here with four top-eight finishes, but I'm wondering, since you haven't won here, is there anything about this course that sometimes can give you, your game, trouble?  And looking back at the four top-10s, is there any one of those you look back and say to yourself "I could have won that one"?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: There was one year when I finished third that I three-putted on the last hole from a very short distance that would have put me in the playoff, but you never know what could happen there.

Q.: That was 1997 I believe.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That's when Chris Johnson won, but last year I came from way behind and shot 65, I believe, so I didn't have a chance to win there, but I improved and I played really steady last year.  I didn't make anything for three days, but the last day I made everything, so I haven't really put four good grounds together.  You have to be solid.  You have a few good ones, and some okay ones, that's what I'm missing here.

Q.: Annika, before all the talk shifted to you, there was a lot of talk on this Tour about foreign players winning everything before Rosie Jones won.  Does that kind of talk concern you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It doesn't concern me at all.  I'd like to say this is a world tour, even though we play mostly in the US, 60 percent of the players are foreign, so this is the best women golfers in the world, and I think that's very positive.  When I come and play, I don't look at whoever I'm playing and say, where is she from, she's just another competitor, and I think as long as the game is getting better, that's all that matters.

Q.: At this point in your career is it hard to find challenges for yourself sometimes?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Sometimes.  I'm satisfied at what I've done.  When I came out here on tour in '94, I didn't know if I could win a single tournament, so a lot of things have changed, and sometimes I feel very happy about what I've achieved, but there were other days when I feel I can play better, win more tournaments, I can push myself, so the challenge I'm looking for is to stay motivated and keep on working.

Q.: Is there one letter you received that was special as far as what the message was and who wrote it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Not in particular, but there were so many letters that I didn't expect from people that I have seen on TV or I've watched them pursue their career, or try and reach a goal or something, but I couldn't believe how many people  -- what I'm trying to say is the range of people, it could have been athletes, could have been people  -- all kinds of people, young, old, and men, boys, you name it, for all the different reasons that I've gotten letters from, that's the part that is nice, not just golfers. 
A phone call I wouldn't forget is Billie Jean King, I talked to her, that's something I didn't expect.  First of all, she talked about her experience, and then she wanted to give me some advice, what she felt was helpful for her, and she told me to not to stress myself and that I am doing the right thing, and she told me I probably didn't understand what the meaning of all this was, and I told her you're totally right, but it was a very nice conversation.

Q.: Was there anything that really stands out in your mind though?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Mostly the players out here, but then all the people in Chicago that came out, and, actually, we went to the gym one day, and a guy just said "Thank you," and I thought he meant that I put the weights back or something, but he said, "No, thank you," and I looked at him, and he said "I have three daughters," and that was pretty cool that he said that, I thought.

Q.: Apart from your ability to get greater distance, how has the weight training affected your swing during the course of your development?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I hope that I have strength for this week's rough.  It's very, very thick.  I think the strength will help me there.  Mostly it's the consistency with the longer irons or fairway woods, I can repeat my swing a little better than in the past with the longer irons.  I think it helps me on long par 3s that we have here this week.  When it comes to the short game, I wouldn't really say the strength, it's just more the feel that I'm trying to develop, a little more imagination.  I tried to look at the guys last week at Colonial I played with, Sergio, he had the greatest short game, and I was flying with him a little bit in the bunker and so forth, and he actually taught me a few shots.  That's what I wanted to learn from them. 
It's amazing how they approach the game a little different than I do.

Q.: Annika, some people who know you well said they never saw you have so much fun on the golf course as the you did at the Colonial.  Has this experience helped you show your personality on the course a little more?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think it was a totally different situation at the Colonial.  I was there to -- I felt I was there to learn, and the experience itself was so exciting, but I think the emotions came up for me more.  People saw me smile more, they saw me reacting to everything.  I think here on this tour I'm more used to being here, that it's more part of daily life kind of activity for me, even though I enjoy both.  I enjoyed playing Colonial, but I also enjoy being here. 
I think here I am so focused because I want to win, and not that I didn't want to win at Colonial, but it was so much more than just the golf.

Q.: What reveals your personality, the Colonial, or what you do out here?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Both.  I mean, I'm very serious when I practice and when I focus, but when I leave the golf course, I'm not like that, I'm more relaxed, I'm not so uptight.  And that's what people saw at Colonial.

Q.: You're going to complete your Hall of Fame requirements in a few weeks.  Where do you think you rank among the all-time greatest players?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I know I haven't been -- I don't look at it that way.  I'm going to be thrilled by the end of the year when I get a chance to be inducted in the Hall of Fame, but it won't sink in for a long time.  I don't see myself as being part of that elite group at all, even though I know that I have achieved the tournaments that I need to be inducted to the Hall of Fame, but I am just little me that enjoys playing golf, and it's nice to be compared to all the great players.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT