LPGA MEDIA CONFERENCE
June 11, 2003
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Sure.  Obviously, I'm excited to get to Youngstown.  I haven't been there in two years, not very familiar with the golf course.  But I feel very good about my game at this point.  Obviously, I'm very psyched about the last two weeks, you know, with my performance at Colonial and then winning in Chicago, then of course the LPGA McDonald's Championship, which is going to be on my priority list.  I'm obviously very excited about that.  It's been a great month for me.  
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think so.  I'm just returning home from the mall.  I've been shopping a little bit, got to spend the money.  But yesterday I went out on the lake and wake boarded for about five hours.  I'm trying to do other things, get my mind fresh for the next few days.  
 
 
Q.  Do you think people kind of look at you differently now because of everything that you've done, especially in the past three weeks?  Is that something that you feel is good for the game - your game and the LPGA, getting more recognition than it has in the past?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I think I'm getting more recognized overall.  I know for a fact there have been more people out at the tournaments, especially after the Colonial.  Everything was so built up.  I think people just want to come out, you know, and watch and so forth.  I think it's great for women's golf and golf in general.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about coming to Youngstown.  You haven't seen this golf course, you're considered the favorite coming off two wins. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I mean, it's about time that I go to Youngstown.  That's one of the reasons I'm coming.  The course will be totally new for me.  I've got a good caddie.  He's already out walking the golf course.  Obviously, he knows my game really well.  He'll let me know where to hit the ball, et cetera.  To be favorite is always a nice thing.  I'm looking forward to coming.  
 
Q.  There was some uncertainty about your appearance at this week's tournament.  We didn't know till late last week.  What was your mindset about deciding to come up to Giant Eagle? 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, from my side, I intended to play this event a long time ago.  It's just that I believe I just entered last week.  I had all intention of coming.  
 
Q.  I'm not sure if I heard you straight.  Did you say you had a new caddie that's walking out checking the course or is Terry working the event with you?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's Terry.  It's the same caddie.  I didn't say "new."  Terry is still on the bag, and he's up there scouting, getting all the yardages for me.  
 
Q.  Sorry about that, bad reception on the phone. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That's all right.  
 
Q.  The question I really want to ask is, obviously at the Colonial, you said you want to use it to win majors.  It's paid off.  What did you find out at Colonial that you were able to put to use last week? 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I believe the more I'm under pressure or tough courses, tough competitions, I believe the more I do that, the better I get, and hopefully it will raise my game to a different level.  That's what I'm trying to achieve.  I want to become a better player.  I believe that all the preparation I did for Colonial is really going to help me long-term for the LPGA majors.  You know, I didn't know if it was already going to help me two weeks later, but it did.  Obviously, I'm very thankful for that.  
 
Q.  Was there anything in your game, the technical aspects of your game, you were able to take away that came into use last week? 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it seemed like especially on the Back  9, the last day, I wasn't striking the ball as well, but my short game really helped me.  That's something I worked really hard on the last couple years.  Some weeks it seems to work, sometimes it doesn't.  I really needed it on the Back  9, that's when my short game turned up.  The timing was perfect.  
 
Q.  Earlier this week, maybe last week, one of the tour players talked about putting a $1 million challenge about playing.  What are your thoughts about that?  Would you ever consider taking the challenge to heart? 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I believe I turned it down last week.  I have no intention of playing against him or any other PGA guys like that.  I mean, that was not the point.  The point for me was to learn and experience.  You know, everything I did at Colonial was perfect for me.  That's the way I want to leave it.  
 
Q.  Random question.  Your ethic of hard work is pretty well-known.  You played tennis until you were 13, found out you weren't happy about the backhand.  What made you decide you weren't going to give up but choose another sport and become the best at this sport? 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, you're right, I did play tennis for many years.  But I always played golf on the side because my parents, they loved the game very much.  We only lived, my sister and I, five minutes from the golf course.  When I got burned out with tennis, it was kind of natural at the time to just play more golf.  Even though living in Sweden, I'm very limited season-wise, we only have six months of golf, but I played more and more.  The more I loved it, I decided to move here to the States and play golf all year round.  That's kind of the way things happened.  
 
Q.  Have you ever gone into a tournament on a course you never played before without playing a practice round?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.  I think I did that in Dayton, Ohio, a few years ago.  I did the same thing.  It was a three-day tournament and I showed up late.  
 
Q.  This golf course is very wet.  You have been playing on wet courses all year.  Do you feel this is an advantage to your game? 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't know, since I don't know the golf course at all.  But normally when it's wet, seems like the courses become a little longer.  And I don't mind longer courses.  
 
Q.  Showing up at a tournament without knowing the course, getting much of a feel for it at all, have you ever won in a situation like that?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I believe I won in Dayton that year.  I could be wrong, but I did win at Dayton, and I think it was that year. 
 
Q.  That's the only time you know of, that you can remember, over your career?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I think so.  
 
Q.  Do you think you'll spend some time talking about Suzy Whaley this weekend?  What do you think you might share with her?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, if she'd like to talk to me, I'd love to talk to her about my experiences at Colonial.  I don't know if she needs any advice or any pointers.  I think she's going to do all right when she goes.  But I would love to talk to her if she feels like doing that.  
 
Q.  Five hours of wake boarding, you're feeling good.  How are you mentally? 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I agree with you.  I mean, mentally I'm tired.  Physically I feel fine.  But that's why I'm trying to do other things, trying to get my mind off golf, and just focus on other things.  You know, like going on the boat, today shopping, stuff like that, keeps my mind fresh.  I think the more I do that, the faster I will recover. 
 
Q.  How about for the younger fans that you see out on golf courses now, they're kind of excited.  You've become a household name to them, young girl golfers, boy golfers, that look up to you now. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it's obviously very flattering.  I remember when I was a little girl and looked up to either tennis players or golfers.  I mean, I find it flattering.  If I'm any role model at all, I'd like to try to do the best I can.  
 
Q.  What do you feel is your greatest strength right now in your game?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  My greatest what?  
 
Q.  Greatest strength. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, strength.  I've always felt that I hit the ball well, especially with irons.  I've been driving it pretty good, too, all year.  Overall, in my career, I'm very patient on the golf course.  I try not to let bad holes get me down.  I keep on focusing.  I keep on going.  I never give up. 
 
Q.  When did your caddie arrive here?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I believe Monday.  
 
Q.  I heard a story, one of the first people you called after winning last week was Dean Wilson.  In a broader sense, have you talked to Dean or Aaron since Colonial?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That's right, I did call Dean on Sunday night.  I talked to several people.  Yeah, he was one of them.  I e-mailed Aaron a couple times.  I've talked to Dean more than I have to Aaron.  
 
Q.  Did you talk about the tournament itself?  Do you go beyond golf in your conversations?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  A little bit of both.  I mean, Dean and I get along really well.  We're just talking.  He was like, "So, are you thanking me for all the experience?"  We kind of kid around.  He's a great guy.  Most of all I just wished him good luck at The Open because he's playing there.  
 
Q.  You won so many tournaments, majors.  You now played a tournament on the PGA TOUR.  What are your next challenges?  How do you push yourself to another level?  What do you want to see yourself doing in the next couple years?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  The last few years I've tried to focus more on the majors, see if I can peak at a certain time.  But the deal with Colonial was to try to take my game to a different level.  The preparation, motivation, all of that I did for Colonial, I was hoping that would help me for the majors.  Right now, in June sometime, I want to try to get ready for the US Open and of course the British Open.  Those are tournaments that I love to play well at.  That keeps me motivated.  That makes me practice every day.  
 
Q.  Beyond that, is there anything out there that you haven't done that you would still like to do?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Not that I can think of right now.  Obviously, the Colonial was something  -- if you would have asked me two years ago, I would have looked at you and said, "Hey, you're crazy."  But now obviously I'm glad I did it.  But after that, now I just want to focus on the majors, see what happens.  I like to take it a day at a time and see where golf takes me. 
 
Q.  Would you consider going back if the opportunity was there for you?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You mean on the PGA TOUR?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, no.  The Colonial was the best week I've ever had in golf.  I don't think it can get any better.  The experience that I had, you know, it was as good as it gets.  I'd like to leave it at that.  
 
Q.  When are you going to be in town here tomorrow?  What would you be doing after this tournament?  Taking any time off? 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  My schedule is I'm planning on coming tomorrow.  Actually after this week, I'm taking next week off.  I need some time off.  I think it's going to be good timing to relax next week. 
 
Q.  Are you going to have enough time to come in and look at the course or are you coming in later tomorrow?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm coming in late tomorrow.  It will be a total surprise on the first tee.  
 
Q.  Could you describe your ideal day. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Are you talking about golf or just in general?  
 
Q.  General. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  In general?  It wouldn't really be golf, I must admit.  Especially right now I feel like doing other things.  I like the outdoors, either do a sport of some kind or just take it easy, just hang out at the house.  I've got two cats.  I love my house.  I like to just be at home and spend some time at home.  
 
Q.  Much has been made of the distance that you added off the tee in recent years.  Do you attribute that to the added physical training that you did or is it a combination of that with the technical thing?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think it's a combination of both.  I mean, obviously the workout has helped me to get some strength, but I also believe the equipment, being with Callaway, I know I'm playing the latest equipment out there, especially the ball I'm playing, the HX ball really helped me to gain some distance.  I think a combination of both is what has helped me.  
 
Q.  Having done so well on the tour, now having played the PGA event, you may be looked on as a role model, you're a focus.  Is that a challenge in itself to try to be more of a personality, carry the mantel for the LPGA, the women's golf movement?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I've always said I love what I do, but number two is I'm going to try and be me.  I mean, that's what people are realizing.  You know, I'm out there having fun and I'm being me.  I'm not going to put up a (inaudible) or do anything.  I love to be able to be a role model for young kids.  Then again, you know, like with golf, I've got to be comfortable in the things I say and the things I do, et cetera.  I'm just going to be natural and enjoy myself out there.  
 
Q.  Is it hard to get up for maybe the smaller tournaments after playing in the Colonial?  Is it sort of anti-climactic to have smaller crowds?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, not at all.  I have always thought going to a tournament, I want to play the best I can, try to win the tournament.  I have to focus on what I've got to do.  Every tournament is obviously important to me.  Obviously, some events are considered high profile.  If I didn't feel like I was ready to play or ready to go, I wouldn't go.  But I feel like it's an important tournament.  
 
Q.  You keep saying when you played at the Colonial that it was the best week of your golf life.  Would you recommend that other women golfers do the same thing to improve their game?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't know.  I'd recommend it obviously because I had such a good time.  Definitely taught me a lot of things.  I've heard of a few players that want to do it, but some players have said they don't want to put themselves under that type of pressure.  I think it's totally up to individual players, how they feel, if they want to challenge themselves.  
 
Q.  What's your best advice for a golfer who seems to have hit a plateau, can't improve?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Good question.  I think, first of all, it's very important to set goals.  They have to be realistic goals, short-term or long-term, then just keep on working towards the goals.  I think it's all about enjoying the journey, as well, and not just thinking too much ahead.  You've got to live in the present.  If you're stuck at a plateau, it's not a bad thing, just enjoy that, keep on working, you'll hit the next level.  
 
Q.  Your impromptu victory dance last week, have you received any feedback on that from the tour players?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Not from fellow pro players.  But friends and family are kind of laughing at me.  It's kind of been the joke here this week.  
 
Q.  You mentioned you went shopping earlier.  Do you notice a different reaction when you're out in public since the Colonial?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You mean the people in the mall?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  People recognize me.  I think today we got a lot of good help from the people in the store.  They were very helpful.  They all looked at me and said, "I know who you are."  The service was excellent. 
 
Q.  How about a comment about your sister, the life saver, how she saved somebody's life?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That was pretty incredible.  I happened to be there.  I was having lunch at the same time and left just when it happened.  It's incredible when you think about it.  That puts things in perspective.  Here we are trying to make birdies and so forth, and when it comes down to it, it's amazing what she did there.  She saved somebody's life.  I don't know where she got the courage from and instinct.  I don't know if I would have done that in the same situation.  
 
Q.  What is your take on a female member at Augusta?  Do you have an opinion on that?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I haven't really been talking about that for a while.  I agree with what the LPGA was saying:  It's time to move on, it's time that we do the right thing.  I kind of agree with the LPGA.  
 
Q.  When you were here in 1998, the event was at Avalon Lakes.  What do you remember about this area in general?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, to be honest with you, I don't remember very much.  I believe that I came in late that week, as well.  It seems like this tournament always happens between a big one or before one that I've always decided to come in later to prepare better.  To be honest, I don't remember much.  I'm looking forward to see it again. 
 
Q.  You haven't played here since 1998.  Coming here, was that the LPGA rule where you have to come to each venue once every five years?  Did that come into play at all?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, not really.  I got a sponsor obligation tomorrow night, as well.  So that has a little bit to do with it.  I try to look at my schedule, try to do the right thing, try to pace myself, also play tournaments that I'm interested in coming to.  
 
Q.  Will Michelle Wie being in the tournament take pressure off of you?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't know.  I mean, personally I always feel like when I come to tournaments, I always feel like I want to perform the best I can.  Most of the time I don't really look at the field and say, "I got to beat her," so forth.  I try and just do my own thing, play one shot at a time and do the best I can.  Obviously, I have the intention of winning every tournament I enter.  Hopefully I can play my best.  As always, the competition is very tough, whether it's from Michelle Wie or Se Ri Pak or whoever else.  The competition is getting tougher on this tour every year.  
 
Q.  You said you were looking for long-term benefits down the road from playing at the Colonial.  Are you at all surprised the first couple times out you've been able to go out and win them?  What do you attribute that to?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I must admit I was a little surprised, especially the way I played in Chicago the week following Colonial.  I thought I'd be more mentally drained.  I didn't think I was going to be able to focus right away.  I came off really hot and shot 10-under the first day.  McDonald's, on the other hand, I felt like I had more time to get back into the swing of things.  The McDonald's is so important to me.  Obviously, you never know if you're going to win, but I did feel I was playing really good coming into the tournament.  I'm glad I performed so well for four days.  
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thank you very much.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT