BANK OF AMERICA COLONIAL
May 23, 2003
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TODD BUDNICK:  Like to welcome Annika Sorenstam to the interview room.  Well, it certainly has been a delight to have you here this week.  I think that we have certainly, you've certainly changed the way people look at golf today.  Why don't you, why don't we start by just talking a little bit about the experience. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well I'm very delighted to be here this week.  It's been wonderful in so many ways.  And I have learned a lot and experienced a lot.  It's been a lot of pressure, a lot of emotion.  I want to come back tomorrow though.  But I gave it all.  I tried.  I gave everything I had.  It's been a lot of fun from Monday.  And I've enjoyed every moment. 
TODD BUDNICK:  You took a deep breath before you went out there today.  Talk a little bit about your thoughts right before the round and then coming up 18. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well I felt a little better today than I did yesterday.  I wasn't as nervous on the first tee.  I hit a good tee shot on the first hole, was pretty happy about that.  But just didn't feel as comfortable over the ball as I did yesterday.  I felt like I was just trying to save par the first two holes.  And I couldn't really find that rhythm that I had yesterday.  But I kept trying and trying.  And the last six holes I was pretty much trying to make it from the fairway.  I figured never give up.  And but it was a great day.  And then when the guys again that I played with were so sweet.  Actually I got two phone numbers, so that's pretty good. 
(Laughter.)
TODD BUDNICK:  Tell us, did the course change at all from yesterday to today?  A little dryer conditions?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, a little dryer.  But not really a lot.  I still think I didn't get as much roll off the fairway as I expected this week.  And I still I could fire at the flags if I had the opportunity if I was in the fairway.  So I thought the greens would speed up a little bit.  But didn't really have the feel that I did today.  But I loved the golf course.  As a true test.  And I really tested myself and from start to finish.  And that's why I'm here.  So I have a lot to be proud of and then also I've got a lot of experience and so I'm very thankful. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Questions?
Q.  Ask you two questions.  First of all, what message do you think you may have so much has been made of you being here.  Do you hope women, young women, young women golfers can learn something from what you have done here?  And secondly, can you talk about we have all wanted to talk about the historical significance of what you've done here?  I know you were just here to play but can you take a step back and talk about the historical significance of this?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, first of all, I think that I just feel very fortunate to do what I do.  And for me to come here, get the opportunity to really push myself and live my dream and I hope other women and girls feel the same way that they just got to follow their heart.  And that's why I'm here.  I just want to push myself and do what I love to do the best.  And yeah, it's been really a historical moment this whole week.  To be part of all this, this is something that I will never forget.  I got so much support from my TOUR and all these people out here and I wish I played a little better today and we could continue the next two days.  But I mean the people that cheered me on was, it's been so wonderful and I hope they had a good time as well.  I think they all made this week so special. 

Q.  You've been, if you didn't score perhaps the way you would have liked, particularly over the second nine, it seemed as if the fans never left you, supported you all the way.  And that walk up 18 was something that most people wait for a Sunday afternoon for.  What was that like?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well all day the crowds have been so supportive.  And they were cheering for me when I made bogey even.  They just wanted me to keep going.  They kept screaming, make more birdies, so I mean they were there with me the whole round.  And it was just an electrical feeling out there.  The crowds were just fantastic.  I didn't want to let them down.  I just kept playing and playing and hoping that I will roll a few birdies in and anything will be possible. 

Q.  You said out there that this was way over your head.  What was over your head?  Was it the course, the competition, atmosphere?  And do you think without the, without such scrutiny that you could have done better?  You could have hung around better?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  All of the above.  It's been -- well first of all the attention is much more than I expected.  The course being a little longer even though I think the length wasn't a problem, it was just everything around it.  Being under the microscope and then when I didn't really perform as well as I think I can, I'm emotionally drained right now because I've give it all I had.  And with all the preparation I've done the last few months, it's been, it's wearing on me.  But that's what I had to do to come here and perform my best. 

Q.  A couple of things.  Can you just take us through your emotions when you sunk that final par putt on 18.  We saw some tears.  Was there relief and also you came this close, do you feel that you said that this is a one shot deal.  Do you think at some point you might ever reconsider and try this again?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, I won't reconsider.  I'm very thankful and honored to have been here and but I know where I belong.  And I'm going to go back with all the experience that I learned this week and I want to win tournament, I want to set records and this week here is going to help me to do that.  So why the tears come is, I don't know, I didn't want it to end.  And then the guys I played with were so nice. 

Q.  Take us through where you believe you lost your composure or your swing or where it started to go downhill for you. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well my third shot on one wasn't as good as yesterday.  And then it's mostly my approach shots on the front nine.  And then on the back nine I think I hit it better, but didn't putt as well.  I kind of had lost the feel in my putter, in my lag putts.  And that made it difficult to score. 

Q.  Talked about going back to the LPGA you're playing in Chicago last week, given all that happened this week are and all the expectations how difficult will it be for you to get up and be tournament ready for next week?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  How difficult it will be to get ready?  Is that the question? 

Q.  Given all the all that you went through this week. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I got the weekend off, so I got some time to rest.  And then it's next day is a three day tournament.  So I got a lot of days.  I just want this week to kind of sink in and gather all, gather everything and I'm going to be happy to go to Chicago next week. 

Q.  That was more of a -- this was more of a statement.  I had a six sisters, three younger and three older, and if they won they cried and if they lost they cried.  So when I saw you coming up 18 I knew you was going to show some type of emotions.
(Laughter.)
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's keep it to questions. 

Q.  You say you were so overwhelmed and the feeling out there was electric, do you have any idea why people responded to you the way they did?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Because I'm living a dream that I want to live.  And I'm doing what I want to do.  Sorry. 
(Laughter.) I would rather have a three footer. 
(Laughter.) Can we go with short answers? 
TODD BUDNICK:  Take another question over here.
Q.  Part of this emotion is part of the reason I know when you walked up 18 you were giving the crowd a hand.  And could you just sense what you were doing for them?  I know we did a lot for you or they did a will the for you, but could you get the sense of really what you have done for this tournament and for them?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well I really don't know.  I just wanted to thank them because they were so nice to me.  So supportive.  Even though I was struggling the last few holes and they kept pushing me on, you know, it's not too late, you can still do it.  So I just wanted to thank them for the whole week and everything.  It's so much fun to, when you play the game or a sport that you love and then so many people come out and watch you play, and respect what you do, it's so special.  And if I was here and played and nobody was watching, it wouldn't be the same. 

Q.  Yesterday you led the entire pack of men when it came to accuracy and you've also said distance wasn't a problem.  Have any of the male players who said you couldn't keep up with them come to you and said that they were wrong?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No. 
(Laughter.) But I've had some guys that have said less positive things come up and tell me that they were proud of me.  And for them to come up and say that and I admire them for doing that. 

Q.  Two quick questions if I could.  Same pants as yesterday or different pair?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Different pair. 

Q.  And is anything in your contracts that would obligate you or assume that you're playing professional golf in 2005?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  If I have to play? 

Q.  Do your contracts  --
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Through 2005?

Q.  Do your contracts assume that you're going to continue to play professional golf in 2005?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't think so.  I do have contracts that go through 2005.  But it doesn't say that I have to. 

Q.  Do you expect that you'll continue to play TOUR golf in 2005?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I really don't know. 

Q.  You said on the first tee yesterday you can do it.  You said you said that to yourself.  And now you said today I want to be here for the weekend.  Is this one of the things you're taking away, you can do it and that you can make the cut here and that you can compete with the best in the world?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well I'm far away from the leaderboard.  That's obvious.  But I'm very proud of the way I played all week under all the circumstances.  And I think yesterday proved that and today I didn't feel like I played my best and I scrambled to 74.  It's far from making the cut.  I know that.  But this is my first chance.  And sometimes you got to do things over and over again to get good at it. 

Q.  Kind of a follow-up to that.  If a woman can prove she can play on this TOUR consistently or play with the men consistently, whether it's you or someone 10 years from now, should she be able to play on this TOUR?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   If she qualifies, yes. 

Q.  I spoke to a lot of women and young girls today, some of them 10 years old that have never followed the game of golf before.  And they only came out here today because they wanted to see you.  How do you feel about the fact, about inspiring women and young girls that might be interested in doing dance or other things that might be taking up the game of golf now?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well that's obviously very flattering in many ways.  And I remember when I was a little girl and I looked up to a lot of the players.  Either on the Swedish TOUR or the European Tour or the LPGA and I wanted to be like them.  And if I impacted any girl around the world to come out here and watch golf and learn, and like I said before, follow their dream, if it's golf or if it's singing or whatever.  That's wonderful. 

Q.  You already were a superstar coming into this tournament, but now with all the attention how do you return to some sense of normalcy in your life?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Oh, I look forward to it. 
(Laughter.) But I'm going to just take it easy for a few days.  Maybe just sleep for a week and then it's back to work.  I have other goals I want to achieve.  The season is long.  I got three more Majors on my tour that I want to win.  And other records that I want to beat.  So I know I will get the energy and I will give it all I got the next few months. 

Q.  Why do you think it was that you couldn't get the feel with the putter and then was it the same way when you were chipping?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well that's the way I react when I'm nervous.  I lose feel in my hands.  And I have hit thousands of putts, I've hit thousands of chips.  And I know how I react.  And you would think I would learn from that.  But next time I get in this situation I know I won't be as nervous.  So hopefully I will improve.  But I know exactly what to work on. 

Q.  Earlier this week you compared this to climbing Mount Everest.  Do you feel like you climbed it and is it this hard to climb?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I've climbed as high as I can.  And it's worth every step of it.  And like I said, I won't do this again, but I will always remember it. 

Q.  I know you said all along that this was just to test yourself, but what impact do you think this now will have on the LPGA TOUR, the attention it gets, the coverage it gets?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well we'll see what happens.  I mean I know with all the support I got and I think the other ladies feel like they want to push themselves.  And hopefully with this week we all are just trying to get better and we will take women's golf to new different level and hopefully way higher. 

Q.  Just want to clarify two points.  One, you said you know where you belong.  Does that mean a woman doesn't belong on this TOUR?  And secondly, towards another question you said that to some extent a woman should be able to play out here, if she qualifies.  Could you define what you mean by qualify?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah.  When I meant by belong is I don't regret anything about coming here.  But I know where I want to play.  I know where I want to pursue my career and I do think that if a lady is good enough to, either get an invite or if she went to TOUR school or Monday qualify, whatever, she should have any right to come here.  This is, I would think, the TOUR for the best players in the world.  And in my case this is not something that I want to keep pushing and pushing.  I know where I want to play.  But this has been such an experience in so many ways I'm thankful that I was here. 

Q.  There were two other characters in this drama, that was Dean and Aaron.  And you told us so many great anecdotes about them yesterday what was it like today, what other things and talk about maybe the role they had, because they really seemed to be huge part of this experience for you. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, they were.  Well we started yesterday and they were maybe not as nervous as I was, but they were nervous.  And the way we looked at it all three of us as a great experience and for them it was for future tournaments on this TOUR and for me it was for future tournaments on my TOUR.  And we wanted to cherish the moment and learn from this.  And so we were all just enjoying the moment.  And we kept saying that all the other groups are missing out because we were having all the fun.  And that's how it felt like for two days.  And those guys are very supportive and they made me feel really welcome and they said so many nice things.  So I don't know what would have happened if I hadn't played with them, but they sure made this week even more special. 

Q.  Was this the week you became Annika for the rest of the world?  You're a nationally known figure in Sweden and even compared to Borg, which is your favorite, I know.  What are your feelings about that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't really know at this point, but getting a lot of attention, the last few months, and Borg is a role model of mine and he has been for many years.  I don't know if I can be compared with him.  But I sure respect him for everything he's done.  And if I can just do anything that's done, that's an honor. 

Q.  We saw your agent out on the course and he said Tiger did call you last night.  Can you tell us anything he said?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well he just, first of all he told me he thought I did a good job.  And keep it going.  And then he told me to roll the, what does he call it?  The flat club, roll the blade.  Which means roll the putter.  Make some putts.  And I said I would try.  He just told me to just keep my head down a little bit and shoot a few under and you're in contention.  That was pretty much what he said.  But he really wished me all the best.  And I was thrilled to get his call because he said he watched me.  And he said I hit it straighter than him.  So and I agreed. 
(Laughter.). 

Q.  After yesterday's round you said it felt like you had played 36 holes.  Did fatigue play any sort of a factor in your round today and if so how much of a factor was it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I missed the last part I'm sorry.

Q.  Did fatigue play any sort of a role in your round today and if so, how much of a factor was it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Fatigue?  Oh, no, I have so much energy.  I mean just being here just gets me fired up.  So I mean it's -- I did not run out of energy that's for sure.  Even though it felt like I've been here a long time.  But it wasn't that didn't stop me from playing. 

Q.  Are you going to stay for the rest of the weekend and see what's happening here and also after everything you've been through this week does everything else this season maybe become a little anticlimactic?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't think so.  I should answer the first question first.  I don't know.  I don't think I'll stay here.  I think I'm going to head home and just try and find myself and gather everything and but, no, I mean it's, I'm going to be excited coming to my tour.  A lot of players have already called me and they want me to talk about this week.  So I have a lot of experience to share and I look forward to seeing them all. 

Q.  A question that's a bit difficult and maybe another one that's a bit easier.  First of all you said before that if you don't make the cut, if someone doesn't achieve their goal they sometimes have to try again.  At the same time you've said this is a one time only thing.  Is there a contradiction in that statement?  And the difficult question I would like to ask you, can you respond to perhaps the hurt you felt when you heard some of the, some men say you didn't belong here?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   That's a difficult question.  Like I said earlier regarding if I belong here or not, I've always said that everybody's entitled to their opinion.  I was just very fortunate to get an invite and I'm very proud of getting one.  And I wanted to make the best out of it as I could.  Like I said, a lot of them have come up to me and said how proud they were of me this morning.  So I don't hold anything against anybody.  I'm just thankful to be here and most of the guys have been very, very positive and so supportive and I could not have asked for any berry exception than I have received. 

Q.  What did you learn about your self this week?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   That I love what I do. 

Q.  You said you started scrambling early, did you feel on the fifth tee that you were holding it together pretty well and what happened on that tee shot?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well first of all that is the hardest golf hole I've ever played.  Every day I would dread coming to the tee.  And you had to hit a nice little fade there.  A long fade.  And yesterday I hit it dead straight and it went down to the left and in the little area.  And today I wanted to not cut the corner, but I wanted to hit a nice little fade to give me a good shot to the green.  And the ball started a little more right and faded and hit the tree.  And I think it just dropped straight down.  You know it's a long hole when you hit driver, 8-iron, 8-iron.  And it's a par-4.  So.  But I was only I believe two over on that hole for the whole week.  So that's not too shabby. 
TODD BUDNICK:   Before we finish up, Annika, why don't you tell them a little bit about the two calls you received in the scoring tent from Commissioner Finchem and Commissioner Votaw.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, yeah, that was very special obviously signing my scorecard and my first, like you said, I got a phone call from the commissioner of the PGA TOUR, Mr.  Finchem, and just wanted to tell me that he was proud of me and for this week and what I did for the game.  And he was just very proud of me.  And I never talked to him before, so that was special for him to call me.  And then the commissioner of the LPGA, Mr.  Votaw called as well.  And he was saying how the whole tour was proud of me and what I've done for them and that I should be proud of what I've done.  So that was a special call as well. 
TODD BUDNICK:   I think we're all very proud of you today.  Thank you very much for joining us here this week and again, it was a delight. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT