KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 28, 2003
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR:  Nice finish on 18.  Even par today.  Still second place, so you didn't lose any ground.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Lost one ground, didn't I?  (Laughter). 
MODERATOR:  One position.  Must feel pretty good getting birdie on the 18th. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Birdie on the last always makes you feel better, end the day on a good note. 
For me personally, it was kind of a rollercoaster a little bit.  Not a lot of pars, a lot of birdies, a lot of bogeys.  I must say it was difficult today because the wind was swirling constantly on the front.  Then on the back, it would gust at certain points.  It was very difficult to figure out what club to hit on certain holes.  I'm glad to be done, to be in the clubhouse.  See what kind of conditions we get tomorrow. 
I do feel really good about my game.  Like I said, I thought it was difficult today. 
MODERATOR:  Questions. 
Q.  (Inaudible)? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Difficult, yup. 

Q.  Given the conditions, are you pleased to get into the clubhouse with an even par round today?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes and no.  I mean, I think I played good.  I mean, there were just several shots I just couldn't believe.  One that comes to my mind is the par 3 14.  I got 136.  You know, I hit pitching wedge, I'm way over the green.  What do you hit, sand wedge from 136?  You know, I just couldn't believe it.  It's like I hit good shots.  Either they would just go away with the wind or just stop in the wind. 
That aspect, yeah, I'm glad with even par.  I felt like I hit the ball better.  I just couldn't control how the wind was behaving with my ball. 

Q.  It wasn't so much that the wind blows, because it blows all the time, it was blowing different ways each hole?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  On the Front  9 it was different.  For example, (inaudible) into the wind with a tee shot, then actually the other way around, 4-wood, second one into the wind.  My second shot into 2, supposed to be downwind, I'm hitting it into the wind.  I feel kind of worn out because I've been thinking so much on the court.  I was throwing up grass constantly, asking my caddie at the last minute, "Is the wind still there?"  That made it tough on the front.  On the back, I think the wind picked up, then it would stop, then it would start over.  You kind of had to time it.  That's not always so easy. 

Q.  Does your body, nervous system, tell you which tournaments are majors, which are regular events?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think so.  My stomach tells me what's going on.

Q.  How does this week feel different?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I mean, I know when I drive to the golf course, I always feel something in my stomach.  I know that there's something going on.  It seems like once I come to the golf course or actually once I'm on the first tee then, you know, I'm just back to normal. 
I feel it definitely coming to the golf course. 

Q.  4-under after two rounds going into the weekend here, that's about the position you've been, maybe even a stroke better, the last couple of years.  You say you feel good about your game.  Do you feel good about going into the weekend, your chances at this point? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think I'm in good position.  My goal is to be in contention on Sunday.  I'm here hopefully to win.  I feel good about my chances.  However, I've got to play good golf, I've got to be smart.  The weekend's when it starts.  I have to keep everything under control. 
But, I mean, I'm right there.  We've had some difficult conditions.  I think the scores show that.  We'll see what kind of conditions we get this weekend.  But I'm going to continue to, you know, play the way I've done.  I mean, I've been smart I think off the tee.  I think I've been smart playing my approach shots, even though they might come up short or long.  The wind has played a role there.  But I think I've hit a lot of good clubs. 

Q.  Given that it was so difficult today, how good was Patricia's 68?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, very, very good.  I don't know how many scores are under par.  But, you know, I felt good about my round.  Four shots better, I'm sure she's very pleased.  I thought she was hitting great shots today.  She had a lot of courage.  She was going for the flag on several occasions where I would not have considered it.  But, you know, she was brave, and it paid off. 

Q.  Is that a new head cover on one of your fairway woods with the pom-pom?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, it is (laughter). 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's yellow and blue.  I don't know if I have to explain that.  It says 54 on it, actually. 

Q.  Do you think because you've been in this position countless times that it gives you an advantage going into the weekend, not physically but mentally?  Do you think Patricia is thinking, "I don't have a big lead here, I have to watch who's right behind me"? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it's always exciting to be up on top going into the weekend.  I mean, personally I'm glad that I have the experience.  You know, playing the last group in a major is always a little nerve-wracking.  The more you do it, the more comfortable you feel.  This is my 10th year.  I've done it many times. 
I'm still going to have butterflies tomorrow morning.  I don't know what she is going to feel like.  That's what you want, you want to be in the last few groups.

Q.  Will you have many butterflies tomorrow? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I mean, every day is important in a major.  Like I said yesterday, you can't win a tournament on Thursday, but you can lose it.  Same thing tomorrow, I've got to be patient.  Normally the scores, they don't get lower by the weekend.  I mean, whoever can kind of keep in control will do the best during the weekend. 
I'm just going to try and play smart, not get too ahead of myself.  If I can play aggressive, I will. 
MODERATOR:  Can we do your score card. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Do you have a lot of ink? 
Bogey No.  1, 9-iron, 3-putt. 
MODERATOR:  How far was your par putt there? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Six feet. 
Birdie No. 2.  7-wood on the green, 2-putt. 
No.  4, birdie, 8-iron to eight feet. 
Bogey No.  6.  6-iron, 3-putt.  My par putt was five feet. 
Birdie No.  9.  4-wood to short of the green, chipped it up to two feet. 
Birdie 13, pitching wedge to three feet. 
14, bogey.  Pitching wedge, chip, 2-putt.  My par putt was 20 feet. 
16, bogey.  6-iron, 3-putt.  My par putt was four feet. 
Bogey 17.  6-iron, chip, chip, one-putt.  The putt was three feet. 
Birdie 18.  Sand wedge to nine feet. 

Q.  First chip on 17, you were trying to just flop that up there, got under it?  Was that the rough, the lie, both?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  The lie wasn't great because the ball was below my feet.  Right next to me was looked like a sodded area.  I was looking at it, it looked a little muddy.  I figured I have to make sure I really hit it.  When I did, it just came under the ball.  I was trying to hit it high because the pin was only eight on.  I wanted something high and soft.  Came under it too much. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT