KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 2003
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR:  Patricia got her first major championship.  How did you feel, how did the round go.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think I got off to a good start, birdied the first two holes, and felt like I was putting a little pressure on Patricia, and then took the lead after 12, felt really good at that time.  And then unfortunately I made two mistakes on 13 and 14, and then after that I was just trying to chase her the last few holes.  And it really was a fun day.  I think I played a little better today than I had the last three days.  And it was exciting.  It was fun.  I also enjoyed playing with Michelle Wie, which was quite an experience.  But it was a good day. 

Q.  Was your back okay today, was your back bothering you?  I saw yesterday some signs?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  My what? 

Q.  Your back. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I have no problem with my back, as far as I know. 

Q.  What did you think about Michelle's game, looking at it up close and personal like that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, she's very impressive, just 13 years old.  She has a great future ahead of her, and I want to say it's the next generation, and if any sign of what it's to become, it's a great future.  She was very nice, and I had a great time.

Q.  Can you talk about 13 and 14, the putt, and then also the tee shot, what happened on each of those two holes?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, on 13 I missed a short putt, probably three feet for par.  And then on 14 I had pitching wedge in my hand, and obviously it was about a too short.  I had to carry 125, and I carried less than 125.  So I don't know if you want to call it a good bounce or not, but it cleared the water going all the way back, and just trying to make the best out of that and made bogey there.  So it cost me two shots in two holes.

Q.  On 13, was that the line that you were on when you putted?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't know, I'm not going to analyze it, it went left, that's all I know.

Q.  Annika, were you disappointed or frustrated in the front 9 when a lot of those birdie putts just weren't going in for you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  A little bit.  I tried all week, and I have not made a lot of putts.  I hit some great shots.  I hit some less good shots, but, you know, I've stayed so patient all week.  And my attitude I think has been great, it's just -- it's been tough.  I've hit a lot of lips, and sometimes at these tournaments, you need some good breaks.  And the birdie putts I've had, it's been very short, but then on the other hand I made a lot of bogeys, which is -- normally I don't make a lot of mistakes.  It's been a little different this week.  It's been up-and-down, but my attitude, I think, has been great.  I've focused and tried until the last putt went in.  I give myself a lot of credit for that.  However, I wish my game would have been a little better.

Q.  Given that it was kind of an up-and-down week, when you finally took the lead on 12 with the birdie, did you think things may be going my way again?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  What was the last part? 

Q.  Did you kind of feel like, okay, things are finally starting to go my way?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I felt really good at that time, but then again there's still so many holes left, and anything can happen on this golf course.  I didn't want to get ahead of myself.  I did a great job on 13, I had a 9-iron in, and there's really no excuse for making bogey there on 13.  And you're going to miss a shot once in a while, and that's what happened on 14.  But still you don't 3-putt when you have a birdie opportunity like that.

Q.  How would you compare the way Patricia played No. 18 here today and the way Jean Van de Velde played at Carnoustie?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  The only similarity is I guess they're friends, that's about it.  She played really well all week.  I played with her for four days.  It didn't seem like she changed her approach to the game at all.  It looked like she was aggressive all week.  And hats off to her.  She played great.  She did well.  To not have the experience of being in the last group in a major, and to play solid like that on this golf course, I think it's wonderful.

Q.  What do you think is responsible for Michelle's good performance in this tournament this week?  Why do you think Michelle did so well in this tournament for somebody so young?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Why?  She has a lot of talent.  She's six feet tall.  She has a wonderful swing.  There's a lot of combinations.  Like I said I'm very impressed, fantastic how she performed this week in many aspects of the game.  I like her attitude.  And put that all together and you've got a wonderful player.

Q.  Patricia talked about how she learned from you and the six rounds you played together, and she's picked up things from you.  Do you think you taught her things out on the course, and was she a good student, apparently?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I didn't mean to give her all my secrets.  But -- well, it's very nice of her to say.  Patricia and I are good friends, and I've known her from playing on the European Tour.  I think that's a compliment.  So if it helped her, I guess that works for her.

Q.  You almost pulled it off today.  You almost successfully defended your title.  How is the year shaping up for you, and how do you assess your chances of defending your other nine LPGA titles as the year goes on?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Ten.  Well, so far so good.  I finished third and second.  Hopefully it's going in the right direction.  It's great to be back on Tour, and start to get in the tournament mode.  Two good finishes.  I hope the season is going to turn out to be another good one. 

Q.  Were you trying to get it on 18 in two today?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, I was trying to be so aggressive.  And I was trying to reach the green in two, and that's my chance.  And I hit it so hard that I blocked it with my hips and it went all the way to the right.  It was an aggressive play.  I had nothing to lose, it was all or nothing off the tee.

Q.  The fans are so aware of Colonial, and your playing in it.  Did it come up at all during the round?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Oh, all the time.  People will cheer me on, it could be between 11, 12, good luck at Colonial, or it could be on the second hole or so forth, I hear it all the time.  It's nice.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Right now, it's been this week.  I have a lot of goals that I would like to achieve.  Colonial is obviously an exciting thing for me, and I would look forward to it.  But right now it's here and now.  And this tournament means a lot to me.  So obviously I get pumped up hearing about it, but I want to perform here, and that's what matters to me.

Q.  Did the media put too much pressure on you about Colonial during this tournament?  How do you judge that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't think so.  I do talk about it, but to me Colonial is just another week.  It's going to be a learning experience, totally, and that's why I'm doing it.  But I have a lot of things I want to achieve on this Tour.  I'm not going to focus on one week.  This week was the week I was hoping for.

Q.  How has Patricia improved the most in the years that you've known her in her game?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I must say that the last four days -- well, I should actually include the rounds in Phoenix, her short game has been very impressive, her chipping.  To chip if for eagle on the 2nd.  Every chip was a tap-in, was a footer.  So I think that's what's really improved.  She's always hit the ball well.  But when she missed, she made it up-and-down, and it was really easy for her, so I want to say that.
Birdied number one, pitching wedge to 3 feet.
Birdied No. 2, forward on the green, 2-putt.  The eagle putt was 20 feet.  And the birdie putt was two feet.
No. 8, bogey, 7-iron, 3-putt.
Birdied No. 10, 8-iron to 6 feet.
Birdied 12, 9-iron to 12 feet.
Bogeyed 13, 9-iron, 3-putt, and the putt was 3 feet for par.
Bogeyed 14, pitching wedge, missed the green, chipped it up, two putt. 

Q.  Is Patricia chatty on the golf course?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  She likes to talk, yeah, she does.  I try to answer in French, to keep it short, because my French is very, very limited.  




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT