GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 26, 2021
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Annika, I want to start with that last hole, No. 9.  When you were getting up there did you realize where you stood on the leaderboard?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   You know, I haven't really been looking at all, but I remember I asked Anna, How do I find out where I stand?  And then she said, You can probably ask somebody.  I said, Well, there is a scoreboard up there.  And then I said, You know, I didn't come here to layup, so I took a 3-wood and just figured I have nothing to lose.
 I had a pretty good shot at it, and then just did a little fluffer out of the rough and then all of a sudden it was like, wow, this thing looks a little longer than I wanted.
 I did what I could.  The goal was to shoot under par and I did, and so that's all I can do.  Whatever happens, happens from here.  It's been great.  Two wonderful days.  To play with Madelene and Anna was also just kind of the cream on the top, so it's been wonderful.
 Q. Yesterday we said one birdie is better than none on the scorecard.  Today you had three.  What was that like for you once you got the ball rolling?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, once I got it rolling I had a lot of chances; just couldn't make them on the front.  So you put a lot of pressure on yourself knowing you're not making any ground.  On the contrary, then if I make a bogey all of a sudden I'm losing a lot of ground.  So I put a lot of pressure on myself.
 The goal was to be a little bit more aggressive.  I was at times; not as much as I should have.  Overall I'm very pleased.  A little chip-in there didn't hurt, but, yeah, I look at it as a great round.  I'm not going to analyze it too much.
 Q. Over there in the scoring tent I know Will gave you one of the biggest hugs I think I've ever seen.  What did it feel like when they came up to you telling you we're just so proud of you, mom?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, my kids are huggers and so is my husband, so I appreciate the hugs.  It means a lot to have the support and have the love and just knowing they're out here.  Today they should have been in school but they're not and I think they're having a good day.  Everybody is having a good day, so I'm happy.
 Q. Can you tell us about your conversation with Dan, the rules official, after the round?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Who?
 Q. The rules official.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Oh, yeah.  He came up to me, and yesterday on No. 5 when I hooked it when I was next to the fence and we were just discussing rules and he was there to help me.  Asked a few questions, but I followed his directions, and so he wanted to apologize.  He said he was wrong.  I could have opened the gate and I could've played.
 But he said this is going to hurt me.  This is eating me inside.  I said, Please, please don't feel that way.  I appreciate it.  He said, I won't make that mistake again.  I said, Well, I won't hit there anymore.
 You know, those things happen.  The rules have changed.  That's the way it goes.
 Q. Did you go to rules school one time?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I did.  I went to rules school a long time ago.  I'm not sure it's relevant at this point, but I did because I wanted to be able to know the rules.  I wanted to be able to use them as an advantage.  I think it's important to know what you're doing, especially if you're doing this for a living.  You should know what's right or not.
 I have to admit I'm not as briefed as I should be.  When he stood there I trusted him and that was it.
 Q. Will you take a little bit closer look at those rules now before the U.S. Women's Open this summer?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I should, yeah.  I mean, it's a tricky rule.  It's not something -- I believe he said it changed in 2019, so even the people in the industry might have a little difficulty knowing.
 It is what it is.  We all learn, and that's what makes these rules a little bit tricky.  Yeah, I should at least know how to do the basic things?
 Q. Do you have a place to stay next week in Ocala?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Mike.  Thank you, though.
 Q. Take us through your feelings compared to yesterday.  I know you said you were pretty nervous.  How did you feel today?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I felt really good.  I didn't do any meditation today.  It was too early really.  Teeing off at 8:00 makes it an early morning.  I just went out and said, I'm going to play.  It's been a beautiful day, no wind, no nothing.  The greens were soft.  Everything was just perfect.
 I said, Just go out there and play and enjoy the company and the people out here, and I did.  I hit some really good shots I thought and I wasn't as protective as I was yesterday.  Yesterday I was trying to just maybe play overly smart today, just release the club a little bit more.  I think that worked out.
 Q. If you were back yesterday on 5 and could have moved the gate, what would you have done?  What kind of shot did you have?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well...
 UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:   141, 161.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   There you go.  I mean, I dropped it, as you know, only two pub links away, so I think the lineup would've been the same.  If I would've opened the gate and would've stayed there -- actually there are two gates.  I was almost in the middle -- and it wouldn't have touched the ball.  Who knows.  I mean, for a fact I wouldn't have dropped, so that's one shot, so we'll see.
 Q. Tell us about the chip-in real quick.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, No. 7.  That hole is playing really long for me.  It has the last month or so.  Hooked my drive a little bit and then took a 5-wood and tried to punch it under a tree and went to the right.  I have to admit I practice that shot quite a bit, because the few divots, a lot of those divots are mine.  I happen to end up there a lot.
 I took my 58-degree, I picked a spot, and I know it's coming right to left.  Luckily hit the middle of the flag and went in.  I was kind of relieved because sometimes you need that little momentum.  I always felt like every birdie putt I had felt so forced.  This one just kind of happened and then was great going to 8 knowing I was doing quite well.
 Q. One to wrap it up.  What would it mean to you to be able to play the weekend here at your home course?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I was planning on taking Ava to volleyball tomorrow, but I might have to have somebody else take her.
 No, kidding aside, it's just a bonus.  It really is.  There is nothing you can do at this point.  I'm going to grab a nice lunch and hang out with some friends and family and we'll see happens.
 It's been a lot of energy put into these two days, so hopefully get a good night's rest and see what happens tomorrow.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT