KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 2, 2013
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KRAIG KANN:   We'd like to welcome Annika Sorenstam we Kraft Nabisco Championship.   Not only the first major for the LPGA this year, but the first major in championship golf this year.   I am Kraig Kann, Chief communications officer for the LPGA.   I will say that one time. 
I am joined by somebody you recognize very well.   Ten‑time major winner, three times jumping in Poppy's Pond, leaping in Poppy's Pond.   There is a photo right there in case you wanted to bring back a memory.   Annika Sorenstam is here.   Annika, thank you so much for being here.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Thank you.
KRAIG KANN:   You have a huge role this week.   Why don't you explain what's that is like and how it all came about.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Sure.   First of all, it's great to be back in the Palm Springs for the Kraft Nabisco Championship.   This is one of the premier events in our schedule, and has always been one of my favorites.   Going in the pond or not, it's always a great tournament to be part of.
I was approached about a year ago to be part of this event.   I said, I would love to.   They said, Well, would you like to host the celebrity pro‑am?   I said, I would love to do that.   I think the celebrity pro‑am is something that makes this tournament special.   We all know the celebrities come down to Palm Springs.   Seems to be the mecca for people that love golf.   They make the tournament the way it is through the years with Dinah Shore and her friends. 
It's obviously an honor for me to be a part of that.   For me to come back here brings back a lot of memories.
KRAIG KANN:   Can you talk about the importance of this event on the schedule, the first major championship of the year?   What does it mean to those who are out on the range right now or on the practice putting green? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I think every player loves the major championships.   There's something special about it, especially an event like this that's been going on for over 40 years.   There is so much tradition.   We are in the same venue, which makes it even more special.   It's kind of like the Masters.   We all come here and remember shots that the champions have hit.   We remember the famous leaps into Poppy's Pond. 
It's the history I think that means a lot?   You look at the trophy, at the paths on the 18th and you see all the names of the players that we all look up to and that we all try to copy one way or another.   I think it's very, very special. 
This is the time of year we're ready for the majors.   Both the men and women have been playing somewhere around the world, and now it's time to start looking to the championships.
KRAIG KANN:   You are the honorary host for the celebrity pro‑am.   You are also teeing it up tomorrow.   Do you have a target number in mind?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   59. 
KRAIG KANN:   59? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   We'll see after how many holes.
KRAIG KANN:   Do you get nervous to tee it up tomorrow or is it just all fun? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It's just fun.   I got some new clubs.   Actually been hitting some new Callaway stuff out on the range.   I feel ready, yeah. 
KRAIG KANN:   We'll take questions and I we also have an announcement in just a couple moments.
Questions for Annika? 

Q.   Welcome back. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Thank you.

Q.   Gabe tells me there is a spot open Thursday if you want to play, too.   When you first came to the tournament, seems like so many of the players that are in the tournament now maybe never had a chance to meet Dinah Shore and didn't necessarily know her from a foreign player standpoint who the tournament was or she was or the.   When you first came here, did you take a while to understand the history of it all?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Absolutely with, as you mentioned, the foreign aspect.   But you come here and it doesn't take long because you feel it and you see it and just being part of it with all the fans and the supporters, they love it. 
I have had chance to play with Amy a few times, Alcott.   Just listening to her stories how this all came together, that's what mikes this tournament so special.   It's got history.   It has this special feel.   The venue and the location tis time, that's why it's so special.
It's one of the tournament you just can't wait to come around.   Now it's here, and you see the players and they're all there absorbing everything.   Like I said, the 18th is special with the grandstand and that nice wall they have of champions. 
Again, we all remember the shots the players have hit to have won.   If you ask the players, I think in their mind we may not admit it, but we all think about, How am I going to get into this pond?   Am I diving?   Am I stumbling?   Am I jumping?   We all think about this when we come to Palm Springs.

Q.   I think this is your first time back since you left and finished second that one year.   When you step out here, what are the things that come back to you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   So many memories.   You know, I think this is a wonderful golf course.   I have so much respect for this golf course, and always felt like it was in good shape.   You had to really play some good golf to come out here.   Remember hours on the putting greens getting used to the speed.
I think this was a big food tent before.   This is where I came and had ice cream.   That was always special. 

Q.   It still is. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Oh, it is?   Well perfect. 
I don't know.   Again, it's the history.   Mingling with some of the players in the locker room, you know, like I said, it's first major of the year. 

Q.   How do you look at some of the young players today?   When you're out with a Lydia Ko, do you feel old or young?   Do you remember being that age and playing?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   You know, I don't remember being 15 and playing in a major championship and winning golf tournaments.   I started playing at the age 12.   I ran into Lydia in the lunch room, and she came up to me and she was so cute.   She said, I'm Lydia Ko.   I said I know.   First of all, it said Lydia on her necklace.   I said, I've I seen you on TV.   She said, You have?   I said, Yeah.   I admire what you've achieved.
I don't necessarily feel younger.   I do feel experienced when I'm here.   But it's fun to try catch up with some of the players that you haven't seen in a while.   This morning I was the starter for the Legends Junior Challenge, and it was Betsy King and Kathy Whitworth, I mean, you name it.   And that was really special. 
Then you come to the range and now you have the young ones beating ball after ball.   Brings back memories, but also the game has changed.   The faces out here have changed, but for the good. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   First of all, it's very international, I would say.   I mean, we've seen that the last 15, 20 years.   Obviously with Se Ri Pak's success we have seen a lot players from Asia.   That's a big deal.   I would say they seem younger and a lots more professional.   Seems like more of an entourage.   Coaches, physios, you name it. 
Bits it's stylish.   I think a lot players are stylish with colors, fashion.   They're very approachable.   They're good people, which is good for the game. 

Q.   Couple of weeks ago during the media day, you were on the screen, and I wrote down one quote, which says, this is not just a game; you come out and play, which means how difficult it is for a young woman or a man or an elderly man like myself to learn to play.   What sort of difficulties did you go through before you became an accomplished golfer? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I've tried every sport there is.   I grew up playing soccer, tennis and golf is one of the last sports I tried and one the hardest things I tried.   I think that's why I liked it so much.   Every day it changes and conditions are different.   I think that's what attracted me to the game. 
I think as far as golf goes, it's a tough support.   It's a mental game.   It's not just about having a good swing.   You've got to think right.   You've got to have the mind in the right place.   Again, that's why I love is it so much. 
You can go out here and just watch the players.   They're very tactical and strategic, but they're great athletes.   I think it's a combination of that that makes you play well.
KRAIG KANN:     The talent level so high right now on the tour.   You won Player of the Year eight times.   That battle right now for No. 1 in the world has been a really big story on the LPGA.   What's your sense of that battle, and do you wish you could come out and test yourself against those stars of the LPGA today?     Do you ever think about that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I don't think about that, but I remember what it was like.   I watch it now and I think it's fun.   I think it's a fun battle.   We all tune in.   It's so close.   It's a rivalry.   Knowing Yani for a few years it's been fun to watch her.   Obviously now with Stacy Lewis playing well and getting the No. 1 spot, I think it's terrific.   It creates a little competition.   I know most of the players want to be No. 1, so they're going to work harder and look up to the leader.
I think it's healthy for the game.   I remember when I was in that spot I was proud of it, but it took a lot of hard work.   It's almost tougher to take stay at the top than it is to get there.   To get there, you're looking at somebody, you're following somebody's path, and you almost seem to know what to do.
When you're up there you're alone and you have to find your own path.   You have to be creative and innovative and think outside of the box on how to stay there ans work harder.
So watching Stacy now, I think she had a quote somewhere where she said, I'm just going to enjoy it and not think too much.   I think she's a good face for the LPGA.
KRAIG KANN:   Do you think Yani thought about it too much and that pressure is something she's glad to get rid of for a little while, like she said?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I think just for a little while.   I know she is very hungry.   She is a competitor and she wants to be the No. 1 player.   I think this is giving her a carrot, some motivation.   The spotlight is always hard.   She's such a sweet person.   She wants to please everybody. 
In the end, it's hard to please herself and achieve what she really wanted to achieve.

Q.   Can you talk about everything you've done since you quote/unquote retired from golf?   Do you still feel as busy as you were when you were playing?   Some people fade away year after year in retirement, but you do so much more.   You always have.   Why that important to you, the golf related things you still do?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   First of all, it's fun.   This is my passion.   I'm still involved in the game on very different levels.   It's been four years, which have gone by very quickly. 
Yeah, I feel like I'm busier now than I've ever been.   It's the Annika Academy, a golf school in Orlando or my foundation, which we do junior initiatives.   We'll be talking about that in a little bit. 
But it's the clothing, it's golf design, wine.   I mean, you mention it.   These are all passions of mine.
I'm not someone that would just step away and put my feet on the couch and eat some chocolate.   That's not my style.   I love to be active and be part of the game.   Like I said, it's a fun ride.   And obviously being a mom and a wife is an important role of mine.   So feel lucky that I've been able to have a career but now I can kind of do what I want.
It's a good thing.
KRAIG KANN:   Speaking of being busy and having some things to spend your time on, this is a perfect segue to talk about a major announcement we're going to make today.   You've had a lot of awards that have been given to you, but I don't know how many have been named in your honor.   We have that announcement to make today. 
This is the Annika Award.   Would you like to share? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, it's something that's going to be very, very special.   I think many of you know that there is something called a Haskins Award that has been presented to the best collegiate male golfer for 41 years.   The Haskins committee came up to us and said, Hey, how about presenting an award like that to the best female collegiate golfer?   I said, I would love to do that.   What an honor.   I remember my time at the University of Arizona.   To be honest, I didn't really know there was an award. 
So I said, Yeah, I would love to do.   So starting this fall we're going to have an award, and it's voted by the peers, by the coaches, by the media.   They will throw in their candidates, and in the spring of 2014 will announce the Annika Award recipients.   We'll be presenting this award in the fall of '14 at an Annika collegiate event.   So we have an award and a tournament that will come in the next 12 months. 
So I'm thrilled to be able to put my name on this and be able to recognize the best female collegiate golfer.
KRAIG KANN:   The Annika Foundation in conjunction with the Haskins Commission, all working together to benefit the young players.   And they are getting better and better and better.   This is something you're really going to be able to build on and maybe get some kids in school that would maybe turn pro early.   Thoughts on that? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Absolutely.   I think we all want to encourage young girls to play the game, to stay in the game, and develop in the game.   This is one way to do that. 
My foundation an all about opportunities for young, aspiring junior golfers.   Like I said, I remember my time at college.   I think we should inspire the young ones to do and obviously encourage them do well and recognize the ones that do well.   I look forward to that.
And obviously when we have the tournament, to be able to do a little bit so more.   It's not just about having a competition.   It's about educating the players and preparing them for life on tour and be there as mentor if needed.
I'm really, really thrilled to be able to do this.   So glad we've got some members of the Haskins Commission here.   I want to think them for trusting me, I guess. 
Thank you. 
KRAIG KANN:   Let's talk a little bit about the tournament and where it will be. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   We're talking about putting it in central Florida.   Hopefully it would be in Orlando where I'm based.   This award will be presented by Golf Week and they're based there, too, so I think it's going to be a win‑win situation.
Golf Week has presented the award for all these years, so it'll be a nice tie. 
KRAIG KANN:   And the Annika Academy has been quite a big part of your life.   You're celebrating an anniversary.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   We are.   Fiver years already.   It's gone by really quickly.   It's a boutique golf school in Orlando, Florida where I share my passion for golf and fitness.   You know, we stay quite busy.   I do clinics and have lunch with our guests.   You work with my personal coaches.   It's really more a holistic approach. 
Again, I'm involved in the game.   I've stepped way, but I get my golf fix. 
KRAIG KANN:   I think I've heard that before.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah. 
KRAIG KANN:   There are some prizes, things you're going to do to celebrate the five‑year anniversary of the Annika Academy.   Do you want to share some of that? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yes, it's the five‑year celebration presented by Callaway.   If you go to our website you can enter the sweepstakes.   We've got 84 prizes, I belive, and one of them is to play golf with me. 
Terrific way for us to celebrate what we have achieved and also include our past and new guests.   So please check that out, sign up, and maybe we'll see you on the links one of those days.
KRAIG KANN:   Any other questions? 

Q.   What was your reaction to the announcement in Phoenix of Solheim assistant captain for the U.S.? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   You know, I was pleased.   I know Laura quite well, and we have some history going back.   But I think it's going to be a nice addition with Meg Mallon and Dottie Pepper.   I really look forward that week.   It's not like any other week.   Obviously it's played every other year and it's match play. 
There is something about the Solheim and the way that you represent your country and the friendships that you build.
So I think both teams are going to be very strong on every front.
KRAIG KANN:   That was a big win for the European side, and I know there is a lot of motivation on the American side.   You have a big challenge, your team, to try to win here in the U.S.   Thoughts on that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It is a big challenge.   Europe, as you know, has not had a chance to win on U.S. soil, so that's always been the goal for every captain, I think.   Lisa Lott is a terrific leader, I think.   A lot class, a lot experience, and being a fellow Swede, I'm proud of what she has achieved.   She was one of the players that opened our eyes for the tour.   Winning the Open in '88 was a big thing for us.   So I'm glad to be able to play under her. 

Q.   Tiger resumed the No. 1 spot.   Wondering if you've contacted him since he got back to No. 1 or what your friendship has been like. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I would say that the reaction to how he's playing, he's playing amazing the last few tournaments, especially Bay Hill.   I was out there, and he was certainly in control of the ball and his game.   It was kind of what we are used to seeing. 
For him to regain the No. 1 spot I think was just a matter of time.   It's very healthy for the game.   Maybe it will give Rory some things to think about and step up.
Also I think the other guys have a chance to catch Tiger.   I have not had the chance to talk to him at all.   Since I stepped away I have been busy with some of my stuff, and he's been busy with his stuff.   Paths separate a little bit, but I do follow what he does.   I think we're all impressed with what we're seeing. 
KRAIG KANN:   Before I let you go, I was at the event last night and there were a lot of celebrities, a big audience.   Today I was walking down to the pool and was stopped by Joe Theismann who was there last night.   He said, I need to tell you something.   You guys have a really cool thing going now with the LPGA.   I say that because I want to get your perspective of the tour.   Where do you see the tour in general? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, no I think the LPGA is in a good spot.   We all know it's been a few tough years with some changes.   I'm very optimistic with what I'm seeing.   I know a lot of players, they're terrific athletes, terrific women.   The campaign that things are different out here is absolutely true.   These are approachable athletes.   And, like you said, the skill of these players and the talent is very high.
I've always enjoyed the international appeal obviously because I'm aninternational player myself.   Just opens up the game to the world and brings so many people to the game.   It comes in the Olympics in a few years.   It's a global game.   I think this is where we saw it first. 
KRAIG KANN:   Congratulations on the award in your honor and the anniversary of your academy and being the celebrity host this week.   Annika Sorenstam, everybody. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT