ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 23, 2002
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







NEAL REID:  All right.  Go over your scorecard real quick. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Bogeyed number one.  I hit a 4-wood in the fairway bunker.  Hit a 9-iron to the right of the green.  Chipped it up, two putts.
NEAL REID:  How far was the par putt?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  16 feet.  Birdied number 6.  Driver short of the green, 2-putt. 
Bogey number 7, 5-iron, chip, 2-putt. 
NEAL REID:  How far was that par putt?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  12 feet.  Birdied 11, 8-iron to two feet. 
Eagled 15, 5-iron to 14 feet. 
NEAL REID:  So how was the putter today?  A little better or what would you say?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I would say it got a little better after I got a little upset on number eight.  Then I rolled in a good par putt and after that I think I putted pretty decent. 

Q.  How do you feel going into tomorrow?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  Definitely.  I mean it's the last day.  I'm in the position I want to be in, really.  I'm right there.  I have a chance to win.  Again.  And so I feel good about my game and I'm really looking forward to it.  It's been a long year, it's been three tough rounds.  Tomorrow is the day I got to do it and that's the end of story. 

Q.  Do you prefer chasing?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I've been in so many different positions it seems like the last nine years on tour.  I've been behind, I've been ahead.  You name it.  All I know is that I have a chance tomorrow and that's all that matters.  One shot is nothing.  Anything can happen on this golf course.  I feel like I'm playing good enough to really pose a low round.  The wind has picked up the last two days so it made it a lot more difficult.  But I'm still hitting the ball really solid.  I feel like I could have a round like I did last year on Sunday. 

Q.  How much do you think the 65 you shot here last year in the final round will help you tomorrow?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well obviously I know how to play the course.  I got good memories.  But I think that I'm playing a little different type of golf this year.  I'm hitting the ball a lot further and I'm playing more aggressive on the par-5s which really should make the course easier.  But I feel good about the course and everything.  It's just that I haven't really made the putts.  So I'm focusing more on what I got to do now than what I did a year ago. 

Q.  Does it make you sharper going into tomorrow since you're only one shot out instead of having a big lead?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well I got to play the best tomorrow.  And like I said earlier, I've been in this position before.  Of course it's nice to be leading, because that's what I want to do by the end of tomorrow.  Now I just got to step it up a little bit and play the best I can.  So I have nothing to lose tomorrow.  It's going to be a great Sunday.  There's some good players right there.  It's going to be tight.  And you got to play the best down the stretch to win. 

Q.  Who's the bigger threat, Rachel Teske or Karrie Webb?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Myself.  It doesn't matter.  If I just play my game I have nothing to worry about.  I can't control Rachel, I can't control Karrie.  If I play well, I'll be up there. 

Q.  Some people say that if you could improve your putting, you'd be invincible.  What do you think about that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I agree. 

Q.  Have you ever had two eagles in the same tournament before like this week?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I'm obviously happy about that.  And I think that I'm hitting the driver better.  I gained some distance.  I am reaching par-5's with irons now days and obviously that helps.  I had two eagles in Japan as well.  So I have got a lot of eagles lately.  And so that's helped also. 

Q.  How far in did you have on 15?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I had 183 to the front on 15.  I want to say nine.  Yeah. 

Q.  What do you think you'll have to shoot tomorrow to win?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm trying not to pick a score because that's playing the lottery a little bit.  I'm not very good at that.  I'm just going to play the best I can.  I mean under par, obviously, but if I shoot in the 60s that would be really good. 

Q.  Is winning 10 times tougher on you emotionally than say winning just five times?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It is tough emotionally.  Because just being in contention is when I work the hardest.  Which is what I want.  But it does take more out of me.  And therefore you got to take breaks to be able to play well the next week.  And that's probably why I'm more tired now is because I've been in contention all year.  It's a wonderful thing but you also got to learn how to schedule and make sure you have the energy when you're playing. 

Q.  Are you looking for another season like this one next year, or will that be too hard for you emotionally?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I would like to do that.  Right now my plan is to start in March.  Because this gives me a long break.  And I think the only way for me to keep this up is to schedule a little better.  And not play as much.  But I am going to try and focus more on quality than just playing a lot of tournaments.  I don't know if that answers your question, but. 

Q.  Not quite.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Not quite.  Yeah. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Maybe I didn't understand it.  See, I am mentally tired. 
(Laughter.)

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Okay.  Let's start over. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes.  Definitely.  I think so. 

Q.  Is 10 wins next year conceivable?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, yes.  And I want to not have the same answer, but almost.  I'm going to start later in the year.  Giving me some more time to rest.  And then I'm going to try and not play as much next year.  But when I do play, I will play with quality. 

Q.  Do you think the LPGA record for career wins is conceivable?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Career victories?  I think that it depends on how long I play.  I mean 88 seems pretty much untouchable, really.  I, obviously, want to play a few more years.  But I would have to win 20 a year.  That sounds a little tough.  But no, right now I'm at 41, 50 would be a great number.  It's not a number that I have been thinking for a long time by any means, because when I came out here I didn't even know if I can win a tournament.  So that's a goal that I have kind of looked at the last two years that it might be possible.  We'll see.  I mean as long as I enjoy what I do and I'm competitive then I want to do this game.  But like I said before, the traveling and everything around it is what makes this game tougher for me.  And one day I want to try something else. 

Q.  How do you want to be remembered?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Somebody who loved the game, somebody who loved challenges, and had a lot of sportsmanship. 

Q.  What about numbers?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, that doesn't mean much to me.  I don't want to ask somebody on the street, how many tournaments did Annika Sorenstam win and they say 50.  I would rather they say she was a great athlete, she loved sportsmanship and she loved what she did. 

Q.  You don't look at the big picture with respect to numbers?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I mean for me right now when I'm playing in the heat of the moment and for myself to get motivated these numbers mean something to me.  That's for me to keep on going.  But if you ask somebody on the street, like I said, then if they know my name then they will know I play good golf. 

Q.  What do you know about this course design thing you're beginning in China?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well I've never been to China.  I've never designed a golf course.  So this is going to be totally new for me. 

Q.  Are you going to go there?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Probably.  I don't even know what kind of grass they have.  I don't know what it looks like.  But I am going to go over there and the place is called Mission Hills.  Which  --

Q.  We have heard of that place.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, which is close to my heart.  So that's a good start.  But it's going to be exciting to see if it it's something I want to do in the future.  If I'm any good at it or not. 

Q.  Who are you working with to design it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well it's with IMG, their team.  And obviously some developer down there in China. 

Q.  Will you start next year in Tucson?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, that seems like the first tournament we got, so. 

Q.  Do you feel any pressure to play more each week since you've won so much?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I haven't decided.  But it depends on -- I got to look at the schedule first of all and I want to plan it right.  And I'm defending at Vegas and defending at Nabisco, and I want to play Phoenix for sure.  So I still want -- I just don't want to play too much because I just can't keep up this pace.  I noticed that.  I think I was doing pretty good earlier in the year and then in the end when I realized I have a chance to win 13 I was adding tournaments and I wasn't playing as well.  But I figured this is my chance right now.  I might not get it again.  That's why I added events.  And I didn't play so well.  So next year I got to stick to my schedule, because I know how I react after playing too much, too many events.

Q.  Do you think the Tour will pressure you to play more?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well the LPGA hasn't said anything to me and right now I got to defend at least 10 events.  You add the Majors up and Solheim, I'm already at 15 events.  So it's not -- starting in March it's not that many tournaments that I can add.  I don't normally play more than three in a row.  So the schedule is pretty much set for me already.  Just one or two that I can add and then we'll see what happens in the end of the year. 

Q.  So, does that mean that you won't defend your title at the Australian Masters?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I'm not going back there, no. 

Q.  Have you talked to Mickey Wright at any time during this string of wins?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I haven't.  But I have received a nice note from her when I shot 59.  So. 

Q.  Will you call on her for advice later on?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well I would love to meet her just in general.  Obviously I admire here her as a golfer and her swing.  What can you say, it's fantastic.  So I would love to meet her.  Maybe we can discuss a few things and I would like to get her feedback.  But I can see how she felt.  I believe if you want to play well there's only so much you can do.  And to me playing well is the number one.  And I think if I play well, then I help the LPGA, I help my sponsors, I help myself.  I don't think it's fair to say you have to do everything.  I just think I can't handle that.  And I think for the long-term I'm better off playing good golf.  I think I bring positive things to the tour that way. 

Q.  It sounds as if you're not planning on playing much after the next few years.  Am I wrong in assuming that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, you're not wrong.  I don't think I'll play for another 10 years.  Just because I have a lot of other interests.  And I'm very competitive that if I'm out here, I want to feel that I can win tournaments and I can be up there.  Because I am today.  There's no way I can come out here with doing other interests on the side and come here and not be a hundred percent ready.  That's not the way I am.  I need to be a hundred percent ready to come and play.  And I think that's fine for now.  I'll do it.  But one day I want to do other things.  And I want to do those a hundred percent.  So --

Q.  What are the other things?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well I think one day we would like to start a family, David and I.  And I'm interested in cooking.  I want to try and do something there.  Whatever that be.  It might be just a big mess, but.
(Laughter.) You know, if you never try, you never know.  So I watch CNBC all the time, I'm into the stock markets.  I should spend my money somewhere.  Win or lose there, who knows.  I enjoy what I do today, but also I would like to leave it on the top.  I don't want to walk away when people say, well, once upon a time she was really good.  I want to leave when I'm good and people remember that. 

Q.  It sounds as if you're not planning on playing much after the next few years.  Am I wrong in assuming that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You might be right.  It might be hard.  I'm saying this now because I know I'm going to play for another few years.  But hopefully the time will be right and it will just come naturally. 

Q.  People always compare you to Tiger, so did you study what he did in 1999 and 2000 and how he handled his situation in the spotlight?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I didn't overanalyze it.  But obviously I was there and to see it on TV and read about it in all kind of golf magazines, and I think what I take from it is just that it's possible.  A lot of people say it's impossible.  I like his attitude that records are there to be broken.  And he has no fear when he plays.  He has a lot of power, obviously, and he uses that.  But he's lost gotten very smart on the golf course, which I admire also.  He's always trying to get better.  And that's what I want to do with my game is try and be better.  And I try to look at myself and figure out what my weaknesses are and then work on that.  And I think that one of the things I've changed is my fitness.  I've got a lot stronger and I'm hitting par-5s in two now which I only did occasionally before.  So that's things I've taken from him, just to get better and keep on working.  I think he's very good at that. 

Q.  How much stronger are you?  Have you tested your body fat or had your muscles measured?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I haven't tested my body fat.  I have not measured my body fat.  But I'm stronger.  I can pick up more weights when I go in the weight room.  I do heavier weights.  My trainer told me that he thinks right now I'm at 70 percent of my maximum strength.  So which means that -- I don't know what it was before, but I still have a little ways to go.  But it's definitely helped.  I can't tell you how I feel on the golf course, I mean I'm hitting one or two clubs less than all the other players.  I mean that's an advantage.  And I still have the accuracy.  I think that actually that is more important to me.  It's great to hit it far but if you hit it far in the woods, who really cares.  I'm still hitting it in the fairway and that means a lot to me. 

Q.  Do you have a stiff shaft in your driver?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, I do. 
 

Q.  Were you thinking about taking a drop on 12?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I wasn't.  I never thought about it.  Number 12 I hit my tee shot to the right.  First I thought maybe it was an ant hill.  Maybe some fire ants.  But I didn't see a single ant.  But then I figured I'm just going to play it.

Q.  What is the difference for you in winning 11 or 10 times?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it's another, not another record, because Mickey Wright won 13.  But I can tie her when she won 11.  And that would mean a lot to me.  And to still be playing that well, that it's possible to win one more and 11 is better than 10.  And I just want to give it all.  I think that it would make it, let's see, 23 tournaments and maybe 11 wins.  That's almost 50 percent.  So I mean all those numbers mean a lot to me.  I crunch numbers all the time. 

Q.  What goals do you have for next year?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I could set another money record, there's a lot of records at stake.  When I come to the tournament I give it all.  Whether it is my last event  -- my golf ball doesn't know how many tournaments I won.  I'm just going to do what I can. 

Q.  You have 12 wins this year?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, worldwide.  Yeah. 

Q.  Is 54 a goal for tomorrow?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's always a vision I believe in.  Some courses might be more suitable for that than others.  This is one of the tougher courses that we play all year.  It doesn't mean it's not possible.  But tomorrow I just want to go out and play steady.  Make some putts.  I'll be right there. 

Q.  Is there anything you've done to successfully take your game to the next level?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I believe that I have taken my time to do it.  I worked out for two years.  That's a long time.  I don't think that it's something you can just do overnight.  I tried to do small gradual changes.  And the same thing in my swing.  I try to improve it slowly.  So I can still play without totally remodeling it.  I think that's been the key. 

NEAL REID:  Thank you very much.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thank you. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT