LPGA MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 13, 2003
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 LAURA NEAL:   We're excited to have Annika on the line to take a couple of questions.  Annika, maybe you could start about telling us about what the last few days have been like for you since you've made the decision and we'll go in some questions.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Sure.  It's been very busy the last two weeks, really, since some innocent report popped the question, if I was interested in playing a PGA event.  Things have been a little crazy but it's been a lot of fun, a lot of interest from lots of people, a lot of support from fan, family, sponsors, you name it.  It's been really exciting from my side trying to do some homework on different courses, thinking, "Should I do this, should I not, why," and so forth.  It's been a lot of thinking but mostly a lot of positive support from a lot of people.  So, I'm excited. 

Q.  How much did you considerate offers from the Chrysler Classic and Tucson, what did you weigh in that decision and are you planning to play the LPGA event here? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yes, well, when I heard that I got an invite from Tucson, I obviously was, first of all, very flattered because I didn't really think I was going to get any invites.  When I got one from Tucson, my town from home, so to speak, I was obviously very psyched about it.  I thought about it and, you know, if I would play there, it would be my first tournament of the year since we don't start until March.  I figured this would not give me the best chance to prepare and get ready to play.  And one of the reasons why I want to do this, also, is to make sure I choose the best venues, and when I'm ready and so forth.  So, you know, I think in this particular case, it was too early in the year for me to make most out of it. 

Q.  Do you plan on playing the LPGA event in Tucson?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Actually I don't plan on going there.  I'll be starting off at Phoenix. 

Q.  Do you plan to play in more than one PGA TOUR event?  What are you thinking right now? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Right now, I'm just thrilled about this opportunity.  This opportunity fits perfectly, first of all, into my schedule.  I think the course is going to suit me as well as any course I can find. 
Right now, I'm just going to leave it at one and see what happens. 

Q.  But you're not ruling out more than one?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No.  I'm not ruling anything out, no. 

Q.  And what TOUR players did you talk to regarding when you did your research what course would suit you? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I've talked mostly with my agent, Mark Steinberg, who has a lot of contacts.  He has talked to Tiger Woods. 

Q.  Did you talk with Tiger? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No.  I have not personally, no. 

Q.  Mark did? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Mark did, yes.  Mark also talked to Curtis Strange, Jim Nantz.  I talked to  -- me personally, I talked to Dave Stockton, who told me that that was one of the courses where he won his first tournament.  He actually called me and said, "Let me just give you one advice, I hope it's the Colonial you're talking about."  So I kind of told him that that was the one that was on my list. 

Q.  So that was his advice, Colonial?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yes, and he actually went through the course over the phone.  He was telling me what he used to hit and kind of suggesting what clubs I should hit and so forth.  So it was pretty funny.

Q.  How do you expect you'll do? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   You know what, that's one of the reasons why I'm going because I have no idea.  I'm curious and that's why I'm going.  I could not even start to, you know, think or anything.  I have no expectations of how I will finish. 

Q.  Now, regarding expectations, the Fort Worth Zoo is across the street from Colonial Country Club.  How much of a circus do you think it will be at your place?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Not any more than the other place. 

Q.  Very quickly, do you think that by playing in a PGA event that this is going to put even more pressure on you on the LPGA as well as a follow-up to last year's record-setting season, and if so, how are you going to deal with that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, first of all, we'll see how I would deal with it, obviously, but no, I don't think there's any more pressure.  I'm doing this totally because this is a test for me.  I'm not carrying the LPGA on my shoulders by my means. 
This is a test for me.  What this really does, is it gives me motivation to practice this season, to set some new goals.  I will try to raise my game to a different level.  I will practice much harder.  You know, this is for me it's going to become the fifth major. 
I just look at it as the biggest challenge I've ever had in my career and I'm thrilled about the opportunity.

Q.  Are you at all worried that a couple of years ago when you did not have a good time at the U.S. Open, the next week at the Big Apple Classic, everyone was asking you about the previous week and you could not get away from that, even though you were 13-under after the first two rounds or something along those lines.  Are you at all worried that if you don't do well at the Colonial that that will dog the second half of your season this year? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, not at all.  I mean, personally, I don't think I would be a professional today if I was worried about those type of questions. 
I mean, I love what I do. I love challenges.  I'm not afraid to go out there and try to perform my best at any situation.  So, this really doesn't change anything.  I go out there and try to win every tournament I can, whether it's early in the year or the end of the years.  It doesn't really matter what I've done the previous month. 

Q.  Any apprehension about playing in a PGA event opposite the same weekend as an LPGA TOUR event?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I've had serious talks with the LPGA, and we came to the conclusion that they are very supportive of the decision that I make.  I just spoke to the Commissioner and he is very excited about this opportunity.  He has actually talked to the Corning Classic and believe it or not, they are very supportive themselves.  They believe it is good for the LPGA and will be good for them.  In two or three years, I will play their event and they know that. 

Q.  I wanted to let you know it's really fantastic what you're doing.  20 years covering golf, it's one of the best things that has ever happened.   Wanted to share those feelings with you. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Thank you. 

Q.  What are your goals or goal in participating in PGA TOURs  -- I'll use plural with the feeling it might be more than Colonial.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, you know, first of all, you talk about expectations, I have no expectations, but my goal was to first of all have a good time.  This is a lifetime experience for me.  I want to be able to enjoy this moment, to play with the best guys in the world, probably one of the best golf courses and traditional golf courses.  This is going to be a challenge for me, but I hope to play my best so that I can showcase the best I can so that I get a true test. 
I hope I'll be able to concentrate on what I'm going to do and not get too nervous.  It's going to be part of the deal, but that's also another challenge.  I'm going to experience a lot of things that I think will benefit me in future LPGA events. 

Q.  Some so-called experts have been asked how they expect you to do and two have said that, "She should make the cut" and that seems kind of a lowball way of looking at it.  How do you react to that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I don't think anybody really knows.  I think that's what makes this exciting, nobody really knows.  We'll all find out at the end of May. 
You have to remember that these are the best guys in the world, and the course that I'm going to play is tougher than I normally play in a U.S. Open, a little longer.  But I do know I'm going to practice harder and hopefully I can get my game to a different level, and that will help me.

Q.  Will you go out and try to emulate the type of golf and/or the golf course that you are going to play?  In other words, try to experiment on creating a course that is similar?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I do think that it I will make a few changes when it comes to my practice.  I know that I am going to start practicing with some of the guys in this area just to get some experience and this will make me hit 5-irons, instead of what I hit today, maybe 8-irons.  Just getting more used to that type of course, where I'm looking at longer irons coming in.  Then we'll see.  I know I have to work a lot on my short game, but I think just thinking about the course, getting mentally prepared is important. 

Q.  Suzy Whaley has already qualified for an event, and do you feel like you stole some of her thunder after getting a spot in the tournament?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I met Suzy last year in December and we talked a little bit about her upcoming tournament and so forth.  It's great, first of all, to met her and talk a little bit.  And all that has happened a few months after this, and this has nothing to do with Suzie eligibility of playing in that event.  She earned her right in there.  This is nothing to steal her thunder by any means. 
I think on the other hand she started kind of the conversation of somebody playing on the PGA TOUR, a lady.  And therefore, I think this question was asked if I ever thought about it.  So that's kind of how this whole thing started. 

Q.  For her, do you think that if she had qualified or got in a tournament this would have ever come up? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It's very possible that it would not have; correct.

Q.  When you did talk to her, did you give her any advice or any  -- maybe without giving out trade secrets, what was the conversation between you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   She wanted me to know how she can get some distance with her driver and her irons, and I told her that, you know, think worked out a lot and that's helped me.  So I was telling her a little bit about what kind of workouts I do.  I also told her that I thought she was brave and that I wished her all the best, but mostly to have fun doing it. 

Q.  Had you actually thought about it before or was that just kind of like you said, an innocent reporter, whatever you called it, but had you ever remotely thought about this before Suzie qualified?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Not before Suzie qualifying, really.  We do play with the guys who we are used to.  I play with them a lot in the off-season and I always enjoyed that. 
My husband has always talked about, "I wonder how you would play against the men on their golf course."    I watch PGA tournaments on TV and I've thought about it, for a quick second.  But then the conversation would die and I wouldn't even talk about it, but I had it in the back of my mind. 
So when the question was asked, it wasn't totally strange to me.  It was like, well, hey, I might have an opportunity, too. So, yeah, I would do it in a heartbeat.

Q.  Are you going to call her to thank her?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I might have to. 

Q.  So you haven't talked to her since that one time if December? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, I have not. 

Q.  What are the other players on the LPGA TOUR saying to you about this?  Are they giving you any reaction?  Are you getting phone calls from them?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   To be honest I have only talked to a handful of players in this area, plus my sister, but they are very, very supportive.  They wish me all good luck and they think this is a great opportunity.  They keep saying "if somebody can do it, you can." 
So it has just been positive from the people that I've talked to.

Q.  And when we talked about this when it first came up at Bay Hill, you mentioned that you were hoping that you would get an opportunity to play more than just one tournament to sort of get broken in a little bit.  Do you think if you were to play a second or a third, as well, that it would be a big difference between that and the first?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, obviously the first one is always going to be the most nerve-wracking for me because I don't really know what to expect when it comes to the golf course and just playing with the guys and their events and the media, etc.  So it will be a total learning experience. 
However, I've said that this is not high on my priority list.  I have goals on the LPGA that I want to achieve and I would like to set more records and so forth.  Right now I'm just looking at this opportunity as the one, and we'll see what happens. 

Q.  Playing opposite an LPGA event, the Corning is celebrating their 25th year this year.  I know a couple of players are wondering why instead of going against that event, if you played the previous week at the Byron Nelson.  Could you talk about how that factored your mind? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, first of all, our season starts in March and we play  --  well, I play through November.  So every week there's always some event going on.  For me to do this right, to give me the most, the biggest chance to succeed, it should be a good golf course that fits my game.  There is more than 90 percent of the golf courses on the PGA TOUR that I would not have a chance and I think it would be ridiculous to even try.  This one, and maybe one or two other courses, are the ones that I considered.  Colonial happened to be the week of the Corning classic.  I actually was having that week off, so I'm actually adding an event to do this.

Q.  Did you say you would play like Corning down the road? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yes. 

Q.  Will you go to Colonial beforehand and to try to practice and get a feel for the course?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It hasn't crossed my mind.  I haven't really had too much time to think about what my next step is but I think that would be the logical thing to do. 

Q.  What do you know about Babe Didriksen? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Not very much.  I obviously know who she is and I know that she tried to play 58 years ago.  She was a tremendous player.  That's what I know. 

Q.  Now I think the assumption we all made after the little bombshell at Bay Hill was that this was going to be a green light all the way and it was just a matter of which course; I'm not going to assume that.  Was there of the possibility that while you were guys were kicking this around that you were not going to do it or you thought maybe it's not such a good idea? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No.  It never occurred to me  because I know there's some courses that would feet my game.  But the question came down to can I fit it in the schedule and will I get an invite to that particular event.  So those two factors were big importance. 

Q.  Is it a little odd to you that you won 13 times last year and to get on the front page of the newspaper today, you had to do something like this? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I don't know, either, but obviously it's amazing the attention and everything.  Like I said before, the support I've got from a lot of friends and fans, they are so supportive, so it's exciting. 

Q.  What did you do to actually start looking at the courses and start narrowing down that list and what at what point did you target Colonial?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It started with looking at the PGA's schedule, just the regular schedule they have.   Then I talked to Mark Steinberg.  I talked to Dave Stockton a little before that.  Also, like I said, I watch the PGA tournaments TV, so I'm a little bit familiar with what kind of courses they play.  So started with 40, 50 tournaments and went down to maybe ten and after that it was down to three. 
Like I said, the schedule worked out perfectly, the course, and the invite.  All of those combinations made it possible.

Q.  At what point did you say Colonial is the one and start talking to them more or less exclusively?  Was that this week, last week, before? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Probably last week, yeah.  Early last week. 

Q.  What other courses were on this finalist list, if you may? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, we mentioned Tucson, which was nice enough to give me an invite.  The B.C. Open gave me an invite.  Tossing those around a little bit.  Let's see, Westchester, the one in New York, a tight golf course.  A lot of people recommended Harbour Town, but that one did not fit in my schedule at all.  I'm actually defending a tournament that particular week, so those were the ones. 

Q.  I know it's difficult right now, but can you in any way put in perspective how big this story is?  Obviously it will probably be the biggest sports story of the year.  How important was that to you in making this decision, or was it? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, of course it was a little bit of a factor.  But, you know, I've looked at myself as a golfer and said, you know, where do I want to take my game, what are my goals. 
You know, I've always liked a challenge.  If I really didn't look at it, making history, or anything like that.  This is more of an opportunity for me to showcase my game and see how good I am.  This is a true test for me and that's been as far as I've stretched it. 

Q.  Just curious, would you have attempted to this say a year ago or two years ago and then maybe  -- you're playing the best golf of your life and this is the perfect time for you to do it, but would you have considered this like even a year ago? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I could tell you I would have not done this two years ago.  I think that I have taken my game to a total different level the last two years, especially last year.  I have improved in a lot of areas many my game, short game, putting, really improved there.  Then when it comes to distance, I'm driving the ball, say from three ears ago, at least 20 yards further, and that makes a difference.  I'm striking my iron shots much differently than I did two years ago. 
So, no, that would never cross my mind, and now, however, I feel so much better about my game and my ability to play on tougher golf courses. 

Q.  A lot of people are saying that  -- trying to anticipate what aspect of Colonial will give you the most trouble, whether it be driving the ball or the greens or the rough.  I'm just curious, what do you think, what part of your game do you think will be challenged the most? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, if you look at the way I play, I hit a lot of fairways and I hit a lot of greens.  That's my strength.  So I hope to be able to play that type of golf when I come to Colonial. 
If you put me in a different environment where I'm hitting shots out of the rough or if I'm chipping and doing all that, that's really not my type of game.  But ball-striking is my strength and I will be a smart player there.  I should put it in the middle of the fairway, the middle of the green.  Like I said, this is U.S. Open type of conditions for me, so I'm going to try to approach it that way. 

Q.  I'm down here at the Buick Invitational and yesterday Tiger Woods said about you:  "I think it's great that she's playing, but it will only be great for women's golf if she plays well.  I think if she goes out there and putts up two high scores, then I don't think it's going to  -- I think it's going to be more detrimental than it is going to be any good."    What do you feel about that statement?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, that's Tiger's opinion.  I don't have that opinion at all.  I think this is good for women's golf. 
This is good for me in many ways.  First of all, I will get the experience.  It doesn't matter how I play.  I will get the experience to play on a tough, tough golf course against the best in the world.  The media attention, this is going to be a true test how I can handle it.  I'm just going to mature as a golfer. 
I just see it as something beneficial.  And if I can play better golf after this, I will take that to the LPGA and I will raise the level there. 
This is one week.  We're talking one week, but the preparation is going to be several weeks, to which I know is going to benefit the LPGA.  So this is the approach that I have. 

Q.  So you don't really think that you are carrying the entire load for the LPGA, do you?  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Far from it.  This is my decision.  The Tour has nothing to do with this decision.  This is me testing myself against the best in the world in tough conditions.  That's what this is all about.  I would like to take my game to a different level.  How do I do this; this is a true test.  This has nothing to do with the LPGA. 

Q.  Phil Mickelson said you would finish in the top 20.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   That was nice of him. 

Q.  Part of your strength over the years has been your mental approach.  You have not turned up at tournaments unless you feel that you can win.  This is a special circumstance, but will you still take that approach or will you tweak it a little bit? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, I will have the same approach.  I talked to my caddie and he is totally fired up and I'm going to approach it the way I always do.  He works on my tour and if I have that approach, I know I will play the best that I can and we'll see what happens. 

Q.  Could you define what that approach is? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Just playing aggressive, playing my game.  Trying to stay in the present and not think too much about what other players are doing and so forth.  Just play the game that I know how. 

Q.  But that idea of don't show up at a tournament if you don't think you have a chance to win it, that applies here as well?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I've got to believe in what I can do.  I have no idea.  I'm going to go out there and play the course the way it's set up.  If I play well, things will fall into place.  I have no idea where that will put me but I'm going to have a positive attitude.  That's the way you've got to approach this.  This is a test.  If I didn't believe in myself, I would not do this and I would not be a professional golfer today.  I love the challenges and I'm going to play aggressive. 

Q.  I'm sure you know this, it used to be the custom that if you won on the PGA TOUR you got an automatic invitation to play in the Masters.  Do you still wish they had that rule?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I have not thought that at all.

Q.  Can you tell me your best score at Augusta from the back tees? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   This is back tees before they redid it.  I do remember that I shot  -- I believe I shot level par from the regular tees, and this was five years ago.  So I'm going to say 2-over par is probably what I shot all the way back then, which it's changed because it's so much longer now.  That's what I believe I shot.

Q.  In your home games do you get to play against PGA TOUR players? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Not as I'd like but I would like to change that.

Q.  What would be a dream pairing for you? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It doesn't really matter.  I'm just excited to have the chance to play with any of these guys.  They are all part of the Tour and it really doesn't matter. 

Q.  You mentioned earlier that to prepare for this you are going to play a few more rounds from the tips.  Are you concerned that it will be difficult to get the preparation for the more difficult course setup, not just the length, but narrower fairways, higher rough that you are going to face at Colonial?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, not really.  I am going to try to prepare the best I can.  Yeah, it's about playing further back but I can find courses in the area where it might be a little trickier.  And also, I'll hit irons off the tee and then stand there with longer irons in.  I mean, there's so many different things I can do to prepare.  That is the least of my worries. 

Q.  After the Colonial, will you play the Kellogg Keebler Classic or will you need a week off to prepare for the McDonalds? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, I'm defending at Kellogg Keebler, so I'll be there.

Q.  Do you think that preparation for a major, like the McDonald's that you have not won before, will it help you or hinder you in any way?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Let me put it this way.  If I thought it would hinder me in any way, I would not do it because I have some goals I want to achieve this year on our tour.  The LPGA is my priority and winning majors is my priority. 
On the contrary, I think this is a great  -- I don't know if you call it warm-up or whatever, but a preparation that I need to experience.  The more situations where it's pressure, the more situations with me there and expectations, the better.  That's how I get stronger.

Q.  Do you think that what you feel, what you'll feel on the first tee at the Colonial, will compare to what you would feel on the first tee at a major or do you think that it's going to be even beyond that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   It might be a little beyond that because it will be something that I have never experienced before. 

Q.  You said everyone knows that the Battle of Bighorn was not your best performance; how can you use that experience at Colonial?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, at Bighorn I had a great time.  I loved playing with Tiger and Karrie and David Duval.  I thought it was a lot of fun.  I really enjoyed playing with the guys. 
The experience, I learned something from that.  It was a very difficult day.  I learned something, and that's just how I look at things, to move on and get better. 

Q.  Do you see a woman going to Q-School and trying for the PGA TOUR?  Would you ever think about doing that if you were successful? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, I would never personally do that.  Like I said, the LPGA is my tour and that's where I want to play. 
Who knows, the way Michelle Wee is going about it, she might be the first one.  She seems very determined and very  -- that's her goal, to play on the PGA TOUR.  So she might be the first one to do it.  She's trying to qualify in every different way already. 

Q.  Inaudible?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I never played the Open there, but I know that she won there.  So she may want to give me some advice. 

Q.  You said that the reason you've chose that golf course is because the fairways are narrow and the rough might be up and it suits your ball-striking.  If you got the right golf course at the right length in a U.S. Open or British Open, somewhere around 7,000, would you ever consider trying to qualify for a U.S. or British Open, because I would imagine that would be even more of an ultimate challenge?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Oh, yeah and it absolutely will be.  I haven't really thought about that either.  Everything is so new to me right now, but I think finding the right golf course is the most important thing. 
Again, like I said, I have plenty of TOUR to play on.  I can play a full schedule and it is more than I ever want on our tour.  So it's not like I'm looking for another place to play.  I'm looking for experience and challenges and this is exactly what I'm getting. 

Q.  You can hear the excitement in your voice and even the passion about going after this, it's pretty obvious  --
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, that's right. 

Q.  Could you tell me about your conversations, if any, with the Bank of  America people?  They are obviously very excited about this, and I'd be curious to know whether you spoke to them directly or what role they played in encouraging you to play? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   They did not, how should I say -- they did not encourage me because this is a decision I had.  Like I said, I looked at the schedule, I looked at the golf course, etc., And then I had these discussions with Mark Steinberg and he was the one that took over from there.  So he's the one that talked to Colonial, Bank of America, PGA TOUR, you name it. 

Q.  How do you think this is going to change your life from now until the Colonial and how you thought about coping with that?  Have you begun to sit down and strategize on how you are going to budget your time and so forth? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, I haven't, but I do know that I'm more prepared now than I've ever been.  When I won the Open in '95, I didn't really know what to expect.  Now I've been around for another seven, eight years.  I have a feeling of things to come and how I need to approach this.  I'm enjoying that challenge, as well.  It's going to be  -- it's going to be exciting.  It's really a true test in so many ways. 
I'm not afraid to face it at all.  I think I'm going to enjoy the journey to Colonial. 

Q.  What is going to be the ruling about the tees, will you play the same tees at the guy or will you have any input into that decision or is it purely dictated by the PGA TOUR?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Oh, I have nothing to say.  I am going to play wherever they tell me to play and wherever they normally play.

Q.  So it would be from the same tees most likely then?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Oh, yeah. 

Q.  When he saw you out here, it was late in the season and you had recently acquired a new driver and thought you were getting more out of it.  Is the 265 driving average reflective of your current distance or would you like to say it's longer than that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I would like to say it is longer than that.  I got this new driver in September.  If you look at  -- I don't know the exact number personally, but if you look at my average in September, I want to say it's higher than that.  How much, I don't know.  But I've hit a few drives  -- my best drives now, obviously are 280, 290. 
I think I'm averaging 270 if I go play today.

Q.  If you could go into greater detail, I assume you have not been to Colonial and could you clarify that?  Could you talk about just what about that course you believe suits you best compared to the 90 percent of PGA courses where you would not be competitive?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   First of all, I have not been to Colonial.  I am just talking from things I have seen on their Web site and also other players have been there.  What I've heard is that it's 7,000 yards, the fairways are always firm, the ball rolls a lot, the guys hit a lot of wedges and 9-irons in and a lot of doglegs, which means the guys are hitting 2-irons or 3-wood off the tee.  It's more placement than getting it out there as far as possible. 
If that's the case, then I can hit driver or 4-wood and if they are hitting pitching wedges.  When I played with David Duval in Mexico in December, I was hitting the same club as he was up to 7-iron.  So if they are hitting wedges and 9-iron, I'm hitting that, too.  We're talking when you get up about 170 or 180, I'm going to be a club or two shorter than they will.  But as far as I've heard from mostly Dave Stockton, it's a course where you've got to place your shot.  You've got to work the ball.  It's not just about distance. 

Q.  Is how you play that week going to be more important to you than where you finish? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yes.  Like I said, I'm curious, I have no idea what is going to happen.  If I could just play my best game, let's play our best, I don't care where I finish, then I will get a true test of where I stand compared to them.  And that will end this whole discussion and this whole thing.  It will still be exciting.  But I want to play the best that I know what I need to work on.  That's my goal.  Obviously I can play the best and we'll see what happens. 

Q.  You say this is one of the biggest challenges you have ever faced, I wonder if you can think back and give an instance or two where you are experienced things in golf that might equal this. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   The first time I played in the Solheim Cup, this is I believe in  '96, so that was  -- at the time, that was the biggest thing for me, representing my country and playing against the best American players in the U.S.  I mean, that was huge for me. 
Then Bighorn was a bigger deal for me, playing with the guys.  I've had a few moments where it's really kind of taken my career to a different level and those are two things that popped in my mind right now.

Q.  What are people back home thinking?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   A lot of positives:  "You can do it, go get it."  And also, people are questioning:  
"Why are you doing this; you are the best female golfer in the world, why are you doing this?"
But then I just keep telling them you know, I'm not here to prove anything.  I'm here it test myself and I believe to get to the next level, this could be a thing for me to do to get there. 

Q.  You've impressed upon us that you are just trying to show something to yourself, but there are going to be women out here who are going to look at this as a battle of the sexes, so to speak, in golf.  What is your thoughts on that in terms of relating to them and what they should think about this? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, there are certain things I can't control and some things I can and peoples opinions is definitely something I can't control. 
I would just like to emphasize that this is not  --  I'm not putting the guys on test here or men against women.  I am far from that.  This is a test for me personally. 
So if I can just relate that to them, I mean, they have to trust me, this is why I'm doing it.  I would not start to get into any political things.  I don't have anything to do with that.  Not any goal.  I don't want to putt the guys on any defensive.  I just want to play against the best and see what happens.

Q.  It seems that you have no fear about possible failure or embarrassment, anything like that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, exactly.  If I was afraid, I wouldn't be able to hit the shots that I do today to win tournaments.  I've got to go there and I'm going to be on the first tee and I'll have to put on my best swing at that time and that's all I've got to do. 
I'm a human being and I'm going to be nervous, I know that, but I also love what I do.  I want to see if I can handle it. 

Q.  Do you want a locker in the same place the other players have one? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, where would my locker be, next to somebody with S, Steve Stricker or somebody.

Q.  I brought that up because I talked to the tournament director, and he said that they have a women's locker room there.  I didn't want to carry it on farther, but I would think that you want the full PGA TOUR experience, be in the locker and everything else. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   (Laughing) I don't know, that might be where I draw the line, actually.  But, yeah, I'd like to get the real PGA TOUR experience. 

Q.  When is the last time you went into a tournament feeling no expectations?  Can you remember? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, that was a long time ago.  Yeah, you're right.  I never thought about that.  No, because this is my 10th year on the LPGA, so, no, you're right, I can't even remember. 

Q.  Is there something that you really are afraid of here, whether it's not playing well or the expectations? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I'm not afraid of anything.  I know I can play.  I've won 42 times on the LPGA and I'm going to be a Hall of Famer at the end of the year.  I can play.  That's not the issue here.  But I want to see how I can play.  I've proven that on our tour.  I have confidence in myself.  If I didn't have that I would not try to  -- but again, I have chosen a course to help me succeed.  As I said before, over 90 percent of the courses that I would not try.  This is the one and only right now. 

Q.  Inaudible? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I did play Tucson National quite a bit in college because it was a great practice facilities and I like the golf course. 
Like I said, the only thing that  -- two of them were early in the year.  If that would have been in August, June, July or something where I felt like I was in more tournament mode, that would be a contender, definitely. 

Q.  Did a full field at Colonial appeal because the Tucson is opposite The Match Play?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Not really, no. 

Q.  You mentioned playing where David last year, where was that and where were you hitting the same clubs in? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I played an exhibition match outside Mexico City December.  It was me, Lorena Ochoa and Jack Nicklaus, playing the same tees.  Of course, I was taking more club than he was hitting.  From 7-iron in, we hit the same club for 18 holes, and that was obviously a confidence-booster for me. 

Q.  How close were your drives to his?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, drives  -- his drivers are way past mine.  I was talking up to 7-iron.  Driver, he was probably 30 yards ahead of me. 

Q.  Corey Pavin has won Colonial, I believe twice, and his driving average last year was 258.  The year before it was 252.  Does that mean anything to you?  That's got to be a positive for you, I would think? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, positive in the sense that this golf course is not necessarily a course for a long hitter.  You've got to be a player that can maneuver the ball, somebody that has control of your shots.  And Corey Pavin is exactly that; he might not be long off the tee but he is in the middle of the fairways, and he can hit the ball right next to the flag, and that I believe is my strength. 
I can never contend in a driving competition.  I'm just trying to prove that I can play a course that will fit my game and play from A to Z. 

Q.  I was in on the Jack Nicklaus press conference today, and he said that five years ago  -- first of all, very supportive of your decision.  He said five years ago, maybe the social attitudes of the PGA TOUR may not have welcomed you if you would have wanted to do this, but now with things the way they are today, they are more likely and they did welcome you to try to do this.  Can you just react to that statement, do you think that attitudes have changed with women in golf? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   First of all, that's very nice of him to say that because I respect Jack Nicklaus very much.  Like I said, personally, I would never have done this two years ago.  So I really don't know what the attitude was there.  I've never been out on a PGA event, so I don't know what the attitude is. The way I look at it now is a lot of people are very supportive.  They are congratulating me and that's just the approach that I see.  I have no idea what it was five years ago. 

Q.  And he said that you probably will make the cut and he thinks that you will finish Top-20, just like Phil Mickelson.  Jack said he's played with you enough to know your capabilities and that this course sets up perfect for you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   That's nice.  Like I said, I played with him in December, so he would know how my game is.  That's very nice of him. 

Q.  Are you looking forward to getting your locker room to yourself?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, that will be nice.  (Laughter.)

Q.  If you could choose your playing partner, who would it be and why?  Would you want to have the spotlight to yourself?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   You know what, I answered a similar question, but no, I really don't  -- it doesn't matter who I play with.  I respect all of the guys out there, and the experience is going to be so great anyway that I probably won't even  --  I'll be so into my own game, which is the plan, that it really doesn't matter.  I'm just excited to go there.  I'm sure I will meet a lot of guys on the range and stuff like that and I'm sure that is going to be another experience. 

Q.  You mentioned in the off-season that you played with some of the guys.  What caliber are the guys that you play with and how have you compared against them?  What kind of competition have you gotten into with them? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I haven't played with anybody and I'm going to start, starting now, because I've had some time off.  My plan is to play with Frank Nobilo, who is one of my neighbors.  He's won on the PGA TOUR and hopefully I can play him and have a good time and get some pointers. 
You know, I mentioned to Tiger that I would like to practice with him.  I figured if I play with the very best, they can I'll go out there and I won't be so intimidated.

Q.  Do you still have a home at Bighorn and do you hang out there very much?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, I don't. 

Q.  This morning I spoke with the striker on the Sweden National Team and we talked about what you were doing and the fact that the last couple of years, more and more female Swedish athletes are coming out and doing things like you are.  Do you see yourself as accepting that banner now; "that I can do whatever I want, it's a challenge, it's a test but at the same time I'm just as good as anybody else"? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I think first of all it's very important to have that attitude.  If I was afraid when I stepped up the to the first tee, I would not be able to execute the shot I need to.
Sweden, I think it's a country where the difference between men and women has become smaller and smaller in the sense that it's more equal, so maybe I have that type of attitude, coming from Sweden.  Especially you notice that in business at home, a CEOs are women and it's more equal.  It's the tradition that I was brought up with. 

Q.  Do you think that this can have even more of a positive effect with younger female athletes?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I think overall it's the same as over here.  I hope that young female golfers see this and that they want to pick up the game because I love it very much and it's going to be a great opportunity. 

Q.  Do you feel if the Augusta National thing had not come up, do you think that helped set the stage for what has happened with you? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No, I don't think so.  I think Suzie Whaley (ph) is the one that set the stage.  She is the one that qualified last year and there was all the talk about her doing this it.  And she's a teaching professional, so therefore, I think this discussion came up, "Well, what happens if somebody who does not play for a living would do this." 
So personally it's nothing to do with Martha Burk and Augusta.  I think it's a totally different issue. 

Q.  You mentioned that you've talked to Tiger about possibly practicing with him, have you made a date or has he said whether that's likely to happen?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Right now.  I guess he's out for three weeks on TOUR, so it would have to be when he gets back.  So it will be for a little while.  But I'm going to be in town and he'll be in town eventually, so I hope we can get together and do it. 
I mean, we've talked about it for a while.  We talked about this even before I. 
LAURA NEAL:  I'd like to thank everyone for joining us and thank Annika for giving us an hour of her time. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT