THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 21, 2002
Carin Koch
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.  Annika and Carin, well-played today, 4 and 3.  Annika, are you getting a little bit of revenge against Michele Redman yesterday? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I just wanted to say Michele played so well yesterday that it was really a good match, tough match, but of course I wanted a little revenge. 
Carin played excellent today and, again, the matches have been great, the matches have been good, and you got to make birdie to win, and that's what's happening this week.

Q.  Questions?  How do you guys feel for the afternoon? 
CARIN KOCH:  I feel very good playing with Annika., She is playing really good and we are both rolling good putts and both, you know, not making really any mistakes out there, and I think in best ball that's what you have to do, you have to make sure one person in the group is making par so the other one can make birdie, so I think we will be good again.

Q.  And, for tomorrow, do you feel like you guys should have a lead going into tomorrow, looking back at past Solheim Cups? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think this week is a little bit different, the teams are very similar this year, we are all playing very good, so right now we just got to focus on one match at a time and do the best we can.  This afternoon Carin and I are just going to try to get a point, that's all we can do, and then we will see what kind of position we are in tomorrow.

Q.  I know you two know each other really well, but what makes a good team in this format? 
CARIN KOCH:  You know, I just think you need to have good communication and keep each other up at all times and just focus on what you are doing, and I think we are doing that pretty well so far.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  And I think the way this course is set up, I am hitting the shots I want to hit and it seems like Carin is getting the shots she likes, so I am hitting my best and she is hitting her best, and, therefore, we see good results.

Q.  I understand you played 30 holes in foursomes and you are 10 under par.  
CARIN KOCH:  Something like that, yeah.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That sounds about right, yeah. 
CARIN KOCH:  I had a bogey, today.

Q.  They played 30 holes and they are 10 under par. 
CARIN KOCH:  I had a bogey today that we were quite upset about.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Can we play more foursomes? 

MODERATOR: Any more questions, ladies and gents.  Annika, Carin, well-played.  Thank you very much.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT