WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2002
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LAURA NEAL:  Annika thanks for coming in.  Maybe just start with your impressions of Turnberry now that you've played. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, it's tough to summarize in one word, but it's fabulous.  It's wonderful to be here.  You know, before I came here, heard a lot of nice things about it.  But coming here it's different, experiencing the Scottish.  The golf course is in unbelievable shape.  It's a beautiful setting.  Everything is really nice.  It's really like a championship even before the championship has started.  So I'm really looking forward to playing it. 
I arrived Thursday morning and I played Royal Troon, Blackpool (ph) and Prestwick.  So, I got a little feel for the links already.  It's been really nice.  I love it, yeah. 

Q.  Why? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   First of all, I don't play it as much.  I like the history behind everything and the golf courses.  You really have to have control of the shots, and it's a little more bump-and-run, usually, not so wet.  But you can keep the ball under the wind and it makes you think a little bit more.  And I think the courses are just so beautiful, as well. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, it's been a while.  I did play a lot of tournaments here as an amateur, but I've been a pro now for nine years, so it's been a long time ago.  We played Lytham and Birkdale, but haven't really been up here in a long time. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I was part of the Swedish National Team when I was 17, 18 years old, and that was '87, '88, so I'm sure I was here then.  

Q.  (Inaudible)?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, the point was to come early and work on the low shots and the bump-and-run, but the conditions haven't really allowed it. 
You know, today was the first feeling of a little wind, but I worked a lot with my coach was here.  So I worked on my swing and worked on my bunker shots, which you need on this course.  So I feel I'm as prepared as I could be. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, that would have been the optimum, really, but it's still a great golf course.  It's seaside, it's windy, and you still have to really avoid the bunker, the fairway bunkers.  It's still playing like one.   It might not roll as much and you might not carry the ball just to the green; now you can carry it at the flag.  It's playing different than I expected, but it's still really beautiful and it's still really a challenge. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   How important?  It's very important.  Being a European, this event has always been one of the bigger tournaments.  I had finished second three times so I've been close but I haven't been able to do it.  You know every year I come here hoping it would be my year, so still hoping. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Did I?  I totally forgot about that.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   At Interlachen.  I've never played there so I know nothing about it. 
I think the par 5s are reachable.  So my plan is to take the opportunities there, and then stay out of the fairway bunkers and play mostly for the middle of the green.  My putting is very good at the moment and I'm going to feel fine if I miss a green.  I know I'm going to be able to make it up-and-down, but I'm going to be patient, and who knows what the conditions will be like. 
I'm looking forward to.  It's going to be a challenge.  It's a tough golf course, whether the wind is blowing or not so, if you hit some good shots, it's really a ball-strikers golf course, which I like. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT