MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 9, 2002
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   We're going to have to keep it just a little bit short, Annika has a flight to catch.  Great round, Annika.  I know winning is what you're looking for, but can we talk about finishing off with a 65.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it's  -- it makes me smile again.  I sat here Wednesday, and telling you how good I felt about my game and how excited I was about this tournament, and when Thursday started, and I couldn't get anything going Thursday, Friday, or Saturday, so today I got revenge. 
I know I can play this golf course.  I'm going to remember that next time I come here.  This is a course I belong on and one I can play. 
It wasn't my day the first three days.  I hit a lot of good shots, lot of good putts.  Today I think I did the same thing.  That's golf.  Sometimes you can't do anything about it.

Q.   Annika, Terry (inaudible) you've got a really nice sense of momentum.  You've got a chance to build some momentum.  Could you talk about that, how you get in a roll, and what it feels like into the round like that?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It seems like when I make a birdie, there's more birdies to follow.  That's the way my score card most the time looks.  I've been making birdies, so I never really got going. 
I felt like I had a lot of good shots to make par, par, then miss one, then make bogey, so it was very tough for me to get going this week. 
I know the rough is so thick, and the way the greens were going, it was very difficult, but today finally I got going, and there I was, and I took advantage of it, and that's  -- it makes me smile. 
This is how I've been playing and I know I can do it.  It's too bad it's the last round, and I  really -- it was too far to catch the leader.

Q.   How many fairways did you hit today?  How many greens and how many putts did you have?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  12 fairways and 15 greens.

Q.   Annika, on Thursday you got it to 3-under, I think, for 13; you birdied 3 and 4 back-to-back, then you missed four greens right in a row and made a couple bogeys.  Was that concentration?  Was that swing?  Or was it just bad breaks?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It was a combination of everything.  It wasn't concentration because I've been focused all week.  I've been telling myself if I hit a bad shot, move on, just don't think about what happened in the past.  So this course , you get some weird bounces.  Even today, I got some bounces that you don't expect.  You're going to get that here. 
However, I felt as long as you make birdies, a few bogeys is okay, but I was just making bogeys, I wasn't making birdies -- I think in 36 holes I had two birdies, and a ton of bogeys, and it's very tough to score here.

Q.   Annika, is there a part of you that would wonder what would happen if you were able to score (inaudible) Friday, a score like  this?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I've been thinking and analyzing the last three days.  I've been on the phone, and talking with my caddy, how can we do this?  And I never give up.  Try to figure out how I can play this.  I talked to the Swedish coach, ^ Pia Nelson, and she told me I've done everything I can, I've done nothing wrong.  Sometimes it doesn't go that way. 
I've done everything I could.  My frame of mind was the way I wanted it.  It's golf.  It does not have an explanation, which is what I'm looking for, but I can't find one.

Q.   Could you talk a little bit about what this tournament does and this course does helping you get ready for the Open?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Right now I want out, that's what it does to you. 
It's a tough golf course.  You have to focus on every shot, and every putt, but it is  -- i'm sure the set-up will be very similar to the Open, with tough conditions. 
Other than that, with several weeks to the Open, I haven't thought about that.  I'm still playing good, not to worry too much.  There's nothing wrong with my game.

Q.   Did it frustrate you the first few days when you'd hit a good iron shot and end up 35 feet from the pin?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  (Inaudible) this course, sometimes you can.  It doesn't matter how good you hit it, once you lose the club head, it's on its own.  I mean, it bounces here and there.  When it rains, it's soft; it's dry, it's out of your control.  So, yeah, it is frustrating.

Q.   Where are you flying off to tonight?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm going to London and then on to Geneva.

Q.   Are you going on the Concord again or  --
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, that's enough Concord.  That was a great experience but I'm not that much in a hurry.

Q.   Annika, could we do your score card?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Birdie number 3, 9 iron to 7 feet. 
11, forward, chipped it up to about 2 inches. 
13, birdie also, 5 iron to 3 inches. 
14, pitching wedge to 5 feet. 
15, sand wedge to 10 feet. 
16, 7-wood on the green to 2-putt.

Q.   Thanks for coming in. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT