MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 5, 2002
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR:  Annika, thanks for joining us today.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Congratulations on last weekend.  Just talk about how you are feeling coming into the second major of the season.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Sure.  Actually, I feel great after last week, probably played the best I have in a really long time, so preparation-wise, I am definitely ready for this week.  As you know, it's the second major and it means a lot to me, and one of my goals this year was to play well in the majors, so I am here, I am ready, I want to go and play. 

Q.:  Take some questions. Annika, what are your thoughts of a Grand Slam?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I know what a Grand Slam is, but, you know, this is this week, this is what I am focusing on, and I am not going to think anything more than that.  You know, one shot at a time, one day at a time, and that's it. 

Q.:  Annika, how often do you not contend or not win when you are playing your best?  Do you find that when you are playing your best you are always at the top of the leader board?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, last week I really played -- I played really good.  All the parts of my game came together.  I drove the ball well, hit a lot of greens, made the putts, so those are the kind of scores I guess I can get when I play well.  Early in the year I have putted well, occasionally hit the ball decent, but I think the key for me this year is I have been able to put it all together, you know, I have been able to scramble, and that's why I have done so well this year.

Q.:  What's the longest that you have been able to sustain complete performance like you had last week and how long should one expect to be able to sustain it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I have got high expectations, so I expect the rest of the season, but all I know is I have won four tournaments in a row, and that's what's in my mind right now.  Just because I won last week doesn't mean I am over it.  I am playing really well.  Today I was hitting the ball well, making a lot of good putts, so I am just going to keep going.  We got a great stretch of tournaments right now.  I am not going to worry too much how long this is going to last, or why is it lasting, why is it not?  I am just going to play.  I feel so good about my game, I feel good physically, mentally, so I am not going to ask too many questions.  It's not worth it. 

Q.:  We have heard for you on this course that there has always been one round that got away from you.  Is there any truth to that when you look back at your performances here at DuPont?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, that's the way it feels like.  I do love the golf course very much, I think it fits my game very well, so I don't see why I can't play well here.  A few years back it was very muddy, very rainy, tough conditions the last few years, and this week the condition seems great and, I mean, I can play under these conditions, so I don't see any reason why I can't have four good rounds here. 

Q.:  Annika, before last season you were doing a lot more workouts, weight lifting, weight training, things like that.  Have you increased any more prior to this season?      
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yes, I have.

Q.:  Can you elaborate?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  A little different type of work-out.  I did more cardio before; now I am doing more weights, more -- I am doing a lot of core exercises, so I have changed my physical training to, like I said, different type, maybe one or twice more a week.  I mean, I am pretty much working out every day. 

Q.:  Can you show us one?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  (Laughing.) 

Q.:  Has Monty asked you for your regimen?  Does he ask you to fax him?  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, not yet.

Q.:  He has been told he has to go to six pack and do his core exercises?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Maybe I should call him in a few years.

Q.:  Annika, what are a few of the spots on this course where you really don't want to hit the ball?  Are there holes, certain shots where?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  The rough, overall, which is on every hole, you want to keep it in the short grass, that's for sure.  The rough, I actually picked up a piece of grass from the rough and measured, it was actually eight inches.  That's the thickest I have ever seen, so that's my goal.  I am going to stay in the short grass, bounce the ball in front of the greens, and go from there.

Q.:   How has that specifically helped you with your game, has it helped in any particular aspect?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think it helped me tremendously, first of all, feel good.  I have the -- you know, I can play 18 holes without feeling -- I am not getting tired whatsoever, I am driving the ball at least -- statistically 10 yards, but I think once I do hit it 15 yards further, I am hitting my irons 6 to 7 yards longer, so, I mean, I am hitting totally different golf clubs out there.  I am playing a little different type of game.  I am reaching par 5's.  I mean, I am enjoying more because I am playing a little more aggressive, and it's fun.  I am taking advantage of my distance, and I've been able to hit it straight, too, so that's actually really what I want to do is keep hitting it straight.  I mean, it's not just about hitting it further; I want the accuracy, also.

Q.:  Annika, you're known for keeping statistics and keeping them on your laptop.  Do you look at them this year and say, "Wow," how far you are ahead of the other players in a lot of statistical categories?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I don't compare my stats to anyone else.  I look at my own stats, and I am comparing year after year, week by week, but, you know, it's not like I am hitting any more greens this year than last year.  Last year I pretty much hit 80 percent of the greens; that's my goal, that's what I want to hit.  I think this year I might be putting a little better, which is showing some lower scores, but last year -- it's going to be tough to beat last year.  I think the stats for last year were very good.

Q.:  Do you have a chance, do you think, to beat last year?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I still have some time so I'm still working on it.

Q.:  Greg Norman once said when he was playing well he looked at the rest of the field to see who was going to finish second.  Have you ever had that feeling?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No.

Q.:  As well as you have been playing, I would think --
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I don't look at other players and say, Hey, you know, how is she going to play today?  How is she going to play this week?  I am so focused on my own game right now, I am just looking forward, I am trying to focus on my game.  I know what I am going to do tomorrow.  There is a game plan.  I am going to stick to it.  There is pretty much where I put all my energy.

Q.:  Is this the highest your confidence has ever been in your career?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's getting -- yeah, I am getting a lot of confidence in my game because I feel like I worked a lot on my weaknesses, and my weaknesses are getting better.  I don't think really my strengths are getting any -- I am not hitting further, but strength-wise I am still hitting a lot of greens, and that's still there.  It's just my weaknesses are getting better, and if I missed a green, I can make up and down,  I can hit in a bunker, I can make up and down.  That's confidence, and that's what I am looking for. 

Q.:   Is your short game more creative or have you just gotten better?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  A little bit of both.  I am working to be a lot more creative, see different shots, because the courses that we play are so different that you can't just have one shot, and I have been working on that the last few years, but I am getting better, I am getting more feel.

Q.:  What were you lacking creativity-wise?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I see a shot and I use the same club.  Now I am trying to see the breaks on the green, or maybe if I hit a high shot here, what would that do, that type of creativity.

Q.:  Do you think about winning the Grand Slam?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  We already had that question, but I can repeat it.  You know, I know what a Grand Slam is, obviously that would be something neat that would happen, but, you know, I am just focusing on this week.  This is the most important week right now, so I am not going to think about anything else.

Q.:  Other than yourself, who do you think has a shot to win this week?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think you need to have a straight hitter, somebody who is going to putt  well.  There is a lot of good players here this week, it's tough to single anybody out, but whoever has played well recently is going to do well here.

Q.:  Annika, do you think about the close calls you have had here?  Two or three years ago you were right up there.  Do you go back?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, that means I am due, so that's the way I look at it. 

Q.:  Have you talked to your sister this week? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, I have.

Q.:  When did she get in?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Last night.

Q.:  Do you have any thoughts on that, on the USGA scheduling the qualifier the weekend later?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I think it's a disaster, really. 

Q.:  You are obviously getting a lot of attention with how well you are playing.  How do you like it, or do you enjoy it?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I love to play well.  It's fun when people look at you as a favorite and admire your game, et cetera.  That's, you know, something I really enjoy.  It's tough sometimes to deal with everything and still trying to focus on your game. 

Q.:  Are your red shoes retired?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  They are resting. 

Q.:  Did they ever dry out?  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, but they are a little -- that water is a little murky, a little -- they don't look too good, to be honest, but they served a purpose.

Q.:  Are you going to wear them in Kansas?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  We will find out.

Q.:  Aren't they going on sale in Kansas?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Sale? 

Q.:  I think I read that, that they have made some more of them and they are going to be on sale.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That is something I don't know.  I am not selling mine, that I know.

Q.:  I think they would give you another pair.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I am sure I can get a few if I asked. 

Q.:  Any other great colors?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You will find out.

Q.:  If you don't win on Sunday, will you feel like the season is over because you can't get the Grand Slam or will you still --
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I haven't thought about that, this is just one tournament.  This doesn't decide, you know, anything, really.  I just want to do well here this week, and that's what I am thinking about. 

Q.:  So will you be surprised if you don't win?  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You can't be -- I mean, this is such a great feel this week, I will be surprised if I don't play well, but anybody can play well, also.  There is a lot of good players here so I am just looking forward to playing well, and then I will add up the scores, and then we will see if somebody had lower than I did. 

Q.:  Traditionally -- I don't remember what it was last year, but it's like 12 to 16, it seems like the last couple years, under par.  Do you suspect that might go lower?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It depends, you know, if we get some rain, the greens will soften, I think the course will be a little easier.  The way it is right now, it's very difficult.  I mean, you have to bounce the ball in front of the green and let it go on its own.  You can't really control the ball as well, so tough to pick a score, but if -- it's going to not be that low, I don't think.

Q.:  If we get a lot of rain, which one forecast has said, do you think that would help you or hurt you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I don't mind if it stays the same the way it is right now.  I like consistency.  I have a game plan, I know it will work if the conditions are the same.  If it rains, then I will change.  I will be fine with that, but then it will be a different approach.  And I would like to see some roll, I think that puts the rough into play.  I like firm greens because that makes you think where you hit the ball, and I am hitting the ball where I want it to go, so that's fine by me.

Q.:  Are you surprised that you haven't had a stiffer challenge from Karrie Webb this year?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Karrie hasn't played as much as I have.  It's too early in the season to say yet.

Q.:  Is 8-inch rough for a major, do you like that or is that too much for you?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I like it, it's fine.  I just -- the only thing I wish maybe is that we play courses like this earlier to get a little more practice, you go from extremes a little bit.

Q.:  How far off the fairway were you when you find an 8-inch bit of rough?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It was about -- I mean, it was the next -- the second cut.  I mean, I picked one up, I said, "This looks okay," but when you have 30 or 50 next to each other, that's what makes it difficult.

Q.:  Can you talk about when you are doing well?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I am sorry? 

Q.:  Can you talk about what you are doing well up to this  point?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  In my golf game? 

Q.:  Yes.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  All right.  I am driving it really well, I think, hitting a lot of greens and making putts, too, so I am very pleased with my game, I think I have been very consistent.

Q.:  Yesterday Michele Redman, I asked her about what do you think of Annika, and she looked at me and said "She is playing like an amateur."  And I looked at her kind of strangely, and she said, "Let me explain."  She said, "She has won so much here and she is playing so well that I don't really think that she feels any pressure to be a success, she is just enjoying herself."  Do you think that's an accurate assessment of the state that you are in right now?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I am enjoying myself.  I never really felt the pressure of playing because I play because I want to play.  I mean, I put goals, I set up goals, but those are my goals, you know, if I don't achieve them, that's -- you know, then I figure out a way how to achieve them, so I never really felt the pressure that I have to perform week after week, this is something that I want to do and I work towards, but it's not the  end of the world if I don't.  I love what I do, I always have loved what I do, and what's fun right now is the hard work that I put in, I am seeing the results.  I mean, I am saying, you know, all the hours that I put in on the putting green two years ago, now I am seeing the putts go in.  I am seeing increase of distance, and I think it's because of the workout I started about a year and a half ago, so I am seeing the results, and that's fun, you know, when you work hard and you see something, so of course I am enjoying myself.

Q.:  Have you ever been in a state where you have worked hard and you didn't get results?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think results -- you got to be patient, and I have a lot of patience, and, you know, when you start working it's easy to say, hey, I want the results right now, but it takes time.  You know, some things might come in a few months, some results might come in a few years, so, I mean, I have to tell myself several times you have got to be patient and it's got to pay off.  I mean, my dad always told me there are no shortcuts, and he is right, you just got to work and put in the time, and I have done that, and here I am. 

Q.:  Do you get nervous when there is a major like this  week or do you feel the same?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I get more excited.  There is a lot at stake this week, and I know that, but I think I am more excited because I am playing well, so everything is right in my hands, it's up to me now, and I know that, and that I get excited about. 

MODERATOR:  Annika, thank you very much.  Good luck this week.
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thanks a lot.      





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT