TYCO/ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 2001
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I do.  I'm walking on clouds.  I pretty much knew what I had to shoot today.  Knowing, you know, the conditions and the course, I mean, I knew it would be a tough thing to do.  But I wasn't going to let go if I had a chance.  I'm so, so happy that I was able to finish the way I did.  To play the Back  9 5-under, pretty much a miracle. 


Q.  (Inaudible)?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I was thinking if I shoot 65, I mean, I actually thought I would win the tournament.  But then during the round, let's see, the 13th hole, I saw she was 9-under, she was obviously playing very well herself.  I knew she would be tough to catch.  But you have some tough holes coming in, 16, 17, 18.  I mean, I know what I did yesterday on 18.  I mean, I wasn't going to give up until the end.  Anything could happen, even though she was playing really solid.  But I told my caddie, "She's 9-under."  He said, "I don't care what she is.  You have to play the last few holes."  That's what I did. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  For the number, yeah, definitely. 

Q.  To clarify, you played the entire round thinking you needed 65, is that right?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, for the scoring average. 

Q.  When did you know?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  When I was done (laughter).  I mean, "I worked this hard and you tell me now (laughter)?" 

Q.  Did you reach the goals that you were talking about at the beginning of the week?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes. 

Q.  Can you elaborate?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I mean, I wanted to be Player of the Year.  I wanted to win the (inaudible) and the Money List.  I achieved that.  Actually, I had set up ten victories this year, and I didn't win ten.  But I'm very, very close.  Especially with one tournament in Korea being canceled, I could have done nine.  I was very close this week.  But, I mean, those were my goals.  I set them early this year, pretty much already in January.  I knew what I wanted to do.

Q.  Looking ahead to next year, will you set even higher goals?  Do you think you can achieve them?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm going to go home and just let this sink in.  But I can tell you that I had a fun year in many ways.  If this is what it takes to have fun, I'm going to continue. 

Q.  You said you set a number today.  Was that a number for the record or for the victory today?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  For the scoring average. 

Q.  Did you have a number in mind that you might have to shoot to win the tournament?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Not really.  I mean, I was so far behind.  I figured if I shoot 65, that's all I can ask for.  I mean, I thought that was digging pretty deep itself.  But if I could do that, I mean, and if Karrie wins, she deserves it in many, many ways. 

Q.  On 18, are you trying to make the putt or are you trying to make sure you 2-putt to get the record?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  A combination of both.  I mean, I knew a 2-putt would break the record.  It was also a slick putt left to right.  If I just got it rolling in the right line, it would go in.  But I was going to give it a good run. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I felt like I was playing good.  I was feeling so comfortable out there.  I felt the wind, it was strong like the previous days, but for some reason I like this wind better.  The holes were playing more to my favor than it has been the last few days.  I felt good about that.  I knew what kind of holes in front of me with the wind.  I knew I could reach 15.  I played a little more aggressive on 16 just to make sure I had a short club in.  I think that's just what I learned from playing here for several days, figure out where to play it, where is the best place in these kind of conditions. 

Q.  It looked like you were actually swinging even more aggressively on the Back  9.  You slam-dunked that eagle putt, that thing had some hop going on it.  It looked like you were just playing with your hair on fire, "Let's go get the record or go down swinging." 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It was.  I wasn't afraid.  I mean, I had nothing to lose.  I knew I had a chance.  Like you said, I didn't swing any more aggressive, but I was swinging very determined.  I wasn't hesitating out there.  I picked a target, chose the club, I hit it.  It might sound easier than it really is, but I really did that today because I know I had to do it during these conditions.  It was my only chance to shoot low today, was just to trust this.  When you birdie one hole, then you get confident, go to the next, just keep going.  I wasn't afraid for anything.  I looked at the pin, just fired at it. 

Q.  Next year's championship is a long way away in your thoughts, I'm sure.  Will knowing the course a lot better help you and will you have or expect more from yourself next year as far as winning the event maybe?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Like you said, it's so far ahead.  I'm pretty happy I finished second.  I played so good this week.  But it does help to know a golf course.  Like I said, today I think I played with the knowledge of how to play this course.  I'm not going to expect to do much better next year.  If I improve by one position, I think that would be pretty good.

Q.  What does it say about the course or the conditions that Karrie was at 9-under, you were at 7-under, and nobody else was under par? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You tell me (laughter).  It's a difficult golf course.  I mean, I'm very happy the way I played this week.  I made two mistakes.  I really don't think that they were that bad, but they cost me a lot of shots.  But I really hit the ball well, I putted really well, I played smart golf.  When I played with Karrie, she did the same thing.  I don't know how the other players have played, but it's a tough golf course.  You don't get away with bad shots here. 

Q.  Two-parter.  Will you leave here feeling like you won because of the scoring record?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I feel great.  A little disappointed I didn't win, but I gave it a good run.  It's like when I played Karrie (inaudible), she shoots 64, I shoot 65, you cannot be unhappy.  That's how I feel today.

Q.  Second part.  With her winning, she won three tournaments this year, obviously you guys have been kind of the dominant players.  Talk about this rivalry going on for a while, next year.  You're going to keep banging heads against each other. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think you just answered me for next year.  I think she's going to play well next year.  That's her answer to my season.  I think it means that I've got to be ready next year. 

Q.  If I caught you on the The Golf Channel thing, you said this was the last of your remaining goals on your checklist.  Can you just kind of inventory all those for us?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  All of them? 

Q.  All the things you've accomplished this year in a nutshell.  I know there's a lot. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, thanks.  Didn't I answer that question first?  I might repeat myself.  Well, I wanted to win Player of the Year, Scoring Average, and Money List.  This is No.  1 on my priority.  I had a goal of winning ten tournaments.  I won eight.  But Korea got canceled, which I intended to play.  So who knows?  But those were my main goals this year.  59 was not really a goal of mine, but I've always talked about shooting 54.  That was really close to it. 

Q.  Two-parter, none of them related.  How much can you bench press, or do you?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I can lift the bar.  That's about it (laughter).  I don't bench press.  I do it with dumbbells. 

Q.  How much?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  25 in each.  Don't even print that.  That's not very good (laughter). 

Q.  Do you think there's still a perception out there that when the scores are 3-over and 4-over, that the women can't play, and when someone shoots 59 or the winning score is 18-under that the course is too easy?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think people think so, definitely.  I mean, the course has a lot to do with it.  But, I mean, I must say that the conditions this week was as tough as I've seen it in a long time.  First of all, it's obviously windy.  But I thought the course was tough without wind.  I don't know, I hope they don't look at it that way.  The way Karrie and I played this week, it's like 20-under on any other golf course.

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think they're very similar.  I mean, I did hit the ball much better this week.  You know, when you hit the ball that good, then you don't really see the trouble.  At Pine Needles, I saw a lot of hazards and stuff.  But, I mean, in this case, there's a lot of water here.  There's a lot more punishment, I think.  You get penalty shots.  Pine Needles, I think it was more if you missed it in the rough, you could always chip out, lost half a shot.  Here it felt many times you lost a total shot if you hit a bad shot, if you know what I mean.

Q.  As we're coming back here next year, are there any recommendations you would make for setting up the golf course for next year, anything different?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I don't have anything on top of my head right now. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  They should let the mowers  -- leave them alone for a while (laughter).

Q.  A couple of people out there, one player said they felt the tournament was contrived this week.  Another player said she felt they were trying to make them look silly.  From somebody at the top of the leaderboard, I'm wondering what your thoughts were.  Do you think they went over the top at all?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it was very tough.  Somebody asked me yesterday if I thought it was unfair or challenging.  I said it was very challenging.  I still think it's very challenging.  The only problem sometimes is when you see the women with high scores, what people write, what they think is we can't play.  That's sad, because we can play.  It's just it was very difficult out here.  But I also think when Karrie is shooting 9-under, myself 7-under, shooting 65, I think  -- I hope people see that's a good score under difficult conditions when everybody else is high. 

Q.  With you knowing that conditions were so difficult, would you want to see future championships set up the same way?  Would you want to see them as difficult?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I like to see them this difficult.  I just don't like when people criticize the way the women play instead of looking at the course and saying we're hitting 5-iron with really tough wind into small greens, really undulated greens, or par 3s where you hit woods in.  I mean, that's very difficult, where you don't have a lot of room for error.  I think that's the hardest part.  Sometimes I feel like we have to (complain about?) the courses for people to think we play good.  I mean, everybody can play out here. 

Q.  So what's left?  You satisfied your goals for this year.  What's left for next year?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I'm done right now.  I'm going to ride home to Orlando.  I'm going to do nothing.  I just want to let this year sink in.  Hopefully, I can look at some videos from the 59.  I haven't even had a chance to do that.  I just want to let this year sink in. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I haven't.  I want to do that.  I'm not going to touch a club probably  -- well, maybe touch it the start of next year.  It's a big break for me.  That's right, I have the clinic. 

Q.  When do you think you'll start your season next year? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm going to Australia in February.  I'm actually playing an exhibition match in Mexico City the beginning of February.  That will be my first real competition. 

Q.  Then you'll start out?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Australia, Hawaii, then I have to defend Tucson, Phoenix, Nabisco, LA.  That i know I'm doing.  Then we'll see. 

Q.  That's another thing.  When players have a season as you've had, their schedule is pretty much set for them because they have to defend so much.  What's your thought on that?  Is that the way you'll play?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.  I don't think I have much choice.  I like to defend the tournaments that I won.  I know eight for sure, then add the majors.  Now we're up to 11.  I really don't play  -- I don't think I play more than 20 next year.  I'm going to add another ten on top of that. 

Q.  How are you going to try and avoid the burnout?  Karrie has talked about it.  Every player talks about, after having a huge year, and obviously you're getting a much longer break than you normally have, but how will you try to be avoid being burned out next year?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Hopefully I learned a lesson.  When I was No.  1, I got really burned out, I learned what's important and what's not.  Now I'm going to have a long break.  I'm just going to be home, spend time with my husband, relax, have fun.  I don't want to think too much ahead.  Next year will be a new year when it starts.  Hopefully that will help.  I mean, I'm not setting any goals right now.  I just want to let my mind be free, enjoy what happened this year. 

Q.  Growing up in Sweden, obviously they had a long winter there.  When you're here in America, in the off-season, do you say, "I wish I was back in Sweden," anything like that?  Do you have any reaction like that at all?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I mean, if you think about the weather, no, I don't miss Sweden.  I mean, I like it over here.  You know, I go to Lake Tahoe and ski if I want to be where the snow is.  My parents nowadays come over to the US, so I get to see them.  My sister, she lives here, so I see her also.  It's not too many things I miss about Sweden.  Nowadays, you can buy Swedish food on the Internet.  That's all I need (laughter). 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Bogeyed No.  1.  Hit a driver in the left bunker, hit it up, hit a sand wedge to the green, 2-putt. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Par putt was five feet.  Birdied No. 2, chipping wedge to eight feet.  Birdied No.  6, sand wedge to five feet.  No.  9, birdie also, 7-wood short of the green, chipped to about eight feet.  Birdied 11.  8-iron to five feet.  12, sand wedge to two feet.  Eagle 15.  7-wood on the green.  Made a 12-footer.  17, 8-iron to four feet. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT