KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 2002
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 NEAL REID:  Maybe if you could just talk about how you feel, how you played today. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, if I'm playing with Karrie, I look forward to it.  She's obviously one of the greatest players on our tour ever, so I'm going to expect some good things from her tomorrow. 
So it's going to be a tough day.  I think if you look at the leaderboard, too, there's just a lot of names within a few shots.  So it's kind of a packed leaderboard and a lot is going to happen tomorrow. 
So it will be a fun Sunday, fun last day of a major, but I sure look forward it.  I think I'm quite happy with the way I played today.  Could have  -- maybe a few better, but that's golf.  I think I hit some great shots throughout the round and made an incredible save on 17.  Actually think I played -- my best; I shot 1-under and I'm very pleased with that. 

Q.  What do you think to be until the final group with so many people on the leaderboard and how much scoreboard watching do you think you'll be doing? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I watch the leaderboard a lot.  I mean, every time I see one, I want to see how I'm doing and normally, go out there and try to play my game, hit one shot at a time and not worry too much.  But it's kind of fun to see what's going on on the course. 
I think it's very important, especially down the stretch.  If you're playing really well, you might want to play conservative, and if you're chasing somebody, you might want to pick it up a little bit and play more aggressive.  That's why I look at the leaderboard. 
Playing in the last group, that's always fun.  I'm just happy I'm in contention.  I've got a chance to win tomorrow.  That was my goal early in the week, and here I am. 
So, it's shaping up to be the Sunday that I wanted.

Q.  Karrie said that playing in the same group with you would bring out the best in her, she hoped.  Do you feel the same way playing with her? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I know that's what it's going to take.  Karrie has won here before.  She has won majors.  She has won tournaments.  I'm sure she feels the same way as I am, and that she's in the position where she wants to be. 
So tomorrow is just going to be  -- I've got to play the best I can and try to score low here.  That's what's going to be needed tomorrow.  Everybody is hungry that's on the leaderboard.  So, you know, see who is the most hungry I guess.

Q.  You said there's other players in contention.  However, playing with Karrie in the final group, do you think there will be a little bit of match-play if she makes certain decisions; you may have to go with her on certain holes?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No.  It's not match-play.  Not at all.  Like I said, there are players right there, and, you know, I think that's a big mistake to focus on one player, even though she is one of the greatest out here, I have to just focus on my own game and try to do the best I can.  And there are good players right behind us, so I'm not going to do any of that stuff tomorrow.  It's just focussing on my style and my game and post a low score. 

Q.  I know you guys have a long history, but do you have any kind of a mental edge, perhaps, coming off the Ladies Masters in Australia?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I guess I'm 1-up.  I hope she remembers that tomorrow. 
But I think we've played so much together.  You know, she has won her share; I've won my share.  I think our games are very similar.  We have a similar attitude on the golf course.  So, I mean, I think we are both going to push each other.  If one makes a birdie, I'm going to try and top that, and then I'm going to try to make a birdie on the next hole.  I just want to be a step ahead of her tomorrow and that's what it's going to take.

Q.  Is it to your advantage  -- and you mentioned not just getting wrapped up with one player, but will that be difficult to do?  And might it be a little easier not to do if you are in the last group?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Like I said, I'm going to look at the leaderboard, so I'll know what her standing is.  I'm not going to just look at Karrie's standings and worry about her.  I have a lot to worry about on my own.  This is Sunday at a major.  I want to play well.  That's not for me to think about. 

Q.  I know this is hard to believe, but Tiger Woods once told me he gets nervous before every shot.  Do you feel that way, and if so, how do you deal with nervousness on the course?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I get nervous with some shots.  I think this is part of the game.  I think it shows that you care and that you want to execute the right shot. 
But that's kind of what's part of it, too.  It's the excitement, kind of the thrill.  It means so much to be here and play on Sunday, if you don't get a little nervous, if you don't have that little  -- when I don't have a little itch in my stomach, then I think there's something wrong because I really care.  So I want to have those feelings, but I don't want too much.  And if you have some of it, you've got to be able to control it, and I think that's what experience is going to help out tomorrow. 

Q.  Were you able to read the greens any better today, and are you wearing the same glasses that you had on in your earlier round?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No.  I have another pair of glasses on today.  But I do think I read the greens much better today.  And actually put some other shades in my caddy, and they are "read the greens shades."  So he didn't take them off all day.  That was a standing joke.  I said, "What does your shades say?"  It worked pretty good today.  So I think he's going to wear them tomorrow, too. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Hopefully 20. 

Q.  How long and how difficult was that long 3-putt that you had, way on the back of the green?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   That was  -- first of all I hit a 9-iron in and I couldn't believe where I ended up.  I was probably  -- it was a tricky spot.  The putt itself was probably 35 feet, and it had a huge break and I knew I had to get it to a certain spot and it to roll on its own all the way, but I just never got it up to the top.  I looked at it from both sides and I figured if I get it to the top it might even be down where Kris Tschetter is.  So it's give and take a little bit.  I figure if I have the right speed, then I can make the second putt, but didn't hit it enough and left myself a 7-footer that was quite a tricky line in itself.   So I just put the second shot in the wrong place. 

Q.  Is anything in your play that you feel that you need to be better in tomorrow or think of especially?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, I'd like to maybe chip a little better today.  I wish I would have made a few more putts.  But, you know I'm trying out there.  I'm trying to read the putts.  I'm trying to make the best stroke that I can with a lot of feel.  If that's what I'm trying and it will go in, then, you know, I can't do a thing about it. 
So hopefully it will change.  I felt really good on the back nine.  Kind of got more of a feel for the greens and hopefully that will carry on for tomorrow. 

Q.  Wondering if you could tell us what you thought of Lorena Ochoa's game? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yes, I'm very impressed with her game, her attitude and what a nice girl she is, too.  I mean, I told her, "I like the way you play.  I like your attitude." 
Fun to see her hit some shots.  She was going straight for the pin even though it was tucked way to the right or way to the left, she had no fear whatsoever.  And she's right there; I think she's three shots behind.  Even though she's an amateur, she sure doesn't behave like one.  I think she's playing in a professional level and her behavior out there was incredible. 
I said, "I enjoyed that.  I wish I could play with you again tomorrow, but I'm sure I'll get the chance another time." 

Q.  Last year at this time on a Sunday I remember you wrote something in your advisor, something like, "Trust yourself" in Swedish.  Anything for tomorrow? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   We'll see what happens.  It worked last time.  But we'll see what I feel like tomorrow.  Just going to come spontaneously, but I know what I've got to do tomorrow.  It's going to be obvious, I know how I feel and that's what it takes tomorrow. 
NEAL REID:  Let's do your scorecard card.  Birdies and bogeys. 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I bogeyed the sixth hole.  Hit a 7-iron on the green.  3-putt. 
NEAL REID:  Do you know how far your par putt was there? 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Too short.  About three feet. 
Birdied No. 7.  9-iron to eight feet. 
Birdied 10.  8-iron to six feet. 
Birdied 11.  I hit a 4-wood on the green.  2-putt. 
Bogeyed 16.  9-iron, 3-putt.  The par putt was 7 feet on 16. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT