WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 11, 2001
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  1st hole, pitching wedge to seven feet.  Bogeyed 2nd.  6-iron left of the green, chip, 2-putt. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Three feet.  Birdied No.  3.  4-wood on the green, 2-putt. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  First putt, 25 feet.  Birdied No.  4.  8-iron to 12 feet.  Birdied No.  6.  7-iron on the green, 2-putt.  Birdied No.  8.  Sand wedge to 16 feet.  Birdied No.  10.  Sand wedge to eight feet.  Birdied No.  14.  Pitching wedge to 20 feet.  Birdied No.  17.  Sand wedge to six feet. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  20 feet, about. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I'm very happy the way I played today.  Actually, very happy the way I played yesterday, too.  You know, I made eight birdies today, hit 16 greens, very solid off the tee, very solid onto the greens.  Maybe let a few putts slip away.  Other than that, I'm as pleased as I can be with my game.  Then again, I'm so far away from Wendy.  I'm amazed how good she has played.  I'm very happy the way I played.  You shoot 5-under, 7-under, you don't expect to be 5 behind.  I have to charge again tomorrow. 


Q.  How good are you at charging? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  We'll find out.  But I've been 10 behind, so...


Q.  You did not eagle 6?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No.  Karrie did.


Q.  They had that on the board.  And you did not bogey 5?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No.  I had three on 5, and four on 6. 


Q.  You had a birdie putt at 18? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes. 


Q.  Three, four feet? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Four, five, yeah. 


Q.  Are you hitting some good putts and some bad putts?  I mean, it's not like you're not making anything, but you are missing some that if you were really hot it looks like you'd be making. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think what I'm doing is on longer putts, I'm hitting it more firm.  Short ones, I'm hitting too soft.  They hit little marks and they kind of wobble a little bit.  I noticed on the Back  9.  I was telling myself, "Maybe a little less break, hit it more firm."  That's definitely what I should have done on 18.  I played too much break, kind of let the ball roll.  It's not really rolling this late in the afternoon.  Kind of going like this.  I noticed a little too late.  I think that's the difference.  You have to hit them really firm, straight at the hole.


Q.  What do you think it will take tomorrow to overcome her?  She doesn't appear to be giving back a whole lot.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  We'll see.  I mean, tomorrow is Sunday.  It's a little different than a Saturday.  But, you know, Wendy is playing some good golf, for sure.  You know, you don't set a course record without playing good golf.  You know, I wouldn't expect her to fall back too much.  But hopefully I can get off to a hot start and climb up on the leaderboard.  We'll see what happens after that. 


Q.  Both Wendy and Michelle were asked on one hand it seems the course is playing easy; on the other, they would contend that the women are playing awfully well.  You've played here well all three years.  Is it easier this year?  Are the women just shooting lights out for another reason?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think for sure the course is playing shorter.  When I went through the card here with you guys, I think I hit sand wedge three, four times, pitching wedge maybe three times.  That's not a very long course.  I'm reaching for 7-iron, 4-wood.  So I think it's playing shorter.  On the other hand, I think overall, you know, you're 9-under, you're tied for eighth or sixth place, I mean that is good golf.  Whether the course is shot or not, the scores are very close.  I think that shows the depth is out here on our tour.  The golf is getting better.  But it's obviously an easier course than it has been in the past because the scores are much lower. 


Q.  You mentioned that you have come from 10 back before.  When you came from 10 back, you were in the middle of an extreme hot streak.  Your play at the British would not suggest you are in that groove now.  Are you in enough of a groove that you feel that's possible?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Very much so.  I'm hitting the ball as good as I did in LA.  I think I'm playing as good.  Last week I did not hit the ball good at all.  But it's not (inaudible) my long game this week.  I've been hitting 16, 17 greens.  I'm very psyched about that.  It's just a matter of putting, you know, the scores together, which I haven't done for two days.  Like you said, in LA, I was on a hot streak then.  But I haven't won in a while, so I'm a little hungry again. 


Q.  The two best players in the world were paired today.  Did you sense any buzz out there in the gallery?  Were you impressed by the size of it, disappointed?  When you both play, do you think there's an expectation for you both to do unbelievable things because you're paired together? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think in the beginning it was a great crowd.  I don't know really what happened the Back  9.  Maybe got later in the day and people had to go home.  In the beginning, the crowds were great.  I don't know what the expectations were, but we both played really well.  I hope we lived up to them.  Don't really know what they were talking about.  Can't really hear.  I mean, I always enjoy playing with Karrie, she's a great player.  You always want to play your best when you play her. 


Q.  You probably don't know exactly how many times you've been paired in your career.  Ten times?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  In our career, probably more than ten.  This year, not so many times.  I want to say two or three at the most this year. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT