WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 9, 2001
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Can you talk about the fact that you were last week obviously at the British Open, there was another big tournament in Europe this weekend, one in Sweden, but you've chosen to come here.  Obviously says a lot about this tournament.  Could you talk about that a little bit?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I mean, I've a little played in Sweden.  I've always supported that event.  Early in the year I made a commitment to this tour more than ever.  I wanted to achieve some of my goals, and that was to be the best player out here, try and win the Money List.  I thought the more I play overseas, the less my chances to do well here.  That's why I'm here.  Another reason is that I played really well here in the past.  I love the golf course.  I love the tournament.  Didn't want to miss it. 


Q.  Could you talk about the course itself?  Now you don't have to play with a sweater like in the fall.  Can you talk about how you see the course?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Actually, I haven't seen the course.  I got in last night.  I can't really tell you how it is this year.  In the past, it's a great golf course.  It's a shot-making golf course.  It's always been in good shape.  Like you said, it's a little bit different temperature this year.  In the past it's been cold.  I remember chipping out here, there's been frost in the grass.  Yesterday was totally different.  I was sweating.  It's really hot.  The conditions will be different.  But I've heard from a lot of players that it's in good shape.  I look forward to seeing it this afternoon. 


Q.  We had a little bit of rain yesterday.  I guess we're supposed to have some more tonight and possibly tomorrow.  When Karrie was in here yesterday, she talked about, with it being three rounds, she could see 15 under winning, people going low.  If the course is wet, plays soft but long, what kind of scoring do you see?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, if the greens are soft, you obviously will be able to hit straight at the pin.  I mean, I remember in the past, the greens are really fair, smooth.  Kind of what you see is what you get.  You know, if you play well, it's a course where you can score well.  It's also a course that if you don't play well, it can kind of get you.  With the conditions being rainy, you're not going to be to get a lot of pull off the tee, which means you're not going to roll into trouble.  It's going to sort of sit in the fairways, then you'll have a good shot into the green.   I never predict scores when I come to a tournament.  I know it's a three-day event this year.  It's going to be a little different than in the past.  You for sure want to get off to a good start.  I think that's the key in a three-day event. 


Q.  How are you playing right now?  I know you never really got into contention in the British.  How do you think you're playing?  If you're not playing well, might this course make you play well? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I mean, I hope my game is turning around.  I haven't been as good as I'd like it to be the last few months, you know, for different reasons.  I haven't really hit the ball as well as I did earlier in the year.  I did work with my instructor last week or the week before the British.  It takes time to kind of get used to the new moves and so forth.  I'm seeing some great progress.  The last few days I had a chance to work a lot on my game.  Hopefully it will change.  My short game is better than ever, but my long game is not as good.  I mean, last week I averaged about 14 to 15 greens.  I averaged 8 to 9.  So that's a difference.  On the other hand, I'm making more up and downs.  Even though I'm not shooting great low scores, I'm hoping my iron game can turn around.


Q.  How much do the players like coming here to Columbus? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's a popular event, for sure.  I think the field shows that, especially after a major, you know, flying all the way from Europe, come back here.  You've got a great field.  I think that's a sign from the players that we like it.  Personally I like it because of the golf course and just the way it's run.  I mean, everything is first class.  Hospitality, I mean, everything is really good.  Hopefully we can continue.  We have a great sponsor this year.  Hopefully we'll continue to make it even better. 


Q.  Because it's a 54-hole event, you tee off tomorrow at 9:00.  Are you an advantage?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's definitely an advantage to be in the morning.  I'm really glad to see a morning tee time.  It's the first one I've had all year.  I'm pretty psyched about that.  It is an advantage.  Especially if it rains, the greens get soft.  In some places the wind will pick up in the afternoon.  I'm lucky this time.  I'll take it. 


Q.  What did you do the last couple days?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I've been in Orlando practicing. 


Q.  The ProAm, do you guys use that as a way to look at the golf course?  You're playing with some local celebrities today.  Is it a chance to have fun or is it more work out there today?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think it's a combination of both.  Today is kind of our day to say thank you, have a good time with the sponsors and so forth.  I try to give some swing tips, whatever is needed, you know, to get the low team score.  But it's a lot of fun.  I do also try and get, you know, a feel for the course, especially now when I haven't seen it.  I will putt around, get a feel for the course.  It's a combination. 


Q.  You're playing with Archie Griffin.  Do you know what distinguishes Archie Griffin here?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I don't (laughter).  I guess I need to find out.  I have two hours.


Q.  I was wondering if you could talk about the travel and the preparation for Big Horn, how that might have affected how you played at the British Open?  Was that overwhelming before a major championship?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Sure.  Of course, it wasn't the best preparation for a major.  I mean, I knew that going into the event.  I knew it several months ago.  But to have a chance to play with Tiger, David Duval and Tiger together, the match like we did, it was a lifetime experience.  I didn't want to miss it.  This is the only chance that we had to do it, so of course I was going to do it.  It was a long flight over.  Didn't get in until late Tuesday night.  Then again, you know, you rush into the ProAm, get a feel for the course.  I never really felt like I got into the British time at all, to be honest.  I left Sunday night.  It was a really short trip.  Didn't really play the way I wanted.  But The Battle of Big Horn was a great experience.  Like I said, I wouldn't want to change it.  I wouldn't do anything differently.  That opened a lot of opportunities for the ladies to be on prime time TV like we were, you know, so this is an opportunity for us.  I wasn't going to give that trip away.


Q.  I'm sure you have read what a lot of people have written about the match.  Are you tired of having to defend the way you played and Karrie played, the way it came off?  Does that bother you, the reaction to it, that the golf wasn't that good, wasn't a good showcase for the LPGA?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  To be honest, I haven't read anything because we were in England.  Maybe that's a good thing.  But it was great for the players.  If you watched it, you can see that nobody played well, men or women.  It just shows that it's not a coincidence that four of the best players in the world don't play well.  There's a reason for it.  You know, I'm a member at Big Horn.  It's the toughest course I've ever seen.  Every pin was in the most difficult position.  You guys try to putt 12, see how that goes, when it's gusting at 40, 50 miles an hour winds.  You know, it's fun, social maybe.  But when you're on display, let's see how the women play, they put conditions like that.  I mean, Tiger hit an 8-iron for 120.  As far as I know, he hits it further than that.  You know, that's just how difficult it was.  It's more of a showcase, to be together and play.  I got to meet the guys, it was great.  I had a wonderful time.  I wish maybe Karrie and I could have played better.  Who knows, if the conditions would have been better, you might have seen 18 birdies.  Who knows? 


Q.  You just talked about the opportunity to do this.  Karrie said yesterday if it came up again, if it was before a major, she would probably decline.  Do you feel the same way, that you took advantage of this one?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I'd play.  I had such a good time.  I love playing with the guys.  I want to do it again.  Hopefully different setup, different conditions.  But, no, I mean, I wouldn't want to trade it. 


Q.  While you and Karrie were trying to recover from your jet lag last week, Se Ri sneaked into the number one spot on the Money List.  There's been so much focus in recent years on you and Karrie trying to be the best player in the world.  Is Se Ri right there with you in your opinion?  Should people pretty much look like there's at least three players on this tour battling for No.  1?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think so.  I've actually thought so for the last three years.  I think Se Ri is a great player overall.  She has a great long game, great short game.  She works very, very hard.  She can play pretty much any golf course.  With all the attention on Karrie and me, it's giving her a chance to play well and move up.  Right now, like you said, she's No.  1 on the Money List.  I mean, it's fun to see.  She's a great, young player.  She's going to be around for many years.  To me it's not really a surprise.  I told my husband earlier in the year, when I played with her in Phoenix, "I've got to watch out for Se Ri this year."  It's taken her a few months, but for sure she's there. 


Q.  How about the course, how New Albany sets up for you?  What do you like about playing here?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  What I like about the golf course? 


Q.  Yes. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's a really fair golf course.  You have to drive the ball well.  I like the green areas.  You have to hit some good iron shots.  Some of the pins that they've had in the past has been great.  You have to pretty much play aggressive.  It's a top rate golf course for sure.  Some par 5s that are reachable.  Some par 5s have more strategic plays to it.  That's the way I like to play a golf course.  This one pretty much has it all.


Q.  If you can follow up on the answer about Se Ri, was there anything in particular about what you saw in Phoenix that caused to you make that comment to your husband?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Several things.  One was kind of her dedication.  You can tell that she wanted it, that she's put in a lot of hard work this winter.  She just looked more focused, I think, mostly with her game, the way she played, kind of improved on a lot of parts of her game.  Just seems like a more mature player than I've seen in the past.


Q.  In your earlier answer you said with all the attention on you and Karrie, it's given Se Ri a chance to play well.  Can you expound on that in terms of maybe her sneaking in, what the advantage is of her not being looked at as a rival to you two until maybe this year?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think there's several factors.  A lot of it is the attention, obligations, responsibility.  You know, when you're in the spotlight, people look at you for many different reasons, good or bad.  Se Ri kind of has been on the side, no expectations.  I think that's given her time to just work on her game, setting out her own goals and play.  When you're in the limelight, when you're always looked at, you know, people judge you here and there, it's tougher to go about your business, to practice the way you want and achieve the goals that you set up.  I came out early this year, had lots of time to just get ready, prepare and everything.  I came out really strong because all the attention was on Karrie.  I had some of the best three months of my career.  I mean, it was great.  I think that's what Se Ri has had time to do this year. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT