WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 12, 2001
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.  Let's start on the front side.  Birdied No.  5.  7-iron to three feet.  Birdied No.  6.  7-wood, 2-putt.  
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  25 feet.  Birdied No.  7.  8-iron to 20 feet.  Birdied No.  11.  7-iron, three feet.  Bogeyed 13.  Sand wedge, 3-putt.  Birdied No.  14.  9-iron to about a foot.  16, also birdie.  Chip, sand wedge, four feet.  Birdie on 17.  8-iron to six feet.  
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thank you.  Yeah, I'm extremely happy the way I've hit the ball this week, especially my iron play, it's back to where I want it to be.  I had a lot of great shots that just stayed on line, several tap-ins for birdies.  Hit a lot of greens.  It was a great week.  I mean, I'm as pleased as I can be with my game.  
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, it's coming together.  I'm excited about that.  Really don't know what made it turn around.  I think a lot of practice.  I worked with my instructor two weeks ago.  But it just takes some time to get the swing in groove.  Great week for it to come together.  I mean, this is a course for iron shots.  I was able to aim at the pins.  The way the greens were set up, I could fire at the pins, it would be right there.  
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Very much so, yeah.  Even though I didn't win, I mean, I would have taken 18 under par.  If you told me that Thursday, I would have taken it right away (laughter).  
 

Q.  Wendy was all around the hole and couldn't get the ball in the hole early on the Front  9.  Do you think if you could have gotten your birdies earlier to maybe narrow that gap sooner in the final round it might have turned out different or not? 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's very tough to say.  I mean, I think, you know, on the Front  9, when I looked, I was only two shots behind.  I can't recall what hole that was.  You know, starting with five shots behind, I'm now just two.  I think that's climbing pretty close.  Then I looked again, I saw she birdied I think 9, and then again later.  It seems like she got her game going again.  When you're trailing by five, that person shoots 4-under, in the 60s, it's just very hard to catch somebody.  I'm very pleased with my round.  I tried starting from the first hole to birdie every hole.  I personally think I was around the hole also in the beginning, until that shot dropping on the fifth hole.  I mean, Wendy played excellent.  20 under par, 21 under par, according to Neal, that's a three-day record.  I mean, it's fantastic golf.  
 

Q.  Could you tell me how far you had for birdie at 1 and 2?  I wonder if when those didn't go, if you started to think about your putting again?  You missed the short one at 13. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah.  No.  1, I believe I had like a 10-, 11-footer.  No.  2, nine feet.  Definitely makable birdie putts.  I think I hit two good putts there.  Didn't go in.  My only mistake was on 13.  I mean, you're going to make a mistake or two.  If you only make one, that's fine.  It turned out to be a putt.  Other than that, I made a lot of putts throughout the week.  It's something I'd just like to forget.  I don't think it would have changed anything.  
 

Q.  You won this tournament in '99, kind of a little bit short the last two times.  What's been the main thing that held you back the last couple times?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  This week, I mean, it's just Wendy (laughter).  I mean, I think I played as good as I can.  Sometimes you have a player like that that is really, really hot.  She is unstoppable this week.  Last year I remember I was right up there.  I remember I had 21 putts on the Back  9.  That held me back from winning then.  This has been a great tournament for me.  It's been a great event overall.  I finished in the top six three times.  It's probably the best tournament I can think of that we have on tour.  Top 10 every year.  It's a great place (laughter).  
 

Q.  If there's not the British right before this next year, would you prefer to see it go back to 72? 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'd like to see it 72 whether it's behind the British or not.  For me it really doesn't make a difference.  I like four-day tournaments.  I've said that all along.  I still think it's the best true test of who's the best player out here.  I'm not saying Wendy would not have won.  She would have a great lead going into the last round again.  It's a true test, four days.  
 

Q.  You said yesterday that after winning early in the year that you were getting hungry again.  Between then and now, what in your game has held you back?  You obviously feel that you're getting back into a winning mode.  What's coming around for you in your game right now?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, earlier in the year, everything went my way.  I mean, I hit every fairway, I hit every green.  If I did miss, I made up and down.  It was really easy, it felt like.  Everything went my way totally.  Then in May, June, started to make a few more mistakes, didn't hit as many greens, didn't make as many ups and downs.  Especially at the US Open, I didn't make any ups and downs.  Then I started to make ups and downs, but then I starting missing greens.  The last two months, I've not hit the ball as well as I'd like to.  Missed a lot of greens, missed a lot of fairways, which is normally my strength.  Have been kind of struggling a little bit, really haven't found the rhythm.  When you stand on the tee, you see a lot of trouble, when you normally see a big fairway.  It makes a big difference.  I think mentally that's kind of been tough on me because I'm used to hitting fairways and used to hitting greens.  But it's changed this week.  I'm back to where I see a pin, I just fire straight at it.  It's a lot of fun.  I had a great time this week.  My game is back.  There's no better feeling when you hit a pure shot.  
 

Q.  You mentioned you'd like to see it go back to 72 holes.  Would you also like to see them toughen up this course at all?  If so, how?  Length?  Narrower fairways?  What? 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Both.  Actually, both.  There are a lot of tees behind us.  There's several holes where we walk past tee boxes to get to our tee.  I know you can definitely a lot of holes, especially some of the par 5s, some of the par 4s also.  I wouldn't mind to see some more rough.  Other than that, I mean, I think it's a great layout.  I mean, I love the course.  It's just this year for some reason, it's rolling a lot on the fairways.  I'm hitting sand wedge and pitching wedge a lot.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT