THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2001
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Birdied the 1st hole.  I hit a 7-iron to four feet.  Bogeyed No.  3.  6-iron on the green, three-putt.  Birdied No.  7.  Sand wedge to 11 feet.  Birdied No.  10.  7-iron to three feet.  Bogeyed No.  16.  Pitching wedge on the green, three-putt.  Birdied No.  17.  Hit a 7-iron, almost went in the hole, just tapped it in for birdie.  
 
Q.  When was your last hole-in-one?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Last year. 
 
Q.  What were the distances of the two 3-putts?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  The one on 3, I was 35 feet away, maybe 40 feet away.  The one on 16, 25 feet away.  
 
Q.  Were you watching the score board today at all?  Everybody was kind of going back and forth.  There were some amazing turns. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  There was.  I was watching the leaderboard a lot.  I saw a lot of people up, a lot of people down.  I said, "I just want to try and stay consistent, keep doing what you're doing.  Seems like it's working."  I tried just to be patient.  Like I've said here before, you can never take any hole for granted.  You've just got to be patient and try to really hit one shot at a time.  I think I did pretty good at that today.  
 
Q.  It looked like when Se Ri started going bad, she went really bad.  Does this golf course do that to you?  Do you have to make sure that you guard against taking a double bogey and accept a bogey sometimes?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think on a course like this, it's very easy to lose ground, just like Se Ri did.  It's very tough to climb on the leaderboard.  She played so well the Front  9, she was so consistent, she played so smart, then she made a few mistakes, and suddenly she just crashed down.  That's what this golf course can do to you, definitely.  
 
Q.  With everything that's happened to you, the past couple weeks, can you talk about your physical and mental state at this point, on the verge of a title that you've openly coveted?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Let's put it this way, I think I only have one round of golf in me left.  It's been a long three weeks.  I just caught a cold.  I mean, this is it.  This is all I've got.  I know that.  Tomorrow, I mean, I really  -- this tournament means a lot to me.  I know tomorrow I've got to give it all.  I'm going to try and gather all the energy I can and try and hit the best shots that I can.  I mean, it's so close.  It's amazing just looking at the leaderboard.  Like I said, you can really fall down here quickly.  You need to stay patient.  If you can make a birdie here or two, I'm sure you're going to climb up.  That's my goal tomorrow.  Just be patient and just give it all.  
 
Q.  After you play that one round of golf, how many weeks are you going to take off, or months off?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I only have two weeks off (laughter).  I'm not going  -- I don't know.  I haven't even thought about Monday.  I can tell you, it's not going to be golf.  
 
Q.  At this stage of the game, do you think the two weeks that you've had, are you sharper?  Do you feel like you're peaking?  Do you feel like you're wobbly on the top? 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's tough to say.  I mean, today I hit 18 greens, so my long game is really there.  I felt a little bit today I didn't have the touch around the greens, the speed of the putts I've wanted, that I had earlier in the week.  Hopefully that was just today.  Hopefully tomorrow I can be sharp with my iron shots and be sharp with my putter.  It's tough to say what it is.  You know, especially when you look at the leaderboard, see people go up and down, it's intense out there.  
 
Q.  How much of a difference does it make, very early start tomorrow?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I mean, I'd rather two twosomes going a little later, since it's a major.  I assume because of TV, we've got to do this.  I mean, it worked fine today.  I'm going to have my mind set on that again.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT