NEW ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
September 27, 2000
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I was well rested when I came here last year.  It was very much an up-and-down year in '99, and one week I would hit the ball really well and the next week I would putt really well, but nothing really came together.  And then I came here and this is one of the last tournaments that I had a chance to win and after that last year, I played the best I had in a long time.  I was driving the ball really well.  I shot 19-under; so I was very thrilled for that obviously and get a second win, and obviously gave me confidence.  Had a good run; and it really has been a good year for me.  I've been very pleased the way I've played, five victories.  So you could say it is a turning point from last year.  I'm glad to be back.  Have a lot of wonderful memories and I love this golf course.  I look forward to tomorrow.  I mean, I want to go out and play again.  I really like the course.  Hopefully I can make as many birdies as I did last year. 


Q.  Not only a turning point last year, but your victory last year started with some pretty great golf here in Ohio.  Can you talk about the success you've had here in the States?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, it's been a great state for me.  I guess I won three out of the last four tournaments in Ohio.  We played the Solheim Cup and I did really well there.  And I don't know what it is; it must be something in the water.  It's been great.  I think overall, I just love the golf courses that you have here.  They kind of fit my game for different reasons.  But obviously they are in good shape and everybody has been really nice.  Maybe it reminds me of Sweden a little bit with these type of trees.  I don't know what it is.  But I've been playing well when I get here. 


Q.  I heard you were going to buy a house here?  No? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   We'll see how it goes this week. (Laughs.)


Q.  What I actually wanted to ask you was how the course this year compares to the one you played so well on last year? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, conditions-wise, I think it is about the same.  The greens are very smooth.  They are in great shape, tees and fairways, but it's unfortunate that it's been raining so much.  It's very, very wet out there.  Yesterday we walked in puddles everywhere.  Today it had dried out.  But still when you hit a shot, the divot is about three feet long, and unfortunately it kind of beats up the golf course.  But the greens are still rolling really smooth.  I'd like to see some wind so that it dries out, make the greens a little firmer.  Because you know when it is wet like this, it is more target golf.  You don't get any roll, and if your drive is a little bit right or left, I don't think you get as punished.  Same thing if you hit the green; it is just going to stop.  I'd like to see it dry out a little bit so you have to plan your shots a little bit more and not just fire at the pin. 


Q.  You were very supportive of Terry  -- her caddy is at home having a baby, and you were very supportive of him going home and being with his wife.  Can you just talk about that, what it's like not having him here?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well, obviously I miss him.  He's a great guy and he's a great caddy, and this was our first victory last year together.  So it would have been nice to see him be here.  But there are other things in life tan golf.  This is his second child.  I told him to take the rest of the season off if he wanted to.  I told him not to worry about it.   But he said hopefully two weeks is going to be enough and he will be back on the bag next week.  We'll see.  They were supposed to have it next week, and now another day, and it's Wednesday and we still have not heard anything.  I mean, as long as things go well, that's all that matters.  The golf tournament is important to me but like I said, there are other things than golf. 


Q.  The conditions that you spoke of this year, do they bring more players into contention or are there more players who can win in conditions like this than compared to last year?  You shot awful low last year, but given that, I don't think there were that many people that finished under par.  Do you think maybe more will this year? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I think so.  But I think, you know, it also makes it more of a long hitter's course.  You still have to hit the ball long here, but I think you've got to hit it long and straight when it's dry.  You could just be a long hitter here -- and it wouldn't sit because the fairways are so wide, and if you miss it a little bit, it's still going to end up in the fairway.  Then it is going to start to dry out, and the rough is thick and then the ball starts rolling onto there and that makes a difference.  Again, if the greens are soft, it favors probably more of a high hitter and because if you hit it high you can go for the pin and then tuck it behind the bunker.  When it was dry you have to play maybe more around the bunkers.  So it's a little different  -- I think it favors a different player. 


Q.  With there being no run on the fairways, the way they are now, there's a difference between long hitters and long hitters who carry it a long way.  Who are the long carriers out on this tour? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I don't really know exactly who is here, but Michelle McGann is a high hitter; she's a long hitter.  Kelly Robins is long and high.  Karrie is probably  -- yeah, she's also up in that group.  Laura Davies is not here, but that would probably favor somebody like her.  Juli, who is not here, but somebody like that.  I'd like to say it favors me, too.  I'm not as long as the people I mentioned.  I don't hit it as high, but I think I can adjust my game.


Q.  Had it not been for defending, do you think you might have skipped this week to prepare for the Solheim Cup? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No. 


Q.  Speaking of that, do you have a problem with an American caddy for a European? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I don't have a problem.  I hope the rest of the team doesn't have a problem.  I know Terry and I talked about it because he was  -- let's see I think it was in  '94 and '96, he did carry for a U.S. player, and he is an American; so you would think that would be more natural maybe. But we've talked about it and he says he's going to go out and try and help me and help win as many points as we can.  And if he does that, that's all I can ask him to do.  It would be tough for him maybe to wear European clothing, but he's just happy to be going. 


Q.  Your thoughts on the Solheim Cup, how you think it is shaping up?  What did you think of Pat Bradley's picks?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I thought Pat's picks were good. That's kind of what I expected.  It's a wise choice to go for some experience, and both Brandie and Beth are, you know, good players.  Brandie didn't even play in '99, but she's played very solid this year.  So I thought she was an automatic.  When it comes down to picks like that, it's always going to be a little political, but I think she did a good job.


Q.  Can you talk about the rivalry or the competitions that exist out there between and you Karrie? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, first of all, I think Karrie is a great player.  She has done phenomenal things the last few years.  Right now she is in the spot where I like to be; she is the No. 1 player in different categories.  And it's made me practice a little harder.  It's made me realize what's important to me and my goals, and it makes me just, like I said, work harder, play better.  I'm quite stubborn and not going to give up until that day that I've had a chance to beat her.  I've done that a few times this year, but not enough.  It makes it exciting.  But I think it is friendly rivalry.  We'll see how it goes.  I'm still very optimistic.  I have a few more tournaments this season.  I think I pretty much have to win every one of them, but it's possible.  So still grinding. 


Q.  Back to the Solheim Cup.  Certainly a Swedish flavor to the European team.  Your feelings on that, with three of the five captains picks being from Sweden? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Obviously, I'm proud to see a lot of Swedes on the team.  We have a lot of good Swedish players.  So it is nice to see them.  You know, we have a little different situation on the European Tour because we have five picks instead of two, and in that case, I think it made it a little bit more difficult for Dale.  And also, a lot of Europeans play over here in the U.S.  we don't have the same point system as you do over here; so I think it is a little tougher for her to pick some players.  But when it comes to the Tour, we know each other really well and I'm sure the best balls and the foursomes are going to be two Swedes together. 


Q.  On that note, what's the Junior program like in Sweden?  Why are there so many good young players coming out of the system?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Like you said, we have a great junior program, and it really starts at each club level; we have a lot of juniors at each club.  I can talk about my club a little bit.  We have over 1,000 members and over 300 are juniors.  So if you have 300 juniors at each club, there's always one or two that are pretty good.  And we have organized practice and organized tournaments, and when you're a kid you're out on the golf course, it's a great way to come out and see your friends.  It's a lot of fun.  It's not so serious in the beginning.  We have instructional coaches that give you instructions at an early age, and you get the right grip and the right setup; and if you keep enjoying the game after that you keep playing at local tournaments and regionals.  And if you get really good, you get to play on a national level.  So really, you're helped from the beginning and guided until you decide to turn pro.  So I think that's one of the reasons that we have a lot of Swedish players out here. 


Q.  Are you surprised at all by Dale's picks?  Your sister was one of the snubs, I would call it, and Liselotte and Helen have not really played up to their potential this year.  Do you think maybe there should be another system?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   To be honest, I was shocked by the picks.  I think there are two players that deserve to be on the team that are not on the team.  But we have a system that, as I said, it's very difficult to get the best players on the team, and I definitely want to see a different system in the future.  I like to see  -- actually, I'd like to see a World Ranking for the women and pick the best 12 European players on that.  And it should be  -- it should be counted  -- play over here should count.  You should somehow get points playing over here, because there is where all of the best players in the world are, and this is where we all want to play.  This is Division I, and you when you don't get credit for that, I think that's very tough. 


Q.  I take it one of those two is your sister?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yes. 


Q.  And did you console her at all?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I talked her.  I called her right after I heard the picks, and she actually had not heard about it, which was pretty sad at the time.  So I kind of brought the bad news; so I felt a little bad.  But she was glad that I called.  And I told her I didn't understand what was happening.  I told her it must have been some kind of joke because she is right now 20 on the money list.  It's really tough to understand why she's not on the team.  And I told her that I'm her biggest supporter, and I said I wish there was something I could do to help her, because we had talked about playing to the, either in alternate shot or in best ball; and there goes my team.  So I was fairly disappointed and sad for her. 


Q.  You guys didn't get to play together at Muirfield, did you? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   No. 


Q.  So is it would have been a confirmation of how things have changed between you two, you had some rough edges, and it would have been a chance to bond once again? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, we are getting along really well, and I think we play similar golf.  It would have been fun.  I mean, we have a lot in common, and I really think we would have done well together.  I am going to play with her in Malaysia in the World Cup; so, that gives us a chance to prove that, but it doesn't really make her feel any better at this time.  


Q.  Do you think maybe there should be a better point system with U.S. events and major championships and use that in the point criteria, rather than just 12 or 13 European events? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah.  I mean, it's tough to play both tours.  We all know that.  And therefore, they have a requirement to get us Europeans over there, and I understand that.  But I think this is a very important tournament, and the best team needs to go.  And when you have seven automatics and five picks, it's very difficult to get the best players.  So I'd like to see a point system where you're in the Top-20 over here, you get some points.  I don't know, I haven't really figured something out, but I'd be happy to.  I mean, I love numbers; I could figure out a fair system.  Because this is where I play.  I've played 19 tournaments so far here and I've played three in Europe.  You know, when you go over there and play three times, I don't think that really justifies how well you can play.  I mean, when you play 18, then you can really tell how good somebody is playing. 


Q.  The schedule for next year was announced and the Women's British Open is now a major.  Next year New Albany is moving up so that it follows the Women's British, and I have been told that the Swedish Open is always the week after the Women's British.  And I'm wondering if that's the same case next year, how that is going to affect who plays New Albany compared to the past two years?  Is that going to take a lot of the Swedes out of the field?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I haven't seen the European schedule.  But you're right, the Swedish Open has always followed the British Open, which is  -- I would, but it gives me another reason to win here, then I have to come back and defend.  So if I win here, I'll definitely be back.  I'd like to be back even though I don't win because this tournament means a lot.  Like I said I love the golf course, I love everything about it.  So it will be a little bit of a toss-up.  I wouldn't really commit 100% to any of the tournaments, but I would consider playing here. 


Q.  Competition this year, there's been a lot of different winners.  Is that good for the game?  I know obviously you want to be at the top of the leaderboard every week, but do you like that competitiveness about the LPGA this year? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, a lot of different players have one.  But, most of the winners -- I mean, Karrie has won six times, and I have won five right there, out of probably 30, and then you have Laura and Juli.  But there's a lot of good players, upcoming players.  You have Betsy King that has won twice, you have young ones and veterans.  Our tour has a lot of different players which makes it exciting.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah I didn't play in the tournament where she won, but when I was home, I watched it on TV, and it was impressive to go out and shoot, what, three 66s.  It was great golf; so it's nice to see her back.  I know she's been out for a while and had a few rough times but again, as another win tore get her first win.  I remember when I won my first time, and it was exciting, so I'm sure she felt the same way. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT