DU MAURIER CLASSIC
August 12, 2000
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Let's see, here, I birdied the first hole, hit a pitching wedge to 7 feet.  Bogeyed No. 5.  I hit it in the left-hand side bunker, hit it out; 2-putt.  No. 7, I birdied.  9-iron to about 28 feet.  Birdied No. 9, sand wedge to 12 feet.   Bogeyed No. 11, 7-iron and then 3-putt.  Birdied No. 12, 8-iron to about 5 feet.  Bogeyed No. 15.  I chipped it just short of the green, and 2-putt.  And then I bogeyed the last hole.  Hit my drive to the left, had to chip it out and just kind of layup and hit a sand wedge; 2-putt.  
 

Q.  How far was the 3-putt on 11?  How far away were you originally?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, actually I was closer on my first putt than my second putt (laughter).  That's quite a green.  I was probably only 7 to 8 feet away from the first one, and there was just a very severe slope, and then I ended up 25 feet and then 2-putt from there. 
 

Q.  Yesterday you said the greens were small enough you didn't have to go for the pins.  You seemed to be very aggressive, and some of them rewarded with birdies and others didn't.  You seemed to be always on the short side of the pin.  Were you going for the pins?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That's my strategy (inaudible).  I think I said it yesterday, but I'll repeat myself.  I think there's certain holes out there where you can be aggressive and there are certain holes where you can't, where you go for the center of the green.  Sometimes you have good yardage, and sometimes you're in between clubs.  It depends a little bit on the situation.   On a hole that I was very aggressive on was No. 12.  I was perfect yardage with an 8-iron, and made a perfect swing and ended up left, short.  And on No. 11, I was going between clubs, got a huge kick and ended up on the wrong side of the flag.  So it's difficult out there.  And you just kind of have to judge when it's a good time to go for it and when you can't. 
 

Q.  How was the whole experience today of being in that lead group with Lorie and all of her fans?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, she has a lot of fans (laughter), which is great, for her to play in the last group and in her home country.  I understand that the crowds are going to be the way they are, and they've been very supportive.  They clap a lot and cheer a lot.  But on the other hand, I've got to try to go out and play my own game and not focus too much  -- and when they clap and when they don't, if I made a good shot, if I made a putt, they cheered for me, too.  I try not to get too involved in what's going on outside the ropes. 
 

Q.  You talk about playing your own game, but tomorrow obviously with you both sharing the lead, it basically comes down to match play.
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, we're playing in the same group, but there's players only 3 shots behind.  I don't want to count anybody out.  If you're ahead 6 shots tomorrow, definitely you have a chance.  You saw the course today.  It's far away from a match play, I think.  But I'm going to go out and play the best I can.  I tried today, and got off to a good start, and then I kind of left a few out there on the back 9.  But for me it's going to be stroke-play tomorrow, hit one shot at a time.  Hopefully hit a lot of greens and make a lot of putts. 
 

Q.  How significant was the bogey on 18, just in terms of momentum?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It's always -- kind of gets you down a little bit to finish with a bogey, because I think it was a little silly bogey, too.  I hit a little left on the tee shot and didn't have a swing.  I just had to chip it out.  So it felt -- felt a little tough, because I think I played good golf today.  There were some holes I played good and didn't really make the putts for birdies.  And there were some others I made some good saves.  But overall, it feels better than level par, especially when I had four birdies.  That means I'm making some mistakes out there.  But I'm going to forget about that.  I'm going to try to hit some balls after this and find the momentum again, and I'll be ready tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Were the greens fast?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I think the greens are firming up, especially with some of the approach shots, you get some more roll on the greens, and some of the pins are tricky.  If you have a downhill putt  -- back to No. 11, that's extremely fast; but overall, it's important to have the right speed on these greens. 
 

Q.  Annika, Lorie says she feels more relaxed and confident since winning last week.  Have you noticed a difference in her?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  You know, I asked Lorie, when did we play last, and I think the last time we played was in March, so it's tough for me to know whether she's more relaxed or not.  It's been a while.  She seemed relaxed today. 
 

Q.  How much of an advantage do you take into the final round, having already won two majors and being in this position in the final round quite often?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Last time I won a major was in '96, and that's a few years ago.  I won't really use that experience, but I think the experience of playing well this year and being in the last group all year, and winning five tournaments, that's going to boost my confidence tomorrow.  When you play a major and it's Sunday and coming down to the last few holes, you need experience.  And hopefully I have plenty. 
 

Q.  How much of a disadvantage will it be that you haven't won a major in a while?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  We'll find out. 
 

Q.  Why did you decide to wear trousers today?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I was watching a French weather channel, and I don't think it was Ottawa's weather (laughter).  Or I made the conversion wrong from Celsius from Fahrenheit.  I was hot, I was overdressed.  But hopefully, I look good with my creases (laughter).  I did study French for six years, but I didn't understand that.  
 

Q.  Talk about the role of being a spoiler tomorrow.  Canadians would love to see Lorie win the first major in her country. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it's no fun to be a spoiler.  But when I come to a tournament, my goal is to win the tournament.  And especially now, where I'm in the last group, I have a great chance to win a major, and I haven't done that in a long time.  I'm going to try to do the best I can.  I'm going to try to play the best golf I can.  I have nothing to lose tomorrow.  If we both play well tomorrow, I don't think there will really be a loser.  I think we'll both be winners.  It's just the matter of who will hold the biggest check.  I think Lorie has played some good golf this week, and I have, too.  So hopefully there will be no losers. 
 

Q.  We're used to when Canadians and Swedes are in a big match, it's usually hockey.  Are you a hockey fan?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  So so.  Not a big one.  I grew up with hockey, I know what it is, and I follow some of the Swedes.  They're over here playing.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT