DU MAURIER CLASSIC
August 11, 2000
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Okay. I started on the 10th, but let's start on No. 3. I bogeyed, my
second shot short of the green; 2-putt. Birdied No. 4, pitching wedge to about 20 feet.
Birdied 6. 9, tipped it up to about a foot. Birdied No. 17, 7-iron to about 12 feet. 
 
Q. Is this the best second round in a major you've had in a while?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah. Actually I think I played really good today. I hit a lot of
fairways, hit a lot of greens. I really was -- I never was in trouble, which is fun. And
it kind of makes you comfortable out there. I had a lot of birdie opportunities I think I
could have made. I hit some good putts, just didn't roll in as well as yesterday. But
definitely more solid overall. 
 
Q. Given the way -- I hate to keep talking about the weather, but given the way it's
been so different, today was just overcast, but no wind. I would assume that that was more
or less ideal conditions for you?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's very ideal. Like you said, there's no wind out there. And I
think the more we play the course, the more we get used to it. You can expect certain
things, but today is a scoring day, definitely. Especially going out in the morning, like
I did, the greens were smooth as they could be. The course is playing great. And today,
like I said, is a scoring day, and I'm glad I took the opportunity to do that. 
 
Q. This tournament and where you are now, you must feel you're pretty much in an ideal
position.
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm very happy. Who knows where I'll be at the end of the day. But
today, especially, I'm very happy. I'm very pleased that I could stay focused for the
whole day and for every shot. And the hole that I bogeyed, I hit a great tee shot, and I
was on a downhill slope and hit a poor shot. It was a silly mistake. But then I just said,
"Hey, forget about that hole, and move on to the next." And that -- birdied that
one. That shows I was focused. Nothing has bothered me this week. And that's the way I
like to keep it. And hopefully, I can continue to score. 
 
Q. That wasn't an easy putt at 4, that birdie putt?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, it was quite a break, probably two feet left-to-right, and a
little tricky. I putted real well this week. It's nice when I see the line, I can trust my
stroke, and I've been rolling it really well. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Some of the crowds -- they don't distract. When she hits a shot, you
know it's "Lorie" or "Laura" or "Pat." They're playing great
golf, so I can understand why they're cheering. It's fun to have the crowd out and to see,
especially on Friday. 
 
Q. There's a possibility now, that you could be in Lorie's group tomorrow. Is that
going to be a bit of a distraction, because obviously it's her crowd?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, it's her crowd. But the crowds here, they're very golf
knowledgeable. They don't clap on your back swing, and I think that's the key here. They
might cheer louder for her, which is natural, but they're very supportive. When you hit a
good shot, if you make a birdie, they clap also. That's not going to be a factor at all. I
think it will be fun to play with her. She's so popular over here. And for her to be in
the position she's in, she's got to feel great. 
 
Q. Today's a real contrast from yesterday, a 7-hour marathon out there.
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, today was 4 1/2. Yesterday was a long day. Some of you asked if
it was tough to concentrate, and it is. Today is still a long day, and I was trying to
stay focused on every shot. I wasn't looking at leaderboards. I was trying to hit one shot
at a time and focusing on the spots I wanted to hit. If I was in the fairway, I was
focusing on the green. This course is so tight and the greens are so small, you have to
stay focused on the shots you have to hit. 
 
Q. You waited a lot.
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: We waited a lot. I tried to take my time and walk slowly, walk in
circles. It's tough to kill that much time. You have a routine, and you have a certain
pace, and it's tough to change that. 
 
Q. As the pin placements get tougher on the weekend, do you think you'll be able to
maintain 69s, or maybe par would be a good score?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, personally I think the pins have been quite tough the first two
days; they've been in the corners. You've seen several pins four from the back and three
from the right. That's trickier than we have on the normal weeks. But I'm shooting a lot
for the center, hoping I hit the center, and then I will have a good birdie opportunity,
because the greens are so small. I'm not really shooting at the flags a lot of times.
Mostly when I have an 8-iron in, I will be more aggressive. If it's going to rain, the
greens are softer, I may change my strategy a little bit. But whatever I'm doing is
working, so I'm not going to mess up too much. 
 
Q. Earlier this week you talked about keeping the nerves in place. Does it get any more
difficult, the fact that right now you're leading?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Maybe, but it's Friday, and there are a lot of girls out there ,and
they can post some good scores. Who knows what's going to happen tomorrow and Sunday. I'm
glad I played some good golf. I've stayed really focused on every shot. For the weekend,
I'm going to try to keep doing what I'm doing. It helps not to look at the leaderboard so
much. I'm going to go out there and play my own game. On the other hand, nerves is part of
the game. That's the thrill about it. I love the challenge, and you come down the stretch
and have a lot of adrenalin and feeling the pressure. That's what I strive for. I don't
like the pressure; but on the other hand, I love the pressure. 
 
Q. You called it a scoring day, and yet a lot -- there are so many high scores coming
in this morning. Some of the players said they're finding it much more difficult to play
today even with the better conditions. What was the difference for you?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't know. I like the way the golf course was set up. I hit the
ball really well. So I guess I wasn't in the trouble that some of the other girls were. If
you don't hit the ball exactly where you want, you can be in trouble, you can be on a
sloping lie on the fairway or a difficult spot on the rough. You're chipping a lot and
you're trying to save par. Luckily, I hit 16 greens. I putted a lot and I had a lot of
chances. And that's the part of the course I want to see; so therefore, I don't know. 
 
Q. 16 greens, I think for the week I've never heard anybody hit that many. As you said,
because the greens are so tight, I would assume that if you keep it around there, as you
said, you're just going for the center of the green, you're really going to give yourself
a chance every time?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That's my strategy this week. You've got to be patient on a lot of
holes. But on certain holes, you can be a little more aggressive. It depends on the pin
placements. There are pins that I just don't go for. I don't see the benefit of being too
aggressive, because if you get slightly bounced or pull it or push it, you're struggling
to make par. That's not my strategy. Today I didn't make as many birdies as I did
yesterday and the day before, but I didn't make any bogeys, either. If you add it up,
that's what it's all about.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT