U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 1999
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I don't think there is a big difference. It is just a tough
game and tough competitors. Seems like a lot of girls are really playing good golf this
year. I am happy the way I have been playing. Like you said, my scoring average is lower
than it has been before. The golf is there. It is just putting it altogether and in four
days in a tournament. My game has kind of been -- some weeks I had hit the ball really
well. Next week, I would putt really well. I have been working on all parts of my game,
trying to just put it together at the same time. I think right now what I need is
patience. Just because I haven't won, doesn't mean I am walking around depressed or
anything. I am still happy with the way I am playing. 
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't think I can take that credit. Other foreign players have been
out there before me. Laura Davies has won the Championship; Liselotte has won. I think
they are the first ones. LPGA is becoming more of an international Tour, more players from
around the world are coming, especially girls in college over here. They start playing
college, then they want to turn pro; they join the LPGA. When you talk about 50 players,
it is definitely a reflection, but I also think there is going to be more to come.  
 
Q. Annika, how do you like this course? Your thoughts about it.
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I haven't played the course. Sorry I can't give any feedback about
it, but I am going out in about an hour. That will be the first chance to see the course.
However, I like the place so far. Everybody has been really friendly. We are staying at a
great place. The practice is good. Nothing about the course yet. 
 
Q. There is a lot of talk going in about Se Ri Pak and Chusiraporn. Do you think the
expectations are a little too high for them to duplicate what they can last year?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: If you think they are going to duplicate, that is very high
expectations. What they did last year was really exciting. I watched the playoff on TV. I
thought it was great golf. But you've got to look. There is 150 players here and a lot of
them that are really good. It is going to be really tough to do it again. I won't want to
put the pressure on them. Like I said, there are a lot of good players out here, and four
days of really demanding golf. You need to really play your best to be here this week.
Especially if you are going to win on Sunday, it is going to be really tough. 
 
Q. It was mentioned a minute ago about three second places this year. Are you playing
differently, or is there anything different about your game this year as compared to the
two years you won the Open? Are you playing differently now?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think my game is better than it was two years ago. I am hitting it
longer off the tee. I think I am more consistent just in general. Short game, I have
worked a lot on it. I personally think I am a better player. It is just when you come to a
Championship like this, it is not just how you have been hitting it. It is more mental
than anything. When I won the Open in 1995 and 1996, especially 1995, I really didn't know
what I was doing. I was just going out there and I was just playing. Then things turned
out the way they did. Then in 1996 I didn't expect myself to do it again. But the years
after that, I think I expected myself to do better because I had done it in the past. I
thought: Well, I am older, I should be wiser; you know, I should be able to do this. I
think that has been kind of in my way more than just my game, because my game is better,
and I know that for a fact. I just got to keep myself under control, keep my mind just
calm, and I think maybe I can do it again. If I start thinking too much, then that is
going to hurt me. 
 
Q. It was mentioned earlier that you repeated 95, 96. Obviously Se Ri Pak won the
playoff last year. Talk a little bit about maybe the challenge that she is going to be
facing trying to repeat, trying to win another back-to-back?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, it is always tough when you come back to tournaments,
especially the Open, because it means so much to win a Championship like this and, you
know, when I came back, like I said, I didn't expect to do it again. I was just playing my
own game. I think that is going to be the key for Se Ri to kind of go out and play her own
game. Try not to think about being the defending champion. Try and go out play your own
game. It is more mental this week than any other week just because it is such a great
championship. Everybody dreams about winning the Open; personally I put a lot of pressure
on myself and I want to do it again. I think Se Ri's case, just go out and play your game.
That is all you can do. 
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: The first one I just changed everything. It was my first victory on
the LPGA and turned out to be a major of all tournaments. I mean, it was -- I will never
forget it. Just came home, and I suddenly had 30 messages on my machine, suddenly
everybody wanted a part of me. And before, nobody really cared what I did and what I
played. Suddenly it was hard to share everything with people and demands of playing
certain tournaments, and it was nothing that I could prepare for. I don't regret any of
it. I'd like to do it again, but it was quite a change. 
 
Q. What is the difference between the desire you have to win this week compared to the
desire you had at Pumpkin Ridge?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It is a totally different desire. When I came to Pumpkin Ridge six
months before the Championship, all I have heard was three-peat, three-peat. It was the
only thing in my mind. I didn't have a clear mind when I came there. I knew it would
change my life, I knew it would change women's golf and so forth. So I felt like I had
everybody's expectations on my shoulders. When I came there, it was probably the worst
tournament I have had. I mean, I even missed the cut, which I've done maybe two, three
times my whole career. Now I feel I come with a clear mind. I feel very happy with my
life, my game, everything has kind of come together. I don't have any pressure at all. I
am just trying to enjoy myself. 
 
Q. This is still different than a regular event, coming into this -- your attitude
about this event is certainly different than it would be going to the Titleholders?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I think the tournament itself is different than other
tournaments we play all year. But I like to kind of low key the tournament for myself just
so that I can come out and play my own game. I learned that the from the past, especially
Pumpkin Ridge and especially Kohler and all the other championships that I played since
1996. I built the majors up to much and I just want to keep a low key, just come out enjoy
myself and let my game do the talking. I did that when I came out in 1995, I just played.
No expectation, I mean, I know I can do it because I have done it. If I can just keep that
in mind, that is my goal this year, this week. 
 
Q. I want to go back something Rhonda was talking about not only foreign players, but
the entire LPGA. You came out, you showed them it could be done. You showed them a million
dollars a year was there that you could win. Tiger came out, everybody said nobody is
going to beat him and everybody was saying nobody is going to beat Annika. Did everybody
raise the bar a little bit; practiced a little harder; their competitive juices started
flowing. What are your thoughts there?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think it is great. I think the same thing would happen, you know,
if a new person came in and raised the bar I would go practice. In our case for women's
golf when you go out and watch a tournament nowadays, it is good golf out there. You
pretty much got to shoot under par four rounds, scoring average is getting lower all year.
I think it is good for golf in general. The bar is getting higher and tougher,
competitive. I think that is what it is all about. 
 
Q. Humidity and heat is supposed to be a big thing all this week. What is a difference,
what is the biggest difference between Sweden and here in Mississippi?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: A lot of differences. But weather-wise, yes, you are right, I was not
brought up in this type of humidity or heat, but I have been in the U.S. for over eight
years and I went to school in Arizona, so I am getting used to the heat. Then the last few
months I spent some time in Orlando; bought a house there, so I think I am getting used to
it. I can't -- I don't think I will be able to blame it on the heat or the humidity. That
is just something I have got to deal with and actually I find it very cold in Sweden
nowadays, so..... 
 
Q. You mentioned that you watched last year's tournament. It was kind of -- Chusiraporn
added kind of an air of innocence and a lot of excitement to the Tour. How tough is it for
her first pro event to come on after the expectations of last year and to try and make her
debut here?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I haven't talked to Jenny at all about last year or how she feels
this year. But I think, you know, if I was her I would just come out, being a rookie as a
professional, it would be a lot of fun to come to this tournament knowing that you have
done well in the past. I don't think anybody has any expectations on her. I think she is
just -- whatever she is going to do it is going to be great. She is a great player and
there are so many good players out here you can't just take somebody and say, hey, you
finished second last year, I know you are going to do that again. I don't think anybody
can put that pressure on her. So if I were her, just enjoy it. She is going to play a lot
of these tournaments, probably going to do better year after year. 
 
Q. If the course is setup as the USGA would like it to be, what percent of the 150 in
the field has a legitimate chance of winning, do you think?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I haven't looked at the tournament field. So it is hard to say who is
going to win. If you are in you have a chance to win. I don't want to pick a number, it is
really hard. But I don't know. I don't want to make that prediction. 
 
Q. This isn't conducive to a select group of players because of their game, because of
their experience?
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, it is. I mean, I have heard that the course is very long so I
think it is going to favor a long hitter. I know when it is the U.S. Open, you should have
some experience. It is hard to say. I had never won a tournament and I won the Open as my
first. You have got to have certain criteria to do well in the Open, that is for sure. 
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You need patience and you really need the desire to win this week. It
is not about having a good round on Thursday. You really got to hang in there until
Sunday. I think you really got to be a straight hitter, normal U.S. Open courses the rough
is really thick. You want to try and hit a lot of fairways and greens. I think that is
what you have to do in a U.S. Open. You need to be a very consistent player, especially
this week, I mean, you really got to hit a lot of straight shots. You can't turn sideways
and rely on your short game. 
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I will take it. It is very flattering. It's a Championship, but that
means a lot to me and when they say that it gives you a little confidence, that is for
sure. 
 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Thanks. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT