U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 1997
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I'm very disappointed.  I wish this tournament would have ended a little differently, but that's the way it goes.  I'm actually very pleased the way I played the front 9.  I played the best golf I have in a long time.  The putts didn't drop.  The back 9 was hard for me, too.  It's been tough, real hard.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  13, I hit a 7-iron. That's my second shot.  I had 147, I recall, and I don't know what happened, just maybe hit it too good or the wind turned around.  I really don't know.  It ended up probably 25 yards behind the green in one of those  reserve areas and had to drop, a penalty drop, and hit it on the green and 2-putt.


Q.  Annika, you really didn't have an explanation or you couldn't think of a reason yesterday for your play.  Have you been able to put a finger on it?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I haven't.  I'm going to go home and try and replay the holes in my head and try and figure out what's wrong.  I really don't know what's wrong.  Like I said, the front 9 I played great, and it's hard when you say you play great and you shoot level par.  I usually shoot three or four under, and now today it was level.  So I really don't know what it is.  Maybe I put too much pressure on myself.  I wish I had an answer.


Q.  Did the lack of not making the putts on the front 9, did that start to wear on you?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  A little bit.  But normally I have a lot of patience and I keep trying as good as I can.  And I did that today, too.  Sometimes it's real hard when you can't make any birdies and you make a bogey or even a double, it really hurts you, and I think that's what happened this week.


Q.  How long is this going to take you to get over this situation?  Will you be able to shrug this off quickly? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I hope so.


Q.  How will you do that?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Luckily life goes on, and it will be another day tomorrow.  And I haven't missed a cut in a long time, and I really don't know what to do on weekends (laughter).  So we'll see.  I think I'll get over it.  I played really good this year, and that's what I've got to think about.  One tournament is only one tournament, even though this is a very big one and a very important one for me.  And I'll be back and I'll do better then.


Q.  You've closed it out with a birdie.  Was that kind of a personal satisfaction, saying, "Hey, at least I don't quit.  I don't give up"?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, that's a good way of looking at it.  I just didn't read that putt very well.  I just went up, it doesn't matter what I do, and I made it.  Maybe that's what I should have done all day.


Q.  Any special strategy last night going into today's round, did you do anything special?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I was just really looking forward to it.  I knew I was striking the ball well.  I know how to play this course.  I know it  doesn't seem like it, but I feel it inside.  I'd like to come back and play it.  It's a great golf course, and I really have a lot of respect for it.  I didn't change my strategy.  I just did my own preparation and I was out here and got ready as I always do, so I didn't change anything.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thanks Juli.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT