THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 19, 1998
Lisa Hackney
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Your reactions right now to where you stand? What you had hoped to accomplish this afternoon and the way it turned out?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I guess it's not the situation we dreamed, but we've got 12 points to chase tomorrow and I know that we're going to do the best we can to get as many as possible.  I think it was a little tough this morning and this afternoon.  Things really didn't go our way, as we would like.  Like I said, 12 points tomorrow.  We're just going to put -- hang in there and charge as much as we can. 
 

Q.  Two years ago, the United States won 9 singles matches on Sunday.  How difficult do you feel that will be tomorrow?
 
LISA HACKNEY:  Maybe it's our turn to do it this time.  You never know.  It's obviously not impossible.  They did it last time, so maybe we'll do it to them this time. 
 

Q.  From watching these matches on t.v., it seems every time you look at the television, you see a European putt not going in the hole.  Is that the story of the week for your team, do you feel?  A lot of chances and you haven't been able to capitalize on enough of them?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think so.  At least, that's how it feels in the matches we played.  I feel I played really, really good.  I had many opportunities -- didn't really drop them until this afternoon and especially when you play match-play like this, you're used to making a putt.  It's very mental, you want to make sure you can do it, too.  Put the pressure on.  I think the press has been following the U.S. team the couple of days.  I think it's going to turn and tomorrow it's going to be our turn. 
 

Q.  Are you surprised by what the score is at this  point after two days from what you thought it might be?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I am a little bit.  You know, the whole European team, we were so psyched.  We were so excited about being here and I think we have the best team we've ever had.  But, again, it just shows, you know, what -- golf -- it's a game where errors mean a lot and we've been so close for two days and we can just keep grinding and grinding.  We've got to stay patient.  And maybe when the singles comes, things will turn around. You've got to be patient and grinding and grinding and I think we've done that for two days.  We just need luck now, too. 
 
LISA HACKNEY:  I think you look at the points and it seems there's a big difference.  But I think in virtually all the matches it's been so close as far as the difference of a putt hanging on the lip and a putt going in, and we just had them scraping the edges rather than going in and that's what it boils down to and that's the difference in where the points are. 
 

Q.  And you've only won one of the matches that went to 18.  You've not been very successful on that last hole, which would have made a big difference.
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, you can look at it that way, and all the matches we've been down, also. It's not an easy hole to win. 
 
LISA HACKNEY:  First morning I played, we were 1-down playing 18 and half the hole with birdies.  I wouldn't say the 18th has been a thorn in our side by any means, but I think the fact that we've been down going into it made a difference. 
 

Q.  Tough place to make a birdie, isn't it, 18?
 
LISA HACKNEY:  Especially to make a birdie and still lose the match.  We didn't expect that. 
 
TIM MCNULTY:  The players have a meeting to go to.  Any final questions, two more questions?  Are there any more? 
 

Q.  The players that make up your squad that are here have won only 31 percent of their singles matches here.  Knowing that, what is your main focus, you two individually or what do you think you need to do differently anything else than what you have in the past?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think what we've got to do is go out and play our own game tomorrow.  It's obviously important to get off to a good start, want to see a lot of blue numbers up there and get the team going a little bit.  Like I said earlier, you just need to be patient and play your own ball and just keep grinding and grinding.  I know we've got the players.  It's just a -- you need to play as good as you can when you're here.  The competition is so tough.  Hopefully, we'll all wake up on the right side and all make our putts. 
 
LISA HACKNEY:  We don't have any options tomorrow.  Last time -- I think that perhaps makes it slightly different.  As far as tomorrow, all of us, we've all got to win our matches, plain and simple, go out and do it and we've got players -- every player is capable of doing that.  I think there is quite a bit of despondency that's going to be the determination, that there's still 12 points available and that 12 is enough for us still to win the Cup.  Perhaps not -- the odds don't look like this on paper, but we can soon turn around and that's what we'll all be trying to do. 
 
TIM MCNULTY:  Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT