U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 1998
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I am very pleased at the way I played.  I think I played really good golf on 17 holes, and I think today was probably the easiest pin placements you could have out there.  I am sure the pins are going to get tougher and tougher and really hard on Sunday, so that was kind of thankful for me, I think.  Just I hit a lot of good drives, a lot of good shots into the greens.  Really solid.  I am very pleased the way I played and putted pretty consistent also.  Just one hole that I had some trouble on.  Other than that, I am happy with the first round. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Of course I see how they are doing.  It is always nice to play with somebody who is playing well and hopefully will rub off a little bit - especially get the momentum going.  She played some good pars, hit great shots.  When somebody is always in the middle of the fairway, it is good rhythm to the group, so I think that helps. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Okay, I birdied the 4th hole.  I hit a sand wedge to about a foot.  Then I triple bogeyed the fifth hole.  Hit 7-iron in the water to the right and I dropped and chipped it over the green, chipped again and 2-putted.  Then bogey on No. 7.  I hit a 5-iron just short of the green and putted from there, but unfortunately I 3-putted.  Then birdied No. 8.  8-iron to about twelve feet.  Birdied No. 11.  Pitching wedge to about 16 feet.  Bogeyed No. 12.  Hit a 7-iron in the bunker to the right, hit it up, 2-putted.  Birdied No. 16.  Sand wedge to 30 feet.  And then also birdied 18.  7-wood to about 18 feet.  
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, they are very long,; especially the 7th hole.  And, the greens are a little tricky and the pin placements, they are in the front, so it is easy to -- you want to make sure the ball lands in the front and then -- but there you have the trouble.  You either have a bunker or water or thick rough.  So, when the greens are so big and so undulated, you can't just hit it on the green because then you are going to have a really tricky putt.  So you still want to make sure you hit it close to the pin and that is what I found the trouble when the pins are really close to the edges, a little miss to the right-left, you are in trouble. 
 

Q.  I know you have said you are really concentrating one hole at a time, one shot at a time.  But on the triple bogey, did you think at all about last year, the first round and that triple bogey?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, for a few seconds I did. But I told myself:  It is only Thursday; let's play, try and get this behind you; go from here.  There are a lot of good holes to come up.  Just hit one shot at a time.  That is all I could do.  That is what I promised myself to do this week.  I think I managed, even though it was a big score on that hole, kind of hurt me, but I promised myself I won't give up and I won't.  I am going to keep grinding and grinding.  That was the lesson that I learned last year. 
 

Q.  What is the problem with the 5th?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, you know, we waited a lot up in the fairway and I only had a 7-iron in my hand and hit a little fat, quick swing and hit it in the water to the right.  When you drop it there, you don't have a lot of choices.  It is just thick rough and it is hard to chip out of this rough and fast greens. 
 

Q.  That was nearly the answer I wanted or the question I wanted to ask really was not what was your problem with the fifth, but what is the problem with the fifth?  Why is it a difficult hole for those of us who might not know?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, it is a long hole and the wind is coming left-to-right today and it is just a quick green.  Like I said, you want to stay closer, a lot of undulations on the greens.  It is also not so easy to hit it close; especially when you hit long irons. 
 

Q.  I still don't know.
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I am sorry if I didn't answer the question. 
 

Q.  You mentioned:  Probably the easiest pin placements that could possibly be.  How low could somebody go today?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I think Laura's score is going to be one of the lowest, maybe 1 less, but that is about it, I think.  Like I said, it is the easiest you can find, but it doesn't mean they are easy.  This is a really tricky golf course and even though the pins are in the front, it is a long golf course too.  So 3-under, I -- that is probably one of the lowest all day, I think.  For the whole tournament, that is a super round. 
 

Q.  You mentioned Laura.  She just came in here and said that she is playing with no confidence.  Obviously she didn't  -- her score didn't reflect that.  Can you talk about her game and just kind of her level of confidence as you saw it?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think Laura played really good golf today.  She played very sensible out there. She uses her driving iron, I think, hit a lot of fairways, she just hits some really solid shots.  She has been talking a little bit about her putting.  You cannot even trace that she has been putting very bad all year.  Very consistent.  She even made some long putts for birdie.  So a lot of confidence, it looked like to me, very controlled, so it was nice to see. 
 

Q.  It was far from a routine round, I guess, with the volatility going, bogey birdie, how do you keep an even temperament and talk about the mental toughness that requires -- I would think you would have to feel good about the way you came through that?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I do.  I am very pleased with the way I finished.  And when you make a bad score out here for a moment it feels like, all right, I lost this tournament, but I think you just got to remember that we have many holes to play and it is a really tough golf course and the scores are going to be high.  Like I said earlier, I am not going to give up, just keep grinding and trying to forget all about the bad shots and remember the good ones, and there is a lot of holes out there that you really could birdie them all if you are lucky.  So if you are not that lucky, maybe birdie a few, that is kind of what I think about when I am out there. 
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I grind a lot. 
 

Q.  Laura said she was hitting mostly 3-irons, only two drivers.  Tell us how far she hits that 3-iron?  Is it as far as your driver?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, it is.  
 

Q.  Is that pretty impressive?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  It is very impressive.  Laura is a strong player.  Obviously she is a little taller than me, too, but she does hit it very straight also.  And, like I said, she is playing smart golf.  She doesn't need to use her driver because she hits it so far.  If she can place it the way she has done it, that is going to be the key this week. 
 

Q.  You are a technician and Laura isn't, you know what I mean?  How does she do it?  Where does that power come from, in your eyes, as a technician?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, she is very strong.  She has strong arms, legs, she uses all the big muscles in her swing.  She has a lot of feel and when her timing is right, all the muscles are there.  I assume, that is why she hits it is so far.  To me, doesn't like she holds back anything.  She just -- everything she has, she puts behind the ball. 
 

Q.  How important do you think your birdie putt was because 14, 15, you had a couple that looked like they might have gone and didn't and then you made the one on 16, I wanted to --
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  That was a long putt.  I wrote down 30, 32 feet. 
 

Q.  How about 14 and 15, do you think they were --
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, 13 -- 14 I had maybe seven feet.  On 15, six feet. 
 

Q.  You commented on the placements, the fact that you felt they were relatively easy, did it make it easier for you to recover from a bad hole early today?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, I want to just say I don't think the pins are easy, but they are the easiest that they can get here.  You know, of course, I knew that I have lot of holes to play and I could make birdies on them, but you can't take anything for granted here.  It is not like you make a bogey and say, hey, well, I have a lot of easy holes left. There is no such thing out here.  Of course the holes are shorter when the pins are in the front.  I think that was kind of the best thing today.  I didn't really have to use long woods in. 
 

Q.  Laura said that the greens out here could make a fool out of you.  Compare these greens to, say, greens of recent U.S. Opens going back the last couple years, are they more difficult than anything you have seen?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think it is probably one of the most difficult greens I have ever seen.  They are very big and sometimes it feels like, oh, I hit the green; that is great, but you could be 50 feet and maybe 40 yards away from a pin, so, then they are very undulated - a few putts that I had today, it was two to three different breaks.  First it is left-to-right; then right-to-left; then downhill.  You have got to be careful.  I find that it is not a course where you can go for putts.  Lag putting is probably going to be something you need to be able to do this week. 
 

Q.  Where do you expect the pin positions to be in later rounds this week?  Expect them to get much more difficult?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, I do.  Like I said, the greens are big.  There is a lot of different places that they can put them, and I am sure they found some good ones out there.  I think they even put out some dots already and we kind of looked at them already and they looked a little trickier. 
 

Q.  I want to ask you about 18.  They put that water hazard in so you are kind of forced to either flirt with the water on the left or fairway bunker off your tee shot.  You were in a position today where you could attack the green. Talk about how aggressive you were on that hole and as they move that pin back and that water comes more into play in the approach, is that going to turn into a just-let-me-par-this?
 
ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think if you par 18 everyday, that is a good score.  Just because it is long, but like you said, there is a lot water on the left from the tee and also by the green.  The more they are going to move the pin further back and further left, that water really comes in play.  When you are hitting woods in, it is not easy to control and especially when the greens are firm too, so, I personally think I am going to shoot more for the middle of the green and go from there. 
 
RHONDA GLENN:  Thank you so much for being with us.  Good luck tomorrow.

 
 
End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT