U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 1995
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think it is a very comfortable spot to be in.  If someone told me that on Monday, I would have taken it right away.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Okay, we can start with birdies.  Two birdies started one on the 4th hole, par 3.  I hit a 9-iron, 2 feet.  Then also birdied No. 8, hit 9-iron, 1 foot.  Let us go to bogeys, 3 overall.  I had one on the 2nd hole, chipped, 2-putt missed a putt that was about 7 feet.  Then bogeyed number 14.  3-putt.  Second putt  I missed.  It was 6 feet.  Then also bogeyed No. 15, chipped, 2-putt, the putt was 9 feet.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think the course played about the same.  There was hardly any wind.  Some of the pin placements were tougher, though, I found some really tough pin placements today; that is probably the biggest difference.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think so.  When I looked at the pin sheet this morning, I said, "great, they are short."  Then when I came out, I said, "wow, they are long."  It wasn't easier.  It was tougher, I think.


Q.   You let a birdie attempt get away on 17 as well.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You can kind of say that. I hit a terrible chip.  I was just outside the green. I had a good chance to make a birdie there, but it slipped away.


Q.   Did you have any saves, Annika? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, just tap-ins for pars.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I like the way they set up the course.  I hope they set it up the same tomorrow. It is just a matter of playing and playing this course so you get to know it better.  It's a tricky course. The more you play it, I think it is better.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Not in a Major, no.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I probably appear cooler than I am.  I hope I can stay this way.  I mean, I am really enjoying myself out there.  It is fun to play in front of all these people.  If I can stay calm and enjoy it, that is all I want.  Hopefully, I will play well.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think there was a lot of  people out there, really good crowd.


Q.   The last four, five holes have been different for you the last two days.  Are you finding yourself maybe pressing on those?  That is where the bogeys seem to grab you.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You are right.  I had a few bogeys.  I don't know if I am getting tired or just take for granted that I make par.  I am going to try and do different tomorrow and make no bogeys at all.


Q.   They moved the tee up on 3 to make it shorter today.  Did that make a big difference the way everyone played the hole?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think so.  At least we didn't have to wait on the tee.


Q.   Follow-up to the previous question, when you said "you may do things differently," but will you change your approach from those bogey holes from the way you practiced?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, the way I make these bogeys, I would call them "stupid bogeys" because -- 3-putt or a chip and 2-putt.  I haven't really been in trouble.  It has been really simple mistakes that I have done.  Hopefully, I can be more focused and not do so many simple mistakes.


Q.   Was slow play a problem for you?  Yesterday  you mentioned it was slow.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, today it moved along. We didn't wait on any holes.  I like this pace much better.


Q.   I talked with your former teammate\roommate Leta Lindley.  She advanced the theory that she is not very long and she said that coming first of the week everybody was talking about this air would help the long hitters; actually it helps her a lot because she hits out on the fairway a lot farther; since there are only 2 par fives, it actually helps the average hitters more than the longer hitters.  Do you agree with that?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It is probably true.  I haven't really given it much thought.  I think overall, this altitude helps about 10%, that is what I count on, and -- but I am sure -- I mean, I would think the farther you hit, the longer the ball stays in the air, it can affect more, but... Don't know.


Q.   How are you lengthwise off the tee?  What do you look at yourself, medium-long, long-long?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think I am above average.  I think I was driving the ball 240; just a little above average.  Hit my irons a little farther, but other than that, average. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I am going to practice and then my fiancee is coming tonight so I am going to pick him up and hopefully get ready for tomorrow.


Q.   When is the wedding?  Have you set it?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, we haven't set a date yet.


Q.   What year were you and Lindley roommates?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: 1990.  In the fall.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT