DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 11, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Could you just give us a few comments about how satisfied you were with your performance?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I got off to a tremendous start. Played well for about 14 holes, and collapsed on the other four, which is a bummer when you feel so good about something and then you come in with such a terrible finish.   
 Luckily it's jsut Thursday and there's a long ways to go. The positive thing is I'm hitting some good shots and making some putts. Have to clean it up a little bit.  
 THE MODERATOR: Your parents came this afternoon.?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, the it was a little parent surprise this afternoon, so looking forward to it.   
 THE MODERATOR: We'll take some questions from the floor.   
  
  Q. Few days ago you said you came into this tournament without having practiced that much. Are you quite happy with the way you've performed?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah. I mean, like I said, I played very well on a lot of holes. Just made a few mistakes out there. If that's the result of not coming in as prepared as I like or whatever reason, I'm not really sure.   
 But, you know, it's a pretty good start. One or two better and I would have been extremely happy.  
  
  Q. Can you talk us through what happened to you at the (indiscernible)?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I hit my third shot short and rolled it in the water and then dropped and hit on the green and two-putted. So it's just one of those shots that luckily I don't hit it very often. I just hit a wrong shot at the wrong time.  
  
  Q. How do you feel going into day two? You feel you're ready to go up a level?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I mean, I need to do a little better the next three days. It's a good start. Like I said, if I can just clean it up, I think I have a good, low round in me.   
  
  Q. Can you give us your thoughts on the course?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: The course is good. It's playing a little different, in that you don't get a lot of roll on the fairways. In the past it's been dry and then the greens have been a little softer. I like it. I have always liked the design and the variety of the holes and way you have to walk the ball.   
 It's exciting. A few long par-3s and then some par-5s you can reach in two. It's a good variety and I like it.   
  
  Q. What do you think the winning score will be?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: The winning score? You know, I never predict scores. That's not my specialty. I'm just going to go out there and try and play the best I can.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: We'll see what happens.   
  
  Q. You focused on the four holes that let you down, but the 14 that you enjoyed, what are the highlights out there for you today?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I hit some drives. I hit a lot of greens. I believe I hit 15. You know, I putted well today. These greens are a little different than they've been in the past. Seemed like I had a good line and good speed, and it's good to see some putts go in.   
  
  Q. What were you feeling this morning?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It was such an early morning. I got up at 5:15, 5:30. Just wanted to get off and get going this week. The anticipation of everything, it's just kind of nice to just start playing. Then I got off to a good start and I was having a good time.   
  
  Q. Looks like your sister is playing well.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah. Could be the last group on Sunday. My parents would enjoy that, because now they're walking a lot of holes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT