ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think I played very, very well today. Didn't miss many shots, but made zero putts and you can't score that way.   
You know, I'm leaving with some disappointment, because I feel like I'm playing very well.   
  
  Q. On the green on the first tee, it looked like the way you've looked at so many other tournaments. Was there anything like extra nerves?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I was a little nervous, and, you know, I feel like I'm playing good. I'm excited about the week. It's just, I'm telling you, nothing went my way today. It's just very frustrating that way.   
 I'm just trying to enjoy it. You know, you have so much competitiveness in your blood, you can't just shut it off. I'm here to win. I'm here to do my best, and I'm hitting the ball as good as I can.   
 So then you start getting into the mode of scoring, and when you don't score, it's tougher to enjoy it. When I should really just come in here and absorb everything because it's wonderful.  
  
  Q. You've been in this position before in the first round in this format when you had to make a shot or two to get to Saturday. Does your approach change at all?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I think the scores are tough enough, you just have to be patient on the fairways and greens, I mean, as far as the formation, I'm really not going to change it.   
 I just have to make my putts. The greens are fast. Extremely fast, actually. Some you can be aggressive on, and some you just can't. So I just have to place the ball in good spots so I can give myself a good chance.  
  
  Q. Is it a lot better being a couple of shots back?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm not really sure. I mean, you can't really practice this format. I mean, it's once a year. You just have to go out and play your best golf and see where you stand.   
  
  Q. Is it the speed of the greens that's the big problem today?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: They're just really slick, and they're really tough. You know, some of the pins as you can see are in tough spots. And if you're not close, it's more about lagging than having a chance to make them. I had some chances early on, I just didn't take advantage of them.   
  
  Q. Golfers are creatures of habit, usually. All the extra this week, did it take away from anything in the round?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, it's been like that the last six months. You would think I'd be used to it by now.   
 On the contrary, this is the last week and the last tournament. You know, I want to do well. I've done well here in the past. I really don't have any excuses other than I just didn't perform today. I'm disappointed about that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT