ADT CHAMPIONSHIP MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 16, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: First, thank you for joining us on today's teleconference. Thank you, Annika, as well. As you all are aware this year's season ending ADT Championship will be Annika's final official LPGA Tour event before she steps away from competition at the end of the year. 
 Annika won the SBS Open at Turtle Bay before qualifying for the ADT Championship via her one-hole sudden death playoff over Paula Creamer at the Stanford International Pro-Am in April. She went on to take the next winner on the event, the Michelob Ultra Open at Kingsmill. With 72 wins on the LPGA Tour, and more records and accomplishments to her name than we have time to list, let me welcome Annika who is joining us from the Kapalua LPGA Classic in Maui.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Thank you, aloha, everybody. 
 THE MODERATOR: Do you have any opening comments just getting ready for the ADT Championship this year? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Sure, I do have several tournaments until then. But this season is certainly coming to an end and going pretty fast. I think about ADT, and it's just going to be such an emotional week. That's a tournament that's meant a lot to me throughout the years. It's really going to summarize my career on the LPGA. 
 So in a way I'm looking forward to it. In another way I'm not. But that's a decision I've made several months ago, and it's an exciting time in my life. I'm just looking forward to the next chapter. 

 Q. Obviously, after that Sunday in Palm Beach at the end of the event, have you thought about what happens when you wake up on Monday morning? Have you planned where you'll be and what you'll be doing that next day when you're officially done? Do you know what you'll be doing immediately after your retirement? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I will. As a matter of fact I'm flying Sunday night to Singapore to play in the Lexus Cup, and I'm head to Dubai after that, and that will be my official last professional tournament. 
 Even though the ADT is my last LPGA, it's not my last one as a professional. I do have a little bit more. So I think it will be different than when I fly home from Dubai when I'm totally finished as a professional. 
 So I'm not really sure how I'll feel or what the emotions will be, but I think time will tell. 

 Q. I'm wondering by announcing early in the year that this would be your final year, it's been great for the fans and the media. I'm wondering has it taken a toll though saying so many goodbyes? What's it been like week after week where we've written and asked what's it like to have your last event here? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, it's been very different since I announced my stepping away. I have not played as well, and I don't know if it's because I've been very busy just getting involved with tournaments and saying goodbye and engaging with fans and sponsors, or, you know, just maybe unconsciously knowing that I've made the decision and I'm having a hard time focusing. I'm not really sure. But I've definitely not played as well. 
 But having said all that, I thought is was very important to show everybody that I felt a responsibility to fan sponsors and family and friends, et cetera. So I'm still trying to cope with it, and I would love to finish strong. 
 Hawaii has been great to me in the past, and playing overseas, I've always enjoyed that. So I'm hoping to get a win or two under my belt, and then call it goodbye. 

 Q. You've already racked up so many wins, but having one more, does it matter? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I mean you know in the scheme of things it probably doesn't matter. I am content. You know, when I made this decision, I was content then. 
 I've achieved so much more than I thought I could, and I'm ready to move on. I mean, of course, it would be nice to, you know, finish with a win knowing that I'm still practicing. I'm still focused on tournaments. My mind is still there. I, obviously, have the game left in me. So, yes, it would be nice. But I'm just going to do my best and go from there. 

 Q. I'm curious have you been able to go through this without saying, okay, there's seven tournaments left? There's six tournaments left? That type of in the back of your mind mental countdown? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It happens every week. Yeah. Everybody asks me. I'm sure I keep track of it myself. You know, it's just the countdown has started. In a way I just want to focus on each week. 
 But, of course, you can't get away from it. Especially when we talk about this is the last time, and the fans here in Hawaii, and we've got ADT. It is the last tournament. So it's always a topic that comes up. 

 Q. Do you have to force it out of your mind, or is it just one of those fleeting things? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I just, you know I'm embracing the whole situation. In the beginning I was trying to just focus on the next six months of my career. All of a sudden it's only a month or so. I'm just embracing it and trying to enjoy as much as I can and absorb everything. 
 In the past it's always been so competitive and so focused on what I have to do. Now I'm involved in a lot more of the tournaments and kind of things with the fans that it was different than it used to be. 

 Q. You mentioned that ADT has always been kind of a defining tournament for you. How so, and what are your best memories of ADT? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: The ADT has changed in formats. You know, when it was played in Vegas that was kind of our Tour Championship, the Top 30. I did well there. It's kind of rounding out the season where player of the year was decided and the money list was decided and the trophy was decided. It was always kind of recapping the whole season. I always looked forward to that event. 
 Then we changed to this playoff-type format, and Donald Trump and Mira Lago, it's is a beautiful place and you have the Top 30, so I've always looked forward to that event. 

 Q. So many times in sports we see athletes who maybe in retrospect hang on too long. How conscious of a decision was it for you to step away from the game while you were still at the top of your game from a performance standpoint? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You know, I think I didn't know how long I was going to play. I was so motivated with short-term goals and long-term goals and winning majors. That was driving me. Then all of a sudden, you know I felt like I achieved what I wanted to. The motivation was not there anymore. I mean, I'm still playing good golf, but I have achieved everything. I just felt the time was right. 
 I'm not really sure if I was playing worse or if I would have made the decision, maybe then I would have felt like I'm going to get back to the top. Then after the injury winning three times on the LPGA and in Europe, I felt like I was back in the top. Then I know what it takes to be there and I still have it. 
 I think that helped me make the decision knowing I can do it again, it's just I'm lacking the motivational part to keep on going. 
 So to answer your question, it's just more how I felt inside and knowing I can do it. After 15 years, there is nothing else to do for me. 

 Q. I know I went back and looked at things and noticed when you announced your retirement in may you referenced Brett Favre watching his press conference. I'm not asking you if you're going to change your mind as he did. But I am going to ask you are you prepared for what it will be like when the next LPGA season starts and the majors come rolling around again? Have you given any thought to that? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I have, you know. I'm sure I'll be tuned in. It's something that I'm going to miss is the competition. I know that. I love competing and so forth. But to compete at this level you have to practice, and you have to dedicate yourself full-time. I just don't have that in me anymore. 
 So I have to make a decision, you know. Do you want to just play to be seen and to almost be there but not be there? Or do you want to put in the time and really be at the top? I made a decision. I just don't have it in me. You just can't have your cake and eat it. 
 I'll be watching, I'm sure, from the couch. I still have a lot of friends out here. My connections to golf they're not going away by any means in the country. I'm staying very involved with different things with the LPGA, the USGA, with my sponsors they're staying with me. As a matter of fact, I've renegotiated with five of them already, which I'm very, very proud of. Through my foundation and building golf courses and the Annika Academy, I'm involved in golf. 
 I'm lucky to have that, and I'm excited to be able to grow the game and not always be inside the ropes and feeling like I have to perform every week. 

 Q. I know you have some dress rehearsals throughout the year, but are you ready -- this has been a special tournament for you. Are you ready for the finality of it? Because I think it's going to be extra emotional here when you're saying goodbye stateside?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I'm sure you're right. I don't know if I'm prepared. I'm just going to come in there with, you know, as the person I am and embrace the situation. I have a lot of friends and family that are going to come there and say goodbye with me. 
 So I know that it's going to be hard. It will be. There is no doubt. I'm just glad it can be in Florida close to where I live and at a big event. 

 Q. Just wondering if you could give us a little feel for Trump International, and your memories of the course and how it will be to wrap things up in South Florida and at Trump International? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yes, absolutely. I mean, I love that place. I think it's just a beautiful course. I think it's one of the toughest we play all year, and especially the last three finishing holes, 16, 17, 18. A lot of things are decided there. 
 The hospitality of Mr. Trump and his team shows us, it's just a first class event. You know, the format is very special. I haven't really done well there with that format, so I know it's going to be an emotional week. I hope I can play some good golf and make it to the end. I think that would be incredible. 

 Q. Some detail, you said family would be coming over. Can you share with us how many, who? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You know, I'm not really sure how many. But my parents, obviously. Mike's side of the family is coming. I've got the Annika Team from the academy from the foundation, from the corporate that's coming. So I'm expecting a minimum of 15 to 20 people. 
 But I've heard from my friends from outside Florida are thinking about coming. So I'm not really sure. I think I've got some extra passes, I know that. 

 Q. Setting goals until golf, I guess, are easier in that you want to win this tournament or this many tournaments. But for life outside, what kind of goals, what are you pursuing now that you can specifically say? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That's a good question. Somebody's asked me what are your goals for the academy, et cetera? Obviously, my goal is to really be able to share inspirational experiences. But I don't know. I don't know how you measure that. 
 My goal is to really make the academy a special place, and some place people really want to come. When it comes to golf course design work, I'm designing my sixth course. I'd love to get up to 15 or so courses. 
 The foundation, I would say, is going to be my biggest focus. Right now we're actually hosting our first AJGA event which is the Top 60 girls int he world in January. That is a big initiative we're doing. I'm very proud of that and to be able to share my passion for the game to these girls and really be inspirational for them. 
 But it's not, it's tough to say in wins and so forth. I think it's going to be long-term and it's going to be a different type of achievement. But I think it's going to be very rewarding. 

 Q. What's been the toughest part about saying all these goodbyes? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I mean, just knowing that it's the end. Some people I won't see, some places I will not go to. Just knowing that my competitive career is coming to an end and competing has consumed my life for 20 years. I know what it's like to wake up in the morning. I have the routines of working out, practicing and then competing. It's not going to be like that. 
 Again, I mean, these are things I enjoy. But there are also things that are work day-after-day and year-after-year. So the mental part of it is I'm looking forward to getting a break. But just being at these places I enjoy and the people. So that I will miss for sure. 

 Q. Are there any particular goodbyes maybe that have been said to you that have touched you the most? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I have to say that every single week since June the fans, the way I've been welcomed or the way I've been embraced, just been recognized at each event has been tremendous. I mean, a lot more than I ever thought. 
 Just feeling the love and the support from everybody. People are a lot more expressive. They're sharing their thoughts. Just every week I get comments like, You've done so much for the game, and it won't be the same. I mean, that to me is a wow experience. 
 I guess I never thought about it when I was playing. People would cheer for me and so forth, but it's never been this deep and so emotional, and engaging, I would say. 

 Q. What has been the reaction, if there has been any, from other women on the tour? Your rivals or perhaps a close friend or two? And have you ever sat and talked to them about what you're doing? I know you also have a good relationship with Tiger, has he said anything to you since the decision or during the process of making the decision? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I've spoken to several players out here that have come up and said we're going to miss you. You know, just this week, because this is one of our last really official events with a full field. I've got a lot of comments from players that have thanked me and said we'll miss you. You know, when you get that from your peers, it means a lot. 
 Obviously, my goal has always been to leave the Tour in a better place than I found it. Hopefully, I have contributed to some of that. 
 Tiger, again, has wished me the very best and he's happy for me. Especially in his situation now, now he's taking a break before I am, which is kind of a turnaround. He will be back, which is a little different. But it's been very nice. 

 Q. When you finally step away and have a chance for all of this to soak in, looking back, how would you want -- whether it be your colleagues on the tour or fans who have followed your career over the years -- what would you want them to be able to look back and say about your contribution to the game? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well I want people to say that I cared about the Tour. I had love for the game. I was always ready for a challenge. You know, just love the competition and sportsmanship. 
 I want to look back in the history books and say, you know, I cared about the game and wanted it to be better, you know? Helped to raise the level of the game, level of the awareness and excitement of the tour. I think that would be my hopes. 
 I feel like I've lived the LPGA, and I felt like I carried together with other players the torch to make it better for our next generation. You know, you hope to be a part of that puzzle for sure. 
 THE MODERATOR: Closing remarks? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I just thank everybody for their time, and look forward to the ADT. And thank you for all your support throughout the years. Thank you everybody. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT