KAPALUA LPGA CLASSIC
October 15, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Annika, thank you so much for coming in and welcome to Kapalua. If you would just talk a little bit about your impressions of the Kapalua Resort and the Bay Course, and just Maui in general. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, Maui in general, it's absolutely beautiful here. I've had a chance to be here a few times before and just love it. I would say Hawaii is just so pretty. It's nice to come here this time of year, beautiful temperature, partly sunny, beautiful resort, great golf course that's in beautiful shape. Gary Planos and his team has done an excellent job to put a wonderful tournament on. So happy to be here and enjoying the island. 

 Q. You had a pretty good start to the year, how has the year shaped out for you, is it what you expected? Did it meet your expectations? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, it's been a different year, which I was expecting. I got off to a great start and played some really great golf. I feel good about my game. I'm healthy and I'm strong.
 . But I knew that this is going to be my last season, so I just really did not know what to expect after my announcement but you know, it's been different. I've been extremely busy and I've been playing everywhere. I've been so many places and just really enjoying the farewell tour and trying to say good-bye everywhere. 
 You know, this tournament is the last, or one of the last for a lot of players, and I have another six or seven. This year has been very, very busy. Matter of fact I'm going to eight different countries in the next few months, so I'm going to need a break after this. 
 But looking back at the year, of course I'm very happy with three wins, and playing some good golf, it would be nice to finish a little better than the way I played the last few months. 

 Q. Have you had any second thoughts about retiring? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No. No, you know, people that know me, once I make a decision, I stick to it. This is the decision I made a long time ago. It's the right one and I'm excited about my next chapter, and golf will always be part of my life, and I knew I could come back if I want to. 
 With so many other priorities and exciting things that I just, you know, it will be different but fun in a different way. So you know, I would love to finish on a high and then you know just kind of sail through to the next thing. 

 Q. After having a chance to practice and play in the Pro-Am, what's it like for you, what do you think it's going to be like this week?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, it definitely depends on the weather. Yesterday I thought the conditions were great for scoring, just a little breeze, not much. Today we teed off and it was very, very windy, and we even had some rain. It just changed the course tremendously. I would say, I mean, I think the course is great. It's quite up-and-down, and elevation changes matters when it comes to club selection. If the wind blows, it can be very, very tough especially down near the fourth or fifth hole, it's right by the ocean. 
 It's tough to predict the score but I would say that the key is going to be around the greens. I mean, it's easy to hit the greens here but it's a lot of grain and a lot of different elevations; it makes it a little tougher.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Annika, thanks for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT