LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 12, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Annika, welcome. If you would give us some of your thoughts on being here.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Absolutely, I'm very happy to be here, and, thank you, Lorena, for putting this tournament together.   
 So far it's been really, really good. I've only been here two days but I'm very impressed by the city, Guadalajara in general, the hotel and especially the golf course and the clubhouse. It's been really a first-class event so far.   
 So very happy to be here, and it's nice to get a chance to see where Lorena is from. All of these years we've played together and she's always talked about Guadalajara and you should come and you should do this and this, and now I'm here, and I'm happy to be here. I'm really looking forward to a great week.   
  
  Q. For Annika, how tough is the course for you to play in the new kind of grass like kikuyu, no bermuda, no bentgrass; and the winner of the tournament, what do you think the score will be?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I like this golf course a lot. I'm used to all these different types of grasses, so it's not unfamiliar to me at all. I would say that this golf course is quite tough. I think it's narrow in certain areas, and some of the par 5s are quite long, but it's in superb shape. You just have to be very accurate with your irons. Some of the greens are very slopey from the back to the front, so of course you've got to be precise with the irons.   
 But I love the golf course, I really do. I think it's a ball-striker's type of golf course, and if anything, you have to make the putts to score well.   
 I'm really to the sure what the winning score will be. I've really never predicted, but if the conditions are like this, there are some birdies out there. But I think consistency and hitting fairways is going to be the key this week.   
  
  Q. What is going to happen after ADT and maybe Dubai, because we won't see you next year?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, you won't see me playing in any competition. I'm stepping away after the tournament in Dubai, and I'm just really looking forward to the next chapter in my life, which is going to be a little bit more personal. I mean, I'm getting married in January, and would love to start a family pretty soon.   
 And then also I'm going to be working with the businesses that I've started, and you know, some of that includes an academy, foundation, golf course design and clothing and actually I'm launching a wine label in May and a fragrance line. So that, combined with hosting some tournaments, I have a feeling I'm going to be quite busy.  
 But I'm excited about the next chapter, as I said, and it's time to move on. I've had some wonderful memories and I'm very proud of my career, and I'm looking forward to try something new.   
  
  Q. You just talked about having a lot of great memories during your professional career, is there any memory or experience that stands out the most, or are they all on the same level?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You know, I've been very lucky the last 15 years, and I've experienced a lot of things. Like I said, I have a lot of different memories.   
 Of course, there are a few that stand out a little bit more than others, but it's tough to single out one. I would say that there will several of them that I will never forget. If I can just mention a few, it would be shooting 59; obviously playing with the men in 2003; winning the U.S. Open three times; being on a winning Solheim Cup team has been fantastic; and being inducted into the Hall of Fame.   
 So those are just a few, that are very, very different, and I would say that they have defined me and defined my career. So again, I look back at those, and it certainly gives me a smile.   
  
  Q. Women's golf in the future, Annika, you've been just a huge part of promoting the LPGA and the game of golf, and also Lorena is also a great ambassador of the great right now; both of you, please.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I certainly see women's golf as continuing to grow. I think we are just at the top of the iceberg and there's a lot to come. And thanks to players like Lorena, and having tournaments like this, we are certainly reaching another demographic and another fan base, and the support that we see this week is certainly a sign of that.   
 It's so much fun to see the growth of women's golf. I mean, you even look at somebody like Paula Creamer and Morgan Pressel and then also, of course, with great growth from Asia; we are bringing in a lot of new people in the game of golf, and I think that's very, very healthy. The golf itself has just gotten better and better, and you know, I'm thrilled to have been a part of it, and I'm proud to see it grow.   
 Even though I'm stepping away from competition, I'm hoping to continue to help the game that I care very much about and it's been very good to me. Like I said, this is just the beginning of a lot of fun things to come. I know that the economy is quite tough now, but again, here is a sign of a great tournament, a great field, and great support to women's golf, and that is thanks to Lorena this week.   
 Like I said, I'm just happy to be a part of it. .  
  
  Q. How are you feeling about Yani Tseng, she is almost second in the World Rankings, how do you feel about her taking your place, and what future does she have?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think Yani has a wonderful future. As you know, she is very young and very new on the Tour. I've had a chance to play with her several times; I think has a ton of potential. Hits it a long ways, and a good short game. I would say overall, a very good player.   
 She's had a tremendous year and she's moved up in the rankings and she's up there on the Money List. I would expect to continue to see that the next few years, and again, she's very young and she has many years to even improve from that.   
 So she's going to be a great addition to the Tour and raise the level of the golf out here.   
  
  Q. Could you comment a little bit about the people in Guadalajara, and the harmony that you feel and especially the people that -- it's not starting yet, but the people in the Guadalajara Country Club, what do you think about them?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, it certainly has a good feel. You can feel it just stepping to the club the first day yesterday, and you know, playing in the Pro-Am today. And I must say that I've known Lorena and her family for a long time, so if the rest of the people are anything like them, I think it's going to be a wonderful city with wonderful people.  
 Like you said the tournament has not started but you can certainly get a warm feel of the people here. It's very friendly and it's like one big family. It kind of reminds me a little bit of where I come from. Everybody knows everybody, and Lorena has the support from everybody, and it's very nice to see.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT