CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Thanks for coming in and joining us today. Great round out there. You're the leader in the clubhouse. I was just going to point out that at some of your past press conferences you've been playing great golf but your scores have not been reflecting it, but I think today you might feel otherwise.
   ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, today I can't say that at all. Today I putted really well, got off to a great start, just made tons of putts. It was just a lot of fun. 
   I hit some good shots on the back nine, missed a few opportunities, but then to finish with a birdie to leave it on a high note, so obviously I'm very, very pleased. I think this golf course is tough, and 5-under, I'll take that any day here. 
   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's go over your scorecard, eight birdies on the day. 
   ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Okay, let's start on the front nine. I bogeyed the second hole, hit a sand wedge and three-putted from 25 feet. The par putt was five feet. 
   Birdied No. 5, 6-iron to ten feet.
   Bogey No. 8, 6-iron, chipped and two-putted, missed a three-footer for par there.
   Then on the 9th hole, I hit my sand wedge to 14 feet and made that.
   No. 10, birdie, hit sand wedge to six feet.
   11, 7-iron to 12 feet.
   13, 8-iron to nine feet.
   Bogey, 15, I -- let's see, the 15th hole. It's so long ago. It was so slow out there. It says here that I hit 5-iron and chipped it up and two-putted. That's what it says. 
   16, 9-iron to seven feet.
   17, 6-iron to 11 feet.
   And then 18, 9-iron to 12 feet. 
   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Questions for Annika? 

   Q. I just wonder, the back nine today you tore it apart, you had 31 even with a bogey. Does that one play better for you than the front nine?
   ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, today it did. I would say that the difference on the front and the back nine is the greens. They're not as undulated. But I had almost I want to say a career putting round. I had ten putts. I can't remember the last time I had ten putts in nine holes. That's what you need to score here. These greens are quite tough. I hit a few good shots around 10, 12 feet, and I made them, and that's really the key today compared to the last few months is I have opportunities but I have not been able to convert them. 
   But today, I mean, it seemed like they were rolling in from everywhere, and I made some great saves to shoot 31. That helps to keep the momentum, and then when you have the momentum you have the pep in the step, and it makes it a lot more fun. 

   Q. Yesterday they were talking about the greens being so difficult, and you just touched on that. Did you ever think that your putting would have been the thing that stood out for you today? 
   ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, you never know in golf. I mean, I have been putting really well the last month or so, maybe six weeks. I've been rolling the ball very well. It's been a lot of edges it seems like, but today they just went in the center of the hole. I really don't know what the difference is, but I'm glad it's happened this week because I think putting around the greens is going to be key here. I'm very thankful. Hopefully I can continue to have the feel and the touch.
   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: I know the last couple of months you've mentioned a couple times trying out some new putters. Have you found one that you're working with consistently the last couple of tournaments? 
   ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I tried something on Tuesday, but I liked mine and I decided to stick with it, and I'm glad. 

   Q. Can you talk a little bit about the crowd reaction out there? You were obviously a big hit. 
   ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It was wonderful. I mean, you know, when I got here Tuesday I was amazed to see so many people out here, just the support has been wonderful. And today, first day, there was almost several rows lined up on the fairway. It's so much fun to play in front of huge crowds like that that understand golf and that are just so supportive. It makes it extra special. When you roll in a putt, you hear the cheer, and that's fun. 

   Q. Knowing that the finish line for your career is in sight, do you feel any differently when you step onto the first tee for a tournament like you did this morning?
   ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You know, I don't feel any different. I mean, I'm still in my competitive mode. Once I'm inside the ropes, I'm there to win, I'm there to play the best I can. I think that mindset is probably going to be there forever because I've done it for so long. I mean, it's almost like you push an on-button and then you get in your competition mode. It's when I stop, when I start looking around, when I start reflecting on things that I feel differently. But I try to just stay in the moment and just focus on the shot. 
   You know, it's been quite a tough balance to also enjoy it because you want to reflect on certain things. But I have a tendency when I reflect too much, I forget that you have to hit the shot, and this is what matters. I mean, it doesn't matter if you won 72 tournaments earlier. This is the tournament, this is the shot. You really have to stay in the present and focus on the shot. I'm happy to be here, the crowds have been so supportive. I really feel like I think I missed out the last few years not being here. It seems like I'm really enjoying it this week. 

   Q. You and a few others this week spoke about expecting the scores to be closer to par I would say. Are you surprised at the scoring today? 
   ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You know, I haven't really looked at the leaderboard other than watching the people in my group and myself. I mean, today was -- first of all, today is the first day and we had perfect conditions. I mean, it's 75 degrees outside, there's hardly no wind. You get out first, the greens are smooth. It's ideal to score. We'll see when Sunday comes and the kind of conditions. But today I would say would be a low day, and then we'll obviously see what happens. 
   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Thank you for your time today, and good luck the rest of this week. 
 End of FastScripts



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT