RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I it felt a little been on the first tee and last few holes, but other than that I was just focusing on my game. Today I played well. I hit 18 greens, so what can I say, it's an ironic game. 

 Q. Finishing like that --
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It was, it was funny, I hit a 6-iron just like did I at the U.S. Open and saw the bounce and saw it going toward the pin. To finish with a birdie is obviously extra and didn't seem like there was any doubt that it was going in. It's just amazing when you will something, it just happens.

 Q. And you had wonderful irons in the previous holes. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Thank you, I did. I played well, I putted well. I broke 70 and moving up a little bit. 

 Q. Were you more aggressive today? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, today you could be a little bit more aggressive because of the rain. It didn't bounce as much and the pins were I think a little more accessible.

 Q. Walking up 18 --
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, it's amazing, when I made the corner from the leaderboard, it says, "Annika, you'll be missed." And I thought that was very special and I waved at the guys and they clapped and I came up 18 and everybody was cheering. You know, it just makes you feel good when you get that type of applause. 
 You know, I've been out here for 15 years, and I've experienced a lot of joy, a few setbacks, but overall, it's been great. All of a sudden, everything just reflects on your mind and you're just grateful. 

 Q. After nine years together, a major part of your career --
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, he's a great guy, we've become friends and it's fun to share these moments with people you care about. He's carried that bag and he's walked miles behind me, as he says, and supported me all along, and it's special for him to be here with me. He was trying to get away. I said, you come over here, get under the umbrella and share it with me. 

 Q. Having a bit of fun with the weather? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, it seems like they have been for a little while. But didn't really care about the rain. I just enjoyed the moment walking up 18 and it didn't really matter. 

 Q. Was it more emotional than you expected? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's different. I mean, once I'm inside the ropes I'm so focused, and you push a button, it's work, focus. And there are times when there's a little opening and it comes in and feelings start to play and that's what happened here on the last hole, which I'm glad. This game has meant too much to me and if I didn't feel anything, it would be weird. So I'm glad. 

 Q. Were you trying to make it on the last?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I was just looking at the hole and this is it, and just put a good stroke on the line and it was fun to see it go in.

 Q. In the final round was there any point where the intensity was not the same?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You know, I think I was born with intensity. I think I was born to compete. There was times I wish I didn't have it, but I probably wouldn't have achieved what I have. 90 per cent of the time, it's good to have that. At times like that, maybe you want that and maybe there are times the last few months, I wish I had the desire and the motivation and the drive, and then I wouldn't step away, but I just don't have that. When you have the mind of a champion and the mind of a competitor, but then there's a few pieces missing, and that's hard to accept sometimes.

 Q. What will you miss most?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I love the competition, the cheering, being under the limelight, to hit that perfect 6-iron and make that putt and to win championships, that's why I spent all of the time on the putting green and the driving range. Those are the moments I miss. And it's taught me a lot of lessons about life, and -- well, actually I know I wouldn't be who I am if it wasn't for golf, so I have a lot to be grateful about. 

 Q. Do you enjoy the time on the practise range?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I do, but not as much and that's my problem. Growing up I practised more than I played.

 Q. Do you feel like --
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't look at it that way. Life, it's all about opportunities, I have a lot of opportunities ahead of me. If this was the end and I had nothing to do that would be very sad, but I have new ones and I'm creating a new chapter in my life.

 Q. Where are you going now?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm going to Sweden tonight, the TPC, the tournament I'm hosting on the LET. 

 Q. You're playing in it, as well?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Oh, yes. 

 Q. Have you heard from Tiger at all this week?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I have not. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT