EVIAN MASTERS
July 24, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Thank you all for joining us. We have Annika Sorenstam in here. Annika, can you talk about your day? But, obviously, being at Evian Masters it's a special place for you where you've won in the past.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It is special. I wish I would have had a little better round today. I had a few chances up there. Got off to a very good start. Felt very good about everything, and then I wasn't able to close. But, you know, it's not always the most fun. 
 But I can go over my scorecard, if you like. I birdied the first hole. Hit a 9-iron to -- I know you do meters over here, but I'm going to do feet. So you can translate -- four feet. 
 And then birdie number 3, I hit 8-iron to 7 feet. I bogeyed number 6, hit 8-iron on the green and three-putted from 35 feet. And my par putt was about 18. 
 And then birdied number 7, the par 5. Hit a sand wedge to six feet. Birdied number 14, 5-iron to 12 feet. Bogeyed number 15. Missed my tee shot. Hit a long iron into the green, and chipped and two-putted from six feet. Bogeyed 16, sand wedge over the green and three-putted. 
 THE MODERATOR: From how far? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: The par putt was 8 feet. 

 Q. How were the greens compared with other years, and how did you find the course play? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think the course is good. I mean, they've lengthened two of the holes. I would say 13 has become a really good hole. 
 You know, the greens are the way they are here. I think they always vary every year. I think I have a good feel for them. The speed was pretty good. It was just a few that I hit a little bit too hard. But, other than that I thought, I read them quite well this year. 
 Sometimes or in previous years I've had to go back from the past and know where they break in certain directions. But they seem to vary every year. I don't know if it's because you have snow here and they just change. But this year I feel good about the greens. 
 So I wouldn't say that's where I left all my shots. But you've got to make putts here to score well. 

 Q. But I've heard you on the greens before, and some of the years they're a little more bobbly because of the rains. But today they were rolling good?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I think so. The hardest part was controlling my approach shots. I had a lot of shots in and three that just didn't release. I had three that released, and I don't know where they came from. So it varied, and it's hard to play that way. So when you look at the shots that I hit in, I'm very pleased. 

 Q. Lorena is already ahead. What strategy can you have for tomorrow? Is it a course where you can take some risks? Or do you have to be more defensive? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, tomorrow is only Friday. We have a lot of holes to go. You know, 54 holes left. You know, I have a good strategy. I know how to play this course. I've done well here in the past. I try not to think too much what everybody else is doing at this point. I just got to focus on my own game. 
 Today I left a few out there. Tomorrow, obviously, I can't do that. I have to capitalize on every single shot tomorrow. Make up some ground. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Annika, and good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT