RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good round today?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It was good. It was early morning and the conditions were changing, a little wind, a little rain and again, the course is playing well and the greens are good.   
  
  Q. What did you have in on 11?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I had 38 yards to the pin and had a little sand wedge and rolled in just straight on at the pin and went in.   
  
  Q. 4-under at that stage, you must have been thinking possibly getting back into it.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, maybe get to five or six. And had a beautiful shot in there on 12 and had a chance, and I had a 7-iron on 13 went in the bunker, was a tough up-and-down and same thing on 17. I left myself in some tough spots and was not able to make anymore birdies.  
  
  Q. Disappointed with 17, the driver was good.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It was, but it went five yards left of my target and just kept on rolling, and the bunker, it was just a very hard up-and-down.   
  
  Q. Do you feel the lack of consistency --  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Today was a little better. It was just more regular golf and missed a few shots here and there, and I kept going and when you hole a shot like that it keeps the momentum going as well.   
  
  Q. Are the iron shots not as precise as you'd like --  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I've had a few 30-footers. I haven't been as aggressive on some of these pins. I don't know, I haven't really thought about it. On the other hand, I know I'm putting well and my distance control, I'm happy about that.   
  
  Q. You said that you analysed a lot of the last 2 1/2 months; have you come to any conclusions? Is it because of the announcement, do you think?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, but it's the only thing I can think of when it started to happen, but I don't know why the announcement has anything to do it. I'm here and enjoying myself and focused on my game and I haven't changed anything. My routines are the same, same coach, same caddie. What can I say? It's golf and sometimes it is what it is. If I had an answer, I would change it, I would tell you that.   
  
  Q. Do you wish you could have announced it later?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, like I said later, I feel a responsibility to do it. It's something that you have to do.   
  
  Q. Do you have the same intensity about practise and everything?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, that's the thing, it's just crazy. I've had some great years and I've had some great bounces and great luck, and right now I'm looking for that.   
  
  Q. Where do you stand vis-a-vis the sort of Solheim Cup and future Solheim Cups, any chance you'll get involved?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I'm not going to play next year. I don't know, I've been asked about being a captain and I've said that I'm honoured if I would be asked. I don't know what the plans are.   
  
  Q. But if you were asked to be captain?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I think it would be a tremendous honour. You know, I wouldn't want to do it as soon as 2011, but 2013 or later would be very nice. We'll see. They will have other players in mind, I'm sure.   
  
  Q. Great to have a bogey-free round tomorrow.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I just want to have a good final round, some great memories. It was really special coming down the last -- and we have a big crowd out there, but obviously the back nine or the last eight holes, it was just great support.   
 I'm teeing off so early compared to the leaders and we had huge crowds. It was very, very special, and they were cheering and, coming up 18, it was very special, so if it's going to be anything like that tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Have you heard anything about, "Don't go"?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I haven't heard anything this week. Don't know what that means, but that's okay. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. With so many Asian players coming in now and we have fewer Brits playing in this all the time, where do you see things in about five years' time?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That's a very good question, but I think what we're seeing is going to continue for a little while. You know, it's totally a global sport and the players are younger. I think it's going to be continued growth of Asians, I really do, especially if you watch the KLPGA, there is some tremendous talent and they all want to be out here, so the next five years will probably be about the same.   
  
Q. The Swedes are holding their own, numerically, but we aren't in Britain. What do you make of it?  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't think you have for a while. I'm not really sure what your system is, but the key is to grow the game at an early age. It's very important to stimulate the juniors and get them involved. We have some great role models, and I'm not sure what happens after that. I'm not so informed about your system.   
 I know in Sweden, we are getting some young players, but then again, we have a generation that within five years, you're probably going to miss half of us. I think it's important in Sweden and same in the U.S., to keep up with all of the Asians. I don't know how many are here, maybe 30 or even more.   
  
  Q. There are 33.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: And how many are top 20? I think that's even more important.   
  
  Q. Nine, and 25 in the Top-70.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That says a lot. Through the years you see different countries go up-and-down and now it's time to learn whatever they are going. I think it's important for the game.  
  
  Q. Which of the young players in the world most excite you?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, there is a lot of young talent. Amateurs? Or are you talking young pros? Caroline Hedwall (amateur) is a very good player from Sweden. I think we're going to see a lot of her.  
Other than that, the ones that are already joined the Tour, even Paula Creamer is going to get better. She's very young. Yani Tseng, I wouldn't be surprised if she was number one in four years.   
  
  Q. Do you think we have got the appetite to work as hard as these Asian players who are spending eight or nine hours a day on the range?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, that's what it takes. If you want to be the best, you've got to do it. That's what my dad always told me, there are no shortcuts to success. It shouldn't matter what country you're from. If you want it badly, you should go get it.   
  
  Q. Why in Sweden does golf rank in the hierarchy of sports?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm not really sure, you should as her here (pointing), but I know the top five in the sports, I would say. When you think of all the amateurs, recreational golfers, a lot of people play.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT