U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. Always leave them wanting more, I guess? Is that what  
that was?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Living with another great memory, that's for sure. Maybe not the one I had in mind, but I'll take it.
  
What can I say? It's been an emotional roller coaster all week  
and especially today. 
 
  
Q. Are you happy with the way you putted today?
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I actually putted well today. So I think  
today was a different story than the previous three days. 
 
  
Q. What did you see clicking today with the putter?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think that the last two days I've been putting a lot better.
  
When you work on something it takes time to change. And it's  
hard to change. In a championship like this where I would say  
the greens are what make the golf course. But I didn't have a  
choice, it was, you know, it changed for the better. So I just  
kept working on that. 
 I  
didn't need much, it was just a few things and like I said today I  
made some good putts today. I rolled in a nice birdie on 14 and  
rolled in a few saves and that's really what I just needed all week. 
 
  
Q. Talk about your emotions making the shot and coming up 18  
with the crowd cheering like that?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: What can I say, I've never, never seen crowds like this and just -- I thought the roar on 9 yesterday was big. But I think on 18 today it was even bigger. It was amazing. They have been so, so supportive and I was out there dragging and everybody just tried to keep me going and it's just, like I said, it's another wonderful memory.
 I  
didn't walk away with the trophy but to feel so supported and feel so  
loved with everybody here, it's just something that I'll never forget.  

 
  
Q. Playing in your last U.S. Open can you talk about that?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think so. Yeah, it's -- I've always enjoyed the U.S. Open. I've always, as a little girl I pretended to have three footers to win the championship. And to come here and -- I played really, really well. I had a chance to win, just didn't finish it. And I just have a chance to be in there and feeling it, that's really what I live for.
  
So it's been a great week. 
 
  
Q. Palmer's signature moment was at Oakmont. Nicklaus was  
probably at the bridge at St. Andrews. You've got a lot left in  
this year, what's the likelihood that this moment will be the  
signature moment in your retirement year?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, that's a good question. I have another something, what, ten tournaments left. And I hope to win a few more times and I hope that those times will be the signature moments.
  
This is definitely a signature shot. To break 80, you know.
  
(Laughter.)
 
  
Q. Cristie said you mentioned that --
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: And it was ironic, I said the small little victories that you had out there. It makes a big difference.
  
But like I said, I have several more tournaments and I would like to  
finish on a strong note. I am playing good golf. Today it  
did not happen. I was -- my tank is empty. We talked about  
that in the press conference. And you need adrenaline, you need  
energy. And I've tried so hard the last three days and I got off  
to a very slow start. It's just very, very hard to run on --  
just on fumes. You can only take it so far. 
  
That's what -- that was my problem today. 
 
  
Q. Do you think the emotions of playing in your last U.S. Open  
are part of what made your tank empty?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, emotions gives you energy to go. And that's what I've been running on for the last few years is just adrenaline and I made putts and that's what's kept me going. Even at McDonald's and this week, when you don't make anything, it's just, you can only take it so far.
  
And today when I, like I said, I didn't get off to a good start, I  
just, you know, like I said, I was just so empty and I wanted to give  
something. I wanted to try, just I didn't have anything and  
that's why I think it was an emotional day for me because I wanted to  
give it, I tried, I just, you saw it, I just -- it just didn't happen.  

 
  
Q. Do you think your career is defined by your U.S. Open play? 
 It kind of put you on the map back in the day?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well the first one was the U.S. Open and I've had a lot of wonderful memories at the U.S. Open. I've also had some losses. Maybe that's what the tough championship is all about. You go through good times and bad times. It's just the ultimate challenge. And I would agree.
 
  
Q. Did you sign more autographs this week than usual?
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I've signed a lot of autographs. But I  
think I missed a few. 
  
(Laughter.) 
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, that was about three years ago. 
 
  
Q. What was your yardage out there?
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: 199. 6-iron. 
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yes, I'm leaving Friday for Mexico and I'm looking forward to it. It's our third time we're playing the Skins Game. It's a lot of fun.
 
  
Q. The pulled tee shot on 17 and you hit it great on 18 there  
but it was so unusual for you to be hitting it awkwardly. What  
happened on those two shots?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm not going to analyze it. I can tell you that when you have nothing to give it doesn't matter how much you try, how much you want it, to play good golf you just need, you need a ton of energy and I just, in the end, I just didn't have it and it was just more because of my tank is empty. I've given it all. There is nothing left.
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT