U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. Talk about where you are?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm about to cry. When you do everything you can and then it just doesn't happen, I cannot hit the ball any better, I cannot put myself in a better position and I really don't know what to do. I think I'm rolling the ball really well today and doing everything I was told to do and it feels good and it just does not happen. It's just --
 
  
Q. Those putts on 17. What did that mean to you confidence  
wise?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well it was nice to get a par and kind of play that hole well.
  
It's just almost like it's teasing me. You can get pars but it  
won't give you a birdie. That's kind of how it feels at this  
time. 
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: 9? Just a little pitching wedge, well just a little wedge. I knew that if I carried by the pin I knew it was going to roll past and hopefully come back close and then when I got to the hill I saw it was tracking to the hole. So that was really special. And to make birdie on that tough hole and be 2- under and making the turn, you feel very good then.
 
  
Q. What was the difference between you being 2-under now or  
having the birdie on 18 to be 3-under?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, that's not the only birdie I left out there. I probably left a dozen, maybe two dozen in two days -- three days, I should say. And it's just, like I said, I'm just very, very disappointed.
 I  
think I'm doing the right things and it's just not happening. I  
don't know what to tell you other than it's just --
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, it is. It's very similar. I  
just really don't know what to do. So. 
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I'm going to -- I'm not giving up.  
I'm going to tell you that. 
 
  
Q. What do you need to do to get the deal done tomorrow?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't know, I think I'm just going to go home now and chill out a little bit and tomorrow's another day.
  
And I'm still in striking zone and I'm not giving up hope yet.  
Maybe it's just saving it. I'll make them all tomorrow. 
 
  
Q. How is Alfie? Among the players from Sweden viewed back  
home? Helen. 
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: What do you mean? 
 
  
Q. A big star?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, she's -- she won the Kraft and she won the British Open and Solheim Cup player, she, she has a great resume. She's struggled a little bit with an injury the last few years.
  
But we all know she can play. 
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: The support has been fabulous. Absolutely fabulous. So supportive, so encouraging, so much fun to see the people out here through rainy conditions and the juniors, I'm impressed with so many junior boys and girls out here and they're just so supportive. It's great to see.
 
  
Q. Have you gotten emotional sometimes and is it hard or is it  
hard not to get emotional like when you're coming down 18?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It just warms your heart. You feel welcome and you feel appreciative -- appreciated, I should say.
 A  
lot of people say thanks for the memories or wait one more year.  
It's just very, very nice. It's a lot of fun. 
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Like I said, it's great to see the kids there. It's a sign of the growth of the game and that they're interested in supporting women's golf and it's nice if you can be a role model for one or two kids and inspire them to follow their dreams. That's what my foundation's all about. And to see a thousand of them here, hopefully touch a few lives.
 
  
Q. Starting to feel like you're out like on the Tina Turner  
Farewell Tour?
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I never felt like Tina Turner. 
  
(Laughter.) 
  
And I don't think I'm that old yet. 
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT