AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Annika Sorenstam, welcome. Thank you for coming in. We appreciate your time. And we understand that you were up in the booth today doing a little color commentary. Is there a future in that for you?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm not really sure. We'll see what the review will be. As of now, I'm just kind of focusing on the last six months of this season. But I have a lot of interests outside of golf.   
 And I'm going to pursue them the next years to come. If I get an opportunity to come back in the booth, I will.  
 THE MODERATOR: We understand you have a home up here.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I do. I've actually owned a home in Incline since 1995, so I come here every year. Not as much as I'd like. But try to do at least once in the summer and once in the wintertime. It's an amazing place. I've loved it since the first day I got here. And the plan is to spend some more time here when I don't have to travel around the world as much, I will come here instead.  
 THE MODERATOR: When you visited here a few years ago, I believe the first time you came here, Donald Trump, you played the back nine here at Edgewood sight unseen. If I remember, sight unseen, blue tees, Annika shot 33. It might have been 32. But I think you showed those guys how to play.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It was a fun experience. I mean it was just random thing. I was here in town and just came down for the event and had a little practice round with the guys and just enjoyed the company and made a few birdies along the way.  
 THE MODERATOR: You made it look easy from what I remember. Tell us a little bit about your academy.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: The Annika Academy is a dream of mine. I've been trying to put this all together for a few years. We had the grand opening in April last year. And it's located in Orlando. Actually, resort called Reunion Resort, where they host one of the LPGA tournaments and it's a place for me to really share my passion for golf and fitness with my coaches. And what I think is a very intimate, exclusive academy.   
 So this is something that I'm going to obviously do more next year, be more involved. I already do packages for some of our guests. But I'll be doing more of that. So, like I said, it's a dream come true and be able to share something you enjoy with other golfers.  
 THE MODERATOR: You also have an affiliation with the folks up at the Ritz at North Star Tahoe Mountain Resorts.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I do. I've been coming here for almost 13 years now. I just love it. I've partnered with North Star Resorts. I'm actually the Director of Wellness. What that means is I hang out there and kind of just do all the activities they have to offer, skiing in the winter and golfing in the summer.  
 THE MODERATOR: From what you've seen so far from the booth, who do you like out here today?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I like it here. It's so relaxing to come here. I mean they were filming all the boats and people having a good time. Like I said, when I'm not playing as much, this is where I'll be.  
 THE MODERATOR: As far as the players on the golf course today, who do you think's looking good thus far?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I've been looking at the leaderboard the last hour or so. And it's changing. It's going to be very, very exciting. It's going to come down to the last few holes. I guess we'll see who's got the coolest nerves to be able to pull it through.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. What drew you to Incline originally? I assume the tax break is always nice, being in Nevada, but I assume it kind of reminds you a little bit of home up there?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It reminds me of Sweden. The reason was really skiing. Something to do in the winter. I grew up. I raced as a little kid. And I was looking for a place where I can do something else than golf.   
 And when I came here for the first time, I just fell in love with it. I thought the winter would be my favorite time, but I must say I think the summer it's almost prettier.   
 It's an amazing place. It's a gem. It really is.  
  
  Q. Do you see that being maybe a primary residence down the road?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Probably if I can choose six months here and six months in Florida, I think that would be perfect.  
  
  Q. What is your tournament schedule for the rest of the year?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: For the rest of the year, I'm heading to Europe next weekend. We have three tournaments there. We start with Avian Masters. Our British Open. And TPC, which is a tournament on the European schedule where I host in Sweden.   
 And then to Canada and then Portland. So I've got really five tournaments in a row. And I would say finishing up in Asia, the ADT, which is our TOUR championship in November down at Donald Trump's place. And my last tournament will be in Dubai in December. It will be 10 more tournaments and sponsor outings. So I'm busy until Christmas.  
  
  Q. Have you thought about, when you're standing over that last putt as a professional LPGA, have you thought about what might go through your head or what you might be thinking about?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I have not. I mean I have thought about this decision for quite some time. So it's just something that I've, first of all, I feel good about it. I know it's the right thing to do. And, of course, there are tournaments where I feel sad in a way leaving. But then I know this is really what I want to do.   
 It's hard to play at this level for so long and push yourself and it takes a toll on your body. And I know that I want to play at the top. I want to leave on my terms and therefore I know that this is the season to do it.   
 So I guess it's bittersweet. And eventually things come to an end and you start another chapter. So I'm going to look back at these 15 years, I have so many wonderful memories.  
 THE MODERATOR: Next chapter starts in January with a marriage to a certain Mr. McGee.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm getting married. He's here. And obviously a life-changing moment. And our plan is to start a family sometime soon. So I know I won't be busy trying to coordinate all the private interests with the business interests.   
 So, like I said, I'm excited about the next chapter. I'm not going away from golf, I'm just leaving the competition part.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the health of the game? Obviously you've been compared to Tiger Woods as far as your impact on LPGA. Do you think players like Lorena Ochoa, the health of the LPGA is in good shape?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think it's in wonderful shape. That's another reason why I feel comfortable about this decision. LPGA is as strong as it's ever been. Lorena is playing good golf. And it's in good hands. The commissioner that we have cares a lot. And we're making some good strides. So it's a healthy time.  
  
  Q. Arguably, once you retire and become, arguably, the celebrity and arguably be eligible to be invited here (Laughter) is there any chance you would accept an invitation to play in this event?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Sure. (Laughter) what tees would I play? The ladies' tees?   
 THE MODERATOR: You shot 33 from the blues four, five years ago.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That was at my prime, (Laughter).  
 No, I mean it's going to be a fun transition. And maybe this is an event I can be a part of. Like I said, I look forward to it. I think a lot of different doors will open. And I'm going to embrace and have fun with it.  
  
  Q. Did you have a chance to see Charles Barkley's swing out there. (Laughter) How would you explain that to somebody and would you have any tips, advice for him?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I would say that his practice swing looks very good. And my advice to him is to try and do the same thing. I really wonder why he's doing a practice swing, because he doesn't execute the balls the same way.   
 It's a very orthodox swing. I don't know. I try not to look at it too much, to be honest. (Laughter) I don't think it's a good image to have.   
  
  Q. Following Charles Barkley's example, what advice would you give to young women just starting out in this sport?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: In sports or golf?   
  
  Q. Golf, in this sport.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: There's so many ways to get going in the game. I think what's fun with this tournament is that it brings in more of the social events, more the celebrity event, more casual than if you would watch a professional tournament.   
 But if you're going to start playing the game, I do recommend that you start taking some lessons, just to kind of learn the basics. I think you can have a lot more fun if you know the grip and the setup, the fundamentals of the game.   
 But I can just tell you that golf has been amazing to me through all these years, and just looking around this week. I mean, golf is a part of a lot of people's lives. I encourage people to pick it up because you don't have to play in a professional level you can just come and have a lot of fun. It's brought a lot of memories to me. And I know other people feel the same way.  
  
  Q. You've probably over the years played in a lot of Pro-Ams and had a wide range of golfers, are there any memories that stand out, unusual incidents or particularly bad --  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Pro-Ams, they're never dull. You meet a lot of different people. You see a lot of different swings. You see a lot of different approaches to the game, which is what makes it so unique.   
 I tell the people that I play with not to be so nervous. I've seen everything that's out there. So I try and calm them down because a lot of times they're very nervous. But I think golf is, when you play in an event like that, you really get to know somebody. You see a person's true character on a golf course.   
 So, like I said, I've enjoyed many of them and it's a chance for us, really, to help them with their swings or just socialize. I mean that's the beauty of golf. I can't think of other sports where you have this type of format.   
 I mean, how would you go on a football field and play with some pros? I can't see how that would work. But in golf it's just a perfect blend.  
  
  Q. Tell us a little bit about your foundation.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: The Annika Foundation was created last year, 2007, and it's all about kids. It's all about helping them reaching or following their dreams. And I'm doing it two ways. I'm doing it through scholarships and golf tournaments. And I'm actually hosting the first AJGA event in Orlando in January where we will have the top 60 girls in the world compete.   
 That's one way I'm going to give back to the game. And the other part of the foundation is all about nutrition and health education. And we're targeting areas in Orlando where I just want to help and really want to make a difference.   
 I think if you look at today's kids or youth in general, obesity plays a big part. And I think long term we have to do something about it. So I'm determined to start in Orlando and make a difference there.   
 So, again, these are things I'm going to do a lot more the next few years and hopefully I can build a legacy there and really make a difference.  
  
  Q. Is there a website?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: If you'd like to check it out, it's more descriptive than I just told you. It's annikasorenstam.com. Talks about my academy and the foundation and talks about the tournaments I'm hosting. And I don't know if you all are aware, but was just announced a few weeks ago I'm going to partner with USGA about growing the game of golf.   
 So, like I said, you're going to see me but not inside the ropes but you see me part of golf for many years to come.  
  
  Q. So annikafoundation.org.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: To be more specific, yes.  
  
  Q. Has The Reno/Tahoe Open been in touch with you at all about being involved with that from kind of a local celebrity?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No.  
  
  Q. Is that something you would be interested in doing if they did?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It depends on what it is and if it makes sense. Being more a resident up here, I want to be a part of golf here.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT