U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. That was your 1026th hole ever in the U.S. Open competition, is there one you remember more than that?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't think so. I was hoping for memories this week, but it was a different type of memory. But it's been a wonderful week. I've always loved this championship. To finish like that was just -- will stay in my mind forever.  
  
  Q. It was a tough week with the putter for you, but fantastic ball-striking. What's up with that?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's just golf. It really is golf. In my career I've had moments where I'm striking it beautifully, and then I have moments where you make everything.   
 It's a crazy game. It changes every day. I'm very, very happy with the way I'm playing. I'm hitting the ball the way I want it and it didn't happen this week. But the year has been great and I have a few more tournaments, so maybe I can change it around and finish strong.  
  
  Q. Describe in your own words that third shot at 18?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I missed my tee shot on the right and just chipped it out. The wind is right-to-left. And I was hoping to get it to the front and make birdie. This is the first time I'm seeing it.  
  
  Q. It looked pretty good, didn't it?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It did. I couldn't see it from the fairway.   
  
  Q. What was going through your mind at this point? You said it was quite ironic that it went in.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, it was so ironic. I didn't want to shoot 80 or above. And to hole a shot from 200 yards, that's kind of the last thing you think about. But obviously I'll take it.   
 The crowd was just amazing, the cheers. When I walked up it was so loud, it was so much fun.  
  
  Q. In-Bee Park has a chance to do something you did, making your first win a Major championship. Take us back to the Broadmoor in '95. What was going through your mind and what is she going to experience?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's obviously a moment where you're very, very nervous, and you just really want to get the round in. I remember I just tried to hit the fairway. I just tried to hit the green. And just believe in yourself, and not try to think too far ahead. She's obviously playing some great golf today, because the conditions are very, very hard.  
  
  Q. She seems to have a very similar demeanor to you, in that you can't hardly tell what she's doing out there. The bogeys, the birdies, you can't tell too much difference in her tempo, it's so smooth and slow with every club. It's impressive. I always think that the players that swing the smoothest and slowest are the best under pressure. And she's handling this pressure perfectly.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Absolutely. That's a tricky shot, there. The wind was blowing hard left-to-right. And especially your distance control.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That's what I thought when I was up there. She kind of goes the other way around.   
  
  Q. At the hole it flattens out, doesn't it? But that's what you want. Your U.S. Open career is apparently over, what do you remember most about this as a championship?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I just think the courses that we played through the years, the conditions, the ultimate test.   
 For me it's a lot of memories, too. I had three footers at home as a little girl to pretend it would be for the U.S. Open. I've played in 15, but in my mind I probably played in 20, 25. I'm going to look back at this week especially and just take a lot from it.  
  
  Q. Is there a chance that Annika Sorenstam might play 3, 4, 5 tournaments at some point a year just to keep your hand in it?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm not really sure. I am stepping away for sure by the end of the year. If I come back in a few years it will definitely be the Open.  
  
  Q. You've always been a very steely competitor. Has the emotion of this sort been a little more than you anticipated?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's been a total roller coaster emotionally for me. I've had tears. I've had laughs. I've had -- I've been angry. You name it, I've had every feeling this week, I think there have been -- to finish like this, it's obviously wonderful, but I'll look back at this week and wish I had done a few things differently.  
  
  Q. You can step away, but don't go too far away?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT