U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULLAUDIOINTERVIEW

  
RAND JERRIS: It is a pleasure to welcome Annika to the interview  
room this afternoon. Annika is playing in her 15th United States  
Women's Open Championship this week at Interlachen. She's a  
three-time past United States Women's Open champion having won in  
1995, '96 and again in 2006. 
  
Annika, as a three-time champion, maybe you can just start us off with  
some general comments about what this championship means to you.
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Sure. It's great to be here. The Open has always meant a lot to me. I just love the history about it and the courses that we play and the atmosphere and just everything about it, I just love it. When I was a little girl I pretended that I would have a 3-footer and pretend it was for the U.S. Open. So obviously at that time I didn't know if I was ever going to play in it, but now I've done it, like you said, 15 times and every year it feels very special. So I'm happy to be here.
  
RAND JERRIS: Now that you've had a chance to play a couple  
practice rounds can you talk a little bit about the golf course and  
how it fits in with the strengths of your game? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I love the golf course. As you know, we were here for the Solheim Cup a few years ago. It was a little different then because it was more in the fall, but I remember the golf course and the holes and I think the way they set up the course is just fabulous. I like it a lot. It's a superb shape, you have to work the ball, you have to have control of your shots. As always, you have to be straight. You have to have imagination around the greens. And I think that this set up is superb. And it's a true test. Again, I don't know if it really favors long hitters, but I would say it favors smart players. So like I said, I love it.
 
  
Q. Could you discuss your experiences showing up at Majors and  
being expected to win every one, how you handle that and how do you  
think Ochoa handles that now or will grow into it?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I think that Majors take experience. It takes some learning to play well. I've been around, I played in a few Majors, I've felt good going into a few and then I felt, I don't know if the word is stressed in others, but it's easy to put a lot of pressure on yourself. Especially when the expectations are high and you know that your game is good enough. And you know when you have big tournaments like this you really want to do well. When you're only here four times a year with the chance to do it it seems like it's so easy to put a lot of pressure on yourself. And I've done that too. The few championships where I've been in my own way, even though I had been pla!
 ying well coming into it, it was all of a sudden you start thinking about the trophy when it's Thursday. And I made all those mistakes.
  
When it comes to Lorena, she's obviously playing very well.  
She's won, what, two of the last three? So I'm not really sure  
how she feels about this week. But me, personally, I'm looking  
forward to this week. 
 
  
Q. How is your focus or concentration different this week than  
it is for the other tournaments this year or the other Majors even?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I wouldn't say it's different than the Kraft or the LPGA Championship. I just get extra excited when it's a Major. I get that little extra adrenaline, I get the extra motivation, I just get a little extra pumped up. I feel like I'm a little bit more into the practice round. I'm just a little bit more focused, which I love. That's how it used to be in every tournament and that's how I feel at the big ones.
 
  
Q. When you talk about being extra excited is your extra  
excitedness any different for the Open than it is for the other Majors  
just because of your history with it?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I have history at the Kraft and the LPGA, I just think the Majors in general are special and I think it's because of the history and that the courses are always a little tougher and it's just -- there's something about the Majors that I just get geared up for, obviously that includes The Open.
 
  
Q. I just met a family who drove 800 miles and they named their  
daughter after you. Will you miss your fans after your  
retirement? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Oh, wow, that's quite the compliment. No, I will miss the fans after this year. But again, I'm stepping away from competition but I'm still going to be involved in golf. So I hope to hook up with some fans along the way and with all the things I'm going to be involved with. And now with my new partnership with the USGA I have a feeling that I'm going to come back here. So hopefully I will see some other little Annikas.
 
  
Q. How did you feel to be here knowing that this is the last  
U.S. Open you will play? How does that feel?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It is special. To be honest I try not to think about it. The last few -- let's just say the last few tournaments it's been the same way. Last week was the last time in Rochester and then it was the last time at McDonald's. And I can be an emotional player but I can also be a very cold player and I try to just stay cold about my emotions and just focus on what I have to do. But I do know in the back of my mind that when Sunday comes I will not be playing here any more and it's -- I miss it but then on the other hand as you all know this is my decision to step away and you can't have it all. And I've had a lot, the last 15 years, and I've enjoyed it. And now it's tim!
 e to move on and I think there's going to be some other things to look forward to.
 
  
Q. Will this be your very last U.S. Open?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: As far as -- yeah, as far as I'm planning on. I don't know if I'll come back in five or so years, but I am stepping away completely from competition at the end of the year.
 
  
Q. With what happened with Tiger recently and him stepping away,  
and the impact that has on golf, throughout, do you feel there's an  
opportunity here for the rest of the year, not necessarily this week,  
but going forward for the women's game to sort of fill the void a  
little bit?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm not really sure I understand your question. Tiger's not stepping away, as far as I know. He's taking a break and he's going to be back. When it comes to the LPGA, I don't think that -- we don't -- we don't compete against Tiger by any means. I think we stand on our own legs and we have some great golfers out here and in our own tournaments. I would hope that the interest would be there whether Tiger is playing or not. 

 I  
love to watch him play. And I'm sure all of us will miss him  
competing the next few months. But the LPGA, we have our own  
tournaments, our own agenda. So I don't see anything that will  
change. 
 
  
Q. Have you made any changes to your game in terms of preparing  
for this event?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I have worked actually with my coach Henry on my swing, a few minor things I would say. It's, they're not a lot of changes because I think I've been swinging very well the last month. But I did take a putting lesson from Dave Stockton about well it's only like 10 days ago I saw him in salt like city and he had a few good ideas for me and I've been working on that the last ten days or so. And it feels really really good. So I think that's what I'm going to need this week. These greens are as you know they're quite tricky. I would say they make the golf course. So I'm going to need to feel the roll I have on the ball right now.
 
  
Q. Did you seek him out with any more urgency after Bulle Rock  
where you hit the ball great and missed a bunch?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I did. I was not putting well and it's just -- this game is so funny, the previous two years I've been putting great and not swinging well. Now I'm swinging great and my putting is not so good.
  
When I saw him in Salt Lake City he said what happened to the things  
we worked on three years ago? And I said, well, three years is a  
long time and I guess I forgot some of the things you talked about  
with me. But he refreshed my memory and it was just basic stuff,  
really. And the ball is rolling better and just more consistent  
feel, which is what I was missing at Bulle Rock. 
 
  
Q. During your career the LPGA has moved from pretty much an  
American Tour to a global Tour. During that time it's been like  
15 years since an American has either won the Money List or been  
Player of the Year. Just your thoughts on the future of the  
American players. Do the United States players have less depth  
now? Is it just simply so much world competition? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That's a very good question. I don't really have the answer to that. Obviously the future will tell. But it's definitely been a change. Like you said, it's more global and we see a lot of players from Asia now. I think that this is a good time to look at the system and see what do we need to do to grow the game over here. And even this is an issue I have with the Swedish Federation, we don't have the growth that we used to have. We don't have as many players as we used to.
  
So I think it's very important to go back to basics and really make  
sure that juniors get a chance to play the game. We need to make  
sure that we get some future stars. It's great to have a global  
Tour, but I also think it's important to have some U.S. players.  
This is where I would say, what, 90 percent of the tournaments are  
played, I think it's crucial. 
  
And here again I'm excited about my partnership with the USGA.  
It's all about growing the game and I'm hoping to work with their  
initiatives to be a part of that. And see another, another  
generation of great players joining the Tour. 
 
  
Q. What's the best score you got on the rules test?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: My best score? I don't remember. Maybe there's a reason why I don't remember.
  
(Laughter.) But I do have to refresh up my rules skills.  
That's for sure. 
 
  
Q. For LPGA players endorsements have really ramped up in recent  
years and you've obviously been at the forefront of that. Given  
her success have you been surprised at how slowly endorsements have  
come for Lorena?
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm not familiar at all with what Lorena is  
making or her endorsement deals. That's something I cannot  
answer at all. 
 
  
Q. Going back to your point awhile ago when you were talking  
about transitioning into next year and beyond, have you spoken to any  
of the maybe former Open winners, Hall of Famers, etcetera, about  
transitioning out. Just sort of really what it feels like and  
are you getting any advice?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I've spoken to a few players, one of them is Amy Alcott. I talked to her at Nabisco and I think we talked about this at that press conference. And it was just a good way for me to just hear what she had to say, what she's doing and what it feels like to miss the Tour. And I have spoken to Nancy a little bit about what's next. And she doesn't think there is a next. She thinks I need to be out here. So that conversation wasn't very long.
  
(Laughter.)
  
But I respect all of them and what they do. I think we all have  
different agendas and things are different in life. I'm ready to  
move on and I'm ready to try different things. But it's always  
interesting to hear people's view of it. 
 
  
Q. You surprised a lot of people with your announcement this  
year. Can you tell us when you first had the idea that time was  
running out on your career, you wanted to call it quits and take us a  
little bit through the decision process how that came to be. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, it's been on my mind for a little bit. And I don't really have particular day or particular moment where it just -- where I said, hey, this is what I'm doing. But it's been coming on the last six months or so. I think that with my success out here, I think with the injury, I think with all my other interests, if you put them all together you start realizing where your life is going and what you want to do and what your priorities are. And it became very evident early this season that I think that my tank is running empty and I probably only have -- this year is really all I can do and all I want to do and leave with -- on a high note and with great memories.
 
  
Q. Since you first came out on Tour how significantly has the  
strength of high quality player depth become, particularly going into  
Major Championships like the winners at the end of the week?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I've seen a tremendous change in 15 years. The players are playing here, they're all great players. They all worked hard to be here, either through years of playing well or qualifying through different events. The level of play is really good here. It's fun to see. Obviously with all the experience around the world and playing Majors we all learn to play better, but golf-wise it's a lot better.
 
  
Q. Obviously you have a lot of interests outside of competitive  
golf. How do you think you can deal with the competitiveness  
that you have now outside of golf? What are you going to do?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, that's a good question. I guess I will find out. I'm hoping to channel it through the different business ventures that I have. I think that I'm going to need that. It's going to be competitive in all the different areas. I hope I'll be easy to live with. I hope I can tone down my competitiveness. But I'm afraid it's something that always will be with me. But when it comes to the business aspect, it's tough. And I'm looking forward to the different challenges and trying to work through those. And I think that with all the experience I've gotten from golf and just traveling I'm excited to see if that's going to be enough to be successful outsi!
 de the ropes.
 
  
Q. Two-part question, a minute ago in the context of your  
decision to step away after this year you said your tank is running  
empty. What's in your tank right now?
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: What's in my tank?
 
  
Q. Probably awfully worded, I apologize. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I guess what I'm trying to say is, that you only have so much to give and I'm coming to a point where it's hard to get geared up other than for big events. It's tough to be out there every day grinding and working and improving. All the traveling. And to plan everything you do around golf, the schedule and practice, you name it. I think that's what I mean by the tank. It's just -- you just don't have the energy as much.
 
  
Q. Do you find in the course of any tournament that if you're  
not playing well the first two days you're not going to be in  
contention that the tank depletes quicker and conversely, as you get  
into contention like Bulle Rock, that it fills up?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yes. Exactly like that. Yes. I have a lot of patience coming into a tournament if it goes well. It's easy to stay on top then and keep going. But when things are not going so well it's easy to lose it. Absolutely.
 
  
Q. A couple times in the last two or three years when people ask  
you how you want to be remembered, you invariably mention  
sportsmanship. Why, A? And B, was there ever -- was there  
a time early in your junior development that you learned an invaluable  
lesson about sportsmanship that causes you to bring it up so often now? 

 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think that the reason that I say that is when I look at other athletes that's something that I look at. That's what I remember.
  
Fair play and sportsmanship is really what matters to me. We all  
are competitive, we're all trying to beat each other, but at the end  
of the day it's all about respect and appreciating other  
athletes. And I think that's what I'm trying to say with  
sportsmanship. Playing it the true way. 
  
I've had some incidents in my career where I have not, when I have  
witnessed things that I disagreed with, and I think that those are the  
times that I even stand for that even more. I think it's even  
more crucial. I guess that's why I bring it up.
 
  
Q. Can you think of an example at all?
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well I would -- the Solheim Cup when I had --  
when I was in a situation where I had to rechip -- well, rehit a shot  
I should say. 
 
  
Q. Played out of turn?
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yes. 
 
  
Q. Does that still make you mad?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It doesn't make me mad, but those are occasions that I think about the game that it's -- it is just a game and sometimes you have to use your common sense and respect each other and the integrity of the game.
 
  
Q. Was there something you learned about that from an early age  
more in a positive side, witnessed someone doing something that stuck  
with you?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I can't think of a -- I can't think of a special moment other than the way -- that that's how my parents brought me up. Golf is a game where you pretty much are your own rules official, if you know what I mean. It's a game of honor. And I was brought up that way. You play the ball as it lies and you follow the rules. You've got to know the rules. That's just my upbringing. That's kind of how I live my life, actually.
 
  
Q. How do you see the ambassadorship with the USGA playing out? 
 What would you like to do and how would you like to see that in  
terms of form and function and your role?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: First of all I'm very excited about the opportunity to be a part of this great organization that's done so much for the game. And they stand for a lot of things that I stand for. And one of them is sportsmanship. One of them are rules. One of them is growth of the game. It's pretty ironic if you think my first tournament was a USGA event and here I am and this announcement has been made when it is my last U.S. Open. I think the synergy is there between what they think and what I think and what I care about. I know that they're very creative in a lot of ways to grow this game and I'm excited to work with them and learn from them. I know that I'm -- in the futu!
 re I'm going to be involved in tournaments with them, especially this one. I think that the possibilities are endless. I don't have any specifics other than just the announcement and some of the things we're doing. But I'm thrilled about the partnership and again I'm honored to be chosen. They can choose all these other golfers. As you know they have had a partnership with Arnold Palmer for so many years and I think we all respect him very much and for me to get the opportunity to be the next person in line is just -- it's tremendous.
 
  
Q. Couple weeks ago Tiger called his win at the U.S. Open his  
greatest tournament ever. Obviously it's a little too soon to  
tell, we haven't started yet, but do you foresee something like that  
for you if this week were to work out?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I think that's looking a little too far ahead for me. I have had a lot of victories that have been very special. But you never know. I'm playing in another 12 or so events and maybe I can be able to say that after a few more wins. I'm not really sure. At this point I just really want to focus on tomorrow, one shot at a time and it's a long ways to go. But as you all know, I care a lot about this championship and I'm going to do the best I can to be up there on Sunday.
 
  
Q. It's obvious you care about growing the game. What  
would you say to a young girl that's been playing golf for a little  
bit and is thinking about trying to do better or thinks that maybe  
it's something that they could do or to try and grow the game, to try  
and get more girls involved. They kind of like it but maybe not  
sure. 
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: They're not sure about playing more or not  
sure about --
 
  
Q. Playing more. Maybe it's just a hobby or something. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I golf was my hobby when I started. And in a way it still is in many ways. I think really the key for kids is just to have a lot of fun. I think it's important to put in a lot of games when it comes to practice. It's important to learn the fundamentals early. I think that having good coaches and inspiring people around you helps. It's important to have opportunities to play and practice. Just increase the awareness and the availabilities is a beginning.
 
  
Q. Another Tiger question. You know Tiger had a pretty  
good give and take over the years with Majors. Just curious if  
you've made contact with him since his last win and what he might have  
said and what you might have said to him. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I congratulated him on his win. I tried to watch as much as I could. I was in the middle of an outing and was running from tee to the TV to try to watch as many shots as I could. It was really inspiring to see him play and I congratulated him and also wished him well on his surgery. So he's been very busy the last week or so and I respect that. Unfortunately I'm not going to be able to catch him now. He's got 14 and I got three more Majors, or two more, so I have to let that race go. But it's been inspiring to watch him play.
  
RAND JERRIS: Annika, thank you very much for your time. We  
wish you lots of luck this week.
  
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Sure. Thank you. 
 End of FastScripts 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT