U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. Just sum up the day, first of all. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I got off to a great start and made a few mistakes in the middle of the round, but I played some good golf today will, I really did. And I didn't deviate from my plan. I played very smart, I thought. Just a few putts go in it would have been a different story.
 
  
Q. What stopped you from getting that flow that you need to get  
things going?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: If I knew that I would change it. It's been like that for a little while. But I'm hitting the ball beautifully. I just, maybe one shot here or there that I missed. Other than that it's on the numbers, the direction, everything, it feels very, very good. So I just got to be patient and get off to an early good start tomorrow morning and keep it.
 I  
know I got the game and I love the golf course, and just a long ways  
to go. 
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It was just here on 18. That was unfortunate. I wish it would have been nice to make one here. It's just that there's certain holes you have to play very conservative. You have to stay below and then you have a long putt and the greens are very slow up the hill then. And if you are kind of parallel or above it, it's extremely fast. The pace is very important here.
  
There's a few putts that I needed a little bit more or just a little  
less. 
 
  
Q. Solid finish though overall, kind of just even keeled on the  
way in. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I hit 14 greens. I don't think I can ask to hit many more greens. I don't think I can ask to hit any more fairways. As a matter of fact, I think I hit them all. So it would be tough to hit more.
  
(Laughter.)
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: So, yeah, like I said, I got a plan figured out I know how to play this golf course, I got to stick with it, stay patient, and like I said, just a putt or two here or there, it would be a different story.
 
  
Q. Can you give us the clubs on your two birdies there, 11 and -- 

 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: 11, yeah -- I think I better take out my card it was so long ago. It was just so long. That's right. I hit a sand wedge. And it was just a 10-footer there.
  
16, I hit a 9-iron to 11 feet. And that was it. Yes. 
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT