GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
June 1, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Annika, final round, and this could be your last round here. What does that mean to you? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Haven't thought about that, but I was trying to play back today, and I hit a lot of good shots, didn't convert, but at least I finished with a round under par and felt food about my game. 

 Q. Every tournament is like the last tournament for you. Is that not special for you or --
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: They're special, but I don't walk around thinking it's my last round here. I'm trying to play in a golf tournament, trying to compete, trying to win. 
 I think those are playing thoughts to have in your mind. I'm enjoying it, and like I said, I just want to be competitive. 

 Q. Where you played this season to finish this far back from the top, is that more disappointing this season versus last year? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It is. I felt like I was playing well coming here, felt good about my game, just didn't turn out that way. I'm very disappointed about that. I think everything else has been great this week; the host doesn't just perform. 

 Q. Are you happy about how the event has gone off so far? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Absolutely. It's been great. I loved it. I mean, it's an honor to be a host and be a part of this event. I mean, it's the way you give back to the game and to the Tour that's been so great, so I'm very happy. 

 Q. I asked you before the tournament if this might be the one tournament you might consider playing every year, being the host, like Jack and Arnie have done that with their tournaments. Is that something you might consider in the future? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I'm not considering playing. I'm going to be here. I'll be here every day, and I'll be maybe even more involved because I will have time to do it. But, no, I'm not planning on playing. 

 Q. How do you feel this area, this country club has taken to this tournament? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think it's been great, the numbers have been wonderful, and I think the fans have been great. You know, it's not always easy to come to a new place. It takes a little while for people to recognize the event, but I think this year the support has been better than the first year. 

 Q. So you do look forward to next year coming back here? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I do, yeah. 

 Q. Thank you. 




\


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT