MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 7, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Start with your card?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I birdied the second hole. I hit an 8-iron to about 12 feet. Number 7, I -- not number 7 sorry. I'm tired. Number 3, I hit a 7 to 28 feet. Number 6, pitching wedge to 7 feet. And then number 15, I hit a sand wedge to about 12 feet.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Annika, great round out there. 4-under today. Brutally hot. If you would just talk about your day and the conditions out there.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It was brutal. I can't remember the last time I played in this heat. I mean I live in Orlando and it doesn't even feel this hot there. But, you know, overall I'm very, very pleased the way I played today. Just hit it beautifully. Fairways and greens just very consistent.   
 And I was just trying to be patient out there and, you know, left a few out there would have been nice to roll them in. But you do what you can, and I really did what I could today. So obviously I'm in good shape for tomorrow. And tomorrow is really what matters.   
 This is what I work for, this is what I look forward to. So I'm going to enjoy tomorrow. Try and stay as cool as possible. And I'm not going to wear a brown top tomorrow. I'm going to wear something light. (Laughing)  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions?  
  
  Q. There are two other people at the top of the leader board, but I think most people are looking at you and Lorena as going toe to toe tomorrow. How do you see -- I know you can't allow yourself to think quite like that, but how do you see the match-up tomorrow?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well there are several names out there, several good players. You know, I really am not going to look too much at who I am playing against. You know, I just need to go out there and do what I do best, and that's play golf. And, you know -- everybody's looking forward to tomorrow and everybody wants it badly. The one that wins is the one that stays cool, stays patient, and makes less mistakes. So that's going to be my plan.  
  
  Q. Annika, two Swedes in the top three. What do you say about Maria Hjorth out there?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: She played very well today. We all know she can play good golf. She's a long hitter and she had a superb round today.  
  
  Q. They're going to put you off in threes tomorrow again as they did today. Is that something -- would you prefer in the final round to be just you -- just in twos?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Sorry I couldn't hear you.  
  
  Q. I'm sorry. They're going to put you off again tomorrow in threes because of more fog. Is that something -- would you prefer to go out and if it ended the way it ended now you and Lorena would be playing in the same group, but you're not. Would you prefer to be sort of head-to-head with her or do you like playing in threes on a Sunday? Does it matter?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It really doesn't matter. But I enjoy playing with Lorena. You know, I'd like to, you know, face her tomorrow. I just -- that would be fun but I have some, you know, a big task ahead of me. I got to focus on that. You know, it would be nice to play in twosomes because we would play faster. I think that's more the key here than anything.   
 Rhythm is very important. But, like I said, I'm looking forward to tomorrow. I'm just going to focus on my game and I'm going to be very, very focused.  
  
  Q. As many times as you've been here, what do you see as the hardest part about tomorrow?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think just playing my own game. Just, you know, staying? The moment and being patient. You know, and during Majors you have to kind of go through the minor challenges out there. And there are a lot of them every hole. So, you know, I've done it before, this is what I live for. So it's just a matter of doing it.   
 Like I said, it's just really to be able to control myself, and you know my will. A lot of times, you know, I push myself because I want it so badly. So I'm just going to go out there and stay focused on the job.  
  
  Q. Is that still hard for you to do?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It is. I mean, it's so easy to get ahead of myself. It's easy to start thinking ahead. And it's easy to really think back, also. What I mean by that, it's easy to look at holes that, you know, maybe I didn't play the way I wanted to, but the key in Majors by the end of the day is not how it's done. You got to get it done. So that's what I got to do tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about how the course is playing compared to the first two days?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's drying out quite a bit. Getting a little bit of release on the greens. Still not a lot of roll on the fairways. It's dried up tremendously. I think it's playing great. I mean, I like this golf course. I've always liked it. The greens, you know, are rolling good despite all the softness of all the people walking on them. So it's fun.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised they weren't playing the ball down today?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I wasn't. I think it was a good move. It's still wet out there and it's just so beat up, the course. There's so many divots. I ended up in several today. You know, I think it's the right thing to do. And there's still certain areas that are still very, very damp.  
  
  
  
  
  
MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Annika, thanks for coming in.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT