GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 29, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You finished up on 18 for par, talk about your day overall?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, it was a little bit of an up-and-down day, five birdies, two bogeys and a triple, so it was a little bit of a roller coaster ride.
 I finished with a par, and I need some low scores the next few days. But I saved what could have been a tough day.

 Q. What do you think about the course overall coming back from the rain last night?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's playing good, a little wet but not as wet as I thought it would be. It's playing great, good condition, greens are fair. It's good. 

 Q. The first hole of the day, got off to a little bit of a rough start there; were you thinking you could bounce back from that -- and you did. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: With another 71 holes to play, it's not a big deal. I've been in this game so many years it doesn't phase me anymore. Obviously a better start would be nice, but I fell back and it was a steady round in the end.

 Q. Any particular holes that played tougher than normal?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Not necessarily. I mean, the wind was really no factor today. Just you could fire at the pins a little bit more, a little bit more aggressive maybe, but other than that, it played the way it always does out here. 

 Q. Tournament host, how do you feel the tournament week has gone so far?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: So far it's been great. I mean, I'm very proud of this tournament. The Ginn team and IMG are doing a great job and things are running well. We got a lot of rain last night and funny weather, but I think it's going to be better for the weekend.

 Q. A lot of low scores today; do you view today as a missed opportunity? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I like the way I grinded. I wish it would have been a little lower but sometimes you can't do anything about it.

 Q. What do you need to concentrate onto get back into the swing of things tomorrow?
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm just going to play my game. I made a triple today and that really hurt me. You can't do this tomorrow, or any day really, so continue with five birdies would be great.
 I actually hit some great iron shots. I didn't make any putts. I thought I played well overall, just a difficult hole here and there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT