SOLHEIM CUP
August 19, 2017
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: I'm delighted to welcome Annika Sorenstam back to the interview room.  Annika, obviously we know the score line is 10.5-5.5.  And Europe needs nine points tomorrow to win the Solheim Cup.  What are your reflections on today?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I mean, I just need to congratulate the U.S. on playing some amazing golf.  I mean, I've never seen anything like it.  We had 35 birdies and one eagle and lost three matches.
I am so proud of them.  My team, you know, they fought so hard.  They never gave up.  They were 5-under after seven holes and they were three down.
And you know it's easy to just kind of throw in your towel but they didn't.  They kept fighting back and fighting back, getting it to one down.
So very, very proud of them.  But you know it just wasn't enough.  It's just sometimes you just get beaten by good golf.  And that happened today.
So they were on fire.  All I can think of is I hope that fire is contagious and that we're on fire tomorrow.
Q. What do you say to all the players this evening?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I was speaking to them every day, and today we might do a little bit of a collateral speech but we've been giving out mantra bands every night and we saved this one right here.
It says "She believed she could and so she did."  That's what they're getting tonight.  And we're going to talk about that.
And I'm going to tell them that every "she" is every player.  Just have to go out there and believe in themselves focus on their own matches and don't look at any leaderboards.  Like you're getting in a boxing ring with an opponent, just punch 'em.
Q. And you have the singles pairings right here.  Can you talk us through your strategy?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I think if you look at the names you can understand our strategy.  Like you said, we need a ton of points, so we're loading it literally with who is playing the best.  And because this is all we've got.
Q. Annika, I know it's difficult to divorce yourself from the disappointment of today.  But can you look at this and just think:  There's never been anything like this?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It is.  I mean, you want to shake your head and you think, okay, next hole, next hole.  And you hear a chip go in, you hear a bunker shot go in, you see long putts go in.
You've just got to keep believing, like I said, that it's contagious that some of the momentum would maybe slow but then also some of these -- when you see putts go in, you always feel like, well, if I see it, I can do it.
And our team saw a lot of putts.  Unfortunately it wasn't blue putts going in.  It was red putts, but you just hope that that's going to change.
And you know the hope is the last thing that leaves us.  And I'm optimistic.  I've seen a lot of things in my day.  And spoke to Ron Sirak up there.  And mission possible tomorrow.  What can I say?  As the captain, I'm the last one that's going to leave the ship.
Q. Could you give us an update, please, on Charley's rest and is there any risk whatsoever she doesn't tee up tomorrow?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That's just nonsense.  I don't even know where that came from.  So Charley is playing.  You can see it.
She's playing at 10:48.  I spoke to her this afternoon.  And I mean the reason was we just wanted to rest her wrist in case.  She's now had several treatments and she's feeling a lot better.  So it's just -- I told her early this morning:  I'm resting you today up.  I need you for singles.  And that hasn't changed.  I need her for singles.
Q. I know you didn't want to play Anna as much as you probably did and obviously Catriona was not part of the equation to play this much.  Can you talk about both of them, and obviously Anna coming in a little ill, I'm sure she's fine now, and Catriona being almost 48, to go through as much as she has gone through to get into the singles tomorrow?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Let's start with Anna.  I think we pushed it as much as we can.  I mean, I'm proud of her for playing 36 today.  I mean, literally she's undefeated so far.
So it's just doing everything we can.  She's going back early to the room, resting, staying out of the heat, whatever we can do to get her ready.  I'm just very, very thankful that she's been able to do that.
As far as Catriona, you know, she just never surprises.  She's on her way back on the bus, she was dancing.  I'm telling you, she's not tired, 48 or not.  It's like a bottle of wine:  She just gets better and better.
It's just keeping our fingers crossed.  Everybody is doing every little thing they can do.  And rallying together.  I've never seen a team spirit like this.  And whatever happens tomorrow, I can tell you that we've had an amazing time.  And I've had an amazing journey with these kids and veterans, either way.  It's been terrific.
And I wouldn't trade this for anything.  We're just going to continue with that, and the friendship has been made.  Like I said, we're just going to try and do as well as we can tomorrow, keep our chins up, walk tall and be proud.
Q. After having seen the Americans make such a big comeback in singles two years ago, does that give you any hope or confidence in what could potentially happen tomorrow?
ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Absolutely.  There's been a lot of comebacks in sports in general.  Let's not just focus on just golf.  Sports, life in general.
March 16, 2001, before I teed off, nobody had shot 59.  I'm still the only one that's done that.  I know it's possible.  There are a lot of things I can bring up that's possible.  And history can be made.  So, like I said, hope is the last thing that's going to leave us.  And we're determined.  We didn't fly these miles to not put up a fight.  The fight is not over yet.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT