GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 27, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Annika, you're back hosting this tournament for the second straight year. How does it feel to be here?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It's great to be back, especially to Charleston. This is a fun city to come to, and it's an honor to host a tournament on the LPGA, so I'm excited about this week. You know, from a personal perspective, I feel a lot better about my game than last year. Last year this was the first tournament after my injury, and I didn't really have any expectations whatsoever, and I would say that that has changed. You know, I played the front nine this morning, and the course is playing a little differently for me. Now I'm hitting my yardages again, and it's a lot more fun. I mean I appreciate this course now than last year. Last year I was just trying to survive, trying to play a little bit, so I'm excited to be back.   
  
  Q. You're one of 14 players who have hosted a tournament on the LPGA. Only two of them have won their own tournament, though. What would it mean for you to win a tournament named after you?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Obviously that would be great. Does that mean you're a bad hostess? But no, I think this golf course fits my game, and like I said, I'm playing well. You know, we've got a good field this week, which is wonderful, so you obviously have to play some good golf. You know, I've been involved in this tournament quite a bit, and I think all the administrative stuff is already done, so now I can focus on playing and I'm looking forward to the week.   
  
  Q. Annika, since getting here, do you notice anything different from this year's tournament from last year's? Has anything changed? Are the crowds out there maybe a little better?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: It always takes a little bit for a tournament to settle in, kind of get the community to know about it. You know, the course has changed a little bit. I think you just learn where to put certain things like concession stands, know where to put the bleachers. Those are things we learn throughout the years at a tournament.   
 In regards to the spectators, there's quite a few out there today, which is nice to see, quite a few people on the driving range. There's just a lot more activity, which I think is fun. But it just takes a while for a tournament to get into the routine and get everybody involved.   
  
  Q. Annika, being the hostess, do you have any kind of say in where the parings are made up because you're playing with Julie and Lorena in round one and round two.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I wish I could say I had anything to do with it. No, I don't have the power to do that. I decide on other things, but not the big important things, but that sounds like a fun paring. I look forward to it.   
  
  Q. Can you comment on the tribute to Beth Daniel?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Absolutely. I mean we're all excited that she accepted to be honored this year. She has done so much for the game, and you know, being from Charleston we thought it was just very fitting, and it's nice to have her involved in this event. So that's a good thing.   
  
  Q. Are you getting sentimental at each tournament now kind of being the last? Do you get sentimental or is there any more sentiment at this one because it's yours?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I will always be involved in this one whether I'm playing or not, so you know, no, I mean I wouldn't say -- I've only had one tournament where I felt like I'm not going to come back, and this one I know I'm coming back. So I'm not really sure how I will feel in the upcoming weeks. I'm just enjoying the moment and enjoying being out here and trying to play the best golf I can in the next few months. You know, I've made the decision myself. It's not something that I'm forced to do, so I'm just looking forward to the future. And along the way I'm going to try and smell the roses.   
  
  Q. Does that decision in any way maybe ease the burden of playing as far as pressure you put on yourself to play well?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You know, I don't know if I can ever play under no pressure. I'm just very hard on myself. I have high expectations, and I know what it's like to play at the top and play good golf, and that's kind of what I expect from myself every week, so you know, I hope that day will come that I can enjoy it and not expect so much out of myself.   
 But it is different to be in a position where you know that you're not coming back and you know that there's only so much left, and I feel less pressure there because I'm enjoying it more and I'm seeing it from a different angle than in the past. And also, when you've been out here for 15 years, there's certain things that are important and some are not. You just change priorities in life.   
  
  Q. What do you think you're not really going to miss about playing on the tour, like travel?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Packing.   
  
  Q. Packing, yeah, things like that?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah. Restaurants, airports. No. I'm sure I'll be doing some of that as well. It is the competition that I will miss the most, though. I will miss the people out here and the friendship. Hopefully I will continue with some of that and still be involved in the game, so I'm hoping to pick up the good stuff and enjoy.   
  
  Q. You're going to probably get this everywhere you go this year, but have you had any second thoughts yet about your decision and possibly coming back?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I have not. It's only been two weeks, and I've only had one tournament. No, I mean I feel good about it. Like I said, it's just something that I've decided on my own terms, and nobody has pushed me or told me what to do. This is just how I feel. On the contrary, I have people saying, why don't you stay, and it just feels right. You know, you know when it's right. The heart tells you.  
  
  Q. And with this being your own tournament, is there a possibility that this might be the one tournament of the year that you decide to play in just for kicks or to get competition once a year?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I haven't thought about that. I mean I am going to be involved. I know I'll be a lot more involved because, you know, now I'm going to have time for that, and I don't necessarily know if I will be playing. I haven't thought about it, to be honest.   
  
  Q. Have you talked to Beth at all about her retirement, how she's enjoying it? It's pretty recent for her. She's really kind of stayed away from the game professionally. Have you talked to her about her retirement at all, taken any tips?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I talked to her when we were here last time, and she's enjoying it. She's doing a good job at "The Golf Channel." She's involved in a lot of things outside the golf course, junior golf, etc. I think she's even traveling more now than she did the last few years on the Tour. So she said, "I'm keeping busier than ever." And I remember her saying that you think when you step away or retire, you think you're going to have so much time, and all of a sudden she goes, "I have less time." So I don't know what to say. I don't have any time today, so I hope it doesn't go that way for me.   
  
  Q. Annika, how thankful are you that you can step away still playing great golf, that you know that you won't be walking away and you've been playing for too long like you're struggling, and you're playing good golf out there right now.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, thank you. No. I'm happy the way I'm playing, and like I said, the timing is right, and I want to walk away with great memories. I want to remember what it's like to play good golf. And last year with the injuries, that was the last thing I wanted was to leave the game because of that. Now I feel good. I feel strong. I feel healthy, and I'm leaving on my own terms, and that's why it just feels right. I have no regrets. I don't wonder what it would be like to continue forever. And you know, I'm excited about the next chapter in my life. I want to make the most out of that, too.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Annika. Thanks for coming in today and good luck this week.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Thank you.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT