SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 17, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Annika, thanks for coming in and joining us today. A windy day out there. I'm sure that caused a few problems for you. Can you just talk about the conditions and your round in general?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I thought it was very windy. It was gusting at times. It was tough to figure out if it was downwind or into the wind because a lot of holes it was cross.   
 I thought I played quite well today, just made a few mistakes. You know, the greens were very bumpy, so nothing else you could do.   
  
  Q. Would you talk about the first two par-5s you played today, especially 18, the lie you had there before you hit the tree and the thought process there and how costly those were to you? Those were 3-over par on two par-5s.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, on No. 11 I hit it great, forward, just left of the green, had a really tough chip, just couldn't get it to stop. I had a long putt, and like I said, these greens are just extremely bumpy in the afternoon. I hit three good putts there.  
 17, I tried to lay up on my second shot, came a little open with the club, the ball shot to the right, hit the tree, came back, and then three-putted. Again, it was small little mistakes that just turned into big ones.   
 You know, I'm not really going to make a big deal of it. I played very well today. I thought I hit some really good shots, and I putted well, they just did not go in.  
  
  Q. Can you sense a difference in the size of the gallery, like when you teed off today with Cristie, the group just looked like -- the gallery looked like it was three or four deep. Do you notice just the difference in size?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, there were a lot of people there today, absolutely. We started out with some really nice weather, and it's Saturday here. I haven't really played here in the past so I wasn't really sure what the turnout would be. But it was tremendous today, and it was very supportive and it was fun.   
  
  Q. It looks like you're going to be five back. Does that change your approach for tomorrow? Do you have to be more aggressive?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I'm not really sure what kind of conditions we're going to have tomorrow. If we have wind like today it makes it really tough out there. I just have to make a few more putts. Today could have been a better round.   
 I'm just going to continue the way I'm playing. I'm hitting fairways and hitting greens, and I feel good about my swing; there's nothing I can do. But coming down the stretch, do I have to be a little more aggressive, yes, I probably will be. But anything can happen on this course. It's easy to let one go, so I'm not going to be too aggressive starting out.   
  
  Q. You've obviously played against Lorena in the past. How difficult is it coming back against her on a Sunday when she has a lead like this?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, you just have to play some good golf. I mean, I know how to play this golf course, and I think it would be great if I got off to a good start, climbed up the leaderboard a little bit. But I mean, she's playing steady golf. I don't expect her to come back to the field. You know, we have to catch her. I feel good about my game, so I'm looking forward to the day.  
  
  Q. Are you looking forward to going out there early and maybe posting a number and then letting see what happens?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm not really sure it's going to be that early. I mean, I'm only in seventh place, one or two groups behind.  
  
  Q. Just before.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, it's going to be 20 minutes. Yeah, I'll be ahead of her and I'll try to play some holes and make a birdie so she has something to chase.   
  
  Q. You said anything can happen on this golf course. Do you feel like this course can be had with a mid-60s round? Obviously the par-5s are reachable. Do you feel like this course can give you a low score?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Like I said, it depends on the conditions. The first day we played here was beautiful. I mean, it was a little wind but not too bad. The greens are very receptive. Today was gusting. It makes it tougher.   
 You know, I've just got to focus on my game. Not yesterday, but Thursday, I shot a bogey-free 67 that could have been better, and that's what I'm going to need tomorrow.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Thank you for your time, and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT