MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 8, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: We'll start going over your scorecard. No. 3.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No. 3, I hit a 5-iron short of the green, chipped it up to four feet.  
 No. 5, I hit 7-iron and made a putt from 30 feet.  
 No. 7, sand wedge to six feet. No. 8, 9-iron to 35 feet. No. 10, 8-iron to four feet. 14, 9-iron to eight feet. 17, 9-iron to 14 feet.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Fantastic day out there. You were playing kind of in and out of the rain showers but 7 birdies, no bogies and you're very close to the lead.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Sure. I mean, of course, I'm thrilled with the round. I mean I haven't shot this low all year so it feels good to get off to a good start here, a place that I really like a lot and haven't played so well.  
 So, you know very solid. Lot of fairways, lot of greens. Just good golf.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Great. Okay. Questions?  
  
  Q. You got up and down on No. 2. How important to your round was that save?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, it's always nice early on to, you know, to keep the momentum or keep on going and, you know, hit a good chip there, made a putt, three, four feet and just, you know, putting well.  
 So it's important to score well here. You're going to make some par saves. You're not going to hit it close all day long, and there's times you're going to miss and maybe have a chip. If you can make the saves then you can relax a little bit more and you don't lose ground.  
  
  Q. Any extra motivation playing in the grouping that you were today to just for you to come out and play well, make a statement, anything like that?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You know, just to make a statement on a Thursday, really doesn't matter. I mean it's three more days. Anything can happen.   
 However, I mean I enjoy playing with Suzann, I enjoy playing with Lorena a lot. They're great people, great golfers. It's fun to play with good players. They're nice and play fast. I enjoy that.  
 But it's not about making a statement here. It's about playing good golf and one shot at a time and try to win a championship by Sunday.  
  
  Q. Do you often draw off, sort of feed off of one way or the other what your fellow players are doing?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: You mean in the group?  
  
  Q. Yes.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: When you play with somebody who is playing well, you see putts, you see things going, you see good bounces and good golf. That's important.  
 But I mean it really doesn't matter who it is. When you see good golf -- I think it's good for anybody. When somebody is struggling and you're in the same group and looking for balls and you see lip-outs, that's the last thing you want the see. You want to see good stuff, visualize it and do it yourself.  
  
  Q. Probably aren't many places that you've gone where you've been a number of times and haven't won.  
 Do you look forward to places like this more because of that?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I enjoy this place for many reasons. It's a good golf course, good sponsor. It's a first class event and I think my game fits this golf course. Why I haven't played well here in the past I'm not really sure.  
 So, therefore, I mean I came in here with excitement in the sense that I've played well the last few weeks and want to do well here. That motivates me and that makes me makes we want to come here.  
 Some places the course might not fit me or might not suit me there or something, but this place I love it, so, you know, positive coming in here and hoping for good things.  
  
  Q. Are you going to practice at all?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: We'll see what kind of what the weather is. Actually have a massage later so I want to make sure I don't miss that one. That's for sure.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Any other questions? Okay. Thank you all very much. Annika, great round. Good luck.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT