STANFORD INTERNATIONAL PRO-AM
April 25, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Annika, thanks for coming in and joining us today. Another great round out there. One of the few that are actually under par. One stroke out of the lead at 6-under, and your team is currently tied for sixth. So seems like this Pro-Am is definitely fitting your style quite a bit.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I would say so. I mean, I've enjoyed myself quite a bit. It's a beautiful place and I have a really nice partner, so the first two days have been great.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: That's great. Can you talk a little bit more about the course. I know yesterday was a bit difficult. Today you played Soffer. What were your thoughts?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I would say it's about the same. I mean, the wind is about the same. These two courses are very similar. You know, tough greens. Firm greens, I would say.   
 The one I played today is a little bit more narrow so it makes it a lot tougher.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Can we go over your scorecard?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Okay. Birdied the first hole. Hit sand wedge to 13 feet.   
 Birdie No. 2; sand wedge to nine feet.   
 Birdie No. 3; 9-iron to four feet.   
 Birdie No. 10; sand wedge seven feet.   
 Birdie No. 11; sand wedge to six feet.  
 Bogey No. 12; pitching wedge in the greenside bunker and I two-putted from 12 feet.  
 And then I parred in.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay. Questions.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about your birdie, birdie, birdie start and what sort of balance that gives you considering that was your first time competing on Soffer?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, when you get off to -- when you birdie the first hole it kind of gets you going. And then the second and the third, I was bouncing down the fairway. I felt great. I was hitting some good shots and I was putting well.   
 It's not easy out there, and to get off to a good start like that is important because you never know what's out there. You know, gives you a little more confidence for the day.   
 And then I almost did the same thing when I made the turn. I'm very happy the way I played today. I hit the ball extremely well. A lot of fairways and a lot of greens. It was a really good round.   
  
  Q. Yesterday when you talked how tough the setup was - you were speaking for the amateurs - but obviously you like tough setups. You've done well in majors and seem to be able to separate yourself in tough setups?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I like tough courses. I always have. Especially when you're playing well. Then it's even more fun, because you know you're going to hit it where you need to. That's what I'm I've been doing the last two days.   
 The key is just to be patient. I mean, I've hit a lot of good shots today that might not end up the way you wanted, but then on the next hole I have been able to come back and just end up where I wanted.   
 When the conditions are like this you cannot get away about bad shots. You have to hit it pure and you have to hit it where you intended to be able to score here.   
  
  Q. If the weather stays the same, what kind of winning score are we looking at? Single digits? How much tougher do you think it's going to play?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That's a good question. I mean, I never really predict the score, but, you know, it's tough out there. You know, today I played very, very well and I shot 4-under.   
 Obviously I'm hoping to continue that and go and see where that will take me. I'm not going to focus on the score. I'm going to focus on one shot at a time and be patient out there. I think it's that hard that it's tough to put a score in your mind and try to shoot it.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your decision to switch putters and how that's working out for you and how many you tried.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I switched after Nabisco, and the reason was pretty much poor performance on the greens. Just went to my academy and tried a few putters, two or three, and decided on this one.   
 I wouldn't say this it behaved very well at the Ginn Open, but I'm giving it another shot, and so far we're getting along.   
  
  Q. What was the problem on the greens? Was it coming of the putter face wrong? What was that situation?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: When?   
  
  Q. At the Nabisco.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm not really sure what it was. Just a combination of speed and combination of line. It was just I was not putting well. Sometimes I think it's nice to have a little change, something different to look at. It gives a different feel.   
 One thing I have struggled with a little bit is aim. This putter is easier to aim for me, so I thought that's a good start. Aim right and then we can work on the stroke after that.   
  
  Q. You've had a really strong start to the year. Do you feel like the way things have shaped up so far this weekend that maybe you're poised for a breakthrough?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I mean, so far so good. We have a long ways to go, and I'm just happy that I'm swinging well and really playing well. I mean, that's what I enjoy.   
 Then we'll see where that will put me. Overall the season has been great. I mean, obviously a lot better than last year. I've been in contention several times this year, and that's what I love. I'm just going to continue to work on my swing and my game and just enjoy it.  
  
  Q. Why do you think the tougher courses and setups suit you so well?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I would say my consistency. I would say one of my strengths is course management. You know, I always try to think my way around the golf course.   
 I would say this week it's a typical example where you have to have course management to play here. This is not a course where you stand with a driver on the tee and just hit a shot. You have to know the way the greens slope and where the pin is.   
 You just have to think your way around, and I would say that's one of my strengths. And I always seem to kind of gear up for a challenge, so I would say combination of all that.  
  
  Q. If you take the amateur equation out, what's your assessment of the golf course?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I like this golf course, I do. I think it's a great golf course. It is tough, especially the greens and then this wind. You know, that makes the greens so firm that it's tough to get to the pins.   
 But I don't mind it at all. I think the way they set it up it's shorter, which I'm very glad they have done. If I look at my scorecard I'm hitting a lot of 9-irons and pitching wedges, and it's still tough to get it close. Therefore, I think the setup is good.  
  
  Q. Some pros have been able to pick partners. Did you want to pick a partner? How does that work where people get to pick some partners or it gets more random?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That's a good question. I got here and they wanted me to play with the Stanford gentlemen. I had some people in mind but it didn't work out, so they paired me with Russ and it's worked out fine.   
 I don't know how the other pairings worked out, but I didn't really have anybody that I brought in here to play with.   
  
  Q. Given the difficulty and the conditions, and it doesn't seem like the wind is going to change too much tomorrow, is there any chance somebody will runs away with it?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: We'll see.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Thanks for coming in, and good luck this weekend. Great round.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT