GINN OPEN
April 15, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Annika, so far a great year for you five straight top 10s, including one victory. If you could, just talk a little bit about the year you've been having so far.  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Sure, I'll be happy to. No, I'm quite pleased with the season so far. I started out earlier this year, as you know, in February. Got off to a good start in Hawaii and really have played pretty consistent since then. So far so good.  
 Of course, I'm happy to be here and playing this year, so I'm looking forward to a great week and continue the momentum. Hopefully get a few more victories and it will be a great year.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, tomorrow. You're right. A lot of things have happened since then. No, obviously it was unfortunate the timing to not play at this tournament of all events. But then I had the grand opening of my academy and had a chance to work on some other things, my golf course design and so forth and my foundation.   
 Things happen for a reason. Here I am and I feel good about my game and the season, so that's the good thing.  
  
  Q. Did you get hungrier for success the more Lorena wins? Do you want it even more?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: No, I don't think -- no, I mean, you know, what she does is her thing and her success is her thing. I mean, I'm driven to play good golf. I'm competitive, and when I do play I want to perform well. I enjoy winning as well. I think it's more of an internal satisfaction I get when I play.   
 But that's not driven by somebody else's, for sure. It's important what I do inside the ropes, you know, but I'm also excited about the things I'm working on outside of the course. Those are the things you don't measure it in victories or scoring advantage or prize money.   
 For example, when I granted my first wish with Make a Wish, to see Molly, to see her face, the way it lit up, and also her family, I mean how do you measure that? That's so much more than a tournament win and building golf courses. A lot different.   
 So, you know, I have many things that drive me today inside and outside the ropes. I love what I do.   
  
  Q. Could you share a few thoughts on the drug testing policy and why it was instituted and how it's gone, your opinion, so far?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, let's just talk overall about it. I think it was something we had to do eventually, and the LPGA took a clear decision that this is important, to be one the first in golf to do it. I support that. I do. It's been a difficult process. I know that. It's such a big topic and it's very sensitive in certain areas and you have to be very, very careful.   
 I'm not really sure how it's going. I read somewhere that they fired the first testing agency. I wasn't one of the players that was tested so I don't know how it went. Talking to some players they were not too happy, so that was probably a good move.   
 So we'll see what happens with this new agency and how the testing is going. But it is, you know, a big issue on our tour, and I would say that a lot of players are scared. They don't know really what they're taking when you buy an energy bar at some nutrition store. Nobody seems to know. Even go experts and they can't tell you if it's good or bad.   
 That can put your whole career on line, so it's very sensitive and obviously something that all the players talk about all the time. Because you don't -- you work so hard, and the last thing you want to do is get caught for something that you unintentionally took.   
  
  Q. Do you have anyway around it? Is there a list of substances and this and that?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Oh, yeah. We have a long list.  
  
  Q. Do you have suggestions as to how to sort of clear up the lack of knowledge? Seems like there's some hesitation and concern about -- you're talking about accidental stuff.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I'm talking about energy bars, protein drinks if you go to GNC or something like that. I think it's very cut and clear if you go to a doctor and get medicine. On the list it says what it is and it's very clear.   
 I don't think anybody is concerned about that. But it's the other things, like a vitamin water. What's in that? Does anybody really know? Those are the things I think we are more worried about. A lot of girls here, you know, when you work out you want to have protein after the round or after the work-out. You take it on the course or take an energy bar when you're hungry, you sit on flights.   
 These Cliff or Balance Bars, what's in them? It seems like nobody can answer. I think that's what the worry is really.   
  
  Q. Something you said last week about Lorena, that she's making it tougher for somebody like me to catch her. Considering your dominance in the sport would you ever think you would say something like that? It's always been the reverse.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Right. The roles are a little reversed. I mean, I'm chasing her, and I've not giving up by any means. She's playing fantastic golf. She's really, really been consistent: Driving and putting well, winning majors and winning consecutive tournaments.   
 But inside of me I believe there's still a way that I can beat her, and I'm just looking forward to this week. Here's my chance, and if it doesn't happen there's next week. That's what keeps me going. I love the competition and I know I can play a little better golf.   
 So been more consistence from me, but I still need some lower rounds. I feel like I have that if in me, but I got to do it more regularly.   
  
  Q. The LPGA made a renewed point of emphasis on slow play this year. I'm wondering what your thoughts are on that? Do you see progress, and are you a proponent of slapping down one-shot penalties if that's what it takes?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, and I think it's important. It is a big issue on this tour, and I'm glad to see that we're getting stricter. I'm a fast player, so I would love to see the rounds go a lot faster. I think it's important for everybody. I mean, you're aware of that. It's TV, it's fans, players, you name it. I'm glad that we're stricter.   
 I've seen a few tournaments where it at least felt faster. I don't know if the last few has gone time-wise, but think it's important. Whatever it takes. If it's fining a player one shot or fine them money-wise, I'm not really sure what works.   
 But we need to speed up. I think it's important for the game, and as a tour and a professional we need to be role models for golfers in general. That if we can't play here, why would amateurs anywhere else do it? I think if we can show that we can anybody can play fast.  
  
  Q. I am working on a story on Laura Davies. She is two points shy of the Hall of Fame. She's from Rochester where I am from. You played on Solheim Cup teams and played against her for many, many years. Before you became dominate she was a dominate player out here. Just talk about, if you, could your recollections of her career and some of the things she's done in the LPGA. She's been quiet for the last few years, but she was once one of the great players out here.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Absolutely. Growing up in Europe she was the European face out here. Even though we had some Swedes winning majors, she was a player that are consistently up there. She's known not just for her power, but I would said she's known for her --she has imagination and feel. She is such a great athlete.   
 People know that, and she's a player with a huge heart. I mean, when I played with her Solheim Cup, I mean, here I am playing what I say, I use my brain and she plays with her heart. We're polar opposites that way.   
 It's been kind of fun the experiences we've had and discussions we've had regarding shots on the course. Some of the shots she wants to hit and I'll be more, no, no, no. Just down the fairway in the middle of the green. She is just very much liked out here. Somebody who has had success all around the world. She travels and plays everywhere and very supportive of all the different tours.   
 I know you said she is two points away. I really hope that she will get those two points. If not, she definitely should be voted in, because I think she belongs there.   
  
  Q. She's two points shy, but 50 wins. She's a Hall of Fame player. So is it we shouldn't really consider it she has to get the two points, right? I guess there's a way she can get in eventually, right? Veteran's committee?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah. There's a voting system. And I think tournaments around the world should count, because it's a game that's growing everywhere. Europe is a very competitive tour and so is Asia and so is playing in Australia. I agree with you.   
  
  Q. If International wins count, that puts you at about 86 wins?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Uh-huh.   
  
  Q. Do you remember, flashback a couple years: Cherry Hills. You went had in there with the first two majors of the year already in your pocket. How much pressure was there for you beyond just 18 holes, the hole you're playing, the shot at hand externally?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, I had a chance to win the third major in a row, and I wanted to do it because I really think that it's possible. I had the chance, and you know how many times you'll get the chance. Here it was. I love the Open and I've done well in the past, and I thought the course would fit me perfectly.   
 It's just one of those tournaments when I kind of got in my own way a little bit and wanted to perform before I really even stepped to the tee. I've had a tendency to do that: Try too hard or too much. It's so easy to look back and say, I should have done this or that.   
 But when you're in the moment you're loving it and you think, This is going to happen. Sometimes you just have to step away and almost play with almost no emotion, which is very, very hard.   
  
  Q. You mentioned earlier about how busy you were in your injury-plagued last year. What if you had had that injury-plagued year earlier in your career? Would you have dealt with it well?  
  ANNIKA SORENSTAM: That's a good question. I'm not really sure. If this would have happened five years ago I would have been so bored. I would have had nothing to do. All I did was practice. I probably would have driven some people crazy.   
 You know, I really believe things happen for a reason. This injury gave me time to work on those things. But also gave me a little perspective on what I've achieved and what's important in life for me. I got the motivation back. I didn't want to leave with such a season. I wanted to play good golf.   
 Here I am with some more excitement and motivation, and I have come a long ways with the different Annika businesses. It's not a good thing to have an injury, but I made the best out of it. A few years ago I would not have done that.   
  
  Q. You've got the course over in China in Mission Hills. You spent some time over there. The first fully exempt Chinese player is on tour this year. Do you know enough about what's going onto see or talk about whether there may be a new wave of players from that country, or are they a little bit behind because of the economics versus South Korea?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I don't know if I have enough knowledge to talk too much about it. I've been there a few times and i can tell you the growth over there, I mean, it's not just golf. It's everything. My guess would be that if we see a Chinese player win on tour we're going to see a similar situation of what happened in Korea.   
 So give it some time. And they need -- just you can take Sweden. Wow, almost twenty years ago when.  
 Liselotte Neumann won. She wins and then you get Helen and then I came and then I think we have 11 players.   
 You mentioned the Koreans. I think this is what we're going to see in China. If we get a win and some success here, it just opens the door for the younger, especially girls, to see, Hey, there are possibilities. Sometimes you just need a trailblazer like that to open the doors.   
 That would be my guess. When I've been over there they love golf. It is different. I mean, I remember playing in -- this is probably five years ago, and I said, What are the rules? They said, We don't have rules here. I said, Is it scramble or is it best ball? No, we just play golf here.   
 I thought, wow, this is different. I would say the last five years it has changed. I am sure they have rules in their formats now, but they will come. I'm positive of that.  
  
  Q. You were talking really early about how your injury give you some perspective. You mind elaborating on that. The way you look at the sport itself or all the aspects of your life?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Mostly myself and my life and what's important. Not to get too philosophical, but you take things for granted. I've never had an injury. I mean, I wake up and work out and push myself really hard in the gym on th course. You travel, you just go, go, go.   
 All of a sudden it's not like that. You just have to realize it's important to do preparation and it's important -- in my case it was rehab and just building up the strength. That was kind of a wake-up call for me, and I realized that if I didn't play tournaments it wasn't the end of world. There were other things I could do.   
 It wasn't weekends on the golf course, it was weekends at home with friends. That's good too. I think that was important for me.   
  
  Q. Some young players have had a chance to pick your brain. When they do that, what do they ask you?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: A lot of times it's, How do you organize your time? How do you practice for a tournament? Scheduling and travel, just things you learn along the way.   
 If you ask players that have done it before it can help you. I have had good conversations with Amy Alcott -- not about travel, but about life. She's 15 years ahead of me and she's telling me that I need to smell the roses along the way. Coming to the end of your career this is important and not important. It's just interesting to listen for me to somebody like Amy.   
 Then when I talk to the younger players, for them it's important how many tournaments in a row and how does this work and how is it to play overseas? So it's fun to help the young ones, but then I'm in a position where I'm the young one asking someone else. We do all share and help each other out here.   
  
  Q. Unlike a lot of the pros out at Lake Nona, you and Trevor actually live there. Have you gotten to know him over the years? Were you surprised or do you have any good stories about him since he bought Emily's house and moved in out there?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, I don't know him or his family very well. Obviously I was thrilled for him. He's such a nice guy. I do see him practice quite a bit out there with Leadbetter. He's got a beautiful swing. You know, this wasn't too long ago, three four weeks ago, I was playing. I was on the 6th hole. He lives pretty close to there. He was out there with his kid throwing a ball on the third fairway.   
 It's kind of a family story. I was practicing and here they were. I do see them here and there and would say hi. But obviously met him a few times and so forth, but i don't really know him. It was great to see him win.   
  
  Q. What led to your conversation with Amy Alcott?   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Well, at the Newton-Nabisco. She's written a book and I've been part of her book a little bit. She's just a player that's always -- I mean, I admire the stuff that she has done and just her view on life.   
 She always sends me nice little e-mails here and there. I just saw her, and we talk about stuff. She's very deep sometimes in her discussions, and it's important, I think, sometimes to get a little grounded and listen to what she has to say.   
  
  Q. Just switching here a little bit, you're going to play billiards later this week?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, on Friday.   
  
  Q. Are you good? Do you have a table at home?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: I have a table at home, yeah. Does to get used very much? No. It's a little dusty. No, actually I grew up with a table at home. I know how to hold a cue and I know how to shoot a little bit. I think I'm being challenged by a pro, no, I don't think I have much to give there.   
  
  Q. As a person who has so many endorsements, Natalie Gulbis had so many, but when she finally did get her first win last year, not that you're rooting for anybody in particular, but was it good to see a player like that who has kind of been a face around the LPGA to finally get that win and kind of validate maybe her talent a little bit?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, absolutely. I'm a good friend of hers. I was very happy for Natalie. She's a sweet person and she works very, very hard. You know, you wish good things on good people, and she's one of them. I was happy to see her win. I hope that she wins some more. It's competitive out here, but she certainly has the game.   
  
  Q. Your reaction to being at home and playing in a tournament that you're very closely associated with.   
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Yeah, it's great to be here. Like I said, I'm happy to be playing this year. I come out to Reunion very, very often. Annika academy is back of the range here, so this is a familiar spot for me. With my affiliation with Bobby and Ginn in general, I do a lot of work with them.   
 It's nice to see the support they give to the LPGA and it's kind of nice to have a tournament in the backyard, so to speak.   
 I just hope I can come here on time. Seems like when you're home there's always something to do at the last minute. But it's fun to be here. A lot of family and friends will be here to -- that live in the area and will come and cheer on. I'm looking forward to a great week.   
  
  Q. Talking about the injury that you went through and just basically being the face of the LPGA to a large extent, is that more pressure on you to get back to perform, or is it just a very comfortable spot for you now?  
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM: Like I said, I would love to play and perform because I know I can do it. It's more me internally the motivation of just getting back to my game. I mean, it's an honor to be the face of LPGA. I like to represent to as well as I can, golf in general, so I do my best.   
 Of course to helps to play well, but I wouldn't say that that's what drives me. I think I have more of an inner drive to perform more than anything. But I do take my role very seriously, and I would love to see this game grow with the LPGA and just in general.   
 I mean that's some of the things I do with the academy is give back to the game. I really care a lot about to.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT