HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 2, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You stayed strong all day.  How are you feeling? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm tired.  It's been such a long day, on-and-offs all day, tough conditions.  I mean, I'm glad it's over now just because I'm worn out.  It's been tough.  I've played really well, just haven't performed well on the greens.  It kind of wore me out a little bit.  Obviously happy with the finish.  I mean, there was nothing to do about Lorena this particular week, but I finished strong and that's what I'm going to take from this week. 

 Q.  It was all about the second position, and you did well.  Paula came up and then dropped back and then you picked up a few shots and finished strongly. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I did.  I mean, that was the key, and sometimes you play for second place.  I can't remember the last time I had to do that, but it was just the way it happened to be this week. 

 Q.  It seemed you had some trouble with your putting today.  Was it a bit hard on the greens? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I'm not really sure.  I just didn't make a single thing.  It's just really frustrating.  I need to work on my putting.  But I'm striking it really well, driving it well, good iron shots.  That's really all that matters. 

 Q.  Lorena is kind of on a different level right now -- 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  She's playing well, but it's nothing I don't think that's not achievable by any means.  I think I'm playing as good from tee to green, so I'm very proud of the way I hit it. 

 Q.  What's your thoughts on the tournament as a whole as the first event in Singapore?  I know you love the place. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I mean, Singapore is a great place.  I love the golf course.  People are nice, supportive.  It's been a great tournament, very first-class, and HSBC has really stepped up and made it a highlight of the year. 

 Q.  Can I get your hole-by-hole very quickly? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well, parred all the front nine. 
 Then I bogeyed No. 10, 4-iron left of the green, chipped it up, two-putted from six feet. 
 Birdied 13, sand wedge to three feet. 
 16, sand wedge, just a little chip and tapped it in for birdie. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT