HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 1, 2008
Annika Sorenstam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  8-under par, eight off the lead.  Can you just talk about your round today, please. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I was very pleased with the way I played.  I missed two shots, No. 10 and 11.  Other than that, I thought I played very, very well through 16 holes.  Very happy the way I drove it, very happy with my iron shots.  It was a good day overall.  I mean, I was kind of disappointed to lose a shot or two shots back there, particularly when I made a good start and made the turn at 3-under, you kind of like to continue the momentum.  But I bounced back and there were some good shots and good golf. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Did the double on 10 kind of lead into the bogey on 11. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  No, I never give shots away. 

 Q.  You said the momentum went.  Were you kind of in the moment enough where you didn't feel like you had ruined your day with those two bogeys? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I didn't hear the middle part. 

 Q.  You said you lost a bit of momentum with back to back bogeys, but were you in the moment enough that it didn't actually register, or did it affect you -- 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Of course it registered.  If I didn't have any feelings then it would be easier to play.  But of course you have momentum and then -- like I said, I missed one shot and ended up in a terrible lie.  I've played this game long enough that you know you cannot let those things bother you.  You just have to move on to another hole and other good things can happen.  You have to stay positive.  It breaks the momentum and you have to start over again. 

 Q.  You're eight shots back.  Do you remember any time where you came back from as much as eight shots?  I believe you came back from ten before. 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I came from ten behind in one.  There's no doubt that it's a tough test.  Lorena is playing some great golf.  But you just have to continue to believe in your own game.  I'm playing good enough, and today with those two shots it could have been less.  I have to stay positive and keep on trying.  There's some birdies out there.  I've proven that, and I just have to remember that tomorrow.  I'll give it my best and we'll see what happens. 

 Q.  Of course you'd love to be closer to her for this tournament, but given everything you suffered through last year, given the goal you set yourself of being back, does it feel good just to come back -- 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, I mean, you're right.  You've got to look at the positive.  That's what makes life so much sweeter.  I'm playing some good golf.  Yesterday I hit 17 greens, yesterday the day before I hit 14, and today another high number.  I have to take it step by and step.  Of course I'd like the gap to be not as big but Lorena is playing great golf.  There's nothing that I can do about that.  I just need an incredible round tomorrow.  I've done it before, and I'm hoping tomorrow will be another day like that. 

 Q.  If we could have one more.  If you could step away from Annika, the fierce competitor and just look at Lorena as one golf lover watching her play, what would you say about her? 
 ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  She's playing good golf.  It's fun to say, and it's good for women's golf.  I think overall the golf that you see here is incredible, and I hope a lot of people are watching because this generation that you're watching in women's golf is as good as it's ever been.  I hope people are noticing, I hope people get involved.  Lorena is leading the charge right now, and it's fun to be a part of. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT