ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 1, 2019
Martin Guptill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
New Zealand 137/0 Sri Lanka 136   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  
MARTIN GUPTILL: Cheers.   
 Q.  How important was the toss today to win that and be able to put Sri Lanka in  
MARTIN GUPTILL: I think it worked in our favor a wee bit.  Even if we had, yeah, been put on this morning, I think we still would've played with the positive intent that we had this afternoon.  May not have come off, but we still would've gone out there and tried to play as positively as possible.   
 Q.  A bit of a difference.  You've come 40 miles further west from the last game you played in terms of conditions.  Were you surprised at how much your guys got out of the pitch early on?  
MARTIN GUPTILL: I think the beauty about our guys is they can exploit those conditions quite regularly.  We put the ball in the right areas enough today to get the rewards up front.   
 Q.  Was that positivity that you placed on batting with net run rate in mind, or more just the way in which you want to set your marker?  
MARTIN GUPTILL: I guess a little bit of both.  I mean, it's always nice to have a healthy run rate at the start of a tournament.  Once we had them seven, eight down it was try and knock them over as quick as possible and then knock the runs off as quick as possible as well. Yeah, we got a healthy run rate at the moment, so hopefully we can take it through the rest of the tournament.   
 Q.  Just a question on the bails.  I think second time in two matches where they haven't been dislodged.  Is there concern about the weight of them?  
MARTIN GUPTILL: Maybe our bowlers hit a ball faster.  No, I don't actually know.  It's happened quite a lot.  I've played in tournaments around the world where the balls hit the bails and they haven't come off.  The bails have stayed on.  It happens quite regularly.  It's just one of those things, I guess.  Part of cricket.  Heavy bails they might not come off even more. But, look, it just happens.   
 Q.  Obviously very dominant today.  How important is it for you guys in this first week given what's coming at the back end of the tournament in particular to build some momentum and confidence in the first three matches in particular?  
MARTIN GUPTILL: Yeah, I guess you want to build that momentum early, and today we did that.  Our bowlers put the ball in the right areas and made it difficult for Sri Lanka to really get a big start on. If we bowl first in the next few games we can hopefully continue to do that and make it difficult for the guys to score.  Then if we can come out and play with a bit of freedom like we did this afternoon with the bat, I think we'll have a pretty successful tournament.   
 Q.  Have you had a chance to talk to Matt Henry and Colin Munro after performances that would've imbued them with plenty of confidence today?  
MARTIN GUPTILL: Not yet.  Obviously Colin and I were trying to have bit of fun out there, so I probably had more of a chat with Colin than I had with Matt.  Look, it was good.  Matt had a tough time against the West Indies in the last warm up game, but, yeah, bowling to that lot was pretty difficult and they can put you out of the park pretty early. The way he came back and put the ball in the right areas, he got the rewards that he deserved.   
 Q.  Just a word on your fielding.  Pretty good today.  Trent Boult made some pretty outstanding saves.  Is it something you go into a tournament planning to be the standard-setting team in a World Cup, because New Zealand have done that pretty regularly?  
MARTIN GUPTILL: Yeah, absolutely.  Fielding is such a big part of the game now.  Look around the squads, around the tournament, there are great fielding sides all over the place.  Being in the top sort of 2 or 3 of the best fielding sides in the competition, you know, you can save a lot runs and go a long way to actually winning the competition.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT