U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2018
Derek Busby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So you got off to a quick start today; won the first four holes.  
DEREK BUSBY: I did.  My caddie, Hoop, and I talked about it and I wanted to kind of set the tone early.  Hit driver off 1 way down the hill and had a little flip wedge to three feet, and then just kept hitting good shots and put the pressure on him.   
Kind of forced his hand after I got 2-up.  Made a couple bogeys.  So I got 4-up and was kind of clipping along.  Kind of probably went a little too conservative and made some bogeys in there.  Kind of gave him a chance.   
Dan is a great competitor, so any chance he's going to take.  Soon as I knew it, I'm 2-up on the back nine.  16 I got aggressive again; hit a great cut driver down there 120 yards to six feet and holed it to close him out.  It was a good way to finish.   
 Q.  You talked about how you were working on your putting.  Is that still serving you well as you move along here?  
DEREK BUSBY: It is.  I had a crucial two-putt on I guess that was 14 to get the lead back to 3-up.  I was 70 feet up over a ridge and I lagged it down there to a foot.  I made kind of an emergency trip out to Vegas to see Butch on Monday and Tuesday.   
 Q.  Butch?  
DEREK BUSBY: Butch Harmon.  We made some pretty drastic changes.  I told him, as I told you, I think if I had putted well at the Crump I could have taken that down.   
So we're really working on releasing the putter through the ball.  You'll see me with my practice strokes.  I do a lot of one-handed drills to try to get the putter releasing online through the ball.   
It's helped.  That was some good putting down the stretch when I needed it.   
 Q.  Have you worked with him for several years?  
DEREK BUSBY: I went to see him before the Mid-Am last year and we worked a lot on my golf swing kind of through video and text; been to Vegas probably twice.   
This last time it was time to kind of dial in the short game.  He's been a huge help, a huge boost of confidence for me just to know exactly what I'm working on.  When somebody like Butch Harmon believes in you, it's pretty easy to believe in yourself.   
 Q.  Do you believe in yourself to go all the way to the end this week?  
DEREK BUSBY: Absolutely.  I'm a big believer you kind of fail your way to success.  Past couple years I've been beat; learned from those experiences.   
Here to give it my best shot again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT