NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: GILLETTE FUSION PROGLIDE 500 PRESENTED BY TARGET
June 6, 2010
Kyle Busch
Tony Stewart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We're now joined in the infield media center by today's second-place finisher, Kyle Busch. This is your best finish here at Pocono. Thoughts on today's run? 
 KYLE BUSCH: Real proud of the way that Dave and these guys gave me a great racecar. That M&M Pretzel Camry was good. We kept messing with it all day, trying to make it a little bit better. I think it's just driver here that you can make up so much with lap time. 
 Denny has this place figured out. I did the best I could. I went from about an F at knowing how to get around here today to about an A, and an A didn't get it done. 
 Really happy for the 11 guys. Good to see them win another one. For us to run as strong as we were running, same about the 20, the 20 was running really good there until his whatever happened. It was good to see JGR running good like that here. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions. Questions for Kyle. 

 Q. Obviously, you were looking for making it memorable with the win. Is it bittersweet or a little heartbroken seeing your teammate spoil your chances? 
 KYLE BUSCH: It's great for JGR. That's what teammates are all about, is to help one another, to see one get to Victory Lane. You know, it's cool to have us all running like that where we can do it and have a shot to win every week. 
 Yeah, it's bittersweet we didn't get a Victory Lane. If you're going to lose to anybody around this place, it's certainly going to be the 11. I would have hated to see it be that big of a fuel mileage race, no offense to Sam Hornish, but to see the 77 win it because of that. I felt like the 11 and 18, along with the 33, were the best cars today. 

 Q. Can you describe the last restart there. Did you have any shot at Denny at all? 
 KYLE BUSCH: No. I felt like if I had a shot at him, I better get alongside of him off turn one. Could never get there. Got into turn one, saw the 11 drive it off in there pretty far and the 14 followed. I kind of braked a little sooner than I normally had been. Turned to the bottom, got underneath both of them. Got a good run off of turn one. 
 Tony and I battled it out, hashed it into turn two. We came out of there on top. We just set sail to the white flag and the checkered. 

 Q. Kyle, I think after every pit stop you came out as the leader. Could you maybe say a couple words about the job your pit crew did. 
 KYLE BUSCH: Yeah, pretty good save, I guess. That was a really nice job by those guys on pit road today. I think that M&M team is the best week in and week out on pit road. They are fast. They don't get the credit they deserve. I say it every week: though guys win me a lot of races get me a lot of good finishes. Today was another one of those days. 
 Unfortunately either I wasn't good enough or the car wasn't good enough to keep the lead all the times I got the lead. It was nice we could actually run up front and we weren't battling back for a 15th-place finish. 
 THE MODERATOR: Kyle, congratulations, thank you very much. 
 KYLE BUSCH: Thank you. 
 THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by today's third-place finisher, Tony Stewart. Tony, tell us about your run. 
 TONY STEWART: Not a very stellar day by any means. Ended up with a top three. You know, obviously happy about that. But would have liked to have been running in the top 3-All day and end up that way. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll continue with questions for Tony. 

 Q. To start the second half with this top-three run here, optimism? If this place is similar to Indy, does it lead you to believe you can translate or be a little better when you go to Indy? 
 TONY STEWART: I don't know. I mean, we just never got good track position all day. Finally when we got good track position at the end of the day, we were decent obviously. We drove away from the 18 car. He probably said he thought we were going to run out of fuel. His lap times, he wasn't backing off of it. We were able to drive away from him at the end of the day. I'm happy where we ended up because of it. But we still got a lot of work to do I think. 
 I feel like there's light at the end of the tunnel, but it's still a long ways away. We still got a lot of work to do. 

 Q. About the last restart, could you describe, did you have any shot with Denny? 
 TONY STEWART: No, not really. I mean, he sailed it off down in there and slid all the way across, almost got us in the crumbs. We slid the same way. We both drove it in deep, deeper than we both should have actually. 
 You know, restarts were idiotic today. I've seen some of the worst driving I've ever seen in my life in a professional series right here today. So for anybody that's looking for drama for the next couple races, start looking 'cause I can promise I'm going to start making the highlight reel the next couple weeks. 
 I know you love that. 
 THE MODERATOR: Tony, congratulations. Thank you for your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT