AMERICAN CENTURY CELEBRITY GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2006
Chris Webber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL WEIDINGER:  Chris, why don't we turn it over to you.  Tell us how your golf game is this year, and you have a couple things you want to talk about as I understand, so fire away.
CHRIS WEBBER:  Golf game is a little bit better, but that's not to say much.  I'm looking for Charles and all the other guys that can't play, to be the best out of that bunch.  Just looking forward to having a good time and having a good time this weekend and raise some money for a great cause.
Q.  Can you just talk about what you like about playing this game?
CHRIS WEBBER:  The thing I like about golf is the temperament.  I'm really passionate demonstrative and expressive, and I like the fact that playing golf, you have to really keep your emotions in check, even though you still need to use them.

And personally, just the wear and tear of your body during the season and just phones ringing and just faxes and e mails, to me, there's no sanctuary like the golf course.  People know not to bother me when I'm on the golf course, so I try to be out there as much as possible.
Q.  So it's peaceful for you?
CHRIS WEBBER:  It's peaceful.  Peaceful mind, it really works on your mental skills, problem solving skills as far as playing this game, so it's a lot of fun.
Q.  I'm from golf talk radio in Sacramento and obviously you are still a fan favorite in Sacramento, and what our listens want to know IS do you still have a place in your heart for Sacramento?
CHRIS WEBBER:  A place in my heart and I place to live there.  I still live there.  Actually we have our restaurant opening there this fall.  So Sacramento, it's always going to be a part of me.  I'm always going to live there, I'm always going to stay there.  It's part of me, it's home.  I still love it and I still tear up all the courses there.  The great thing about Sacramento is it has some of the best golf courses I've ever played in my life.
Q.  Can you name some of those courses?
CHRIS WEBBER:  Teal Bend is a real good one, that's by the airport.  Twelve Bridges is not public but it's a real nice one I used to play.  A couple more, but think I'll get in trouble if you don't say everybody.  There's some great golf courses that I love.
Q.  Rumor has it that you have another bet going with Charles, and how was the outcome of last year?
CHRIS WEBBER:  Well, last year I won.  And I'm throwing a big foundation gala this month and I need some of that money Charles owes me for my foundation.
Q.  So he didn't pay you?
CHRIS WEBBER:  No, he didn't pay me.  But I'll bet him back.  You can let him know if you see him it will be a bet back.  So it would be good to double up on that, like in Vegas, it's good to double down, just like blackjack.
Q.  It's been very windy here in the afternoons.  How do you think that's going to affect your golf game?
CHRIS WEBBER:  Depends where the wind is coming from.  I'm left to right every time, so hopefully the wind is blowing right to left.  Maybe that will come to my advantage.  But I've worked some things out my backswing so hopefully I'll do a little bit better.

But it's nerves that you get here, and how fun it is to play here, you really don't experience that in real competition so I really like the fact of getting the goosebumps and nerves and putting and being nervous.  I reek like that, those feelings trying to overcome them.
Q.  Could you give a little history of you and the Barkley bet, and what some of the sums of money have been exchanged the last couple years, just as a kind of add to the tournament that you guys kind of have this?
CHRIS WEBBER:  Well, truthfully I got tricked into coming to this tournament.  Someone told me that this tournament was for charity and come have a good time.  And it is for charity, that's the one thing they said that was true.

But you don't have a good time because you've got all these sharks out on the golf course talking to you.  I'm playing basketball last year and this guy says to me, "I heard you shot a 1 something in Tahoe."

I'm like, "What are you talking about?  We're playing basketball right now."

So it's become very competitive.  Being that, you know, guys are competitive, Charles and I, weren't really that good and that was the first year I ever played golf was this tournament.  I thought that it was fun, and then after I broke the course record for being terrible, I wanted to come back and be pretty good.  Playing against Charles, we played for $50,000 for our charities, so it was going to go to something good.

This year hopefully we get a bet back and hopefully I can double that for my charity.  It's just a lot of fun for us.  We're not as good as the regular golfers, but we watch Sundays, the red shirts and dream about being those guys, too.  So for us it's really a chance to be putting for something big.  It's not a green jacket but it can go to somebody's charity.
Q.  You seem to appreciate a nice golf course, to follow up on that a little bit, do you know any of the courses, any of the superintendents or the grounds crew in an occupation that you're familiar with, the guys that get up at 6:00 AM and mow every morning?
CHRIS WEBBER:  No, those are the guys I admire.  Actually I tried to have a putting green at my house.  And I understood how much time and how meticulous you have to be, so you definitely have to be a good crew to be good in thinking.  So those guys are unsung heroes.  They need to be on the postcards with the rakes and lawnmowers and everything like that when you see the pretty pictures.  I haven't got a chance to meet many of them, but I know when I see a great course.
Q.  You have your own putting green?  Who takes care of it?
CHRIS WEBBER:  Yeah, I have my own chipping and putting green.  I stole a guy from the golf course    no, a friend that works for a grounds crew part time comes and just helps me out with mine.  Hopefully it will help my game.
Q.  I just got this press release so I haven't had a chance to read it, would you talk about this Bada Bling Event coming up?
CHRIS WEBBER:  Yeah, it's July 28, 29 and 30 in Las Vegas.  It's a three day event.  Actually starts back with Sunday as the golf tournament, Friday is a black tie auction, a dinner auction where we raise money and all proceeds between facility my foundation.  And Friday, the first night we have a celebrity poker event    I'm sorry, celebrity poker.  So those are the three nights, and as I said, it goes to benefit the areas I played in before, Sacramento, Detroit, Washington, been on a lot of teams, Philadelphia, and my home in Detroit.  It really goes to benefits our foundation.  It's going to be a good time and we'd love to have you come out.
Q.  Who are some of the guys that are going to play?
CHRIS WEBBER:  Right now you know, we have a list of the celebrities, it's over 60 celebrities and athletes right now.  I'm really not sure because a lot of guys say they are going to play but after they watch me play this week on TV they might get scared to come down and lose to me, so I don't know.
Q.  What are the primary community organizations that benefit?
CHRIS WEBBER:  My foundation is independent of any foundation.  But we have worked together along with Salvation Army, Save for Katrina.  My mother was a teacher in the school system for over 30 years.  So we work very close to the Detroit public school systems.  Our main focus is children No. 1, children and education, children and literature and children and welfare families and children.

So we have done everything from food drivers to clothing drives for single parent mothers to Katrina to school.  My mother is very much into education, so really what we try to do is single out the children and the communities we've been in first, try to see the needs of those children and it usually expands to education and family and we usually take it to the family.  We work closely with the churches in those neighborhoods and the communities in those neighborhoods.  We're very independent but we need help from everyone and we're not tied to a specific foundation.  But we work with a lot of other foundations.
Q.  A lot of folks give their lives to working with youth who are athletes, young men, young women.  What are some of the characteristics you would like to see in coaches that worked with you and high school athletes?
CHRIS WEBBER:  I think one of the great things, the neighborhood that I came from, we had a lot of single parent families.  And specifically the men in those families, the young boys in those families, from my point of view really needed direction.

So from my point of view, what I think the coaches need to be first is a strong male figure.  You know, you have to really respect your coach.  You have to respect your boss, you have to respect a police officer.  So I think that teaching the rules of life as far as respecting your coach    and you know, I have coaches to this day I don't know if I've ever called a coach by their name.  It's always "Coach."  Instill the rules and the boundaries that you set; my coaches were reinforcement of what my parents were saying.  So when I didn't do good in school, my coach wasn't saying, well, tell your mother you'll do better next time.  Your mother told you, you weren't going to play and you're going to miss out on this game.

I just really think they need to be a reinforcement of family structure and society and it's just hard work, discipline and everything is not going to come when you want it, immediate gratification, you might work five years and get it at the end.  All the lessons in life I think are paralleled in sports and vice versa.  It's very important that coaches of our children and generations now instill those values in them.
Q.  I remember your father used to play some golf, too, so when you and your dad get together, do play any golf and who is the better golfer?
CHRIS WEBBER:  I tell you this.  This is how my swing worked out.  This the first year I beat my father in my life.  When I beat him this year, everything broke loose.  The jinxes, black clouds over me, finding my ball three fairways over to the left and in the creek, all that stuff, all that's gone because I beat my father so I got that bad luck off of me.

We'll see what happens this week.  Thank you, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT