CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA VS VIRGINIA
December 30, 2019
Dan Mullen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Florida - 36, Virginia - 28   
 Q.  What did it take to win this game?  
DAN MULLEN: Well, we had to keep battling. They're an excellent team. You saw that all year. You saw they kept battling, kept fighting. They've got a hell of a quarterback, made a ton of plays. I thought we got a little sloppy and lackadaisical there in the second half. But I'll be honest with you, I'm proud of our guys. We found a way to finish. I told everybody, it was not hard to go from four wins to ten -- it was harder to go from 10 to 11 than it was to go from four to 10 like we did last year.   
Eleven-win season, second straight New Year's Six bowl victory. Program is headed in a great direction. I'm proud of our guys, proud of how we battled and fought our year, all the adversity we faced. Great win for our team. That was a heck of a team we played. You knew they were going to play hard the entire game.   
 Q.  Lamical made such an impact on this game. How meaningful is it for you to see a senior like him go out with a performance like that?  
DAN MULLEN: Well, he's one of the best backs in the country and came back his senior year, and if you just purely look at stats and rushing yards, you might just kind of get a misread on it, but the reality he's one of the best backs in the country and he showed it out here tonight, running, catching. I'm proud of all these seniors. Bought in. Every one of the seniors came out and played in their final game, played in this bowl game, and they get to go out Capital One Orange Bowl champions.   
 Q.  You told me you came to Florida to win a championship. You're Orange Bowl champs. What's next?  
DAN MULLEN: Hey, we've got to get back. We're going to enjoy this for a day or two. Heck of a year, the 2019 Gator football team was really special. To come out and finish as a top 10 team, maybe even a Top 5 team, Orange Bowl champions, that's really special, and the 2020 team will be born in about two weeks, and if we want to go from 11 to 12, it's a lot harder to go from 11 to 12 than it is to go from 10 to 11.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT