STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 8, 2016
Dallas Lloyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Washington State - 42, Stanford - 16   
 Q.  Dallas, how tough was it to try to contain Luke Falk and all the receivers that they have.  
DALLAS LLOYD: He's very talented, very polished quarterback.  And when you play against a team that throws the ball 70-plus times a game, you know that they're going to have a guy that can manage the game very well, make good reads and take care of the ball.  So he's a very polished passer.  And they have playmakers at wide receiver.   
You know, I think the biggest thing for us was where we're at in the season right now is we feel like we have so much potential and we're just not giving up to it.   
And not taking anything away from Washington State.  They came and they outplayed us.  They beat us.  They won the game.  But I feel like right now we're beating ourselves.  Each guy on our team is determined to take it upon himself to look in the mirror and say:  You know what?  I need to be better.  I need to study more during the week.  I need to work harder because my coaches, my teammates, my family, but mostly my teammates are counting on me.   
You know, I thought the offense did well.  They do what they always do.  They have kind of the same package that they do against everybody because it's so efficient and it works so well.  They spread the ball around to so many different guys.  When you have your nickels and safeties outside of the box and backers outside of the box covering receivers, they like to run the ball because the box is light.  We don't have very many people in there.   
So I think we all need to kind of look at ourselves in the mirror and move on.  I'm confident our team will do that.   
 Q.  Is this team shellshocked at this point after these two games?  
DALLAS LLOYD: I think we just need to take a deep breath, you know, and get back to where we were in training camp or even the first few weeks of the season, and just, you know, we just need to believe in ourselves.   
We have so much talent, we have so many playmakers, so many great players.  But the main thing is you can't just tell yourself we have playmakers.  You need to go out and continue to work, and earn it and prove it every single week.  Because tonight's game is over, and we have another game in a week.  So there's no time to really feel bad for yourself or to feel bad for the team or to point fingers.  The defense to the offense, offense to the defense.  We just all know we need to improve.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT