ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2018
Kateryna Kozlova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. KOZLOVA/J. Ostapenko
7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. How does it feel to beat the defending champion?
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: Obviously, it feels great.  As I said on the court, that I didn't expect anything from the match.  I just went to enjoy every moment on the court because, before, I was not sure if I will be able to play in French Open.
So I was just happy to be on court, back on court, and compete.  So it was very important for me.  And, in the end, the result comes up and it's just amazing.
Q. You mentioned on court that two-and-a-half months ago that you didn't know if you were going to play in Paris.  Can you kind of tell us why and what that whole story is?
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: I got injured in Indian Wells and I get hurt in the knee.  And after that, I pull out from Miami and went back to Europe to check everything, like, how is it, bad or not.
Because, actually, there was a chance maybe that I would have to go for the surgery.  But luckily I met very good physios and professionals, and I went for rehab to Tenerife, and they did a great job.  And after two months, I come back, and I already played last week.  So we avoid the surgery.  That was the most important thing.
And, yeah, I'm just happy to be here again.
Q. Do you think because you might not have been here at Roland Garros that you played with a sense of freedom and approached it as nothing to lose in a way?
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: Yeah.  I came on court that I have to be free.  I have to play every point, exactly, that I have nothing to lose.
But still, to be on center court, first round, after two-and-a-half months without matches, it was still a little bit tough and nervous, but I think I manage.
And it helped me a lot that, yeah, I could -- I didn't have so much pressure behind me.
Q. What was your reaction when the draw came out and two-and-a-half months off and you're going to have to step on to court Philippe Chatrier to play the reigning defending champion?  Were you happy?
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: I was laughing because (laughing) -- because, yeah, I didn't expect that I will play against the defending champion.
But I accept this.  You know, okay, that's the Open and this is life.  What I can do?  I cannot change this.  I just have to go on court and do my best.
As I said, I was really happy to be here.  That's why I couldn't complain.
Q. The blisters that you had, first of all, it was really ugly.
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: It is.
Q. Super gross.  But I'm just kind of curious, do you think those blisters are coming because you haven't played for two-and-a-half months?  Like, is it one of those things where you lose --
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: Can be, yeah, because I wasn't running before that much.  I was practicing and running, like, controlled movements, but I didn't play so many points yet.  Can be the reason, yeah.
But, you know, sometimes it happen.  This is normal for me.  Not normal, but sometimes I have some blisters on the foot and I have this problem.  And, yeah, it was ugly and disturbing me a lot.
But after medical time-out, yeah, the physio did a good tape.  It helped me to survive.
Q. And then just in terms of you're now 3-0 against Ostapenko, beat her two times before, and now this is the third.  Is there something about the way that your games match up that seems to go in your favor?  And also did knowing that you had beaten her two times in the past, when you saw the draw maybe, Okay, possible?  Doable?
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: You know, I don't know actually what is wrong with my game, but maybe I'm kind of playing uncomfortable trying to change everything all the time.  Because I know that if I will play her game, that's what she wants, and I'm trying to play differently and probably this is the reason.
But this match is different, of course.  She had so much pressure.  This is fair to say.
And, yeah, of course, she went on court, first round.  It's always difficult to play even not on center court, not for defending champion.  In general, it's very nervous.  So this today was special.
But I don't know.  Maybe, yeah, maybe something in my game she doesn't like, and that's fine.  I have 3-Love.
Q. For the second round, can you keep that kind of freedom and mentality for Azarenka or Siniakova?
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: I think so, yeah.  Really, I still not expecting much from me.  I don't want to put pressure on myself, and I know that I have to play matches.  I need a lot of matches to get my confidence, to get my level back.
And so I think, yeah, I will try to come up with the same setup and let's see.
Q. What aspect of playing on a clay court do you think suits your game?
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: What fits, you mean?  Yeah, for my game?
Q. Yeah.
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: Actually, I'm moving quite well, but now I'm sometimes -- not that I'm struggling, but I had a knee injury, so it was difficult for me before to run.  That's why I played the tournament before just to feel myself on court.
So I think I'm moving well and also maybe that my game kind of -- I'm trying to change the rhythm all the time.  I have slices.  I can spin the ball.  I can play fast, and I think all these things helping me on clay.
Q. What specifically was the knee injury?
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: I had crack in the cartilage.
Q. Okay.  So the meniscus?
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: No.  In the cartilage.
Q. Oh, in the cartilage.
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: Yeah, there.  So it's kind of rare injury.  And normally, the cartilage, it's very difficult to heal because there is no blood.
And, yes, but somehow we did it.  And I had an MRI again, and it's fine.
Q. Okay.  And then with the injury and everything, when did you start hitting again and how far are you, do you think, still from the level that you want or are you already there?  Give us some insight.
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: I don't know when I started to practice.  It was 15 minutes I just tried to be on the court.
Q. When was that?
KATERYNA KOZLOVA: It was, I think, four weeks ago.  So 15 minutes.  Then, next day, I had pain.  So I didn't practice for three days.  Then again I went on court and tried to play 20 minutes.  If it's okay, then I go next day.  So it was a long journey.
And it was like this maybe two weeks.  And now, before Nuremberg, I played Nuremberg, I had two weeks in Barcelona, but also I practiced two days in a row.  Then, if I have pain, I skip two days.  I give my body to rest, recovery.
So it was not the same practices as before, because I had to be very careful.  But I can say that last two weeks I practice, three maybe.  Three, yeah, because in Nuremberg one week as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT