BRIDGEPOINT EDUCATION HOLIDAY BOWL: CALIFORNIA v TEXAS
December 28, 2011
Trevor Guyton
Marvin Jones
Zack Maynard
Jeff Tedford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Texas: 21
  California: 10 
  
THE MODERATOR:   We have Marvin Jones, Trevor Geitan and main and head coach Jeff Tedford.   Coach?   
JEFF TEDFORD:   Starting off, you know, you've got to give Texas a lot of credit, good football team, well coached, played extremely hard today and you can't go into a football game like that and expect to turn the football over and win a football game.   
We had our chances, and gave the ball away.   You give them a lot of credit, though, excellent defensive performance by Texas, I thought our defense was very, very solid today, did a great job.   
But it comes down to what win and loses football games and turnovers were a big key to that and we were definitely on the wrong end today with five of 'em.   
   
 Q.   Taking care of the ball pretty well going down the stretch to have five tonight is there any ready explanation for that?   
JEFF TEDFORD:   Not really.   I think, you know, they did a nice job of stripping it.   Typically you're right we have done a good job of not turning it over and they got it out today.   
They put their hands on the ball and their hats on the ball and stripped us and, you know, we just had some misques as well on the exchange in the backfield, but, you know, again, there is really no explanation for it.   
It's something we work on and didn't do a very good job today of securing the ball.   
   
 Q.   Jeff, can you talk about when you had the ball after the punt return on the 27, what were you thinking at that point?   You were only down 4 and in good position.   Had you imagined it going upside down as quickly as it did like that?   
JEFF TEDFORD:   No, it felt like we were in good shape right then, got a penalty that took us back, and it got us out of scoring range there and they put a lot of pressure on the passer.   
I thought Zach was under heat pretty much all day today and, again, you've got to give Texas credit for that.   
They beat us, you know, up front and brought some blitzes and got clean and got home on us and pressured Zach a lot and he was under pressure all day long.   
   
 Q.   Aside from turning the ball over was there anything else that you saw that contributed to you guys' loss today?   
JEFF TEDFORD:   I think turn overs are the key, you know, but not being able to establish any run game today I thought Texas‑‑ you know, Texas is one of the top defenses in the country against the run, and they showed why today.   
They run to the ball, they're athletic, we couldn't get in the space very often today, couldn't get to the second level.   I don't know what our longest run was today, I don't think it was over probably 8 yards.   I'm not sure that we had a run over that today.   
So they limited the big play and we did a couple of things, you know, with some poor snaps, we got caught especially in the first half in a lot of long yard situations.   When you get caught in those situations it's hard to get out of that against a team like that.   
   
 Q.   Zach, how difficult was it for you to operate passing the ball today with the kind of pressure that Texas put on you?   
ZACK MAYNARD:   It's hard in certain you know‑‑ situations, you know, like Coach said, we kept getting caught second and long, third and long and it's hard to develop a decent pass game with that and the run game wasn't as strong as it has been throughout the season but Texas did a great job today.   I commend them on their job today and the defense came to the ball fast today.   
   
 Q.   Trevor can you talk about what you were able to get done defensively against Texas, what you were seeing from David Ash, their quarterback?   
TREVOR GUYTON:   We knew their priority run game and that's what we set out to do and we did a decent job at that but we knew that, you know, any big plays that they were going to have was going to come off of gimmicks and trick plays and stuff like that and I think some guys got too caught up in knowing it was coming to stop it because they did‑‑ that's what happened, that's exactly what happened.   So we did our best and we did okay, but we definitely could have done better.   
   
 Q.   Trevor talking about the trick plays on the touchdown pass to the quarterback did that catch you guys by surprise?   
TREVOR GUYTON:   Like I said we knew they were going to throw something like that out there and it was only a matter of time before they did.   They got us.   
Nothing I can say, no excuses, they got it.   If that's what they are going to score on and that's their bread and butter, they put it out there and they get 'em, you know, it is what it is.   
   
 Q.   Zach, you won some games toward the end of the season but when you lose your last game what's the overall feel of how the season went, level of disappointment?   
ZACK MAYNARD:   I felt like we had a great season, a lot of up's and down's, we had a lot of momentum coming into the game, we know Texas is a great team, and it was a battle today, like Coach was telling us all week get your rest and be ready for this game and keep watching film, they do a lot of I things and their defense is fast and they like to hold coverage until the last minute.   They got a lot of blitzes today, they was hitin' home with the ball it was a constant war out there.   
We went out there and Texas was the better team today, making more plays than we did.   
   
 Q.   Coach, looking forward to next year does this loss help you get ready for the season next year?   
JEFF TEDFORD:   Yeah, like I told the team in the locker room, no matter what would have happened today, you take experiences and you learn from them, you know, if it would have went our way today we would have used it as motivation going into next season.   
Didn't go our way today but it just kind of reemphasizes the things you need to do to win.   We will be motivated to come back and get started with our winter conditioning program and we have a lot of great young guys, I love our team, I love our guys.   
I wouldn't trade our guys for anybody.   There is a lot of character on this football team, and, you know, going through the season, we had some up's and down's and they continued to stay together and believe and trust one another and really came together as a team.   
I think some of the lessons that the young guys learned this year from that is going to help us and give us momentum going into next season.   So there is a lot to learn from.   
   
 Q.   Marvin, in reflecting on your career at Cal, did you feel like you had to make sacrifices, particularly at home, was it worth it?   
MARVIN JONES:   I'm grateful and blessed with my career here going to Cal, one of the most prestigious schools in the world.   I have no regrets.   I did have two little ones but they're over here with me so it gave me more motivation to get up in the morning and to think of them, you know, enlighten me and it got me through a lot of situations.   
So, you know, I'm just blessed for the opportunity that Coach gave me and throwing me out there as a young freshman through today so I'm just blessed with the opportunity to be here.   
   
 Q.   Either Zach or Marvin or both if you like, Coach talked about that chance where you guys had the ball on the 27 and were down by 4 looking like you were going to go in and score and things unraveled pretty quickly.   Wondering if there has been a time this season where things have changed that much and the momentum has gone in the direction so fast and what your thoughts were at the beginning and the end of that sequence.   
MARVIN JONES:   We have been in similar situations where we were backed up, at the beginning of the year we were faced with second and long, third and long but we capitalized on those opportunities.   Even though we don't want to be in those situations we have the confidence that we're going to make it through and capitalize on the situations but we shot ourselves in the foot a lot today.   This was the end result.   
   
 Q.   Zach, you guys came out after halftime and put together that nice drive and went ahead, did that give you confidence that you would be able to put together drives in the second half and turn things around?   
ZACK MAYNARD:   It was great for us to come on like it that and build the momentum and that gave us excitement, and our fans and a lot of players on the sidelines, that's a great way to come out and score, I think it was a little over 2 minutes, we scored quickly.   Defense getting us the ball back, we had to put together more drives and it was unfortunate that the end result was Texas won the game.   
   
 Q.   Zach, fresh after this game can you talk about what you see in this team for next year?   
ZACK MAYNARD:   I see a bright future for us and a lot of young guys played this year.   I see one of the best freshman classes I've seen since I've been playing college football.   We had to work hard and in the off‑season, get with the Coaches in the weight room, get ready for spring ball and we'll see the potential we have for next season.   
   
 Q.   Zach, I know you said how good the Texas defense is, but when you turn on over that many times and you're sacked 6 times and constantly under pressure how hard is it to overcome those turnovers and that kind of‑‑ all those sacks, ect.  
ZACK MAYNARD:   It's hard to come over those type of turnovers, the defense, they were gettin' to the ball quickly, fast, and, you know, it's hard to build momentum that way and we were just taking it one play at a time trying to focus as hard as we could and get the ball and have great field position and instead of being in second and third and long and instead being in second and third and short and we were taking it one play at a time but Texas ended up with the advantage.   
   
 Q.   Jeff, in your scouting of Texas coming into this game, what was your take on Goodwin and did you realize that he could pose that kind of a threat with the ball in his hands?   
JEFF TEDFORD:   Yeah, they're a talented group.   There is a lot of athletes on that team, no doubt about it.   It's‑‑ they showed it today.   When you play a team like that this is so athletic and so talented, field position and turnovers end up being key elements in the game, and if you don't turn the football over it's probably going to be a last possession‑type game.   I felt like it was probably going to be a low‑scoring game, a defensive battle because we had two great defenses playing on the field and you were going to have to earn everything that you got but you couldn't give anything away.   
We gave too many things away today, but those‑‑ some of them were self‑imposed and many of them were as a result of Texas causing it.   Again, you have to give them credit for playing better today and congratulations to Mack and his team for being prepared and doing what it took to win.  
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, guys.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT