SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2019
Seamus Power
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You got off to a great start; set the pace for you.  
SEAMUS POWER: Yeah, yeah, I did. I was 6-under after 6. Had a little bit of a rough patch in the middle and was able to finish strong again. It was nice. Just putted well, made some really good putts.   
The greens are so good if you're putting well you can you really feel you can make almost everything out here.   
 Q.  Did you have eagle in there?  
SEAMUS POWER: I did. I eagled No. 14, the par-5, so my 5th hole.   
 Q.  I didn't see that. How did that come about?  
SEAMUS POWER: I hit a pretty decent drive and then hit a 3-wood probably to 30, 35 feet and rolled it in. Yeah, it was nice. Obviously a bonus to get an eagle, but it's a good par-5. Good tee shot and really set it up.   
 Q.  And then obviously you feel good about your round. What's it like to come back and see that somebody has got like 8-under?  
SEAMUS POWER: I mean, you get used to it. That's the PGA Tour. You get used to that. There is 156 good players here this week, so you're always going to have guys shooting low numbers.   
But it's a 72-hole tournament, so plenty of time to make it up and keep it going. You're not going to win this tournament at 7-, 8-under. I think everyone who shoots a good one today it's a nice start, but you know it's only a start. You're going to have to get to 20-under.   
So, yeah, see if we can keep it up.   
 Q.  You mentioned the putting and the greens. Is there anything else that you're looking forward to or thinking that you have to do better so that you can keep that pace?  
SEAMUS POWER: Yeah, I mean, it's just golf. Like you could putt the same all week and they might not go in. You got to stay patient. You're going to get little runs like I did today and you're going to have little rough patch like I had today.   
That's just golf. It's my fourth year kind of out here now, and there is a lot up and downs. I'm going to have some of lunch and do a bit of practice this afternoon, try to do the right things, and, yeah, get started, get cracking at it again tomorrow and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT