OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 12, 2016
Seamus Power
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What do you put that down to, particularly that bad weather start?   
SEAMUS POWER: Yeah, wasn't the best start, made a couple of par saves and kind of got something going as the rain was stopping. It wasn't the nicest, but I've played in rain before. So I was able to manage the best I could.   
   
 Q. How has it been with Paul McGinley here?  
SEAMUS POWER: Yeah, he's a great influence on the course. Nothing kind of bothers him, so the calmness kind of feeds into everyone around him, so it's great to have him out here.   
   
 Q. What happened on 15 and 16?   
SEAMUS POWER: Yeah, I hit a bad iron shot on 15. I pushed it in the right bunker, and first bogey. But then I chipped in for eagle on 16. I didn't filet the last two, missed a couple putts on the last two. See if I can make those tomorrow.  
   
 Q. You were here for a medal, so this is not really a surprise to find yourself where you are.   
SEAMUS POWER: No, probably other people are probably more surprised than I am. It's only golf. It's not like the other sports where guys, if you play well, you're going to have a shot. If it's your week, it's your week, and I hope some of the putts drop at the week and I can take advantage of it.   
   
 Q. Have you had a chance to do much away from the golf?   
SEAMUS POWER: Yeah, we've been going to lots of events. We were at swimming and handball last night and table tennis, boxing, weightlifting, men's hockey. We've been all over the place. Irish men's hockey has a big match tonight. If they win, they get out of the group stage. We are all going to watch and support them. Nice to see some of the track athletes starting the next few days. We feel like we're part of the team, which is rare for golfers, so we're trying to take advantage of it.   
   
 Q. You weren't on The European Tour when Harrington and McGinley when they were at their peak, but being with them this week, does this help you learn more about golf in general?   
SEAMUS POWER: Yeah, definitely. The most nervous I've been this week was on the first tee playing my practice round with Pádraig. Like he's an idol for Irish golf, always has been. It's been great to get to know him a little bit and play with him. He's been very helpful. Paul, too, and Ronan. Those guys couldn't be anymore helpful. They are not afraid to share what they have learned. They have confidence in themselves.  
   
 Q. What do they bring that's maybe different?   
SEAMUS POWER: Usually it's not anything different. Sometimes it's just when they say it, it hits home a little more. And watching them, you think when you see them on TV, they can do things you've never seen before.   
But really they do all the simple things very, very well and they are very strong mentally. When you see that up close, it kind of gives you a little bit more confidence in yourself that, yeah, knowing I can do what these guys and do. It's just a matter of going out and executing under pressure.  
   
 Q. What's your plan for the following two days?  
SEAMUS POWER: A lot of the same to be honest. I'm driving it well. They will be tucking the pins, so you have to plan to play away from all the pins and give yourself chances. There's some holes where obvious birdie holes and a lot of holes you just really try to get to. Sort of pick my spots and see if I can make some 15‑, 20‑footers.  
   
 Q. What was the distance on the chip‑in?   
SEAMUS POWER: I hit it pin‑high right. I couldn't have been anymore than, I'd say, 12 paces from the hole. I hit it like right on top of the mound and in the hole. It was makeable. Got a little cheer for that one.   
   
 Q. Ireland got their first medal today.  
SEAMUS POWER: In rowing, the two boys, that's great, the silver medal. I was talking to the head of rowing, he's a Danish guy and he said at the weekend, if things go they are way, they can get a medal. He's got high hopes for them. Ireland's first medal on the boards, there you go.  
   
 Q. If you get on the podium, how would that feel?  
SEAMUS POWER: It would be unbelievable. I think just being up there with your country's colours on, there's nothing you can think of that would make you more proud. You get the whole country behind you.   
   
 Q. Who told you?   
SEAMUS POWER: I think Paul. We've been following all the sports. We met the two girls last night at dinner and we knew they were going and they were telling us what time everyone was on. We were hoping the girls would get the medals, too. Still strong performance to get to the final.   
   
 Q. Have a lot of family come out?   
SEAMUS POWER: My dad is here. My brother actually showed up last night unannounced, so that was entertaining to sort of find him and I have two aunts and three close family friends. So a nice little crowd.  
   
 Q. Will some of the Irish team come support you?   
SEAMUS POWER: Yeah, I think I saw Leona Maguire, one of the girl golfers, I think she arrived this morning, so her and her sister I saw out there. I've seen people here and there. Yeah, especially on the weekend. But it's tough on other athletes. You have to stay rested, so they really don't want to be out walking around a golf course draining energy. But they are very supportive back in the village and they all know how you're doing and stuff like that. It's really nice to have that support.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT