PURDUE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 5, 2010
Danny Hope
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: Just a couple of housekeeping items first. Rob Henry will be available weekly on a teleconference on Thursdays at 11:30. This is the same number you're supposed to call for this weekly teleconference. Wednesday, I'm sorry. I apologize. Wednesday at 11:30. And then also practice is going to end tomorrow at 9:00, and that's when the assistant coaches will be available. Let's go ahead and go to the phone lines, Pete. 

 Q. Dan, I guess, first, maybe just get an official update on the running back situation. I know Keith is ready to go and Al-Terek is looking good too. 
 COACH HOPE: We have good news in regards to the personnel available at the running back position. Timing is really good. We've lost Keith Smith for the season, and we've lost Justin Siller for several weeks possibly. So we need Antavian Edison and O.J. Ross to play wide receiver. 
 Keith Carlos is healthy. He played in our last game sparingly. He's only practiced one day prior to going into the game. That's one day since last spring. But I thought he did very well in the game. He's gotten a bunch of reps since then, and I think he's as good as he's been since he's been here at Purdue. So that's a huge shot for us. 
 Al-Terek McBurse struggled last week and looked really good the last couple of days. So we have his services again. And Danny Dierking, who's been playing and playing well, particularly earlier in the season, has really been banged up the last couple of weeks. He's healthier. And Jared Crank, who's played good for us this year but in a limited capacity due to injuries, he's a lot better. 
 So we're a lot better now at the running back position, and the timing of it is really good. That also allows us to put O.J. and Antavian, just to focus still more on some of the receiver positions, which is where we need those guys at the most right now. So we're in good shape running back-wise, best we've been in shape running back-wise, probably since I've been here. 

 Q. Where is Ralph in this? Is he close to playing? 
 COACH HOPE: Ralph Bolden? I don't anticipate seeing him play the next couple of weeks because he's not doing very much in practice. And that doesn't surprise me with the type of injury that he has and the position that he plays, and it's not his first time. So he is getting better, and there is a chance he could play this season, but I don't see it happening in the next couple of weeks. So we're just playing it by ear with Ralph. 

 Q. In terms of Justin Siller, you mentioned several weeks before he's back? 
 COACH HOPE: That's the prognosis from our medical staff, three to six, somewhere in there possibly. 

 Q. And with the quarterback, obviously, you've got Rob. And it looks like Sean Robinson is the backup. Will he get some playing time? 
 COACH HOPE: We anticipate him playing. Really the opening week came at a great time, just perfect timing. Without it, we could have been in trouble with as many key injuries as we've had and particularly losing Robert Marve in the last game. But the open game really allowed us to get ourselves realigned and to get our new quarterback a bunch of reps, get our running backs back, and just came at a great time for us. 
 We're pleased with what we're seeing from Rob Henry. He's a great athlete. He learns fast. It really means a lot to him. There's a lot of special things about him that our players are aware of, and they really believe in him. So he's doing very well, and we expect him to do very well. 
 Behind him is Sean Robinson, who we had anticipated -- anticipated redshirting, you know, being a traveling redshirt, being the number three guy, learning without having to play, like Rob Henry did last year, but that's not the case now. We're getting him ready to play. We anticipate him playing. He's a good player. He's behind reps with the varsity, but he's a very good prospect, and we believe that he can do well as we continue to prepare him. 
 So that's where we're at quarterback-wise. 

 Q. Have you ever had a situation where these kind of injuries -- I know injuries are part of the game, but so many and such key injuries? 
 COACH HOPE: 2008, we had a lot of injuries here, and it really impacts the season. The timing of the injuries were different. A lot of injuries, the guys were injured prior to coming into the season in 2008. We didn't get them back in time, or when they came back, they didn't stay healthy. 
 We have been very precautionary. We've spent a lot more of our practice time on the grass rather than the turf, and to be quite honest, we don't practice near as hard and long as I used to just because of the injury situation. But it is a lot, but those -- there's some reasons why we've had some rough sledding early in the season. We came into the season very inexperienced at a lot of key positions, you know, with great hopes we'd do very well, and then we got some key guys injured. So it's manufactured a little rough sledding. 
 But we're really -- we don't have any excuses to not be able to compete. So we feel good about what we have on our football team to go play with this weekend from a talent standpoint and a potential standpoint. It's unfortunate that we've lost key players, we certainly haven't lost hope. We like what we have right now, redeeming quality-wise as a football team, in regards to potential. We haven't tapped out all of our resources yet. We can play a lot better in a lot of spots with the same guys that are out there that are very talented. 
 So we're still very optimistic about the season, but it was really rough sledding early based on young guys we have and the loss of key players. We lost some of the best players on our team, experienced top players on our team. 

 Q. Not only that but now that you're facing a Northwestern team that's unbeaten and has one of the top passing attacks in the conference, can you kind of talk about the problems they present. 
 COACH HOPE: They create a lot of problems because they're very efficient. Their quarterback is playing great, and normally a team will go as their quarterback goes, and that's certainly the case with Northwestern. 
 You know, they've made a habit of finding ways to win the last couple of years. They don't make many mistakes. They're a talented, tough, hard-nosed football team. We'll have to play very well to win Saturday. We have plenty of firepower. It's realigned, and some of it's not experienced, but we'll have to play very well because they do. 

 Q. Thanks, Danny. 
 COACH HOPE: Thank you.

 Q. Danny, going off what you just said a few minutes ago, obviously, you're dealing with young people. Is part of your challenge on your coaching staff keeping the guys upbeat? I mean, at this point they've got to be wondering what's next? We lose one key guy and one of the most important players week after week after week. 
 COACH HOPE: If we had reason to, you know, not have any hope to win, you know, I could possibly see some guys having doubts, but we still have a lot of good players left, and there's a lot of guys we recruited that are outstanding athletes that have been waiting for their opportunity. 
 So no one's hanging their head. You know, again, we've had some rough sledding, and there's been some reasons why, but we can play a lot better, and we have some really good players to plug into those spots that can be key play makers for us, very, very talented. 
 We've increased our speed with some of our realignment, and that's always a good sign, particularly on the offensive side of the ball. We've had some guys that have gotten great experience, guys that haven't played hardly at all, you know, in college football, on the defensive line, particularly inside, it's got some great experience, some defensive backs that have never played at all at this level that's gotten some great experience. 
 So really I think we're becoming more confident. Even though we've lost some key players, I think we're becoming more confident in what we have around us as a football team. Very concerned about losing the quality of players that we have, but we've got some other guys that can step up and make plays and lots of other players that have been playing that they can come on board and play a lot better. So we're optimistic. 

 Q. Bring us up to date on Robert Marve and how he's doing, what his plans are surgery-wise, and going forward. 
 COACH HOPE: Well, I don't know what the date is he has set. Obviously, there's a lot of things that go into that. They want the swelling to be out of the knee, or as much as there can be to be out of the knee. That's really important any time you have a surgery. And also, just some academic responsibilities. So they have lots of balance in order to schedule his operation. 
 But he's doing well. You know, it was very tough for him. It was tough for all of us. Not so much losing a key player -- we lost a great player, a very special athlete. But we're all very disappointed for him because he put so much into it. He really has. I haven't been around as many guys that have put as much into being a player that Robert Marve has and to receive so little in return, you know, is always a tough knock. 
 But he has a great plan. He took a little time off, like we all did, and, you know, he came back with a great plan for himself for the next 12 months that's, you know, earmarked towards him getting his degree and being our quarterback again. So he has a plan, and I'm sure in time he'll be excited about sharing parts of it with you. Right now he's just got to get caught up in school and get ready to take care of business. 

 Q. And in regards to tomorrow night's night practice, just the thought process, obviously, you play Saturday night. Is that the sole reason to have it and just get them acclimated to playing in the evening? 
 COACH HOPE: It is. But sometimes a change-up is nice. We had a lot of fun last year in our evening practice when we prepared for it. It was one of our better practices last year. We thought we took a step that night as a football team in regards to playing fast. So we expect to have a really good practice. 
 The open week was good for us. We had some goals set for the open week. You know, obviously, number one, to get better as a football team and to go out there and do some things that helps us become a little more physical across the line of scrimmage. So we went out a couple of days with the pads on and really got after it, and I think that helped us improve some as a football team. 
 But we also wanted the guys to get some physical rest and some mental rest, and it gave us some opportunities to work with our new quarterback and get our skill guys realigned back on offense and take some time to do it. It was a very, very great opportunity for us, as far as the timing of the open week, a difference-maker for our football team. And obviously had some time to get some early preparation for Northwestern. 
 So we've gotten a lot done in the last week, and the guys are ready to go. 

 Q. I know you've been pleased with the development of your offensive line. Maybe talk now with so many key guys falling by the wayside, really they've got to be as strong as ever for you, do they not? 
 COACH HOPE: Well, I hope that they continue to gain momentum and continue to develop. You know, they were a new group, hadn't played together. It's a position on the team where continuity is probably the most important, and we've had a chance to get some continuity on the offensive line and some game experience for new guys, brand new guys, you know, brand new center that's never played a position and a brand new right tackle who has not played on offense or had any reps coming into camp. 
 So I still think the best is still yet to come for our O-line, and they are certainly critical that they take some steps right now because they're a difference-maker in us being able to manufacture big plays with our big play makers. It's important. Their time is now. I see that it can happen. They've been together for a while now, and the guys that were new at their spots are very talented guys at those spots. So we're definitely getting better. 

 Q. And it's real important that, now that you have a young guy under center, that the quarterback doesn't have to worry about the guys in front of him, right? So they really have to pick up their play and make them feel as comfortable as humanly possible. 
 COACH HOPE: I think that's part of it. I think that Rob Henry is a very composed player anyway. He has a really good presence about him and a great demeanor about him. He's very calm. He's probably the quarterback that's best at getting the snaps under center. You know, we work on it every day in practice, and we film it and watch it, and he really is very good at it. I think he's going to be comfortable in any type of game situation out there right now even though he doesn't have a lot of game experience. He's a poised and collected guy. 

 Q. He doesn't have a lot of game experience, but he does have some. So he's got the opportunity to get in and show what he can do. How important is that as a factor coming into the Big Ten season with these guys kind of having an idea of what he can do? 
 COACH HOPE: I think it's important because we were out in the first half in the last game against Toledo, and we didn't have nearly enough efficient plays. On first and ten, if you get four yards, that's an efficient play for the offense. That's how I look at the play on Sundays, offense, defense, special teams. Was it efficient or not, and if it wasn't, what happened? The first half of the game against Toledo, we weren't very efficient offensively. Half of our plays were decent plays regardless of circumstances. 
 I know you get third and long, and that complicates things, but we were only 50 percent efficiency. Losing Robert Marve in the first drive and having to change quarterbacks caught us off a bit. But the second half of the game, we were more efficient offensively. I think him going out there and staying out there and getting into rhythm and getting used to the game, I think, really aided to his performance some on Saturday. 
 So I think he's going to pick up where he left off at and be comfortable on the playing field. Even though he's not a veteran quarterback, he's played some this year, some key situations. The week before against Ball State, we were 90 percent efficient earlier in the game. We got an injury with Robert Marve, ran Rob Henry out there and got going a bit and were disjointed some. We weren't nearly as efficient in the second half, about 60 percent in the second half and 90 percent in the first half. 
 That continuity thing shows up early in the season, prefaced by saying there's been some rough sledding first four games, a lot of really young guys to play with, and all of a sudden these key injuries. So the open week just came at a great time. It really did. 

 Q. We talked about the morale of the team. There's going to be some people that read my article that may not know a lot about your quarterback. Can you tell them what makes you confident in him? What is it that he brings to the team? 
 COACH HOPE: That's a great question because, you know, we are very comfortable with Rob Henry, and in the recruiting process, we thought he was a very special athlete from a talent standpoint but also from an intangible standpoint. You know, he's excellent. A lot of players really look up to him in the recruiting process. So a lot of the guys who were part of that signing class got to know Rob, and he was a drawing card in the recruiting process. 
 He's a guy that's real calm and collected and makes a lot of sense. He's very smart. He makes good decisions on the field. So you can have some confidence in him. He's an outstanding athlete. I mean, he's not just a good athlete, he's a great athlete. He really is. He can line up with the fastest of the fastest and have a chance to finish in any sprint. We could take our two or three fastest guys on the football team and line him up there with them, and some days he could come in one or two. 
 So he's very, very fast. He has great numbers. He has a 40-inch vertical jump. When he came to our camp as a junior, prior to his senior year, he vertical jumped 39 1/2 inches on the turf. So he has some legitimate numbers that everybody on the football team really respects. They understand what a great athlete he is and the great qualities he has as a person. So he's easy to believe in, and he's easy to have confidence in. 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about Gary Bush? Obviously, he's going to have a more significant role with Siller out. Just what he brings to the table. 
 COACH HOPE: This is a great opportunity for Gary because he's a heck of an athlete. He brings speed on the field. He might be a little faster than Justin. He's certainly not as big, but he is fast. He was a 24-foot long jumper in high school, and he was a little underdeveloped coming in from a strength standpoint, but that's okay if you're a 24-foot long jumper. He's a guy that, as he's gotten stronger and developed, he's gotten faster. 
 Sometimes you bring a guy in that doesn't have the innate ability, it's hard to increase their speed, but Gary has gotten stronger and faster and a little more confident. So he brings speed and quickness to the field. So he has some redeeming qualities. He's been in the program for a couple of years, and he's been waiting for an opportunity. So this will be his opportunity now. 
 There's a couple of other young guys that can play on the perimeter as well. We have a walk-on to our program, Kurt Lichtenberg. He's been buried in the depth chart, but he's a really good route runner and a great physical player. There are other guys on our team that are good football players that we can plug in and still be successful with, including the O.J. Rosses and Antavian Edisons and Cortez Smith, our top of the line players for us and top of the line players for just about anybody. 

 Q. My last thing -- obviously, it's been a while -- but looking back at the Toledo game, what, I guess, concerns you the most about the way that game went, and what in response did you focus on the last couple of weeks as a result? 
 COACH HOPE: I had mentioned that earlier. I thought the team really responded after the Toledo game as far as where we were at as a football team and where we needed to go and what we had to do in order to get there, and we had a list of goals and objectives that we wanted to address during the off week. We didn't play near as physical as we need to on the line of scrimmage, on both sides of the ball, on a consistent basis. At times we did very well, and other times we didn't do as well. 
 So we went out and worked hard throughout the open week, you know, on that phase, number one. Went out full pads and got after it on the line of scrimmage, and that's not really uncommon when you're playing a lot of young guys, you know, or new guys. We should be able to play more physical with the big offensive line that we have and the continuity that we're building. So we can be a more physical football team up front offensively, and we're going to have to be. 
 And we can be a more physical football team up front defensively and just put the talent that we have. We have some big, good looking guys that are very talented, that are strong and courageous and want to win, but they haven't played very much, and that's a position where sometimes some tenure can help you. So we've addressed those issues and really tried to become a more physical football team across the line of scrimmage. 
 And then again, we were disjointed from a continuity standpoint, as far as, you know, throwing and catching and running, based on personnel issues. So we addressed all those and got people realigned and got our new quarterback in there and got plays that we like with who we have to play with. 
 We still have a lot of good players, so we're excited about it. I can't wait for Saturday to get here. 

 Q. Hello. How are you today? 
 COACH HOPE: Good. 

 Q. Where is Rob in terms of his development as a passer right now? We've seen how talented he is as a runner. 
 COACH HOPE: You know, reps make a difference. He has good arm strength. Sometimes his mechanics can make him a little inaccurate, like any quarterback. Only if you look at an inaccurate pass as a result of mechanics, I don't care who it is, whether it's Rob Henry or Drew Brees, sometimes just throwing the pass it's a mechanics issue, and he needs to get his body pointed and throwing in the right direction. 
 So he needs reps still. He's been getting those reps now and throughout the course of the season. He made a lot of progress during the course of the summer. 
 I remember last -- or two years ago when we had Joey and Curtis Painter injured, and we went to Justin Siller and Chris Bennett. I'd never even seen Chris Bennett throw a pass before, and all of a sudden he became either a one or a two based on what happened medically, and he got a whole lot of reps and started getting a whole lot better right there in practice. 
 Rob's a good passer. He needs reps, timing-wise, but he's getting those now. So he's getting better every day and more and more confident every day. He has the potential to be a very good passer. He's not as efficient as he can be right now, but he can pass it good enough for us to manufacture a passing game. I don't have any question about that. 

 Q. Do you have to go in with a smaller package in terms of plays for him? Where is he at in terms of understanding the playbook and being able to execute all that? 
 COACH HOPE: Well, he was a number two and was playing in the games and was ready to play. So we don't have to shrink the package based on aptitude or Rob understanding the offense. You know, out of all of our quarterbacks that we have on our football team, he might have been further ahead than most of the others. He's really a sharp guy and spends a lot of time studying. So we don't have to shrink it down, you know, from a play-calling standpoint. We might rearrange it and change it some because some quarterbacks like some throws better than others. 
 We've had some personnel changes offensively. So some of our play-calling might change, and some of the route structures that we call might change. There might be things that he likes better to throw compared to what Robert Marve liked to throw, and that's not unusual. 
 But there's nothing in the playbook that we'd be afraid to put into the game plan because he doesn't understand it. That's not the issue. 

 Q. Essentially, you utilize the tight ends more when you talk about this every week, but Jeff Lindsay you mentioned has been battling a shoulder injury. Did he use that week too? Do you expect him to contribute on Saturday? 
 COACH HOPE: Expect to get him back. He's a very good player and a guy that was a big part of our original plans earlier in the season. He's a physical guy and a big guy in space to tackle, and he catches the ball well, and he's physical on the line of scrimmage. 
 He hasn't played hardly any at all this season. He's had a shoulder injury, and the open week and the limited amount of reps that he's gotten in practice and in the games has allowed him to heal up some. I think he's going to be full speed. 
 We've had some other guys rotating in there and working in his spot. So we've been able to develop some guys some, but it would be really good to get him back. I think Kyle Adams is playing very well. He's a physical tight end. He plays the game with some attitude. I love everything about him as a football player. He puts the helmet on and turns 100 percent football. He really gets after it on the line of scrimmage and has a lot of fire in him and practicing in games. And he really lets his hair down, and he's an emotional player. I think he's one of our better football players even though he may not be glaring statistically. He's catching the ball well now and really putting himself on the line of scrimmage and doing some great things to take charge of our football team. 
 Gabe Holmes is a great athlete, and he's really developed. He's going to be in time -- in a short period of time, he's going to be a really good blocking tight end because he has a lot of courage and he has a lot to come off the ball with. Still new to him, so still some work to be done there, but he's a great receiving tight end and a great target. He's 6'6" and probably 235, 237 pounds right now. So he is really a great talent. 
 So our tight ends are doing very well. They're playing well. They're practicing well, and they show some real promise for the season, and they'll certainly be a bigger part probably of our plans. 

 Q. Northwestern's quarterback Persa, he seems like a dual threat guy. Can you talk about what he brings. 
 COACH HOPE: He's an every threat kind of a guy. He's a great football player, and he's got an unbelievable knack for making every kind of play. He makes great decisions, doesn't make bad decisions, doesn't get them in trouble very often. He's seasoned beyond his years in some ways. He doesn't take sacks if he can avoid them. He'll get the ball out of his hand. He does a great job of taking the ball and tucking it and taking off with it. From a timing standpoint, it seems he catches the defenses off guard some. 
 He's certainly a difference-maker for their football team and playing as well as any player in the league right now. He's a great player. 

 Q. Just to follow up on that, you alluded to it a little bit, but his ability to run the ball, he is their leading rusher too. How much is that a concern going into Saturday? 
 COACH HOPE: Well, it's always a concern when they run the quarterback a lot because you can get thin numbers-wise in the box, by having them spread the field and manufacturing runs with him. They do that some play calling-wise. It's the great job that he does from a scrambling standpoint is where he creates a lot of yardage and keeps the defense off balance. It's hard to keep everyone out. They spread out in the perimeter formation-wise and to stop him when he takes to run. 
 He sees the field well, and he's got good speed and great moves. He's a good football player. He really is. 

 Q. Do they play at the same tempo as Notre Dame did as far as trying to get off plays, no huddle, hurry-up? And if so, was that a good kind of learning experience for you? 
 COACH HOPE: We're prepared for it. Everybody does some variation of that. We do it too. We don't major in it as often or to the degree that some teams do. Notre Dame is 100 percent that way, and Northwestern is 100 percent that way. They actually run more plays in a game than what Notre Dame does. 
 I don't know if you've looked at them all nationally with their rank, I'm not sure where they'd be, but they've got to be up there somewhere. I think they average 80-something per game. Oregon State has been in the tops in the country. But Northwestern will run more plays and more hurry-up offense, more fast paced to me than Notre Dame is. 

 Q. What have you seen out of their defense? With your kind of, not new offense, but new personnel in that offense? 
 COACH HOPE: I think we match up well against them. They're tough, hard-nosed. They have big strong defensive linemen that do a great job of exploding and attacking the line of scrimmage, the way it's supposed to be done with flat backs, and they're tough. You know, they go against some big strong defensive linemen and do a good job of fitting up on them and holding their ground and getting pushed. So they can manufacture inside running game. 
 Their offense, they do a great job of doing a lot of the same things, have a lot of different formations and groupings, and they're really good at what they do. Their offensive line is a big part of that. They're very good zone blockers. Big, strong guys up front that have good experience, and they're very technically sound. 

 Q. Just one more thing. Is any conversation with Keith Smith, has he decided whether he'll apply for an additional year at the end of the year? 
 COACH HOPE: He and I have not sat down and talked about that at all since our original conversation. He's going to take care of business and assess all of his options, and he'll come back and get with us. There's not a clock ticking. He's got to let us know something the next couple of weeks. Obviously, he's got to let us know something before the end of the semester because it will be time to sign back up and get going again. That's his call, and he'll get with us when he's ready with that. 

 Q. You mentioned you anticipated Sean Robinson seeing some action this week. What do you see out of him? What's your assessment of him? 
 COACH HOPE: He's a very good passer. He was highly regarded in the recruiting process. He was a top, top pick for us. He had a ton of offers, and those that really recruited him hard were right about him. He's a really good player. He has good speed. He was a good running quarterback in high school. He has very good speed. He has good size already. He's over 200 pounds and has good height to him. He throws the ball very well. I consider him a natural passer in a lot of ways. I think he throws the ball very well. 
 Just a smart guy, really into football. He's mature in some ways for a true freshman. You know, he's a guy that's been in the meetings and been on the bus and getting some of the signals and the reps and been involved, and he's handled it very well up to this point. So he's got good quarterback moxie about him. I like everything about him of the he's a good talent, and we're fortunate to have him in the position to where he can help us right now. 
 A lesser guy or a lesser prospect might not be good enough if something was to happen. But physically he's good enough to win with, if we can get him ready here the next couple of weeks, if something's going to happen down the road. So he's a really good prospect. 

 Q. Is there anyone taking reps right now as a number three quarterback, an emergency position? 
 COACH HOPE: Yeah, we've got a number three. A guy that walked on last year. He's a good sized quarterback, left-hander, Skyler Titus, a smart guy. He's got a very calm demeanor about him, which is important in that position. He hasn't gotten a lot of varsity reps because he was fifth string a couple of months ago, but he's now surfacing at three deep, so he's getting some reps. 
 The time that he spent on the scout team and the time he's gotten reps out there, he's done well, and he has played the position before. We're not taking a guy who hasn't played that spot and trying to teach him something brand new. He has played there. So he's played some and been in the meetings some. And that part of it has helped his transition into the three deep. 

 Q. When you experimented in the spring with Rob at some other skill spots, is that a situation where you thought he might move or a situation where, if he was going to be your third string quarterback, you wanted him out there somewhere just because of how good an athlete he is? 
 COACH HOPE: He's too good a player to be spending too much time on the bench, too good a player and too good an athlete. He's a big-time athlete and somebody you can really count on. He's a very good football player. So it was just trying to get him on the field to help us win. 
 In our mind, he was always a quarterback prospect. There's lots of places where you had another guy just like him, you'd love to put him at. He could play receiver, safety. He could play running back for us. He did a great job running the football in the spring. We had some guys out, and he sure looked good back there in the backfield, but he came here to play quarterback, and we recruited him to be a quarterback. His reps at other spots are just to try to get him on the field some. He's one of our top athletes. 

 Q. The only other thing, you guys are averaging 8.5 yards per pass completion. As you restructure your offense going forward, is it a priority for you guys to either complete some longer passes or to get more after the catch? 
 COACH HOPE: Well, I think we have to be able to go deep some. We have to manufacture more big plays. I like the fact that we've been able to -- regardless of the circumstances, we've been able to go out there and manufacture some offense every Saturday. Might have gotten more points, but we've been able to manufacture some offense. We haven't manufactured as many big plays. We've earned what we've gotten. 
 I think in order to manufacture some big plays, you have to throw the ball deep some. So we're going to be committed to getting vertical. We have speed on the outside. You know, Cortez Smith and O.J. Ross and the guys that we have out there playing the receiver spots, they're fast guys. We have the potential to go deep with the football. So I think we have to. 
 THE MODERATOR: All right, Coach. Thank you. 
 COACH HOPE: Thank you, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT