NCAA MEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 23, 2015
Tim Corbin
Philip Pfeifer
Zander Wiel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Virginia 3 - Vanderbilt 0    
THE MODERATOR: Representing Vanderbilt, head coach Tim Corbin, first baseman Zander Wiel and starting pitcher Philip Pfeifer.  Coach, an opening statement.   COACH CORBIN: Well, I think first off I thought Phil did a hell of a job.  I thought he really pitched well.  Game sometimes had some bounces that just get in your way.  Like I said last night, it's erratic.  I thought he made a nice pitch to Pavin Smith. And he got inside the bat.  But Smith hit it the other way, and then his ball hit back up the middle, hit the bag.  Just from a bounce standpoint, it just didn't go our way.  And you have to give those guys credit at the bottom.  Clement and Woodruff did a good job tonight.  They got the timely hit.  They got the timely hit that we didn't.  So you have to credit them. I thought Sborz -- I thought he was good.  I just thought the kid -- he's kind of a bend-but-not-break kid.  And anytime he got in trouble he made big pitches to get himself out of it.  You can tell he's been out there before. He's advanced.  And you have to give him credit.  So that's essentially it.   THE MODERATOR: Questions?   Q.  Tim, do you feel like the offensive problems are just lack of hits or lack of converting those into something once you get runners on?  COACH CORBIN: I think when there were runners in scoring position they just made good pitches.  You just have to give Haseley and Sborz a lot of credit, because I thought they did a good job of commanding the ball.  And then their defense did a good job of -- their coaches putting their defense in good position. The ball that Reynolds hit was hit relatively hard back up the middle, but Pinero was in the right spot, tagged the bag and converted it into a double play.  We had some hard-hit balls at certain times that were just caught.  So that happens.   Q.  Coach, after five innings, basically deja vu from last night.  What were you trying to do to get your kids motivated and get them going into a different direction than what happened?  COACH CORBIN: I was just screaming and yelling at them at the top of my lungs.  What are you going to do?  Are you going to give them a Vince Lombardi speech?  They're trying.  They're kids.  They want to hit, too. Really nothing, just encouraging them more than anything else.  And I thought even during the middle of that game, even at the end of it I thought they were very positive.  I thought we were going to crack it open at some point and always do.  It just didn't happen tonight.   Q.  Phil, can you walk me through the first two innings, what helped you get out of those jams early on?  PHILIP PFEIFER: Having runners in scoring position isn't anything new for me, especially early on.  Kind of just the experience of being out there before, being able to make tough pitches and get those outs.  I relieved earlier in the season and I think that experience helps me relieve for myself sometimes.   Q.  Tim, what did you know of Adam Haseley coming in to today and what did you think of his outing after he hadn't pitched for a whole month?  COACH CORBIN: Not a whole heck of a lot, to be honest with you.  We had scouting reports on him.  He had 10 appearances, four starts.  We didn't know a whole lot about him.  Yeah, very commendable.  Freshman.  Usually a reliever.  Comes into a situation, stops a good offensive team.  We really didn't do much against him.  He did a nice job of slowing us down.  Again, you just have to give a kid like that credit, especially being on the mound for the first time.  Now, I know he's played, but being on the mound for the first time, pitching like he did, he did a nice job.   Q.  Phil, when you're facing Virginia maybe you don't expect those eight and nine hitters, one of them is basically a pinch runner.  Maybe you don't expect them to come up with big hits but how were they able to get you today?  PHILIP PFEIFER: They ended up putting the ball in play and found a hole.  They have a good team.  They're experienced and they have good plate discipline. They were able to lay off the off-speed out of the zone and they ended up doing what they could with what they got and ended up getting through.   Q.  Zander, with the lack of scoring early in the games, is it is it as wiping the slate clean for tomorrow's game and say we're going to get the hits tomorrow, or do you see one overall problem in the offense?  ZANDER WIEL: I think you have to, you have to just wipe the slate clean.  You can't carry the game with you.  Obviously we struggled tonight offensively.  But we just have to have a clear mind going into tomorrow and do what we do every day, and that's trust our preparation and trust our BP, and we'll be ready to go tomorrow.   Q.  Tim, other than your two starters, everybody available to pitch tomorrow?  COACH CORBIN: I would think so.  I think you get to this point in the tournament and everyone's on go.  With the exception of Carson.  But you know he'll be fighting to grab the ball in a situation that was worthy.  But, no, I think the bullpen is all ready to go for tomorrow.   Q.  Zander, asking you the same question we asked Coach about Haseley, what was your perspective on what he was doing and what did you guys do to try to adjust to him?  ZANDER WIEL: Well, I think he did a good job.  We didn't know all that much about him.  But he did a good job locating. He used his fastball and his off-speed stuff to his advantage.  And we got some runners on, but we were never able to get that big hit, like Coach said.  And then they got to Sborz later in the game and he did a good job holding us down, too.  So Virginia did a good job.   THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT