LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2017
Jaqwis Dancy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Northwestern State - 24, Louisiana Tech - 52
Q. I know this is the end of a long road for you tonight.  If you can, just sort of take us through what was going through your mind as you caught that kickoff return down there.  I know the first time you've touched a ball in a live action game in a while and obviously your first touchdown here tonight.  So just take me through your thoughts and feelings on all that.
JAQWIS DANCY: The very first kickoff, like it was just so surreal.  I had a lot of emotions running through my mind, and like when I first touched the ball, like I just feel like I was back.  Like it was a good feeling.
The touchdown, that was very emotional.  I really broke down a little bit and I thanked Jesus for like everything that He did and brought me through.
Q. What was it like to have your family out there, and the special piece about your whole journey coming back for the entire nation, having them in the audience today, what was that like -- your mom --
JAQWIS DANCY: Yeah, I tried to find her but I couldn't find her.  But yeah, I was looking for her and I mean, just having my family there and also DeAngelo's family, like it showed me a lot that they really stayed by me.  They have like a lot of love for me and I have a lot of love for them, and it just made me feel even happier.
Q. You scored your first touchdown.  You had to have thought about what it was going to feel like.  Did it meet up to the expectations of scoring your first touchdown as a Louisiana Tech Bulldog?
JAQWIS DANCY: I mean, I thought about it a lot, but I mean, the actual feeling really had nothing on like what I thought about.  Like it was way better, the feeling.  It was just amazing, that's all I could say about it.
Q. Just take us through the reaction of the guys around you.  I know it obviously means a lot to you but I know it probably means a lot to them, as well.
JAQWIS DANCY: Yeah, their reaction was just about as cheerful and happy as mine.  Everybody here is just like a brotherhood.  Everybody's close together, like just close-knit.  It was just a great feeling.
Q. That touchdown you scored wasn't just for you; it wasn't just for Louisiana Tech.  It's for anybody out there battling cancer.  What would you say to those people that are going through the same fight that you did in the past year?
JAQWIS DANCY: I just want to tell everybody who is fighting cancer, like to never give up and keep fighting.  Because the light is all brighter at the end of the tunnel.  God is good.  Just keep praising Him and just keep living life.  Like don't let it get you down.  Just keep moving.
Q. I know obviously tonight's not the end for you, but how can you improve and get better?  What can you take from your performance in tonight's game?
JAQWIS DANCY: Tonight's game I knew that I had to run hard.  But I mean, basically, just keep working, like keep trusting the process that the coaches put us through and just keep listen and keep studying the film and just keep improving.
Pass back is probably one of my major things of the just got to keep trusting the process and keep pushing.
Q. Looking forward to next week, playing an SEC school here, have you put into perspective what that means to this program?
JAQWIS DANCY: I mean, not really.  I mean, the coaches they say one game at a time and we ain't talked about Mississippi State.  We improving on us and worrying about us and trying to get ourselves better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT