NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: CAPITALS vs LIGHTNING
May 22, 2018
Dan Girardi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
DAN GIRARDI: It's was a huge opportunity for us to take care of business yesterday.  Wasn't the case.  Set ourselves up for one game.  Win a game and move on to the next round.   
 Q.  Do you believe momentum can carry over in a series?  
DAN GIRARDI: Obviously they feel really good about their game.  They should.  They played a great game and we didn't.  We need to make sure we're ready come the first puck drop there.  It would be a fresh step for us tomorrow.   
 Q.  What does it do to the mindset of team when you know they were more physical in a game?  That's something within your control.  
DAN GIRARDI: Not a whole lot.  I think it's pretty simple.  We just can't play the way we did yesterday.  We need to respond to the physical play, put more pucks on net, just kind of be better in every aspect of the game.   
We do have the right guys in the room to do that.  We've been doing it all year.  We have a lot of experience in the room.  Hopefully we can use that to our advantage.   
 Q.  What are the ingredients to an effective home game?  How is it different from the proper road game, if you will, the simple road game?  
DAN GIRARDI: Well, it should be the same game, but sometimes obviously the home crowd gets you fired up.  You got to use that to your advantage.  Got a great crowd behind us tomorrow.  Just need to control our emotions.  Everyone needs to be a difference maker out there.  We can't sit back and wait, see what happens.  Everyone needs to play their role to perfection.  We'll see what happens tomorrow.   
 Q.  As you've gone through your career playing in Game 7s, what have you found about how experience matters?  Does it give you a certain advantage?  
DAN GIRARDI: I don't know.  I think being through a bunch of Game 7s, you kind of know.  Been on a couple losing ones, a couple winning ones.  You have to play a full 60 minutes.  Can't take a shift off.  Every little play matters, whether it's a chip out, blocked shot, get a good puck on net, make a good play.  All those little things add up.  Can't take a shift off.  Just have to be more ready than we were yesterday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT