NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 28, 2014
Dan Girardi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This is going to be your 20th playoff game coming up in this postseason.   I'm wondering is it possible that a team can run out of gas emotionally, mentally, or is that something (Indiscernible)?  
DAN GIRARDI:   I don't think that's an issue for us.   Obviously, last night didn't look great, but we all feel great about where we are here in the playoffs and we still have a great opportunity going into tomorrow night to finish it off here.   We have to look at it that way.   Win a game at home, and go to the Stanley Cup Final.  
   
 Q.   You guys looked good in Game 7s and you've faced elimination recently.   How do you handle that when you want to close out a team like last night, tomorrow night?   
DAN GIRARDI:   Yeah, it's been kind of a struggle for us to get that deciding game.   You go back to Game 6 in Philly and have a chance to do that too, couldn't get that done.   But I think as a group we've been through quite a bit here even though it's only been 20 games.   I think we all know what we have to do to be successful tomorrow night.  
   
 Q.   How do you get over a game like last night?   Is it easier to put behind you because it was such a straight game or is it more difficult?   
DAN GIRARDI:   I think no matter how the game before goes, you have to have a short‑term memory in the playoffs.   The great thing about this game is we're able to come back one night later and be able to right the ship and forget about everything.   That's what we're going to have to do is kind of forget about that one, travel home today, and come ready tomorrow morning for a good skate.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
DAN GIRARDI:   It's a great opportunity for us to be in front of our home fans and feed off that.   Obviously, I think last night wasn't a great game, but we did a pretty good job of winning two out of three in a tough building, and that's very hard to do here.   
We need to win two or three at home to get the series taken care of.   If you look at it that way, we're in a pretty good position here.   Like I said, we just haven't had a great start at home.  
   
 Q.   Was there a feeling like you guys let him down last night?   
DAN GIRARDI:   Obviously, you don't want to see that in any game, let alone a playoff game.   We didn't give him too much help, and obviously.   A.V. felt that was the right move just to get him out of the game.   We didn't feel great about that, but we couldn't just sit there and mope around about it.   We had to do something about it.   We did.   We came back and tied it.  
   
  
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT