NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 14, 2014
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How are you feeling? 
RAY ALLEN:   Good.   Yesterday was just relaxing.   Just kind of clear your mind.   Today was getting back in it, at it, and just being around each other.

Q.   How do you climb this mountain? 
RAY ALLEN:   One step at a time.   You know, it's really start with the small pebbles we have to step over first.   It's important that you don't look at the entire journey, because you're going to get overwhelmed.   For us, it's always been one moment at a time.

Q.   Where do you start (no microphone) as far as looking at film or figuring out what's happened the last two games?   Where does it start? 
RAY ALLEN:   Just every small little thing that we watch film, and the things that we need to‑‑ the small little things, the things that we've done all year.   The team obviously has put us in pretty unique situation out there on the floor, so we'll be good.

Q.   Is it definitely establishing (no microphone). 
RAY ALLEN:   They're a good team, and they're going to put us in a situation where we turn the ball over, and a lot we can look at and say they're unforced turnovers.   So just try to take those out of the game, first and foremost. 
Most importantly, we have to have better starts.

Q.   Do you still talk about the situation now, or is it one of those things that's self‑explanatory? 
RAY ALLEN:   No, well, like anything else, we've been in situations, all of us individually, whether it was this team or other teams, we've all been in pretty dire situations.   So that's something that we talked about today.   We had such a bad feeling, I don't know what our body language looked like in Game 6 last year, but there are moments where we doubted, a lot of the people on the outside doubted. 
So at no point in this situation right now do we feel any different.   There are somewhat of the same emotions.   The guys that are in between the lines, the guys that are in the locker room, everybody's‑‑ you still have a job to do.   So you don't let what's being said or what goes on outside of us affect what we do. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT