NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 12, 2013
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Ray, can you give me your comments on last night's loss. 
RAY ALLEN:   They played better than us. 

Q.   What is it going to take for you guys to turn it around coming into this Game 4? 
RAY ALLEN:   You know, we just have to play a better brand of basketball both ends of the floor. 

Q.   Were you surprised what they did rebounding after you guys gave them a pretty convincing victory that you won at home Sunday, and turn around and they come out and played like they did? 
RAY ALLEN:   Yeah, I just think effort‑wise we didn't have that same effort, that same energy. 

Q.   How do you guys feel as far as you're late into the season and The Finals?   Talk about the energy factor. 
RAY ALLEN:   Everybody feels pretty good.   I don't think it's‑‑ when we get to games, we can't wait.   When you get to games, you can't come out‑‑ we have to start the game better in the first and third quarters.   We make too many mistakes early in the game and we get them going, and they're a team that you can't allow that to happen, getting them going early and allow them to make those effort plays off of our‑‑ you know, our subpar energy or our turnovers, or whatever. 

Q.   How do you avoid overreacting from a big loss like that? 
RAY ALLEN:   Well, you play another game.   You can't let it get the best of you.   You can't sit back and just look at the situation and think it's what they did.   We lost one game.   It wasn't a two‑game loss because they beat us in the fashion that they did.   You look at things that we didn't do, and it's clearly a lot of things on our behalf that we didn't do a good job on. 

Q.   You see how they're ganging up on LeBron.   What's the onus on the rest of you guys to try to help him out of that situation? 
RAY ALLEN:   I think first and foremost, he has to allow us to help him.   He can't feel he always has to take so much of the burden on himself.   We are there ready to help him.   Our coaches have to make sure they do a better job of getting D‑Wade more involved, getting CB more involved.   Mike had a great game, but we didn't really look for him down the stretch. 
So we have to all do a better job of making sure that we play together.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT