NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 8, 2013
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  RAY ALLEN:   We have a collection of some of the finest shooters that I've played with.   When you talk about James Jones, Rashard, Mike, those guys really can shoot the ball.   And I think they are our best shooters. 

Q.   Dwyane yesterday said the playoffs really isn't fun until you win.   Does this team have such expectations that it can't enjoy the ride at all.   It's just the destination? 
RAY ALLEN:   No, I think we've enjoyed what we've been doing.   Obviously we won to get to this point.   So we've enjoyed the ride.   Again, when you have to sometimes step back and watch and think about some of the things you do when you have those moments with what you've done, because this has been up to this point it's been fun.   It's been a roller coaster of emotions.   And when you lose you feel that anxiety.   But obviously being here, we've won quite a bit. 

Q.   What kind of balance do you have between knowing that you all can come back when you're down and not resting upon that idea? 
RAY ALLEN:   Well, far too often you worry about that ultimate objective, which is to win.   Obviously that's the bottom‑line goal.   I think ultimately we have to focus on the small things we didn't do‑‑ that we haven't done.   You think about all playoffs long getting better, and analyzing Game 1 and thinking about closing that fourth quarter out, which we didn't do a great job of. 

Q.   You talk about that anxiety.   You have two days before the next game.   Does that anxiety build on itself? 
RAY ALLEN:   No.   There was nonervousness or anxiety.   We all the last two days just felt the small little things we can do a little bit better from the beginning of the game to the end.   I would have thought it would have been more, having lost a game and sitting off for two days.   Being on the floor and everybody communicating, that's the one thing we did well, everybody communicated.   Locker‑room talk, on‑the‑floor talk, guys stay pretty close‑knit.   You can circle your wagons, it makes us even better in the long run. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT