NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 7, 2013
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RAY ALLEN:   I thought we played a pretty good game.   Game plan for three quarters.   I think in the fourth quarter we‑‑ offensively we just had too many open possessions.   Just making sure we play four full quarters. 

Q.   Ray, you've played enough of these games.   Is it sometimes just about making shots?   Is that all it came down to, even with the turnovers in the fourth quarter?   It really just came down to who was making shots? 
RAY ALLEN:   Well, it makes everything work if you make shots, if one guy has a hot night, makes shots.   But really you know it's a little more complicated than that. 
I think there was a stretch in that fourth quarter we didn't really get a lot of shots because we turned the ball over at key moments.   So we didn't even give ourselves an opportunity. 

Q.   Ray, you've been watching Tony Parker for quite a long time.   Do you ever imagine he would play at that caliber as he did yesterday? 
RAY ALLEN:   We know what he's capable of. 

Q.   Because it seems that he's underrated here in the U.S. ?
RAY ALLEN:   I don't know who underrates him.   But we have great respect for him. 

Q.   Are you tired of hearing about that shot from last night? 
RAY ALLEN:   I haven't seen it again.   I wouldn't necessarily say that. 

Q.   Ray, getting back to The Finals, I know you've moved past the Boston thing, does it help you feel like this is validation for the decision you made to come to the Heat and have a shot at the title? 
RAY ALLEN:   I don't really worry about that.   Once I've made my decision to come here, that's all.   Being here was getting to this moment, this is why I came here.   So that's been my whole goal. 

Q.   When you were in the process of making that decision, was it difficult? 
RAY ALLEN:   Every decision you make when you get put in the situation of free agency is a difficult decision.   You have to think about not only yourself, but your family relocating.   So it is a difficult decision. 

Q.   Did you like the spacing last night?   Was that where you guys wanted to be?   It felt like you guys got in a good rhythm, even if the shots weren't falling, at least for the first three quarters. 
RAY ALLEN:   You said the spacing? 

Q.   Yes.   Offensively. 
RAY ALLEN:   I didn't see any problem with it.   I think in the situation where we‑‑ I don't remember the final score, but we could have scored more efficiently.   But you see how a series goes, you try to get better each game.   And when you watch film, you see exactly offensively how you can score more efficiently and take advantage of those little small little spots or those spaces on the floor. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT