NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 5, 2013
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Seemed like you were setting a trap, the way you came out in Game 7 compared to what they've gotten accustomed to. 
RAY ALLEN:   This team has been great with their backs up against the wall, with our backs up against the wall.   We've always fought when we felt like we knew we had to.   Now we're at the point where we can't wait. 
When you get to The Finals, you see what you're playing for, you can't wait.   You have to start once that ball goes in the air and there has to be an intensity felt from every guy that comes into the game. 

Q.   Ray, this is why you came in here.   The realization that it's finally here, what has it been like for you? 
RAY ALLEN:   Just pure joy.   Just getting back here.   This is my third time, and this feeling never leaves.   It never gets old.   You always forget the magnitude of the situation.   Today I actually thought about it and I compared it to the Super Bowl when I watch those guys.   They are so excited.   Wherever they are, the weather is warm, somewhere.   When I compare it to the Super Bowl, I think about the normal situation for the people all over the world that watch.   Up here the people in the NBA circles that watch and obviously the media. 
So we've done something that people all over the world will pay attention to.   For us two weeks can be a short time or it can be a long time.   So we have to enjoy this moment. 

Q.   So many of you guys fought through so much during these Finals.   Dwyane with the knee, Chris with the shot, Shane with the shot.   Does the change of scenario, when the series goes on‑‑
RAY ALLEN:   It's a clean slate.   That was Indiana's job.   They did what they did, that was to frustrate us to take away our strengths.   If you think about the things we did well during the regular season, and then going into the playoffs, they watch films just like we did.   Their job was to make us uncomfortable.   Take us out of our comfort zone. 
It's a clean slate.   You have to reconfigure what we've been doing offensively and just get that rhythm down and that chemistry and be prepared to fire on all cylinders. 

Q.   Is it an interesting adjustment to you, not so much coming off the bench, but just playing with LeBron? 
RAY ALLEN:   Not too tough an adjustment, no.   Just knowing where the scoring zone for me is going to be, and when to attack.   I was used to certain sets in certain times.   I had to rethink how those shots were coming.   (Indiscernible) being aggressive and making sure that the rotations we make here are different. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
RAY ALLEN:   You do.   Shane has done a great job of using the corner.   Sometimes the ball doesn't come directly to him.   So he's using the momentum of the ball.   Even though his feet may still be in his spot, he knows how to use that momentum with the ball and get that ball where he wants it to so he can shoot. 
With me I know I have to move my feet just to kind of get under and create that same energy and motion.   LeBron throws each side of the ball‑‑ from one side of the floor to the other.   You have to be ready to catch it and get up your shot. 

Q.   It's a different catch. 
RAY ALLEN:   It is.   It is.   Because even when I pass the ball, my ball doesn't have as much fire behind it.   You just get used to it, because D‑Wade is different.   Rio is different.   And it's really when‑‑ getting on the team, I have to learn those nuances of different players when they pass the ball, and how they pass it. 

Q.   Balance is always important.   You have to be really balanced.   You catch that ball (Indiscernible). 
RAY ALLEN:   Yeah.   Yeah.   I've been moving as much as I have in the past.   If I'm in one spot, you have to still catch that ball and come down and still save more energy for yourself to get back up again. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
RAY ALLEN:   The important thing is, as I said earlier, is to really get off to a great start.   When you look at a guy‑‑ what's going to be important in this series is Mario.   Obviously Cole will come in and get the ball.   Mario will be equally‑‑ probably the most important.   He's starting the game.   He's got to set a tone.   Getting off the pick‑and‑rolls, getting in front of Parker and making sure he gets back in transition. 
For that sake, it's all of us.   Because he scores a lot of points in the paint after the basket is made on misses in the corners.   So we have to do a great job of making sure we get back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT