NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
June 9, 2012
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Ray, obviously this question is being asked of these guys for the last two months:   Does this feel like it's it? 
RAY ALLEN:   When you lose, it always feels like it's it.   There's a conclusion.   Last year it felt like it was it.   The year before it felt the same way.   It's probably the worst feeling that we feel in our lives, in our careers.   There's nothing you can do about it. 
There's one game that you want‑‑ there's one team that wins that last game.   We want to be that team every year.   If we don't‑‑ we've been through a lot.   We won a lot of games.   At the end of every season, it always feels like it's it. 
Up to this point we fought hard to keep it together.   So I think now there's so many emotions.   This one hit me hard.   We wanted it so bad. 

Q.   Ray, in the fourth quarter, was it just a matter of fatigue and shots not going down?   What would you attribute that kind of breakdown? 
RAY ALLEN:   We just got stagnant.   The ball stayed on one side.   Yeah, you're going to miss shots, but the ball stayed on one side.   Put them in transition.   They went on a run, and we couldn't get that offense going again. 

Q.   Have you had time or prior to this to go over what your future is going to be, and I'm guessing something with the ankle immediately, but beyond that? 
RAY ALLEN:   No, that's my first priority, just going into surgery sometime.   If I can do it tomorrow, I would do it tomorrow.   That's probably my main concern right now, is taking care of that.   My body feels good.   That's been my only issue.   After that, it's hard to say. 

Q.   Ray, obviously nobody knows for sure whether this is the end of the era for the Big Three, as it's called.   What has it been like these last five years playing with Paul and KG? 
RAY ALLEN:   Well, with no disrespect to Seattle and Milwaukee, when we first came together, it seemed like it was‑‑ up to this point five years has gone quickly, but it seems like it has lasted forever.   We've played in a lot of big games.   We won a championship together.   The things that we do off the floor together.   It's just been a special time.   It's been a special moment. 
We'll remember a lot.   Even with Kevin and myself in our past situations, we bring so much wealth of experience into Boston.   The young guys we played here with, man, it's been a privilege.   I can definitely say that. 
It's always been somewhat intimidating.   You walk into a building every day and you see the banners and the retired jerseys in the building.   It just always makes you work a little bit harder.   When Havlicek is in the building, when Cousy is around.   Tommy is watching us every day.   Bill Russell is at the games.   Those are like our big brothers.   So we know that we have a lot to‑‑ some big shoes to fill and a lot that we need to do to try to compare to what they've done.   We have definitely fallen short, but we've gone out trying to play as hard as we can every night. 

Q.   Ray, do you think with the core perhaps back and some reinforcements and some changes, you guys could make another run next year? 
RAY ALLEN:   I think a lot of people forget how we started the season.   It was so helter‑skelter trying to put together a team.   We went through a lot of adversity this year, losing Wilcox and losing Jeff Green.   Under the circumstances, you know, we're proud of what we've accomplished.   By no means do we think that it was a fluke or that‑‑ our young guys, they played hard for us.   Kevin, I don't know what Kevin's situation is.   There's still a lot of basketball left in my legs.   I know that for sure.   So it's hard to say what can happen, what may happen.   But four of us know how to play basketball.   We know how to win games. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT