NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
June 7, 2012
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Miami Heat - 98  
Boston Celtics - 79  
   
 Q.   Ray, Doc said he hopes that you guys take this loss personally.   Do you take it personally?   
RAY ALLEN:   Yeah.   We got into the locker room after the game and collectively everybody talked about being better.   We talked about the things that we needed to do.   There was a great sense of disappointment amongst everybody, anger.   But I know my guys will be ready next game.   
   
 Q.   How do you put those feelings of disappointment behind you and move on to the next game, the way that Miami did tonight?   
RAY ALLEN:   Well, we'll watch the film and look at the things we did poorly on defense, and then offensively we'll do the same.   There was a lot of situations that we would like back, but we'll look at it‑‑ these situations you always realize when you're good, you're not far from being bad.   And then when you're bad, you're not far from being good.   
   
 Q.   Ray, what was the plan of attack in the third quarter to try to get you guys back into it?   And how come it didn't work?   
RAY ALLEN:   Well, defensively LeBron, he had a game.   He had a game.   You have to tip your hat to him.   He carried his team tonight.   We have to attack him defensively better than what we did.   
We talked about ball movement going into the third quarter.   We talked about it at halftime and starting the game, we didn't have great flow, great rhythm going into the first half.   Going into the third quarter we didn't establish that.   We moved the ball around.   I thought we still got good looks, looks we'll take, but we didn't move the ball.   I don't know how many assists we had, but we didn't have a good movement of the ball night.   
   
 Q.   Ray, can you just talk about the mood in the locker room afterwards.   And just how do you get back up mentally for Game 7?   
RAY ALLEN:   Well, even just with winning, it's very short‑lived.   You don't carry it with you for a day and a half, two days.   You look at film.   Even when we watch the film, looking at it from last game, you still see all the things that you need to do to be better.   
You have to have a short memory, but at the same time, you have to have a long‑term memory, because you want to make sure that a situation like this don't linger.   But at the same time you have to think about all the things you need to do to improve.   That's what we've done all year.   Now everybody knows that we need to focus in.   It's one game.   
   
 Q.   You talked about the team being angry afterward.   Can you talk about exactly why you guys were angry?   
RAY ALLEN:   This was basically our Game 7 on our floor, to win here on our floor.   We had an opportunity.   We still knew we had two games to win one.   Obviously, you know, your greatest chance you want to give yourself on your floor.   So anytime you lose an opportunity like that, you are angry with yourselves.   
Like I said, they played well.   We'll be ready to play on Saturday.   
   
 Q.   You're known for grit and toughness and all those intangible characteristics that make you guys great.   Where was all that tonight?   
RAY ALLEN:   It was there.   It was definitely there.   We didn't have things go our way, not the way we wanted it.   We could have been better on offense.   We could have been better on defense.   Just the small little plays, all the small things.   It was there.   Everybody from the starting five, everybody coming off the bench, it was there.   It just sometimes doesn't go your way.   
   
 Q.   Ray, could you talk about what you saw from Paul and Kevin and what may have caused them to struggle.   
RAY ALLEN:   It's hard to say.   It's hard to say.   I know that you look at field‑goal percentage, they started the game the way they wanted to offensively; we didn't.   Again, we make it easy on ourselves when we move the ball around.   When we find the easy shot, get into the second and third option.   At this point it's Game 6, they know everything we're running as well as we know what they're running.   So the small little plays we've been getting and the things they're getting, you're grabbing, scratching and clawing for that guy not to get it.   
So at this point we have to get to the second and third option, and sometimes the fourth option.   It's the difference of getting a rebound.   It seems like we got the 50‑50 ball in Game 5 at their place.   And tonight we didn't get into our stuff.   We didn't develop or build our own rhythm.   
   
 Q.   Despite the setback, the Garden crowd kind of sent you off with a nice chant in the last few minutes of the game.   Can you talk about how that felt hearing that heading into Game 7?   
RAY ALLEN:   Kevin was sitting next to me, and I said these are‑‑ I know I'm biased, but they're the best fans I've ever played in front of or ever seen in my life.   They understand the situation that is before us, and we understand it.   And that was basically them sending us off, letting us know, hey, this is still well and alive.   We need you guys to go down there and get a win for us.   We all felt it on the bench.   
I know the game was going on.   It seemed like that three minutes lasted forever.   It was special.   I'll talk about that forever, just knowing being down 20 and these people are still standing up, cheering us on, because they know we just have to win one game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT