NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
May 29, 2012
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   For you, Ray, as a shooter, you're used to going through stretches where shots just don't fall.   But when you throw in the health dynamic in those struggles, talk about trying to figure out what you have to do to get‑‑
RAY ALLEN:   I don't even like talking about.   It's just part of what I'm dealing with. 

Q.   Did you work out today? 
RAY ALLEN:   No. 

Q.   You usually (Indiscernible)?
RAY ALLEN:   Yeah, but it's hard.   In my predicament, I'm only going to do myself further damage. 

Q.   In that second quarter, one of the things Coach Spoelstra said was you guys got it going because just your movement and just the normal stuff you do in the offense and what you create for others.   Does that‑‑ do you at all take solace in knowing you can do that out there for 35, however many minutes, even if you're not making the shots you normally make? 
RAY ALLEN:   Yeah, there's an impact, but it's something that we all need to do.   If you can occupy your man, get the ball moving and get bodies moving, that's important for all of us. 
So when I do it, if I get a shot or not, somebody is going to get a shot.   So it just has to be a team thing. 

Q.   Ray, did you ever miss four free‑throws in your life?   You're such a great free‑throw shooter. 
RAY ALLEN:   Not in one game, no. 

Q.   Is it the balance?   Just the balance? 
RAY ALLEN:   Who knows what it is.   Who knows what it is.   I know I shoot as many as I can.   When you get over the line, it's important to get comfortable and to get a rhythm.   When you fall out of it, you fall out of it.   You figure out ways to get back into it and create that good rhythm going forward. 

Q.   What's the most you ever made in a row? 
RAY ALLEN:   I made 100 in a row and stopped. 

Q.   How come you stopped?   You usually want to get it going and see if you can get 200 in a row. 
RAY ALLEN:   Because I believe that if I had kept going, I could make 500 in a row.   So unless somebody‑‑ I'm doing it for a record or somebody is challenging me, it's like‑‑ I'm like Forrest Gump, I just stopped running. 

Q.   For a guy who's worked as hard as you have to perfect your craft, do you have to fight the tendency to sort of just intellectualize what can I do to change my technique because of the injury?   Or do you have to‑‑
RAY ALLEN:   The thing is I don't want to change my technique.   I just have to continue to work on getting my lift.   My technique has been solid for a very long time, and it's successful.   Anybody who I know is a shooter, encourage them to shoot certain ways.   So I'm never going to stop doing the way I prepare and how I shoot. 
It's just getting to it and just kind of‑‑ you know, it's like I'm trying not to push myself in shooting and jumping higher, but I have to find a happy medium. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT