NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 11, 2014
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What was watching film like? 
RAY ALLEN:   It sucks.   But regardless how the game went, you never want to watch the film when you lose.   But for me, it's probably the best time because there are so many small things that you see.   When you see there's a rhythm to how they played, the way they played and how we play, the way we played.   So when you watch it, it makes sense because everything is there in front of you. 
So regardless if you lose by 20 or you lose by 2, there are all sorts of reasons why the outcome was the way it was.   So the film always helps you understand that.

Q.   Chris said last night after the game, guys weren't focused, "We weren't focused at all."   This is an NBA Finals game.   How disconcerting are those statements? 
RAY ALLEN:   It has nothing to do with guys didn't come to play.   It's just they put us‑‑ they played a good floor game yesterday, and they put us on our heels early, and we never responded the way we normally respond.

Q.   What are you going to have to do early to improve defensively? 
RAY ALLEN:   We just have to be more proactive.   We have to‑‑ you know, it was a sense of just letting these guys attack us consistently.   They were aggressive, and I think it took us by storm.

Q.   Why was it so hard to stop the avalanche of points? 
RAY ALLEN:   Well, I think early when they were moving the ball and they score, you could see that they drove the ball early when they got into the paint.   Once they start doing that, they created a great rhythm on our offense, and the three ball started going.

Q.   Do you feel it was more the lack of offense or defense?   You guys just couldn't make enough stops to stop their rhythm? 
RAY ALLEN:   I think it was both.   It happens, then we start turning the ball over.   We had early turnovers, and they got easy lay‑ups.   At this point, if you give any team anything, they're going to capitalize off of what we do, and that's what they've done.   They've capitalized off our turnovers.   Some of them unforced turnovers, some of them are just us not focused and paying attention.   Then that gives them everything that they want. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT