NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RAY ALLEN: Very deceptive. I think as a basketball player, he's very deceptive because you never expect him to be as quick as he is. He always gets to the basket. He always has somewhat of a hesitation, so you don't know when he's going to shoot it.
 I watched them many nights and when the guy runs out, like they kind of run halfway, and then he shoots it and then he runs out. It's kind of hard to read. You know, I've guarded him plenty of times in practice, and you've got to -- sometimes you have to anticipate what you might think he's going to do. 
 I would say you teach somebody to play basketball, you teach fundamental textbook shooting or dribbling. But Paul, just one-on-one wise, he just is -- he can get through the hole. 

 Q. How thrilled are you with the way things have gone to this point? 
 RAY ALLEN: Well, obviously to be in this building in this room is always a lot of excitement. You know, being one of the top 24 players in the league first half of the season is a great accomplishment, not only for me but we are able to highlight and showcase our city, our fans that are here for us and the family. That's probably one of most important things. They are riding on the journey with us, and they get the chance to be an All-Star themselves. They wear jerseys and they get to meet celebrities, so I think for the first time, really they get a chance to see what it's like. It's a great time. 

 Q. Great year for the team, an historical year for you so far. How thrilled are you with the way the first half went and where the team is in the second half?
 RAY ALLEN: Well, certainly for me it has been monumental coming into over the last couple of weeks. I look at not just this year, but it's been a culmination of the 3 teams I've played for playing with great teammates, getting to this point and being healthy, because the longevity in this game, after a while, you look up and you will have done something significant in this league. Taking care of yourself is definitely important. 

 Q. If you were to play four of you together, who would you want the fifth guy to be?
 RAY ALLEN: I don't think you can go wrong with the guys we have out there on the four, but I guess fourth quarter, if we are playing together in the fourth quarter -- Kevin could be the 5-man and you could go me, Rondo, Paul, LeBron. There's just so many possibilities. So it will be fun. 
 It is up to him, and obviously you don't want to keep the people, keep the fans from a good game. So you want to get out there and run up-and-down, but for most of us that haven't been here several years, the weekend -- it's about the weekend and once you get to the game, it's almost like people are just happy to be in the building and you know, my family, I know when they watch the game, they watch and they are excited about it. 
 I think most people that I've interacted with, they are like, if I score two or eight points, man, the game is awesome, just great to be in the building. 

 Q. There seem to be so many more things going on than usual --
 RAY ALLEN: Have you been here before in the All-Star Game? It's always like this. We talk about lockout, we talk about Collective Bargaining Agreement every year. I don't think it's any different. You know, it's not even halfway point any more, we are past the halfway point, and I do believe that every year, there's always something to talk about. You get your best players on the stage, the league, the whole world looking down on the NBA at this time. You talk about everything that goes on. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT