NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 16, 2010
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What did you see on film, and what do you think?
 RAY ALLEN: A lot of missing and a lot of everything. Just offensively -- we've had this conversation before about the ball being stuck. We didn't make the extra pass. It sucks, too, because we talk about this a lot in the aftermath of our losses. We saw it on film. You're talking about the first quarter. We didn't set a good trend. And talking about what our bench didn't do, I take sole credit in the starting five for that because as the starters we didn't set a good precedent. It's on us - me, Rondo, Kevin, Paul sitting right there, that's the guys. You can look around at the guys coming off the bench or our coaching staff, but we've got to start the game on parallel, like getting back on defense, moving the ball on offense. Those are things that we have to do. 
 Regardless of what plays are called, that's the way it's got to be for tomorrow night's game.

 Q. So what's there, desperation? What's there for you guys?
 RAY ALLEN: I think it's a whole bunch of those emotions that you throw in the pot and mix them around. As a team, as individuals, I don't want to be sitting around in July having to ask myself, did I do everything that I could have done? Have any regrets? I don't want to be that person. I want to do everything I can to leave it all on the floor.

 Q. Keeping in mind the obvious, which is that nothing is more important than Game 7, which we understand, what are your thoughts on the possibility that this could be the last game that the three of you play together? 
 RAY ALLEN: That's something that -- I've never been a look too far in the future type of person, like what's going to happen, in the midst of, because I've been with other great players and I've been on teams with other great coaches, and you just always take solace in the fact that you do everything you possibly can to get yourself in a good situation and move forward, whether it's in your current situation or if you have to move. 

 Q. You've played plenty of Game 7s, but this is Game 7 of the NBA Finals. Talk about what's going through your mind at this moment. 
 RAY ALLEN: Well, that's the one thing. It's 3-3 despite losing Game 6. It's 3-3, and we're sitting here Game 7, and we now have to take everything we did in three games to win and take everything out of the three games that we lost and try and play them in our favor so we can come out on top.

 Q. What's the biggest thing that you want to take out of -- the positives you want to take into Game 7?
 RAY ALLEN: Just the aggressive nature that we had, the attacking that we had at both ends of the floor. Just everybody was fierce in the games that we won, and when we lost it was the opposite. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT