NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 24, 2010
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Orlando Magic 96
  Boston Celtics 92

 Q. Ray, I think one thing Doc was most upset about was execution particularly on the last play. Can you talk about what happened? 
 RAY ALLEN: There were a couple of plays down the stretch offensively that we botched. Plain and simple. Going into overtime, we didn't even get a shot up at the basket. We were rushing. It just didn't seem that we had or were in great sync there in the fourth quarter offensively. We're kicking ourselves because we had great opportunities still. 

 Q. Ray, how do you guys explain having played so well over so many games and then coming in tonight seeming out of sync both offensively and defensively? 
 RAY ALLEN: Well, I don't want to take anything away from the game plan that they put together. Offensively they were more aggressive. Defensively they were trying to give us different looks. So you definitely always have to give the other team credit for them giving us the differences from this game to the last game. 
 So it is frustrating, but, you know, we always have to take step back and breathe. Offensively, again, like I said, we seemed like we were rushing. Seemed like starting off the game everybody was holding the ball just a second too long. And then defensively, we didn't plug those holes as much. We didn't get over the top. They didn't shoot the ball great from three, but they got a lot more threes. That's something we've done a great job of up to this game. 

 Q. You guys are big on not giving other teams any light, especially in games or in series. Do you feel like they go home with two home games, do you feel like there's any shred of a door open for them or a window crack open for them? 
 RAY ALLEN: Definitely there's no need to panic. We like the position we're in. It's just always a lesson, in humility. As a team, as individuals, you never get too big for the situation. We're in a great position, like I said. So we have to take care of the small things, and they'll add up to what we ultimately want. 

 Q. You mentioned the botched plays at the end. How much of that do you think was the pressure to try to clinch, to try to get the series over with so you wouldn't have to go back to Orlando? As a follow-up, how much extra pressure is on you guys now that you have to go down there and face a Game 5? 
 RAY ALLEN: None. None. It had nothing to do with pressure at all. It had nothing to do with it. I don't think anybody on this team was looking past today. We weren't definitely in the game. You have so many things on your mind, you weren't thinking about what was happening tomorrow. It was all about that moment. We have such great talent on this team, such great individual talent on both ends of the floor that each man feels like they can get the defensive stop. Each guy feels like they can make the shot to win the game for us. Sometimes that's been at our team's detriment. So sometimes pulling back for all of us, like you come off, you have the ball, just swing it. Sometimes I might have a shot, but Kevin might have an easier one. Just plays like that. The unselfishness out there on the floor. When we're great, that's what we do. I think there were spurts tonight where we weren't great. We were just average. 
 We've exhibited greatness I think on both ends of the ball. Didn't have anything to do with tomorrow, the next day. It was just you look at film and you just say we have to make sure we trust each other. 

 Q. Ray, Doc said guys were playing hard but they were maybe trying to do it too much themselves. Sounds like you agree with that? 
 RAY ALLEN: In essence, that's what I just said. To nobody's fault. Nobody was purposely trying to dribble out the ball or take the last shot or do it all by themselves. Sometimes you get in the heat of the moment and you see a play and you try to make it. We just always have to remember to use each other. 

 Q. Ray, this was a very physically wearing game. Doc always jokes about how you guys are an older team. What do you guys have to do tomorrow to make sure you're physically rested an rejuvenated for Game 5? 
 RAY ALLEN: I'll probably run four or five miles tomorrow (laughing). No. The night is already worn on so long as it is already, probably somewhere around 12:30. Sleeping in most definitely, and then just getting your rest, flying down there and tomorrow just get as much rest as necessary. Even the next day, going into Wednesday getting rest. 
 The recovery is very big for us on these off-days. I feel great. I look forward to playing again on Wednesday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT