NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 23, 2010
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   RAY ALLEN: (Indiscernible) Orlando is a great example. Sometimes he has had success and when he's had his success, you know, you learn what we're preaching, what we're selling is, it's a good product. And you can't stray away from that formula. It takes sometimes them to have their missteps in order for them to understand what we're doing is the way it needs to be done. 

 Q. How do you explain how this team looks better running through the East than it did two years ago when you were probably the number one seed and now you're the number four seed? 
 RAY ALLEN: I don't even compare it. Next year it will be totally different. It's always different regardless of having the same team, the team changes. Nothing you can compare. 

 Q. Just from the experience of having done it, you know how to get there. Is it that maybe the first run you guys were still trying to learn how to play with each other in the postseason? 
 RAY ALLEN: I think every post-season you find you are learning something different. Teams, they get accustomed to what you're doing. So when that happens, you have to -- somebody new has to step up and win a game for you. We have a deep team. We rely on everybody to be good. 

 Q. Doc was saying he can't explain why you guys had some trouble winning at home this year. Do you have any thoughts on that? Is it safe to say it's not a problem anymore, given the way you've been playing at home? 
 RAY ALLEN: I didn't really worry about it. Obviously any game you lose you don't want to lose. I never really placed a great deal of emphasis on it. If it was home or road for me, didn't make a difference. You lose a game, you have to figure it out. 

 Q. Why are you guys playing so good defensively right now? 
 RAY ALLEN: I don't question it. I don't even answer it. Just keep doing what we're doing. 

 Q. Is it a team commitment? It's got to be a team commitment. 
 RAY ALLEN: Everything is team commitment. If you are going to be here, you have to be committed. Even if you're playing bad, it doesn't change your level of commitment. You have to change some things around. 

 Q. Do you remember earlier in the year you were talking to Rondo, it was not just everybody talking about the big three, it was like this could be your last chance of winning a championship too. How do you think he responded to that? Not just him, other young guys --
 RAY ALLEN: I don't believe they take it as serious, but I told him, I said one year when I was your age, I made it to the Eastern Conference Finals. And then sniffed it again, made the playoffs after that one more time, then didn't sniff it again until I got here. So it's never guaranteed to be in a situation where everybody is on the same page to win. 
 People talk about it, but the actions, they go in place. You are lucky to line up with a group of guys that have the same goals as you do, and organization as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT