NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 7, 2014
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I think we all know you're an athletic freak, for lack of a better term.   How did the heat the other night affect you, especially with the day off in between? 
    RAY ALLEN:   I feel great, probably the best I have felt in a while.   After the game I was exhausted, which was expected.   You know, it's just that feeling when you finish the game, you feel like you can play another one.   My body was so hyped up at that time. 
    It was fun. 

Q.   You seemed energized on the floor, going back to the old Shuttlesworth days with the throwdown there.   Is that something you feed on? 
    RAY ALLEN:   It's a special time of the year.   Your body‑‑ you don't require a lot of motivation, and inspiration to go out there.   You see what you're playing for, it's a heightened time of year for all of us.   So there is no‑‑ there is no letdown mentally or physically.   You get out there ready to play. 

Q.   How do you prepare for that, a run like this, the non‑working air conditioning aside, just the length of the NBA season? 
    RAY ALLEN:   I think mentally you can't let it overwhelm you.   Sometimes if you live inside your own head and you pay attention to what you're doing and the magnitude of the moment, it can get the best of you. 
    Now it's great to be, you know, here for us, because there is not a lot to do.   So we kind of stay to ourselves in the hotel and just play cards or do whatever you can do just to let the moments pass.   When the time comes, you're ready to get into it, ready to focus and it doesn't overwhelm you too much.   Once you get out there, so many people are watching. 
    Somebody asked me, this is great pressure, how do I deal with it?   This was a friend of mine a week ago.   And from the outside looking on the inside, that's kinda how you see it because you know people all over the world are watching and you think about what it means to everybody and how everybody has a comment on it.   It's all over social media.   But once you get in between the lines, you just do what you've been doing.   For most of the guys in this series, we're built for these situations. 

Q.   What about physically?   Do you play over the summer at all?   You've been known to keep yourselves in top physical shape. 
    RAY ALLEN:   Basketball I don't play a lot because there is so much pounding.   Probably over the last eight or nine years I've gravitated toward some more conditioning, you know, from running on the street and cycling.   I've been cycling now for 14 years maybe.   So when I get an opportunity, I always try to ride as much as I can, find my paths in the summertime. 
    Then I gravitate, as the season draws to a close, the summer season I end up running a lot more just to get that pounding on my feet that I need, but it doesn't take a whole lot, but the important thing is not to get out of shape. 
    More importantly learn to eat right because that's half the battle.   That's where you keep yourself in great shape and then you get in the gym and sculpt it.   





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT