NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 20, 2010
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RAY ALLEN: I don't -- the fans, they have a right to cheer. We're going to come home and we hope our fans cheer and are just as loud and boisterous as their fans are down in Orlando.   
  
  Q. Does it bum you out when guys on your team say things like --  
 REPLACENAME: No, it doesn't bum me out. Paul has to understand we're a classy organization, and we always have to make sure we operate that way regardless of what the outcome and the standings are?   
  
  Q. What's the difference between this series and the ones between you guys two years ago? A few of you guys are older and a few more of you guys have developed?   
 RAY ALLEN: I think this team has more talent, for sure. I think throughout the course of the year we've had to learn with the talent to do less, as opposed to -- you know, we were so-called the big three. And the three of us basically were getting the load to do everything.   
 We have guys now, with myself and KG, we have to step aside and make sure Rondo is doing what he does, and giving Perk great responsibility and having Rasheed and Marquis and all those guys out there.   
  
  Q. Is it you guys giving a little of that, or young guys sort of grabbing at some of that?   
 RAY ALLEN: It's both. It's both. The young guys -- when you come into the league, being a rookie is one thing, being a young player is one thing. Coaches they tell you you don't know anything. But at the same time, you have to go out there and you have to force people to believe in you and let them know you can do the job.   
  
  Q. What did you think of Paul's comments?   
 RAY ALLEN: I didn't know anything about it until I got here. So I didn't want to comment on it, because I don't know the full extent of it.   
 Like I said, this organization has always been classy. We have to focus on being good at home.   
  
  Q. Is there a concern that when you have the kind of 2-0 lead you guys have, overconfidence can be another things you have to guard for?   
 RAY ALLEN: Always. I think that's human nature. You think you have everything in the bag. You feel like you don't have to put as much effort out there to do your job and get the results that you got before that you want to get now.   
 So the same over-preparation has to take place, the same focus, the same mental approach that we've taken through the whole playoffs as a team.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible) in which there wasn't such a long layoff?   
 RAY ALLEN: Obviously, we have to do what we have to do, considering the circumstances. You know, you play a couple of games in a row like that, and then you're put on hold. I definitely would rather be out there playing. But we have to deal with it. And we have a couple of days to rest up and stay mentally sharp.   
  
  Q. What are the common threads that you guys have done in the first two games that you have to continue on your home court?   
 RAY ALLEN: We have to be a great rebounding team. We have to move the ball. We can't let them get up and down in transition and shoot threes.   
  
  Q. Is there a fine line between being overconfident and confident? You guys heard about them saying we will win.   
 RAY ALLEN: There's no guarantee what's going to happen in Game 3. Like I said, the only over I want to be is prepared. It's important that everybody does their job and knows that we've done our job to get into this situation.   
 Worrying about them is probably the least of my worries; more worrying about us and making sure that people take care of their bodies and take care of what we need to do on the team.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT