NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2009
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What is your legacy as a player? 
 RAY ALLEN: (Winning) does take you over the hump. People talk about great players in the league and you compare greatness with what you did on winning teams. Did you ever win the big game? 
 I remember for the longest time that discussion, and that discussion still takes place today with Charles Barkley and Patrick Ewing, two guys we feel are two of the best players in the history of the game. 
 That's the one negative that people always talk about. Now I'm talking about it. It does take you to that next level. Then they start comparing you to other players that have won and are on that level caliber of player.

 Q. You and Kevin got rid of that individually. But your team has one championship. In the NBA there has only been seven teams that have split the last 18 championships. How important is it to win two? 
 RAY ALLEN: I think now we have -- we're here as defending champions. Trying to disassociate from what we did last year because we are a different team and the league is different. 
 So, yeah, people respect the fact that we won last year but it doesn't get us anywhere now except for that the coach gives that rah-rah speech in the locker room and that first quarter is always hell on us because the team comes out with some gas that we have to make sure we take those first couple punches and get ready to deliver them back. Reminisce a little bit what we went through last night, it took us four quarters to get over the hump in the game.
 It always makes it tougher. We accepted the challenge and winning the last -- the last two decades the team that has won championships, it's always -- we talk about teams that have won back-to-back, there is a very select few. You talk about how hard it is. You talk about the teams that you make it to the playoffs one year and the next year you don't. It is hard work to do this day in and day out, year in and year out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT