NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 17, 2008
Ray Allen
Wyc Grousbeck
Paul Pierce
Doc Rivers
Stuart Scott
David Stern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  STUART SCOTT: Congratulations to a franchise that will raise a 17th banner in the rafters here at the new Boston Garden. Now here to present the Larry O'Brien Trophy to the Boston Celtics, NBA Commissioner David Stern. 
 COMMISSIONER DAVID STERN: The Lakers were a worthy Western Conference champion, but there can only be one, and the 2008 NBA champion for the 17th time, a record, your Boston Celtics. 
 Congratulations to Wyc Grousbeck, fellow managing partners Stephen Pagliuca and H. Irving Grousbeck, Bob and David Epstein, Danny Ainge, Doc Rivers, the entire Boston team, the entire Boston organization, and this wonderful city of Boston. So let's give them the trophy.
 STUART SCOTT: First Celtic championship since 1986. Let's get Wyc Grousbeck in here. Last year the Celtics had the worst record in the East. What amazes you the most right now about being the champion? 
 WYC GROUSBECK: It's the fans of Boston who stuck with us. This win is for Red Auerbach. Red believed in our ownership group and got it done. Thanks, everybody. It's for the fans of Boston. 
 STUART SCOTT: When you got these collection of guys together, training camp, your first meeting with them, what did you tell them? 
 COACH DOC RIVERS: "Defense." I said "defense." We play defense, we're going to win a world championship, and that's exactly what they did. They were phenomenal all year. They played like a team all year.
 STUART SCOTT: You as a player and a coach have been in over 1,500 NBA games, which is your first championship. When you saw the clock at triple zero, what was the first thought that ran through your mind? 
 COACH DOC RIVERS: My first thought was my father. The first thing I thought about, just a long year. I miss him, but that was my first thought. 
 STUART SCOTT: What would you do if your dad Grady were here right now? What would he say to you? 
 COACH DOC RIVERS: "Well done," and "it's about time." That's what he would say. "It's about time." 
 STUART SCOTT: If you look up the word "class" in the dictionary, you'd see a picture of you. 
 Now here to present the NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award for 2008, we welcome back in Commissioner David Stern. 
 COMMISSIONER DAVID STERN: Almost 22 points a game average, four and a half rebounds a game, over six assists, it is The Truth, the MVP of the 2008 NBA Finals is Paul Pierce. 
 STUART SCOTT: This is your 10th year in the NBA. All your career you have dreamed about winning a championship. How does the dream compare with reality? 
 PAUL PIERCE: This is unreal. This is unreal, just where we came from a year ago, where I was at, to be here today celebrating with my teammates, putting a stamp on what a great year it was, this year. I'm just happy that Doc, the ownership, my teammates, everybody, the city of Boston stuck with me throughout all the hard times. I know we didn't have a lot of great years, but you guys stuck with me, and now we bring home a championship to you. 
 STUART SCOTT: You guys acquired Kevin Garnett and Ray Allen. What was the biggest adjustment you had to make? 
 PAUL PIERCE: I knew I was going to be able to play with other great players, so I didn't feel like it was a big adjustment. I just knew if I had some other guys that I could play with that I would be able to make the adjustment. I mean, when I'm out there on the court, I'm playing with that experience, everybody said how selfish I was, but once these guys got here, I knew I had guys that could play. I just continued to play a floor game, took less shots and sacrificed for the good of the team. 
 STUART SCOTT: Ray Allen, come here. Paul Pierce is the captain of the team, Kevin Garnett is the emotional leader of the team, yet when both were asked earlier in the year who they would want to take the championship-winning shot, they both said you. What does that mean? 
 RAY ALLEN: We just have a great balance between those two guys. It seems like everything has worked out all year. We respect each other, and we're here sitting on championship 17. Thank you, Boston. 
 STUART SCOTT: You were in an awful shooting slump earlier in the playoffs. What did you go through inside when nothing seemed to be able to drop? 
 RAY ALLEN: I just stayed to my preparation. I didn't change one thing I did. I know teams were trying to take me out of the offense, but I just wanted to make sure that I did everything to make this team better, and it just kicked in for me late in the Detroit series. 
 STUART SCOTT: Ray Allen ties an NBA Finals record with seven three-pointers. Congratulations, Ray. 
 Congratulations, once again, to the 2008 Boston Celtics.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT