NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 11, 2008
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RAY ALLEN: We didn't play our best last night, and we know they played -- I'm pretty sure that they said they didn't play their best, either. But we didn't win, so we've got to be a little more desperate in Game 4.  
  
  Q. What are going to be the changes that you're going to do tomorrow to look for a different outcome?   
 RAY ALLEN: You'll see.  
  
  Q. Paul said he's still comfortable that you guys are the better team, that he's comfortable and confident. Do you agree?  
 RAY ALLEN: Yeah, I don't think anything changed just because we lost a game. The series always flip-flops from one game to the next. We never changed our mentality or even how we play, how we want to play. I think that there are things that we can do, but we're still not going to change how we play.  
  
  Q. Do you think this is in your hands, yours, to deal with?  
 RAY ALLEN: Yeah, it always has been. But winning two games at home wasn't good enough. We knew that coming out here we'd have to win. We just have to play good basketball, and I don't think we did that last night, and all the guys know that.  
  
  Q. What kind of adjustments will you have to make during shootaround? Will you look at the lighting of the arena? What's the difference between this place and the Garden?   
 RAY ALLEN: Well, I just made the assessment of when I was shooting how in the corners it's real bright. When I was shooting, I was shooting, and then when I looked for the ball I was looking into the light, so it kind of blinds you off the back. But that's why I get to the gym as early as I do, so I can adjust to what I'm doing out there on the floor and it doesn't affect me at all. But it's just a nuance here in this building. I'm pretty sure it didn't affect my shooting.   
 There's different things about different people's buildings that you get used to, and that's why you get a feel for the court when you go on it. But again, it doesn't affect me, and me going out shooting and looking at it, I was noticing it.   
  
  Q. Both teams have said they didn't play their best game. From your standpoint what do you want to see the Celtics do better?  
 RAY ALLEN: I think offensively we shot a lot of jump shots. We did not attack like we did the first two games.  
 Defensively we were spread out a little bit more than we have been, so we need to change that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT