NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 6, 2014
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Ray, thinking back on it, how hard was that situation last night? 
    RAY ALLEN:   Definitely there was a lot to talk about.   People who weren't there, family, friends that watched, everybody talked about it on TV and they wanted to know what actually‑‑ what it was like.   I just equated it to how we grew up.   There wasn't an air‑conditioned gym that we grew up in and your body adjusted to it. 
    You would notice the fatigue factor, but we still played the basketball game, and still had ample opportunity to win and that's what we all had to do. 

Q.   They fixed it, by the way.   It's been fixed. 
    RAY ALLEN:   I would imagine. 

Q.   You were hoping?
    RAY ALLEN:   I would imagine. 

Q.   You are experienced and played a long time.   Cramping, realistically how much does bad cramping hinder you like in LeBron's case last night? 
    RAY ALLEN:   Well, everybody's body is different.   LeBron has dealt with that quite often throughout his career.   I don't know how to speak on it or what he needs to do moving forward to prevent it, but me, I've had to change so many different ways in how I eat and the things that I drink and pay attention to your body. 

Q.   Have you ever been in the situation like that? 
    RAY ALLEN:   I've never had a cramp‑‑ I had a cramp one time when I was in college and I was sitting on a couch at home, so I don't know what it feels like during a game to experience that, so I couldn't speak on it.   I know at that time during the game, when LeBron was sitting on the sideline ‑‑ LeBron is a warrior.   For him not to be able to run back down the floor, when I saw his leg, you could see his muscle was contracted to the point where he couldn't move it.   That's what he was dealing with and he couldn't be in the game. 

Q.   Knowing that he's dealt with it before, does that he's‑‑ I don't know about his mind but a teammate's mind that he will be all right for the rest of the series? 
    RAY ALLEN:   Yeah, he'll be all right.   I was afraid he twisted his ankle when he went to the hole.   That's what I was more worried about.   When I knew he caught a cramp, you know, I've seen guys jump in the air and catch cramps, and they work it out and get over it.   But at that point in the game it was so late that he didn't have an opportunity to get his body together and get back out there. 

Q.   Did you do anything different last night?   Manu said he turned the air conditioning down to 65. 
    RAY ALLEN:   I took a cold shower, for sure, because it seemed like my body temperature was high.   I just made sure that I ate and drank a lot because my body, it was depleted, I think I was dehydrated by the time I got back to the hotel.   





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT