NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 26, 2008
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Ray, can you just talk about, there were five occasions where you guys had it to five points in the fourth quarter, but you guys could never seem to get over that hump.
 RAY ALLEN: Yeah, we figured we came from a couple situations. They jumped on us early in the game, and then come down to the fourth quarter where we got some stops, got to within five, and that was pretty much the extent of it. 
 I think offensively there were a couple plays where we had some good looks and we didn't knock those looks down, and we ended up getting to the free-throw line ultimately. But I think we just make it tougher on ourselves. 

 Q. As far as you and Kevin and Paul, what did they do differently defensively against you guys, and what was the reason for the offensive struggles? 
 RAY ALLEN: I just think early in the game we started off offensively on a bad note where even though they jumped out on us offensively, we didn't move the ball. The first half I don't know how many assists we had. I think going into the second quarter I think we had one assist, and anytime that happens, we're not going to do ourselves any favors at trying to score, and I think we've learned lessons over the past -- each individual trying to do it for themselves. 

 Q. Did you notice a concerted effort on their part to just play more physically tonight? Was it that much more physical a game? 
 RAY ALLEN: The game was physical last time we played. I wouldn't say it was that much more. It was a pretty physical game in Game 3. 
 I think they just really wanted to get off to a good start, unlike Game 3 where we jumped on them. And I think when they jumped on us, it set us back on our heels offensively and defensively. They scored, and we slowed the tide in the second quarter, but by that time we gave them momentum and guys got confidence in the game.

 Q. Can you now talk about how the series has changed again, you guys going back home with everything tied up. 
 RAY ALLEN: Yeah, it's almost like 0-0 again, it's a three-game series. We've got to protect our home court. We lost the last game at home, and definitely are going to have to win on their court for us to send a message or definitely move on. 

 Q. As far as you guys, you three, is it disappointing that you guys couldn't get the team over the hump at the end? 
 RAY ALLEN: It's always disappointing. I think we pride ourselves on making our teammates better and allowing them to make us better. There's a point where you just have to make the simple play. Making the simple play, letting somebody else -- you cover a little space and then you make that pass out, and you can live with that offense all day long. 
 I think just too frequently throughout the game we put ourselves in situations where I think we had some good shots, but I think we could have got better shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT