NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 25, 2008
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Do you feel a little lighter today?   
 RAY ALLEN: I don't think it was -- we feel good about what we did last night, but it's one small step. Yeah, I think we don't have to have that conversation about not winning on the road anymore.  
  
  Q. How do you fight complacency? I know you guys don't want to get fat and happy, but you did come up pretty good in two games. What do you tell your teammates about that going into Game 4?   
 RAY ALLEN: We just take everything that we did last game and just try to duplicate it. You know, you always say to try to do something, you've got to understand what it was like to have done it before and try to duplicate the situation. You just have to duplicate what we did and feeling what the building was like, how we wanted to be and how we prepared.  
  
  Q. How much was it to get 47 points from Rondo, Perk, Posey and all those other guys to add up to 47? How good was it to see those guys step up?  
 RAY ALLEN: I think that was the difference. Their bench outscored ours in Game 2. So it does, it takes a lot of pressure off Kevin, it takes a lot of pressure off Paul, off me if we're not scoring. And definitely our game plan is to keep us scoring when those other guys scoring. Very similar to when Stuckey comes in the game and McDyess, we want to limit their scoring opportunities, but when they score, it takes a lot of pressure off the starters.  
  
  Q. Detroit didn't move the ball nearly as well as they did in Game 2. Were you guys just shows them different looks like traps or different defense or something?  
 RAY ALLEN: You know how on defense, you say move without the ball and offense moves off the ball. Defensively we were moving just the same, like keeping bodies, like playing a man and a half, just moving around where you always kept somebody on your body.  
  
  Q. Do you think in terms of a killer instinct? Finishing them off in the next game here might mean -- something you guys did during the regular season. Does this last one sort of reconnect you to that?  
 RAY ALLEN: We're in a situation where at least we regained home court advantage by winning last night. It's just as important that we can go into the building and we know what it's like now in this postseason with this team, what it's like to win on the road and what we have to do and how we have to be for four quarters.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT