NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 21, 2008
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. First off, obviously it was tough last night and it's even going to be tougher tomorrow. Talk about the toughness factor, how game to game it gets tougher as things go along. 
 RAY ALLEN: That's basketball. When you see a team so many times, you're going to see them do different things. They're going to adjust to what we did on both sides of the floor, and we have to be ready to counter what they counter.

 Q. The work never stops here, does it, for you? You just keep practicing all different kinds of shots and everything you take into a game?
 RAY ALLEN: Yeah, everything possible. I think it's just about being comfortable. When you get put in certain situations, you just have to be ready to just get a shot off sometimes at the last second. You move any different way -- for me, I don't like to stand still and shoot, so it kind of gets my heart rate going. It somewhat simulates what's going on when there's 20,000 people in the building.

 Q. Despite your low shooting percentage it's not like they left you alone last night?
 RAY ALLEN: No.

 Q. They're chasing you all over the place, right?
 RAY ALLEN: Yeah, because I think for anybody, you defend tendencies, and you don't go into the game thinking about what happened last game if you stopped a guy. You just know what a guy is capable of, and you want to continue to keep a person down if they've been shooting the ball poorly. 
 I remember a couple games in my past where Coach was going, this guy hasn't shot the ball well so we'll leave him open, and he ends up getting hot on you. So you've got to continue doing what you're doing.

 Q. Doc said that Game 2 in the playoff series is the danger game for the home team, used the term "false sense of security after Game 1." 
 RAY ALLEN: It is, because you don't want to go out and think the same thing is going to happen and get the same results. The away team is thinking, we want to get one out of two, and then home court somewhat switches into their favor. 

 Q. You're a guy that gets so many shots off. When you're going through a period where your shots aren't falling in the games, do you do anything differently, change your approach, or stay with your routine?
 RAY ALLEN: Well, I think one thing that I've always added is getting more conditioning in, just so you run up and down the floor getting a feel for the game, and just steadying your heart rate a little better. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT