NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 4, 2014
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What's the hardest part of this wait, 7 or 8 days to get to that Game 1 final?   
    RAY ALLEN:   Nothing.   It's not hard at all.   I think this is a great moment for us.   It's time to enjoy, the travel, being around each other.   When we got here yesterday, just remembered last year and how much fun we had and, you know, another seven‑game set that we're looking forward to.   
   
 Q.   You were in the center obviously of a moment that the Spurs think about, Game 6.   How much do you think there is motivation or revenge on their side can be a factor in a series like this?   
    RAY ALLEN:   I won't say revenge.   I don't think that's a word they may use.   This is a whole new year.   I think it's helped them going into this year shape how they approach the season and think about the things they need to do to continue to win.   It's textbook to talk about things that you do and don't do to win games on every level, so if anything, I think it helped them and they know what they need to focus on and what they need to do and same thing with us.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).  
    RAY ALLEN:   Yeah.   All the time.   Because the end result people think about the shot going in but, you know, me personally, I think about everything that happens and I tell people that, you know, Chris Bosh getting the rebound was just as important as me making that shot.   
    So many things had to happen, LeBron had to make a play previous to that.   So many things had to happen, that's why you can never hang your head or get down in that situation, you know, we were fortunate that things worked in our favor but, you know, you don't plan to happen that way but winning the game is the ultimate objective.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).  
    RAY ALLEN:   You don't want to have to have your backs up against the wall where you have to fight and claw to get back into it like that, but the ultimate objective is to win games.   
   
 Q.   The folks in San Antonio see you as the No. 1 villain.   Are you ready for a reception like that?   
    RAY ALLEN:   I'll take it as a whole team thing.   I'm sure it will be directed at everybody, but we're in their way as well as they're in ours, and this is the last step for both teams.   So it's a great accomplishment for both teams, but only one team can come out on top.   
   
 Q.   Is there mutual respect here for these franchises?   
    RAY ALLEN:   For sure.   The one thing that I can say reflecting over last year was the great class that they showed throughout the whole series and even losing Game 7 on our floor, you know, Pop was so gracious and humble and congratulating us all and thanking us for the series.   
    You know, it was a lesson for everybody, not just us as players but the fans and other players around the league in other sports that, you know, we're all competing for something, and when you walk off the floor, it's not personal.   I beat you or you beat me, you know, you appreciate the competition.   
   
 Q.   Ray, can you make a case over the last dozen years that these are the two dominant teams in the NBA?   And would the winner of this series be the dynasty over the last dozen years?   
    RAY ALLEN:   I don't think I have to make that case.   I think the track record speaks for itself.   San Antonio since '99 has won four NBA championships, and the Heat have won four since 2006 and having gone to four straight Finals definitely in the last ten years these are the two more storied franchises in this league, so they definitely have set the bar, set the tone for other teams in this league.   So I don't have to say it, because I think people know it and it's all about winning games.     
   
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT