NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 25, 2014
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Spoelstra's idea is he just goes with whoever's hot, but to this team, does it matter who's on the floor at the end?   
RAY ALLEN:   In our minds, it doesn't.   You look out on the bench, there's so many guys that can contribute and can contribute in so many different ways.   
I don't know how many points Rashard had last night, but for us he had a great game.   Defensively, he was always in great position, and he just‑‑ the energy he played with was great for us all.   
Shot‑wise, it's the shot that goes in, but there's so much that goes into it.   Most people would look at that, but it's the rebound, it's so many other things at any given point.   
That's why you can't let the frustration of the game creep into your mind.   Fourth quarter is winning time, and I think at any given moment, we're going to count on somebody to do something to win the game.  
   
 Q.   How cool is it that this team already knows that?   It's not something you have to worry about.   
RAY ALLEN:   That's why we've been in this predicament so many times this year and last year.   Whoever goes in the game, you know there's an opportunity for a swing‑swing shot in the corner, extra pass, whatever.   It's little things that ultimately add up to the big things that help win.  
   
 Q.   There's some players who cringe in the big moment.   There's some players who love it.   Can you describe how comfortable you are in those big moments, especially closing out games in the fourth?   
RAY ALLEN:   Because I don't look at it as a big moment.   I look at it as a moment, a moment that I've rehearsed for many times, and that moment and that opportunity for me, you just do what you do.   You go to that position, and you just rely on years of training, years of practice, and you kind of let it flow through your body.   The worst you can do is miss.  
   
 Q.   How comfortable do you feel like this Heat team is overall with the fourth quarter and closing out games?   
RAY ALLEN:   It doesn't always go our way, but I think for the most part, we're comfortable enough to know that we're going to give ourselves a chance.   You're going to get a great shot.   You're going to give yourself a chance where we defensively may have to get a stop.   
             But that's all you really ask for.  
   
 Q.   Is tomorrow the next game, or is tomorrow a big chance to really put a stamp on this thing and really take absolute control?   How do you guys look at it?   
RAY ALLEN:   I think, if we look at it from the same vantage point, it's the next game that we have to really build into it again.   We can't take what we did last night or in Game 2 and say it's kind of setting the stage up for us in Game 4.   
             It's about us going out there and building into that first quarter again.  
   
 Q.   Do you take a lot of pride in watching your teammates hit those big shots that you sort of rehearsed your whole life for?   When they finally step up, like D‑Wade last night?   
RAY ALLEN:   I was excited for D‑Wade when he hit the three and Rashard hit the three because I see the work that every guy puts in every day.   To me, that's why you do it.   We talk about this two‑hour window that we play basketball and everybody gets to see it.   
The emotions pour into you because you're in a tough situation and you're back's up against a wall, but for the most part, the work is put in here every day.             
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT