NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 19, 2013
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RAY ALLEN:   I realized it's more probably how much it affected this whole situation, obviously we wouldn't be here right now.   Just the people around the world, friends of mine I know, how everybody watched it, how it made them a fan, people who are fans of either me or this team.   
So just sometimes you forget, because we live in a fish bowl.   You don't understand the magnificence of this situation.   It's an amazing situation to be a part of.   
   
 Q.   One of the reasons they brought you here was to make those kinds of shots.   You struggled a little bit in the playoffs.   Does it bring back a little bit of the good feeling being able to knock down shots certainly of that importance?   
RAY ALLEN:   Well, I look at it like we've‑‑ the playoffs is not‑‑ you don't just go 4‑0 every series.   Every team is out there to try to take away what you're capable of doing team‑wise and individually.   
So we've got hit, we've got knocked down.   I will say in the three or four series we played in, we got up every time.   We've all responded to the adversity we've been hit with and now we're here in Game 7 on our floor.   We like our chances.   We've been a resilient bunch this whole season.   
   
 Q.   Like some of the other guys, you saw the yellow tape and stuff, and it seemed to irk everybody a little bit.   You kind of gave a look at it.   Is there a feeling this is a little premature and you want to get this thing done?   
RAY ALLEN:   The yellow rope pissed me off.   It did.   I've been in two other situations where I see that come out.   And it wasn't a good thing in those situations.   
Last night there was a minute or so left in the game, and it was almost like San Antonio, the players on the bench, were celebrating.   The rope came out, and some of our fans were leaving the building.   We didn't give up.   We knew we had to continue to push through this.   
We just, to a man, felt like‑‑ a couple of the guys said it, this wasn't how it was supposed to be, and we don't see this.   This is not what our future is.   Not right now.   Not here.   
We fought to make sure that didn't happen.   
   
 Q.   What comes to your mind when you hear the two words "Game 7"?  
RAY ALLEN:   So many things.   I've been a part of Game 7s throughout my career, whether it was The Finals or just the playoffs in general.   In many situations it's a scary feeling, because anything can happen.   You're on the fence.   If you don't come, you don't bring it, you can be on the other side of it.   It's not a happy, great feeling that you feel coming down from it.   
As a competitor you love it because you know you have an opportunity, and it's up to you.   We have a chance in our building to make something great.   All of our legacies are tied to this moment, to this game.   Something that our kids will be able to talk about they were a part of and our family members.   So forever we'll remember these moments.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT