NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 15, 2013
Ray Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Playing a series like this, there's obviously a point where two teams start to become familiar with each other.   You guys got in the passing lanes a lot more.   As a shooter, is it important for them, for you guys for that familiarity‑‑ is it harder to make those shots to try to make sure you're not in familiar passing lanes? 
RAY ALLEN:   I don't think it's any tougher.   I think most of the shots are created by pick‑and‑roll coverage.   If a team makes a mistake or the point guard if he's overaggressive, it forces some type of trigger where we have to respond or help (Indiscernible) it takes one guy off another.   There's always one guy left in the perimeter.   That's pretty much the shooter out there.   You almost have to react where you give him that up‑‑ or at least you show that's something you're giving up.   Ultimately you have to get up a successful shot. 

Q.   Having played so many series, because we're all geniuses, we're surprised we can't figure out from game to game the momentum what's happening.   Does it surprise you every game is a microcosm of itself where it's so different? 
RAY ALLEN:   No, not really.   If you look at it I would say at least three of the games, I think the last two games, the games pretty much they started off where they were typical games.   And then there's a point where they broke open for one team or the other. 
So it's hard to really say why it happens.   But for us we just like to create that momentum as the game wears on. 

Q.   It's strange for a team that's so good.   11 straight games now where it's win‑loss, win‑loss, win‑loss.   How do you snap that?   What's the reason behind that for a team that's been so consistent all year? 
RAY ALLEN:   I couldn't really say.   I know it doesn't feel that way especially in the playoffs.   The tide does turn.   When it turns,   hopefully you're on the positive side of that turn.   But we just going into the game tomorrow, we have to make sure we do those small things that the tide does go in our favor. 

Q.   Does it feel different do you think coming out using that momentum out of that last game?   Do you think this could be the game where that turns and that consistency comes back from game to game? 
RAY ALLEN:   I think in this situation when you try to use that momentum from game to game, that's what ends up being their demise.   Thinking things are supposed to go in your favor the way they went last game.   You have to rework those possibilities as the game starts, to make sure that you switch those things in your favor.   They don't just happen. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT