WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2002
Arvind Parmar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  What did you make of that performance? 

ARVIND PARMAR:  Slightly disappointing.  He played pretty well.  I mean, a lot of it was out of my hands.  He either hit a winner or put me under so much pressure I couldn't do much.  The main thing there was I didn't serve as well as I could have. 

Q.  Just an off day? 

ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, I've been actually serving pretty well the last couple weeks.  It was, yeah, a little bit disappointing. 

Q.  Did the heat have anything to do with it?

ARVIND PARMAR:  No. 

Q.  He was saying that he expected you to come into the net more.  He also suggested the reason might be that he was hitting so well that you couldn't.  Was that correct? 

ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, yeah, he was hitting very hard, very heavy.  So it was tough for me to actually move forward on any balls.  He was returning well.  Plus, my serve wasn't anything great.  A bit risky, serve and volleying.  Maybe I should have just stuck a couple in there.  He was just returning so well, you know, it was tough to do that. 

Q.  Is there pressure being the first British player on court at Wimbledon this year?  Is that pressure good or bad?

ARVIND PARMAR:  Doesn't bother me.

Q.  Did you feel special today knowing it was Wimbledon?

ARVIND PARMAR:  Oh, of course, yeah.  The tournament's unbelievable.  Great tournament, great memories here, you know, for me, last three years.  Been brilliant.  Great court, great crowd.  But didn't bother me being the first Brit on out there. 

Q.  How do the courts compare to last week in Nottingham?

ARVIND PARMAR:  They're pretty similar, yeah.  They're good.  They're nice courts.  They've always been.  I mean, the amount of courts they've got, to keep them in good shape, you know, is a great achievement.

Q.  I noticed some of the bookmakers have made Tim favorite now.  What do you think of that?  Would you put him as favorite?

ARVIND PARMAR:  For me, I think he'll win it this year.  I really do feel he can win it.  You know, his half of the draw is good for him.  I think come semis or, you know, something like, that he'll be playing some of his best tennis. 

Q.  How far do you think Thomas might go?

ARVIND PARMAR:  It's tough to say really.  He made quarters last year.  If he plays like that, you know, serves as well as he does, there's no reason why he can't reach the quarters.  Once you reach the second week, you know, everyone's going to be playing great.  It's anyone's tournament when you get to the quarters. 

Q.  What is your schedule from here? 

ARVIND PARMAR:  Well, I've got the doubles either on Wednesday or Thursday, even maybe tomorrow.  And then hopefully go to Newport, play in another grass court tournament, and to the States for the buildup to the US Open. 

Q.  Is Newport a challenger? 

ARVIND PARMAR:  No, Newport is a tournament.

Q.  How did you feel your buildup to Wimbledon had gone?  Were you satisfied with it?

ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah.  As good as the previous years really.  Won a few matches, a couple of good ones, a couple of big wins there for me.  You know, I was pleased at the way it went.  But, unfortunately, it was a bit of an anticlimax, as they say, compared to the previous years.

Q.  You were pleased until you saw the draw?

ARVIND PARMAR:  No.  I mean, it wasn't  -- I thought Thomas at Queen's, lost there first round.  It's not as if he's, you know  -- as if he was playing great on the grass.  I can imagine it's not his favorite surface.  You know, looked at the draw and thought I had a chance. 

Q.  The big disappointment was being broken at the start of each set presumably?

ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, that's the thing.

Q.  It was the killer?

ARVIND PARMAR:  It would have been a completely different match, I feel, if I could have gone 2-All, 3-All.  It's tough playing catch-up.  Thomas is a guy who loves being in the lead.  You know, he hits freely when he's in the lead.  I mean, it goes with anyone:  if you can stay with them, your chance will come. 

Q.  You're going to the US Open to try and qualify?

ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah. 

Q.  Do you get a chance at all that perhaps the national obsession with the World Cup is transferring to Wimbledon?

ARVIND PARMAR:  What, they want to win it? 

Q.  Union Jacks. 

ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, I mean, it's Wimbledon, isn't it?  Tim's come so close.  Greg, you know, all those guys.  I think there's always an excitement about Wimbledon.  I think it's actually  -- I think it's quite low-key for Wimbledon actually.  Obviously because of the World Cup, they haven't made such a big deal about Wimbledon as far as putting pressure on Tim and Greg, all the other Brits.  But now we're out, I'm sure Tim wins his first round, everyone will get excited again. 

Q.  Do you think in a way that would help, the fact that it hasn't been in the spotlight until suddenly?

ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah.  I think  -- what, as far as Tim and Greg and the Brits? 

Q.  Yes. 

ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, I think in a way it's pretty good.  But I know they don't  -- you know, they don't pay much attention to it anyway because if you do, you go out there a nervous wreck. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT