WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2001
Arvind Parmar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  In a sense, did the match on Monday eventually take its toll?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  No, I don't think so, not really.  I mean, I was still a little bit sore, but you expect that from a best-of-five-set match a couple days before.  But that wasn't the reason why I lost. 
 
Q.  What was the reason?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Well, I mean, I started off well.  I didn't take my chances in the third set.  I had 15-40.  Hit a good return.  He actually hit a good volley.  Then he actually upped his game.  He got a lot more confident.  He started returning really well, hit a lot of winners, put me under a lot of pressure.  
 
Q.  Do you think his superior fitness might have told?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  His?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  No, not at all.  It wasn't down to fitness.  I didn't lose that match because of fitness. 
 
Q.  Do you think you were at the top of your game? 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  I wasn't 100%, but no one would be 100% after the match I played.  But, yeah, like I said, it wasn't down to that at all.  
 
Q.  Are hard matches early on quite difficult? 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  I think for any player, if you want to look to go far in a tournament, you don't want to be having long matches to start with.  It could take its toll.  Yeah, I think every player would agree with that.  
 
Q.  Do you think you'll look back on today and see it as an opportunity missed?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  I think I gave it my best shot and I got myself in a good chance in the third set - but I missed that chance.  You know, he's a world-class player.  Difference was, when he had a chance, he took his first chance.  That's all the difference was really today.  
 
Q.  At one point your coach yelled out, "Andy Roddick." 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  When?  Today?  
 
Q.  Yes.
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  I didn't hear him say it.  Never heard that before.  
 
Q.  David Lloyd said some pretty scathing things about you, that you're unfit, possibly spoiled, weren't living in the real world.  I wonder what your reaction to that is?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  I haven't read that.  Well, he's always said that, so it doesn't really bother me. 
 
Q.  Is there any truth in that?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  No, not at all.  I'm not bothered.  
 
Q.  Certainly you don't feel  --?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  No, I'm not bothered. 
 
Q.  Not bothered about what David said at all?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  No.  
 
Q.  The crowd were very supportive of you.  That must be a pleasing thing for you in view of what other people might say. 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, I mean, the crowd were backing me.  The crowd is always good here.  I'm just concerned of what my team says, the people around me who are trying to improve my tennis.  That's what I'll, you know, keep listening to them, I'm going the right way. 
 
Q.  Does it help you to stay focused?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Definitely, yeah.  You can't let too many people come in and out.  You know, it doesn't benefit you with people taking interest one week and not for the next three or four weeks.  You just stick to the people that's trying to help you and try to keep learning. 
 
Q.  Do you think it helps British tennis players when you have someone who is quite outspoken at the top? 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, I mean, it's not a nice thing to hear when you're playing pretty well, you eventually get through a match where you were cramping, proved that you could actually do it.  But I think with any sport really, there's always going to be some guys that are going to be outspoken.  You know, you've just got to deal with that.  
 
Q.  Players learn to live with that presumably. 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Sure. 
 
Q.  He also talked about how mentally talented you were, how he always had you down as one of the great hopes, someone who can really develop. 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Who is this?  
 
Q.  David Lloyd.  He talked about it in a way that perhaps he could get some really, really good coaches involved like Pat Cash to steer your career.  Do you think perhaps we should get some big, high-profile coaches involved in the setup? 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  I think high-profile names are great.  You know, it's what works for me.  I don't think because they're a high-profile name it will benefit me or benefit anyone else.  Maybe it will.  Just because he's a big name, he's won Wimbledon, been a very successful player doesn't mean that he's going to automatically be a good coach.  It's something the LTA have always thought about.  You know, at the end of the day, it's their choice.  I'm happy with the coach I've got and the team I've got around me.  
 
Q.  Is it fair to say that you need to discover a volley on grass to really push your game forward?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  I think on the grass obviously the attacking player is very, very helpful.  I think for me, if I feel I'm hitting the ball well, I'm returning well, then the rest of my game comes together quite nicely.  But, yeah, I think for me I need to be at the net a little bit more, but also I've got pretty good groundstrokes and I like to use those to get into the net. 
 
Q.  Are you happy with your volley as it stands?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, it's pretty good.  I think obviously every shot can be improved.  My movement around the net could be a little better.  
 
Q.  What will you take away from Wimbledon this year?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  You know, it's great that I won my first-round match after struggling.  You know, I proved my fitness, that I could get through a match like, that a best-of-five-set match, hot conditions.  I'm going to take away a lot of positives. 
 
Q.  Will you come back to watch any more matches?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  I still have doubles.  Hopefully I'll be here for the next few days.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT