WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2001
Arvind Parmar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Nice, simple game to start out with. 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Not the easiest one, but I managed to scrape through it somehow.  I don't know how.  Just managed to get myself through it.  
 
Q.  Did you think at one point you might have to give up with a cramp?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  It crossed my mind actually because I started getting a little bit cramped at the end of the fourth.  I just thought, "If I don't win this set, I could be in bad shape, but 2-All, 3-All."  But it kind of hit a level where it wasn't getting any worse, but it was just there constantly.  Yeah, it crossed my mind.  I just thought, "Well, what's the point of pulling out?  I've played four and a half sets.  Might as well just finish it off, win or lose."  I just started totally relaxed, and that was it.  Just started swinging about. 
 
Q.  It's amazing, first round, all the dream pairings for the second, for the British men?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Very strange.  Everyone's got big names in the second round.  It was quite strange.  I think it's just the way the draw goes, I suppose.  But I'm just happy to get through my first one.  You know, I've got nothing to lose now in the second match.  Just go out there and try my hardest again. 
 
Q.  When you were serving at 5-6, you couldn't even raise your leg to get your serve over. 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Had you given up?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  I mean, that was the main problem.  I couldn't land on my legs, and I couldn't bend them.  As soon as I bent them, I'd get a cramp in my hamstrings and my quads.  Tried just to deal with it as best I could.  I got quite lucky actually.  Match point down, hit a second serve ace.  Thought, "Just do it, get off the court."  It actually went in.  Quite a lot of luck in that serve.  I couldn't believe my luck when I found myself match points up.  I think I used all my luck up for the year.  
 
Q.  What's the longest you played before that match?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  I think I played El Aynaoui in Australia two years ago.  That was a good four hours, I think.  I think this is the longest.  I think that was four hours, as well.  
 
Q.  You were criticized by David Lloyd after that, basically not being able to last five sets.  Do you feel vindicated? 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Well, it was strange.  Yeah, he did say I couldn't last five sets.  Then I beat Andre Sa last year Wimbledon coming back two sets to one down.  I've won there.  I've done it again.  I think cramping isn't a sign of fitness.  I think everyone cramps.  Take Rafter, for instance, he's a great athlete, but he still cramps.  So I think that was a little unfair because cramping is not a sign of fitness.  
 
Q.  How much is this such a joy for you after the last time you played on a court here?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, yeah, obviously losing in five sets, disastrous.  It was a disaster, you know, the result, the whole thing.  Me losing that match two sets to love up.  To be honest, when I came back here, I didn't really have the same feeling as when I played Davis Cup.  It's a totally different feeling.  I was, you know, just concentrated on the match.  The last, you know, few months, year, whatever, from the Davis Cup result, it hasn't really affected me, to be honest.  Sure, I lost, but I gave it my best effort.  You know, I'm trying to improve my game.  That's all you can ask from any player. 
 
Q.  Surely a win like this, back at this place, helps you to think, "That's really in the past now"? 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, it was in the past going into this tournament, going into the grass court season.  It never really bugged me.  Sure, I was disappointed for a week afterwards, a few days.  I just thought, "That's tennis."  That's why I'm playing tennis, why people watch sport, because of that, the excitement.  Just got my head down and got on with it.  
 
Q.  You against Kafelnikov, Barry against Henman. 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Sampras.  
 
Q.  Against Sampras.  Then Martin Lee against Henman.  Of the four of you, which one would you say has the best chance of going through?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  As far as grass court specialists go, you know, Tim and Pete are, on paper, the worst draws.  You can say I've got, you know, the best chance to win the match.  Kafelnikov isn't a grass court player.  Don't get me wrong, he plays very well on the surface.  I suppose if you just look down at each player on grass, I suppose Kafelnikov is in third place.  But he can still play.  You know, it's going to be a very tough match.  
 
Q.  Looking ahead to the rest of the tournament, are you worried that this match has taken too much out of you?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, a little bit.  I'm quite sore at the moment.  I've got a day off tomorrow.  Hopefully I can recover pretty well.  Never know, might get a late match on Thursday.  But, you know, I've got doubles, as well.  You know, I'll just deal with it best I can.  They've got great trainers here.  Massage, all sorts of supplements you can take that can hydrate you, get you back into the best shape possible.  
 
Q.  Is it conceivable that you'll be going into the Kafelnikov game feeling sore?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, yeah.  I mean, I think after five sets, you're going to feel a little bit stiff.  If I do the right things, hopefully, you know, I can keep that to a limit where, you know, it's not painful like it was today.  
 
Q.  Would you like the match to be on Court 1, totally put that behind you?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, I suppose so.  I'm not bothered.  I'm really not bothered, whether it's on 1, 5 or whatever.  It hasn't affected me, that Davis Cup.  Obviously, it's a nice court to play on, because it's Court 1, it's a show court.  But I'm not thinking that I don't want to play on it because what happened last time.  
 
Q.  Would you think of pulling out of the doubles if you felt it was really going to hamper your chances on Thursday?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  I've got singles on Thursday and doubles would be after that.  
 
Q.  Suppose you actually beat Kafelnikov. 
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  It depends what shape I am in.  If I'm fit enough to play, I'll play.  If I'm not, well, that's life, I can't.  If I can play, I'll play, definitely.  
 
Q.  Against Kafelnikov, will you be conscious he's the kind of guy who can, if things start going wrong, just kind of lose it?  Will you be trying to look for that?
 
ARVIND PARMAR:  Obviously, every player has weaknesses.  Sometimes Yevgeny drops his head a little bit.  But he's a great competitor.  That's been him for years and years.  I'm sure he'll still be fighting and trying as hard as he can.  I mean, if I see a weakness like that, maybe I'll try to exploit it or whatever.  You know, I'm not going to go in there thinking he's going to just wipe me off the court or anything because, you know, I can hold my own.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT