WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2000
Arvind Parmar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Good afternoon.  Arvind for you. 


Q. Powerful serve today?

ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, he served pretty well today -- well, very well today.  For a while, for long periods, I didn't have enough answers for it. 

Q. Do you feel you let your head go down slightly because he was serving so well?

ARVIND PARMAR:  I think at the start of the third, I really was pretty down, I think for the first game at least.  The first two, I was fine.  Certainly at the start of the third, I felt, you know, pretty down.  It was so disappointing not taking the second set to a tiebreak, you know, because all you have to do in the tiebreak is get one or two back, not get four or five back as in a normal game.  Yeah, it was very disappointing for me to lose my serve at 5-6. 

Q. Very disappointing also to lose your serve after the last break?

ARVIND PARMAR:  Yeah, also that was a bit of a downer, yeah.  You eventually break him, you're not a break up, just back on even terms again.  To lose your serve immediately afterwards was a bit frustrating really.  I think he was playing the better tennis and deserved to win today.

Q. He was saying there's almost like two levels, that you perhaps still need to point out.  He pointed out that although you hit a lot of winners, you also hit a lot of mistakes. 

ARVIND PARMAR:  Definitely.  As far as my tennis is concerned, as far as me hitting the ball, I think I'm hitting the ball fine.  I think what he means is, you know, mentally I've still got a couple levels to get to.  So, yeah, I agree with the comment he made.

Q. You think you can get to those?

ARVIND PARMAR:  Definitely, yes.  Otherwise I wouldn't be trying. 

Q. How much did your wrist affect you today?

ARVIND PARMAR:  My wrist was fine, a hundred percent.  Nothing wrong with my wrist. 

Q. What happens now?  Do you stay and watch?  Is it painful to stay and watch?

ARVIND PARMAR:  No.  I mean, I'll hang around for a couple days.  Obviously, next week I think the team for Davis Cup is going to be announced.  I could be here for another week hopefully.  I think it will be announced in the next couple of days or so.  I'm going to be hanging around here at least until the squad's announced.

Q. Do you think you deserve to be selected after the way you played?

ARVIND PARMAR:  I think if they go on current form, yeah, I'm in with a good shout.  We'll wait and see. 

Q. How about stamina?  You've played two long five-set games prior to today.  Any problems?

ARVIND PARMAR:  I felt fine, I felt really good.  I was tested in both five sets.  I came out of it fine.  This morning I felt great.  There's no stiffness, no soreness.  I think I'm a lot stronger now.  That's really helped my recovery.

Q. What was the final diagnosis on the wrist?

ARVIND PARMAR:  Just slight tendonitis.  I didn't feel it once today.  My wrist is fine.

Q. What has been your Davis Cup experience prior?

ARVIND PARMAR:  My first one was in Newcastle against Ukraine.  My second one was in Ostrava against the Czechs. 

Q. Is there one part of your game you want to work on particularly?

ARVIND PARMAR:  I think for me it's more mental.  I think just believing that I can play at this level week in, week out.  It's going to be very tough.  As far as my tennis is concerned, I think that's going fine, that side of it.  Just a couple tactical things here and there.  No big deal over the tennis.  I think for players around 150, 130, 120, to get to that next level is a lot of mental work.

Q. That's such a tough thing to do. 

ARVIND PARMAR:  There's no better way to do it than play, you know, matches.  You learn so much every match.  I think there's only so much you can do when you're practising.  It seems you can improve very quickly if you play a couple of tight matches and come through it. 

Q. Partly a British thing, we seem to think British players don't have that mental strength. 

ARVIND PARMAR:  With me, in the past four or five years, I never really had the belief to see myself, you know, in the Top 50.  But now I think the last year and a half, two years, you know, it's not that far away.  I think if I keep listening to the right people around me, my coaches, the people that are involved in my game, I think, you know, I can do that. 

Q. How have you achieved a bit more mental strength?

ARVIND PARMAR:  I think just consistency.  My consistency the last year has been very good.  I think when you're consistent at a thing, you learn a lot quicker.  I think I haven't had many lapses over the last 18 , two years really.  I've just got to keep on trying to improve that.  You know, I'm not going to go away from this tournament a lesser player; I'm going to go away a better player.  This loss is disappointing for, you know, a few hours.  After that, I'll see all the positive sides.  That's where it really counts, where you can take some positives away. 

FastScripts by ASAP Sports... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT