WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2000
Arvind Parmar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. You said last week you were full of confidence. You just proved it this evening. 

ARVIND PARMAR: Yeah. Obviously very delighted with the win. I felt a certain pressure
actually going into today's match, having a two-nil win/loss ratio against him. I felt I
was the favourite going in. That made it a little bit tougher for me mentally. You know,
I'm glad I got the win in the end. 

Q. How many five-setters have you played?

ARVIND PARMAR: Just one before in Australia, start of the year I played a five-setter.
This is my second one.

Q. Did you win that?

ARVIND PARMAR: No, I lost that. 

Q. How did you feel going into the fifth set? Did you feel strong?

ARVIND PARMAR: Yeah, I felt very good. A little bit of a sore wrist, but that wasn't
too much of a problem. Physically, as far as my body was concerned, stamina, my strength,
you know, I felt a hundred percent.

Q. You looked sort of frustrated with yourself at times because you obviously felt you
could have been doing better. 

ARVIND PARMAR: Yeah, definitely. I think certainly in the third set I got very flat. I
felt I should have been, you know, winning that set, holding my serve easy to begin with,
then playing a bit of a sloppy game to lose it, was frustrating. I felt I should be
winning that set a lot more comfortably. All credit to him. He surprised me how well he
started off. He was playing some great tennis. It was tough for me to get on top of him at
the start. I managed to do so in the fourth and fifth. 

Q. Was there a turning point in the game?

ARVIND PARMAR: I think for me it was all at the start of the sets. I think if I get
bogged down too much in the middle of the set, kind of sets the tone for the rest of the
set. I think if I can be aggressive at the very start of each set like I did in the second
and the fourth and the fifth, it makes my life a lot easier because otherwise I get into
the same routine. I find it tough to break out of that sloppiness sometimes, what I call
it. I get a bit sloppy. 

Q. What kind of expectations do you feel are on your shoulders? What are your own
expectations?

ARVIND PARMAR: My own expectations, you know, I'm not the type of guy to go into a
tournament and think, "I'm going to win the tournament, make the final." I
always take it one match at a time. Kind of some players or some people would just look
too far into the future. My philosophy is just to stay in the present and just take one
day at a time, really not stress out too much about what's happened or what's going to
happen. I'm just going to keep playing as well as I can play and see what happens. 

Q. Have you looked to the next round at all?

ARVIND PARMAR: I play Rosset, another big name. I like playing big names. I tend to
play okay against them. I'm just going to go out there and enjoy it.

Q. You said there will be more pressure on you from the point of view with Greg having
gone out?

ARVIND PARMAR: I personally won't feel any pressure from that. We all have bad
tournaments. Greg had a bad tournament here. He'll come back. He's a class player. I mean,
it's not as if he's going to drop outside of 100. He may spend a couple months outside the
Top 20, but Greg just happened to have a bad tournament and it just happened to be at
Wimbledon. He'll be back. I don't feel I have to make up for his loss in any way. 

Q. Do you like the fact that your pictures will be in the papers tomorrow?

ARVIND PARMAR: Definitely of the that's all part of being a tennis player. That's why I
play the game, to be recognized, people to notice what I've achieved. Yeah, that will be
nice. 

Q. Are you going to do anything special tonight now?

ARVIND PARMAR: No. Just get some dinner and prepare in my doubles match tomorrow. 

Q. Getting to be a habit, these Wimbledon press conferences for you?

ARVIND PARMAR: It's nice. 

Q. Queen's, Nottingham. 

ARVIND PARMAR: Yeah, certainly the last three, four weeks have been pretty hectic as
far as the media is concerned. It's all part of it. I enjoy it. 

Q. Can you put your finger on what's going right?

ARVIND PARMAR: I think it's just my confidence. I think confidence and the consistency.
In the past I would have a couple of good weeks, then three bad weeks, then I'd have a
couple good weeks, one bad day. Now it seems to be a lot more consistent. This certainly
last six, seven, eight months have been very consistent, consistently getting better, as
well, not just staying at a level. I feel a lot more confident, a lot more belief in my
game. That's come about from my consistency. 

Q. You never waivered when you were losing two sets to one. How did you feel going into
the fourth?

ARVIND PARMAR: I felt I was hitting the ball well. It was just how it started out. Like
I said, in the start of the set, my belief was there. I mean, having so many chances and
being in so many of the rallies, just missing out, kind of had a couple of doubts in my
mind. I knew I could make something happen, and I did. In the end, the fourth and fifth
looked quite an easy score, but it was very tough. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT