JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2019
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a nice round of golf.  You really got off to a nice start on the back nine, your first nine in the second round.
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, I got a little lucky on -- I don't know what hole it was, but I chipped in, and yeah, just kept it rolling.
Q. On 14 for eagle?
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, that was good.  That could have definitely not been good.  But turned out good and just taking advantage of a hot putter right now.
Q. It's strange you'd say putter because when you shoot 65, usually you have 100 feet in putts.  You had 48 feet in putts, and you had 30 putts in the round.  Of course that's a reflection of hitting 16 greens, as well.
HAROLD VARNER III: I thought I putted well.  Just got to keep doing what I'm doing.  Getting it in play, that's the main thing, because I haven't been doing that lately, and it just feels nice just to be in contention.
Q. What are your thoughts going into the weekend?
HAROLD VARNER III: Try and do what I did today, maybe a little bit better.
Q. Were the greens receptive this morning?  Has the golf course changed much?
HAROLD VARNER III: No, it's about the same.  It's really fun right now.  It's super -- it's actually really firm, so I like it when it gets like that.  You can get it close, but you've just got to hit some good shots.
Q. Can you just talk about your day and how you're in contention after two rounds?  It's got to be nice for you.
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, it's nice when you're playing well to be in contention.  Just got to keep doing what I'm doing.  I feel like I'm doing a lot of things well.  Just got to -- I felt like I could make a few more putts, as usual, but just having fun, man.  I love playing golf, and I love being here.  I've played well here, so it's good to be back.
Q. How steady was it today in terms of -- as far as 65's go, the scorecard makes it seem like it was about as businesslike as could be.
HAROLD VARNER III: It was business.  I was grinding my tail off.  No, it was a lot of fun.  I mean, I guess you guys can see the scorecard.  I haven't really looked -- I signed the scorecard, but I didn't really look at it.  Yeah, I just feel like I'm doing a lot of good things.  That's why you practice, to be where we are right now.
Q. You mentioned you like this place; good finish last year, good week last year.  What is it about Deere Run that catches your eye?
HAROLD VARNER III: I seriously have no clue.  I wish I could tell you.  I come here and I play well and I enjoy being here.
Q. Because it's the people, right?
HAROLD VARNER III: Obviously they're taking care of me on the lawnmower side, but all in all, yeah, it's the people.  I had an ear infection or something earlier this week, and they took really good care of me.  So it's just -- I have no clue really.  I'm just trying to see and do and just hope for the rest, I guess.
Q. Just heard you on the radio, with the radio interview.  Did the course seem equally receptive today versus yesterday?  People were talking about whether it might get firm and fast around here for the first time.  What did you notice?
HAROLD VARNER III: I thought it was super fair.  When you get a longer club, obviously it's going to roll a little bit.  No. 9 I hit 6-iron in there and it rolled at least 20 feet.  I like it when it gets like that and you've got to do a little bit of thinking.  I don't, but my caddie does.  So that's fine, I just need to keep playing golf, keep having fun.
Q. Mindset going into tomorrow?
HAROLD VARNER III: Same thing, just keep having fun.  What's the worst thing that's going to happen to me?
Q. Take me through 14; what was your approach on that one?
HAROLD VARNER III: I got lucky.  Just trying to get on the green and roll it up there and ended up flying it about three fourths of the way and hit the pin and went in, so it was awesome.
Q. I saw you Tweet how you bought your parents 15 acres.  How involved are you in that whole process --
HAROLD VARNER III: Very.  Very.  When you play for something, it's a little different.
Q. So you were driving some instruction equipment --
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, it was fun.  I got a skip to, I've got a side by side, I've got all kinds of little toys, and it's a lot of fun.  I grew up on those things.  As long as I just stay alive.  I've been flipping them quite a bit lately.  But you've got to live a little, I think.
Q. What does that mean to you to be able to do that?
HAROLD VARNER III: Oh, it means the world.  Any time you can help your parents, I think that's what you should do.  They gave me everything I have right now, so it's pretty -- it's a no-brainer.  I just hope they enjoy it.
Q. Second round 65, walk us through the eagle you had at 14.
HAROLD VARNER III: I hit a really good drive in the rough and it was perfect, and I blasted it and it went too far and smashed the pin and went in.  It was awesome.
Q. How did you take advantage of the conditions out here in the morning wave?
HAROLD VARNER III: I don't think I had any bogeys.
Q. Not a single one.
HAROLD VARNER III: I think that's key because you can slip up a little bit and get into places where you can't get up-and-down, where you have to hit a really good chip.  So just doing what I do best, have fun, and if I make a bogey, who cares.
Q. Numbers might not be as low as they were last year, but when you notice this is a gettable course and birdies are out there, how do you have to treat the weekend?
HAROLD VARNER III: I guess do the same thing I've been doing, just get it in play and see what happens.  It's weird, you would think the scores wouldn't be as low but they're still pretty low, so you've just got to take it one hole at a time.  I've been fortunate enough to be in contention in some tournaments now.  Last year was probably my third tournament in contention.  I've just got to keep playing golf.  I love playing golf.  It's a great opportunity.
Q. From the last couple months, anything you'd change?
HAROLD VARNER III: I had a great week off.  I think it's very easy to just get caught in just playing golf instead of just doing your job, like knowing what you need to work on, and I didn't do anything last week.  I played 72 holes of golf in two days, and then I didn't touch a club until Monday here.  So just getting away from it, because about three days I start to miss it.  I love playing golf.  Like I'd play it every day if I had a regular job.
Q. What did you do on those seven days off?
HAROLD VARNER III: Everything.  I went to the lake.  We rented a lake house for the 4th and just enjoyed the nation's holiday, I guess.
Q. Who were you with?
HAROLD VARNER III: We got a house for 16 people, just some of my closest friends, and we had a good old dandy time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT