PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2019
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great start and then --
HAROLD VARNER III: Man, it's just rough.  It was hard.  It was really hard.  I just didn't play well enough.  It was a great experience.  I'm going to get a lot better.  It's just a hard golf course.  I don't know.  I don't know.  It's good.
Q. Seemed like the start was great, and then 3 got to that --
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, I didn't know -- yeah, that was crazy.  But it happens.  I just -- mine happened on the last day.  I'm going to get a lot better.  It was just really hard.  I don't know what else to say.
Q. For both you guys, it shows how hard golf is.
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, it's hard, but still had a good time, man.  That's kind of what you play for.  That's my first time there, and I can't wait to get back there and see how I can improve.
So it's all right.  I'm obviously a little pissed right now.  You want to do well.  I don't know who else doesn't.  But I'm going to -- I'm going to get a lot better from it.
Q. (Indiscernible) learn about yourself on a day like this?  Four hours ago, what do you know about yourself now that you didn't?
HAROLD VARNER III: I'm good enough to compete with the best.  I was right there.  Gosh, it was a lot of fun, man.  It was something I've never felt before.  So it was pretty cool.
Q. (Indiscernible) Drake fan?
HAROLD VARNER III: I talked to him about it.  No, that was pretty cool.
Q. You come into this, you know you've got to go low to have any chance to win.  Does that affect how you play?
HAROLD VARNER III: I thought it was going to be hard when I was on the range.  I was on the range, and it was just blowing 30.  No, I didn't do anything.  My goal was to hit a lot of fairways, and I didn't do a lot of that.  The course is just so hard if you don't hit it in play.  That's all right.
Q. Did you get any encouraging texts?  Michael Jordan or Tiger text you the night before?
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, I did.  It was good.  Keep it simple.  I'm sure they probably texted me already.  But I'm going to get better.  I just got to get away from you guys, then I'm going to vent a little bit.  And then I'm going to do what I was going to do next week anyways, I'm going to (indiscernible).  I'm going to work a little bit.  I'm just going to do what I know what to do.  I know what it takes to get there.  I don't have to do anything else out of the realm of what I believe I can do.
That's comforting to know, because you think you've got to do something out of the ordinary when you've never been there, so it's okay.  I'm not defined by my score thankfully, so I'm going to be all right.
Q. So when are you playing again?
HAROLD VARNER III: I'm taking the week often, and then I'm going to play Memorial.  And I'm going play great there.
Q. What did it mean to you when Brooks helped you look for your golf ball?
HAROLD VARNER III: I had about 30 seconds left.  I didn't think we were going to find it anyways.  I didn't really look for my golf ball.  I thought I was screwed.  Yeah, he didn't have to, but I would have, too, if I would have hit two shots on the green, I didn't have anything else to do.
Q. Did you get a text from Tiger?
HAROLD VARNER III: I did.
Q. You did.  This morning?
HAROLD VARNER III: No.
Q. Last night?
HAROLD VARNER III: Yes.
Q. Keep it simple?
HAROLD VARNER III: No, yeah, pretty much.  Just talking smack.
Q. How you slept yesterday?
HAROLD VARNER III: I slept great.  Trying to think what I did differently.  Nothing, really.  I was super excited, man.  It's a great opportunity.  I just don't know how you can't get up for that.
I just didn't play very well.  I didn't do what I was supposed to do.  And I'm excited I had the opportunity, but I'm excited to learn from it and get better.
Q. (Indiscernible) the crowds, how has been today?
HAROLD VARNER III: It's a pretty crazy day.  I thought it was pretty weird how they were telling Brooks to choke.  That's not my cup of tea.  I was pulling for him after that.  I have a few choice words for that.
Q. Where was that?
HAROLD VARNER III: On 14, the par 3.  I thought that was just -- you know, just cheering for him to do bad, I just don't get that.  But the fans have been great to me.  Obviously I heard some stuff today, which was awesome.  I would have said the same thing if I was seeing some kid just shooting like that.  But it's okay.  I'm all right with it.
Q. Did you know Brooks would hit driver on 18?  Was there any question in your mind as to what he might hit there?
HAROLD VARNER III: I personally didn't care what Brooks hit on 18, but obviously he did hit driver.
Q. Did you take a different approach than you did Saturday night for Greenbriar?  Did you learn something at Greenbriar?
HAROLD VARNER III: It's a different ball game out there.  This course is way harder, and the conditions were way harder.  It's a different golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT