SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 3, 2018
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Probably I know the first thing that comes to your mind about the round, but besides that, what is the first thing this comes to your mind about the round?
HAROLD VARNER III: Actually the stroke thing didn't bother me.  I had a lot of good holes coming up.  I wasn't too worried about it.  Just a bad circumstance.  But it is what it is.
I just got to do, you know, do what I'm doing.  I'm playing good golf.  That's the good side of it.  It is what it is.
Q. Seems like you have little bit of emotion behind it.  It's a tough thing for you, but what are your emotions about it?
HAROLD VARNER III: I think tough would be being in the hospital on my death bed.  This is easy.  This will be -- we won't be talking about this in a couple hours so it's all right.
Q. What will you do to prepare for tomorrow's round?
HAROLD VARNER III: Same thing I do everywhere:  get ready to play well.  Nothing different.  Nothing is going to change.
Q. Given you're still very much in the fight, the shots on 15 to get around there and the approach on 16, how big are those shots and being able to scramble those two holes?
HAROLD VARNER III: Massive.  Kept the round together.  Then obviously 16 was good and hit a really good putt on 17.
It is what it is.  That's a part of golf.  If you can't handle that you're not going to do well over four days.  I think you got to pride yourself on that.  ^ START.
Q. Harold, we just saw you with the PGA's Mark Russell.  What exactly did they explain to you in the scoring trailer?
HAROLD VARNER III: I was just assessed one stroke for grounding my club.  I didn't think I did, but video showed that I did.  It is what it is.  I wasn't deliberately -- if I was deliberately trying to cheat I wouldn't have said anything.
I saw the ball move and I knew something was wrong.  (Indiscernible) I was looking at the target, but it is what it is.  We got tomorrow, and I'm super excited about another opportunity.
Q. From what you felt on the course to what you saw on the video, how different was it?
HAROLD VARNER III: I was totally off.  I definitely grounded the club.  I thought I kind of didn't really hit the ground, but it is what it is.  I did, you know, and I was assessed one stroke.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT