SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 1, 2018
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You go out, you were 1-over par through 6, but you turned up the gas coming in.  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, just been playing pretty solid.  Obviously last week didn't show, but that's golf.  You just got to figure it out.  I just putted well.  I gave myself a lot of looks, which helped out out here.   
 Q.  Statistics show good ball striking today.  Thoughts?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, hit it pretty good.  See if we can do it again.  The goal is just to get as many looks as possible.  I think I did that.  Gets kind of dicey around the greens with the grain, and when you don't have to do that it helps.   
 Q.  And the way the golf course is playing early this morning?  
HAROLD VARNER III: It was good.  It was weird that we got on the tee box and the wind started blowing.  I was like, Hey, chill out.  The last few days have been kind of crazy around here.  You just kind of deal with it.  It is what it is.  Everyone has to play in it.   
 Q.  What about after golf in Las Vegas?  What does Harold Varner get up to?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Now or couple years ago?  Now I just sit and do nothing, which is probably the smart thing to do.  Give myself the best chance.  Obviously I like to have fun, but we can have fun afterwards.   
 Q.  You're clearly having fun out there.  When you're having fun you're doing well, right?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, yeah.  I mean, it's kind of hard to not have fun when you play golf for a living.  I think if I ever lose that perspective Harold in is trouble for sure.  Then it becomes job.  I know what jobs look like.  That's what my parents did, and they still work.  Hats off to 'em, because if they didn't work I wouldn't be here.   
But, I don't know.  I don't know if I could do it.   
 Q.  Something free up today in your game, swing, mind?  
HAROLD VARNER III: No.  I've been playing well since -- every since Greenbrier I been playing pretty well.  Ran into some club issues in the playoffs.  Perfect timing.  But I played well in Napa and tried something last week; didn't work, so I just keep moving on.   
 Q.  Three straight years making the playoffs.  How important is this early stretch in the season for you?  
HAROLD VARNER III: For me it's very important.  Sets up the schedule next year.  You know, I think it would be ideal to take some off in the summer.  I love going on the lake.   
So, yeah, play golf while you can.  I wish I was a little bit better playing in cold weather, but it is what it is.   
 Q.  Club issues?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, my club got bent in Amanda's car.  On that car right there.  There is a little railing in the back for like -- when old people get groceries and can't reach in the back there is a little bar you can slide up to keep your groceries from coming back.   
The clubs, my 7-iron and my 4-iron got stuck in there.  I didn't know it.  I get my 4-iron out and it's like bent.  I'm like, All right, so it's only the 4-iron.   
Pull out 5-iron, it's bent, too.  What's the?  So I had to get a new set.  Got a new set at Wyndham.  I hit them terrible.  It sucked.  Didn't hit it good.  Live and you learn.  But this time I didn't do anything to really mess them up.  It is what it is.   
 Q.  So you just had to get something that you're comfortable with and unfortunately it was in in the middle of...  
HAROLD VARNER III: It sucked for me, it sucked for Ray, because the 8-iron, like all of a sudden you're getting more spin than you were.  What's weird enough is they got bent in the shafts.  I still have the old irons and we just put new shafts on them.  So, I mean, just hang in there, club.   
 Q.  What tournament were they bent at?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Driving from Jacksonville to Charlotte for the -- just driving up there for the Wyndham, but that's where I grew up so I get out and I'm playing and I'm like what in the?  8-under through 1o and I'm like, What's going on?   
 Q.  You mentioned you just go back and not do anything.  Was there a time when you would go do something?  
HAROLD VARNER III: 1000%.  Yeah, I mean, not that I'm getting older.  I just see the best players how they have they do.  I wasn't on that track.  I know where that can get you.   
It is what it is.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT