JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2018
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice round.  How were you able to deal with the rain and still be able to hit strike some good shots out there?
HAROLD VARNER III: I mean, a lot of it I don't control.  Just do what I can do.  Just playing well, you know.  Just got to get something really, really going I guess.
I thought it was fair, though.  I know I didn't make everything, but I just got to keep doing what I'm doing.  I think I got a good chance.
Michael Kim is playing pretty well, though.
Q. You been there a few weeks now with a chance.  How do you carry that momentum, carry that confidence into tomorrow?
HAROLD VARNER III: I do the same thing:  I try to learn something so that next time it's easier.  I learned something last week, and I'm going to use that, you know, for tomorrow.
Q. What did you learn last week that you're going to use tomorrow?
HAROLD VARNER III: I think last week I got a little caught up in watching the leaderboard, which isn't bad.  I believe it's just like basketball.  You want to know where you are.
Sometimes when you're doing that it doesn't change what you're about to do, but definitely in the back of your mind.
So I am just going to do my thing.  I think I can do something special tomorrow.
Q. What do you think being in that position last week is going to make it easier to be in this position again this week?
HAROLD VARNER III: I would rather do what I did last week and be in that position again than not do what I did last week and be in the position I am right now, if that answers your question.
Q. Quick question:  You established yourself winning the Australian Open, obviously.  When you are emerging like you are this weekend and stories come out about you leaving tickets for people and that you still mow your parents' grass, tell us a little bit about you.  What is it about you out here?
HAROLD VARNER III: I think a lot guys do that.  I think more people do that then you think.  I just happened to be eating dinner and it was just perfect timing.  I was like, Yeah, I think I can do that.  So, it worked out.  It was kind of cool.  I got to meet the guy, so yeah.  I don't really...
I don't know, some of these things I think my parents taught me when I was little.  I think you should always take care of your parents though.  I mean, without them I wouldn't be here, so those are the little things.  You can never repay your parents I don't think.  I mean, I also had a great experience, so it's just it is what it is.
Q. Is it frustrating you keep getting birdies and you look up and Kim always seems to match and you have another birdie to stay ahead of you?
HAROLD VARNER III: No, not really, because if I just keep making birdies I know I'll have a really good chance.  It'll be all right.
Q. What's your mindset heading into tomorrow?
HAROLD VARNER III: Make as many birdies as possible.  That's all you can do.  Not going to do any good not making them, that's for sure.
Just keep working at it; keep doing what I'm supposed to do.
Q. I know you said your goal was to get 20 birdies.  It may take more than that to win this tournament.
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, no kidding.  I would use some other choice words, but, yeah.  It may.
Once I get to 20 I'm going to keep going.
Q. What about people that talk about this is a scorer's course.  Zach Johnson says, no, we've just made it look easy.  20th under par won The PLAYERS Championship, and it's going to take 20-under par or better to win this.
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, you know, I just think guys are really good.  I mean, I don't care what you do.  You put pins out there, they're going to figure it out.  That's what it is these days.  I like it.  I love the challenge.  I'm excited it.
Q. How did the course play around all the weather issues today?
HAROLD VARNER III: I think they did an unbelievable job.  I'm just glad I wasn't on the maintenance crew because they're going to be out here from literally sun up to sun down.
Yeah, it's just stuff they don't control and they're doing an unbelievable job.  Everyone on the TOUR, everyone here, just doing the best they can do.  We appreciate it.  Well, I do because I worked maintenance one time and it just wasn't the most incredible thing.
Q. Where was that?
HAROLD VARNER III: At Gaston Country Club.  Yeah, I don't really want to go back there, honestly.  (Laughter.)
Q. High school?
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, yeah.  No, no, I would've been going be a sophomore in college, so right after my freshman year.
Q. What made it so bad?
HAROLD VARNER III: Waking up that early.
Q. Oh, okay.  (Laughter.)
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah.
Q. So later tee times on Sunday are much appreciated then?
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, 100%.  (Laughter.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT