THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 7, 2018
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DOUG MILNE: We'd like to welcome Harold Varner III to the interview room here at the Military Tribute to the Greenbrier.  Harold, thanks for joining us for a few minutes.  When we talked to you outside after you finished your round, you were trailing by one.  You start hitting balls, and next thing you know you're tied for the lead.  Here you are at 14-under heading into the final round with a share of the lead.  Just a few comments on how you're feeling.   
HAROLD VARNER III: I feel good.  Just I wish we could go play right now.  But yeah, I'm pretty hungry.  But other than that, just ready to go.  I'm ready to see what happens.  This is what you work for.  This is what I get so pumped up to do.  This is why you work.   
 Q.  Your round was really interesting.  In the situation that you were in, making 10 straight pars is consistent but yet frustrating.  How did you feel stepping up on No. 11?  
HAROLD VARNER III: I felt good.  I was thinking about what was going through my head on 11 tee.  Just tried to hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  It was nice, I got on 7 tee, and I was still only three shots back, and I was like, just keep playing golf, man, something good to going to happen.  I think with a good attitude, and I'm playing so well, I think good things -- I'm bound to do something great.   
 Q.  Do you allow yourself to think about what it would be like to be a winner on the PGA TOUR?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, I think about it all the time.  I think if you don't think about it, you're not doing what you're supposed to be doing, I think.  Yeah, that's why we play.  I mean, you play to win the game.   
 Q.  You just demonstrated how candid you can be.  We know you as somebody who likes to have fun.  You don't press too much.  But have you ever been in a situation not exactly in the last group to go out on a Sunday, but when you felt like you were pressing, and how do you deal with the nerves and any frustration you might face?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Just -- that's a tough one.  I think keeping it in perspective.  I think at the end of the day, we play golf for a living.  You know, when it's all said and done, no one is going to remember who won, whatever, the 2018 Greenbrier in 60 years.  It's just fact.  But I enjoy pushing myself and seeing how good I can get at this game.  Personally, it means a lot.  But in the grand scheme of things -- I mean, look at the 12 kids that are in Thailand stuck in a hole.  I mean, you've just got to keep it in perspective.  It's humbling, I think.   
 Q.  When it comes to your game now, when you look at where you were a year ago, you've been out here for a little while now, how comfortable and confident are you with how your game stands going into tomorrow?  
HAROLD VARNER III: I guess this whole thing is new to me because I've never held a lead going into the last day, but I don't really lack confidence.  That's never really been a problem.  Just need to slow down and take it all in because there's going to be something that happens tomorrow where I can learn and I can grow and I can get a lot better.  So it goes back to just keeping it in perspective.  That was deep, sorry.   
DOUG MILNE: No, that's good stuff.   
 Q.  Harold, you were in the hunt as a rookie in 2015 there in Napa.  Going into that Sunday you were a few strokes out of the lead.  What's different about the 2018 Greenbrier, if you will, Harold Varner versus that one three years ago?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Just life happened.  You know, you go through some stuff.  You learn.  You learn that golf is just not everything.  But like I was telling her, personally, I want to see how good I can get, and every year I find a way to just keep learning, keep growing.  So I've learned a lot since then.  I haven't been in contention a lot since then, so yeah, I'm going to wake up tomorrow and give it all I've got.   
Since Napa, I won in Australia.  I'm trying to think what else happened.  I bought a house.  My parents still love me.  And I'm still happy.  Doug still loves me.   
DOUG MILNE: That's right.   
HAROLD VARNER III: Hopefully you still love me.  So I hate to harp on it, but it's all about perspective.  You know, if I shoot 90 tomorrow, I'm going to be able to go home and my mom is going to give me a kiss and say, You're still a winner.  I'm going to be mad, but that's just how it is.  And then if I win, she's going to humble me and be like, You're not better than me, and I thoroughly enjoy that.  I'm going to mow my parents' grass on Monday, so that's just what I'm going to do.   
 Q.  You've recently played some practice rounds with Tiger Woods at THE PLAYERS and I think last week.  What have you learned from him?  
HAROLD VARNER III: He talked to me about focusing.  He said that focusing is like watching -- reading a book while you're watching TV, or like while the TV is on.  So like you hear the noise but you focus on the book.  So the golf course is the book, so don't act like you don't hear it.  And I thought that was awesome.  And then last week, he made me put my phone up, because the first time I played with him, I was like, dude, relax, it'll be okay.  And then he wasn't having it the next time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT