THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2018
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A lot of money and a lot of points.
HAROLD VARNER III: Needed every single one of them.
Q. Plus at a big venue and big tournament.  How are you feeling right now?
HAROLD VARNER III: I feel good.  Gosh, it just felt good to be up there.  I haven't been up there in a while, since Greensboro or Australian PGA.  I'm just ready to play again, honestly.  I'm ready to get back to work.  I feel like I'm doing a lot of good things, and I think good things happen when you do that.
Q. What was clicking round one through round four today or this week?
HAROLD VARNER III: My putting.  I would have to think putts per green in regulation I had to be up there.  Every time I hit a green I felt like I made a birdie.  But, yeah, I just did a lot of good things.  Obviously I played a practice round with Tiger and it helped me out just not being so aggressive off the tee, and I think it paid off a lot.  18, I hit it in the fairway, I obviously didn't go do a good job around the green, but it's all right.  I'm going to get it, I just love the -- I played against the best and I showed up.
Q. This field, this course, regardless of how easy some people might think it played, you still are playing against the best.
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, that's what -- as a kid that's what I dreamed of.  I just want to play in a tournament where the best in the world play and I can't say I had a chance because Webb's playing really well but just to be up there on the leaderboard.  Those feelings you get inside are just awesome.
Q. Was Tiger part of those dreams when you would sit there and dream about it?
HAROLD VARNER III: Oh, yeah, I mean I just always wanted to compete against him.  Never thought I would play a practice round with him to be honest with you.  But it's -- it would have been cool to have been paired with him today.  That would have been awesome.
Q. How does he look to you?
HAROLD VARNER III: Man, he's hitting it far, really, really far.  But even though he's hitting it far, I feel as if he's just so tactical.  I thought that was unique, like if I hit it as far as he did, I would never -- I would hit driver everywhere, but you can tell that's like not the recipe sometimes for success.
Q. He hit it 354 on 14.
HAROLD VARNER III: No, I didn't.  I was like, man, I only went about 200 yards.  Yeah, did he hit 3-wood?
Q. No, driver.
HAROLD VARNER III: Driver?  Yeah, I mean he's hitting it far, man, it's just, once it gets on the deck, it's just game over.  I learned a lot, we'll say that.
Q. You said you were getting ready to go out and play.  What's your schedule going to be like and which sectional are you going to go to U.S. Open?
HAROLD VARNER III: I'm going to go to Columbus.  And my next tournament's actually Wentworth, so another great field.  Wentworth, Memorial, Memphis and hopefully U.S. Open.  So I'm excited.  I think it's a -- I'm just ready to go back to work.  I think that's the coolest, because I put in some time and it's good to see results, but you can't just stop now, got too much mojo going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT