THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 27, 2017
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You played your way in last week, played your way in this week.  You must be feeling pretty good about that?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, I'm playing really well right now.  Obviously it's pretty fun when you're playing well.  But to keep moving on, have another opportunity; I don't want it to end.  So I just need to keep doing the things I'm doing right now and just focus.   
I guess we don't play till Friday, so I'll take a couple days off.  Go shopping; live it up a little bit in the city.   
 Q.  How many people have done that in the 11-year history; you might be the fifth.  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, I didn't know that.  It's not anything I really think about.  I'd love to be in Dustin or Jordan's shoes right now.  But yeah, it is what it is.   
I'm starting to play really well and I just want to give myself a chance to win again.  That was really fun at the Wyndham.  Played solid today.  Did what I had to do.  It's hard to really fire at them when you're not sure you're going to play next week, but we're going to figure it out.  We're just going to keep playing golf and keep playing well.   
 Q.  How difficult is that dynamic when you have to balance being too aggressive and not messing where you're at up.  
HAROLD VARNER III: I don't think it's that fun.  I'm a pretty aggressive player.  That makes it tough.  It's nice to have a caddie out there that sees it a little differently because all I see is pin, ball, and tee box.  Keep it simple.   
Yeah, I don't really think about it too much.  I have an idea what I need to shoot or where I need to be.  When you're playing well, you can do that.  It's hard to do that when you're not playing well.   
 Q.  Had you crunched the numbers?  Did you have an idea what you needed to do this week?  
HAROLD VARNER III: No.  What was nice is every time I've been in that position, I've always been inside the number, you know, for the most part.  I guess for a couple holes I wasn't, but I think it would be way harder being on the outside and like chasing because you feel like you have to get more instead of just do your job.   
 Q.  You mentioned Jordan.  Can you talk about what he's doing, just tightened up on 9, but just the way he's going right now?  
HAROLD VARNER III: He's playing great.  I mean, I haven't played much golf with him because I haven't played in many of the events he's played in.  But we're working on it, and I feel like I'm getting closer to getting there.  But he's playing unbelievable.   
 Q.  You talked about rededicating yourself to the game.  You've made it through two bubbles; have to do it again next week.  How good do you feel your game is it do it again, two times in a row?  
HAROLD VARNER III: I like my chances a lot because I'm playing well.  There's going to be a tee box, a fairway and a green.  I've played there so I have a good feel for the course, so we're going to go play great.  That's what I think.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT