THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2017
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Harold, last five rounds in the 60s.  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, just playing solid.  This course sets up well for me and if you hit it pretty far, decent and straight, you give yourself a chance.  I'm excited to be here, obviously.   
 Q.  You played so well last week.  There has to be some momentum.  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, kept my job.  Just want to capitalize on it.  So I just got in, played nine on Tuesday, played nine before the Pro-Am, and I was ready to go.  Just can't overthink it.  Just need to play golf, like I was saying earlier, the hard work is already over there.  Just go play.   
 Q.  Talk about the golf course.  It looks absolutely gorgeous.  I know it's long.  How difficult is it out there?  
HAROLD VARNER III: It's hard but not for Russell Henley.  But it's good.  It's fair.  It's not -- you know, it always gives you a chance to run it up.  You've got to be able to sometimes have some difficult two putts, but it's golf and I just like that it's not tricked up.   
 Q.  Last week you felt a little pressure to get it done and you got it done.  Do you feel like you're just kind of playing for fun this week, or how would you describe this week?  
HAROLD VARNER III: No, definitely not playing for fun.  There's too much money at stake and too much opportunity.  Just need to stay patient.  I did that all last week and I'm doing that now.  I do that the rest of my career, I think I'll be in good shape.   
 Q.  Continued good play here today, 3-under 67.  What was working so well for you out there?  
HAROLD VARNER III: I just drove it well.  Hit a lot of greens.  Fortunate enough to roll one in there on 17 earlier in the round, a 45-footer.  Just kept the momentum, and then when I bogeyed 1, just turned it around and just kept giving myself opportunities.  You've just got to be able to hold it together out here.  It's a fun golf course, though.  I enjoy it.  Suits my game.  Obviously if you hit it pretty far, you give yourself a lot more chances.   
 Q.  Do you believe in the momentum that you've carried in; that if you start to play well and you continue to play well, you have to get that right mind-set going?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, if you're playing well, you just keep doing that, you don't really try to change too much.  That's what I'm doing.  At the end of the day, it's still golf.  You have to hit the fairway and you have to hit the greens.  I'm doing a really good job of that right now and I want to make the most of it obviously.   
 Q.  Is there something in your game that has changed the last few weeks that maybe wasn't there earlier in the year?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Not so much my game but like I was saying last week, a lot of hard work.  You can't lose sight of that.  You have to keep it in perspective and I'm doing a really good job.  Going to do the same thing, going to get some lunch and get a few things that I didn't do well today and go do it again tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT