CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 19, 2017
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First tee time today, it was cold, it was really rainy on that first tee.  Were you expecting a tough day all the way around?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Yeah, I think that's what everyone was expecting.  And it just cleared up nicely today.  And I played about how the weather was late in the afternoon.   
 Q.  Did it change much, the conditions?  The ball didn't seem to be going quite as far.  
HAROLD VARNER, III: I didn't think much of it.  I just take one shot at a time.  Yeah, the ball didn't go as far, but you don't have to hit it that far out here.  You just want to get as many looks as possible.  And that's what I did and capitalized on a few of them.   
 Q.  You played great.  I thought you putted extremely well.  
HAROLD VARNER, III: That's what I've been working on and I'm seeing some progress, which is exciting.   
 Q.  You're playing with Jerry, who's been out here for like 25 years.  Was he giving you any pointers?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: We have played together a few times before and exchanged texted messages and he's just kind of been in my corner.  So it was really fun to have him right there and just kind of egging me on a few times.   
 Q.  You won in Australia, what has that done for your confidence or is it hard to determine that just yet?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Yeah, winning, it's never hurt my confidence, so just trying to build on it and try to win out here, just get as many looks as I can, just like I do on the golf course.   
 Q.  So, excited about what you did today?  Did you leave any out there?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Yeah, we're always going to leave some shots out there, we're greedy.  So I just take it one shot at a time.  I don't know where I'm playing tomorrow, so once I figure that out, I'll get a game plan and go try to execute it.   
 Q.  Not the finish you wanted, but a heck of a start.  Describe your opening round.  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Just played really solid.  The course played soft, so when you got a little short sided, you could still attack.  Just didn't have too many hiccups and that's what I'm trying to do, play solid.   
 Q.  You wake up, it's raining, it's cold, it's not weather you normally see in the California desert.  
HAROLD VARNER, III: No kidding.   
 Q.  What was the mindset you had to have to get off to such a nice opening nine?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Take it one shot at a time type thing.  Because you got to take care of business over here.   
 Q.  Do you like the idea of being a world player?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Oh, yeah, it sounds cool to me.  I don't have any responsibilities, so it's absolutely awesome.   
 Q.  You only have to go play four events after the decision on Monday.  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Exactly.  You would think you would have to play more, which you don't, and I'm going to take full advantage of that.   
 Q.  The four majors would be good.  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Now you're talking my language.   
 Q.  What do you think of all the low scores the guys have been posting lately and does it seem like it just keeps trending downward?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: What do I think of it?  I think I need to play better.  I don't control what they shoot and I think it is my job to compete.  If I compete to the best of my ability, I'll be right up there.  So, yeah, it's been lower, but I don't control that, that's a part of competing.  If they're shooting that, you want to find a way to shoot that.  So I guess you're kind of pushing each other.  In my eyes, I think that's what Golden State's doing right now.  I think every time they go to practice they're playing against the best in the world, so when they go play someone else, no offense, it's like a cupcake.  So it's, I think that's kind of the mentality, once you see a 59, you know that most of the guys are like, oh, yeah, good playing.  But they're also thinking, if I get hot, I can do that.   
 Q.  Do you think we'll see a day where 59 isn't as special as it was and 58 is the new 59?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: No, I just think it's a rare thing.  Yeah, we get on easier courses, but you're not going to see that.  Because at some point people aren't going to think that's fun.  The PGA is not going to let that happen.  The courses will get longer, so it's just kind of funny.  No, I don't think so, to answer your question.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT