FRYS.COM OPEN
October 17, 2015
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Solid round.  Followed you all day.  Obviously disappointing finish there on 18.  Assess your round.
HAROLD VARNER III: I played well.  You know, just didn't finish the way I wanted.  Put myself in some weird positions on 16 and 17.  Made par there.  Looking forward to tomorrow.
I don't know where Steele is, but I know I have a chance tomorrow.
Q. Got to feel great.  First tournament as a PGA member coming off the Web.com Tour where you had a solid year.  What are the keys to tomorrow to come out with a win?
HAROLD VARNER III: Got to drive it in play and can't get too quick out there.  Sometimes I rush myself, and I think I did a good job of that today.
Going to do the same thing tomorrow.
Q. Do you like the watch the scoreboards and see where you stand?  Will you look tomorrow, especially on the back nine?
HAROLD VARNER III: I look at it all the time.  It's kind of hard not to miss.  They're every two holes.  Whether you're trying not to look it's going to show up right in your face.
I want to know because that's just the way I roll.
Q. How do you assess your round today compared with the first two?
HAROLD VARNER III: You know, just felt like the first day obviously everything was going my way.
Second day just kind of grinded it out.  Felt like I hit some really good shots today and got some looks and made some putts.
Looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. Earlier in the week you talked about the difference in the Web.Com events and being out here with the crowds.  How are you finding the crowds and playing with that amount of people following you?
HAROLD VARNER III: People don't bother me.  I'm more worried about hitting them than people being out there.  They're like kind of close.
I think I'm doing is a good job.  Just have to talk to more people when I play good.
Q. Based on your score you must not be hitting too many people.
HAROLD VARNER III: No, not yet.  See how tomorrow goes.  But it's all right.  I'll enjoy it.  I'm going to go out there and learn something tomorrow that's going to help me later down the road.
Q. We talked earlier in the week, and it's a long season.  Did you expect to play this well?  You obviously wanted to play well, but to come out in your first event of your rookie season...
HAROLD VARNER III: That's another good question.  Yeah, I want to play great.  I want to have a chance to win, and now I have that.
Did I expect it myself?  Yes?  I know I'm capable.  I haven't been in this position, but I've been in contention in tournaments.  The things that I learned on the Web.com when I was in contention, I'm going to use that tomorrow.
Q. Example?
HAROLD VARNER III: Slow down.  I'm very quick.  Especially when things aren't going my way.  I just start doing thing a little too fast.  Take it slow and just play golf.  Same thing I've been doing all week.
Q. How do you expect the vibe to be like tomorrow?  Much different than the last three days, I'm gathering.
HAROLD VARNER III: I don't know, today was pretty good.  If it's more than today I'll get real pumped up.  I'll have to do something.  I'll figure it out somehow.
Yeah, it's fun.  I enjoy entertaining people.
Q. There are a lot of young guys in contention, such as yourself.  Justin Rose's name jumps out of the pack.  Given his history, does that matter much tomorrow?
HAROLD VARNER III: No, not at all.  I have to go play Harold's game.  Can't play anyone's else's game.  I've tried.  Just doesn't work.
I know what helps me click, and I'm going to do that.
Q. 17, the flight over the back of the green with a 3-wood, right?
HAROLD VARNER III: Yes.
Q. Where would you hit driver?
HAROLD VARNER III: There's no telling.  I'm glad that -- I want to hit the driver, but just unfortunate.  I was fortunate enough to make par.  Tough spot to be.  Just didn't finish on 18.
So it's a give and take, you know.  I want to -- you want to birdie the last hole.  Ended up bogeying.  I am just going to keep doing the same thing.  Obviously working pretty well right now.
Q. Did the tour officials tell you that the green was open and that by the time you got there there was an incident earlier where Grillo hit into McIlroy not knowing that the greens wasn't open?
HAROLD VARNER III: Oh, wow.  Yeah, they told us, so I didn't really know.  I just --
Q. (No microphone.)
HAROLD VARNER III: Yes, so it wasn't that bad.  I mean, someone would've got decked if they would have been on the green sure for sure.
Q. How far you fly your 3-wood normally?
ReplaceName:  Say 265, 270.  It was downwind.  All you have to do is get over the tree and it should be good.  It was an in-between hole for me.
If I hit hybrid there is no way I get it there.  Hit 3-wood you go over.  Just one of those holes.
Q. Given how long this has been your goal, is there any moment you catch yourself and say, Wow, I'm not only a member and on the tour, I'm in the hunt?
HAROLD VARNER III: No.  I'm playing golf still.  I just sit back and answer your questions and talk to my caddie and talk to the players when they want to talk.
Usually don't like to talk.  That's all right.  It's whatever.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT