FRYS.COM OPEN
October 16, 2015
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your round today and maybe how it differed from yesterday.  
HAROLD VARNER III: Well, yesterday I had a lot more looks, you know.  Just it was easy yesterday; today just didn't get off to a great start.   
But I kept it together.  Shot even on the front.  And then just kept grinding.  Just didn't hit it as well.  I want to say three out of the four holes I missed green and got up and down.   
But those are things that when you're playing well you got to do.  If you want to stay in the top you got to do that.   
I'm excited for the opportunity.  Tough hitting that putt on the last hole in the dark, but six hours of sleep is way more important than one putt, I think.   
 Q.  I was going to ask you about that.  Did you have any thoughts of just shutting it down in the fairway?  
HAROLD VARNER III: No.  No.  I thought sleep was way more important.  I'm staying in American Canyon.  It's like it says it is 25 minutes, but it's yet to take me 25 minutes to get back.   
I'm going to get it going tomorrow.  I'm pretty excited.   
 Q.  Are you proud of how you got off to maybe a little rougher start and hung in there and battled back?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yes, because it's easy to hang in there when things are going your way.  That's simple.   
When things aren't going your way, how do you respond?  Like anyone in any professional sport, when things aren't going well, what do you do?  That's what you're made of.  Tomorrow is going to be fun.   
 Q.  Your driving.  Very impressive.  
HAROLD VARNER III: Is it?   
 Q.  You're like second in the field in distance.  Were you up there on the Web.com last year?  
HAROLD VARNER III: I was.  I was.  It's nothing crazy.  I just get up there and try to hit it as hard as I can, and wherever it goes, it goes.  I know it's drawing right now, so I just aim a little right and just swing as hard as I can.  It's pretty simple.   
It helps out here, I think.  Hit 4-iron into 18 because started on 10.  Then I hit -- you know, just hit 6-iron into the par-5 on the back where you hit it over the trees.  I think it's 5.  So that's just making it so much easier.  I think so.   
 Q.  Definitely.  Swing coach.  Couple media were wondering if you have a swing coach.  
HAROLD VARNER III: I worked with a guy named Bruce Sudderth and transitioning to a guy names Todd Anderson.  But just I've only seen him once.   
It's obviously a good transition right now.  Worked on my putting and it's helping out a lot with my pace.   
 Q.  So you've moved to Todd Anderson now?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yes.   
 Q.  You still see Sudderth?  
HAROLD VARNER III: No.   
 Q.  You saw him growing up?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, up until like last week.  So it's very recent.  Bruce knew Todd from a long time ago.  Bruce looks up to Todd and said I would be in good hands with him.   
My swing is very simple, and Todd keeps it very simple from the first lesson I had with him.   
I'm look forward to training with him.  He travels, and Bruce is 75 and doesn't travel.  That's the key.  Todd has seen some great players, so...   
 Q.  Is Bruce from where you grew up?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, Gastonia.  So that was awesome having that growing up ever since I was 16.   
 Q.  What course is he out of?  
HAROLD VARNER III: He's out of Gaston Country Club.  I worked out there at the time, and then when I turned pro they gave me playing privileges out there and I still took from him.   
He actually worked for the PGA for like ten years on the Champion's Tour.  He was like the head rules official.   
 Q.  Yeah.  Will you still see him once in while?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Oh, yeah.  He's always said if I'm in town and I need him he said he would be available.  But I'm sure we'll play golf together.  If the time is right we'll talk on the phone.   
That relationship is very -- can't put a price on that, being able to bounce things off people that are experienced.   
 Q.  Is he one of your main mentors?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Without a doubt.  I mean, from 16 until two weeks ago, I've taken every lesson from him.  That's the only person I've ever took any lessons from.   
So, yeah, without a doubt.  Doesn't get any simpler than that guy.  Kept me accountable, too.  Always said what I wanted to do, and he -- these are the things you have to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT