FRYS.COM OPEN
October 15, 2015
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So you have three more rounds, but still, a nice way to start.
HAROLD VARNER III: Oh, yeah.  You obviously want to start well, and I did.  Gives me a good chance to play well in the next three days.
Q. Talk a little bit about the course here and the crowd that you're seeing out there.
HAROLD VARNER III: It's fun until you hit one too far left or right.  I get a little nervous because there are people over there.  Usually there is no one over there and I just go find it.  But there are so many people, I mean, you might hit 'em for sure.
So it's good.  Different experience.  I guess you just got to get used to it.
Q. What do you like about this course?
HAROLD VARNER III: Just very fair.  You get it in the fairway you can score.  Taken the driver out of my hand a few times and just getting it in play.
Q. And finally, goals for this season?
HAROLD VARNER III: I want to play in East Lake.  That's the goal.  I don't see why not.  Everyone has the same opportunity and I'm starting fresh.  The first five, I'm going to get in the first five, so that's huge for the Web.com category.  Some guys aren't getting in.  The playoff events were huge for me because I was 25 starting, and so I have all the opportunity in the world.  I just have to go work.  Pretty easy for me.  I'm excited.
Q. Not only a great start but great finish.  You were just kind of making that bogey there at 15 and you go, I got to flip it over and you did.
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, got it going at the end but just stayed patient all day.  Just wanted to give myself as many looks as possible, and that's what I did at the end.
Made a few.
Q. Golf course is a little bit like a Web.com course.  Not super long, a ton of rough, but you got to play the ball in the proper spots.  If you're going to miss fairways, you got to miss them on the right side.
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, without a doubt.  The greens are way firmer than on the Web.com, but it's still golf in the long run.  That's all I'm doing.  I still got 54 holes to play.
Q. That's the simplest thing really, a 68 is a 68 everywhere, isn't it?
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, without a doubt.  I'm having fun.  I'm enjoying myself.  I had a good time out there with Mark and Derek.  Played with those guys before.  Just need to keep doing what I'm supposed to doing.  That's playing golf, seeing my target, and trying to hit it.
Q. It's not rocket science, but Einstein is all it is.  Break it down in numbers.  That's all it is when it's all said and done.  That's all that matters.
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah, exactly.  I'm just playing golf.  I'm excited to be out here.  It's another opportunity.  That's what I'm going to keep doing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT