NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2015
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The round of the tournament so far.  You really got it going on the back nine.  What kind of clicked for you there?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Just same thing I've been doing:  Give myself a lot of looks; I got a little closer and hit some fairways, so that kind of helps.   
Been hitting it everywhere.  Still hitting it everywhere.  I'm just finding a way to score.  Getting it up and down when I miss the green and obviously making the putts when I get a chance.   
 Q.  How would you describe the challenge of this course, one of the hardest courses this tour?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Only reason it's a challenge is because people don't play good.  If you're hitting it decent, just don't give in to a few holes.   
When you make a bogey you can't be complaining about the last hole.  You got to go play the next one.   
 Q.  How much have you played Scarlet?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Just last year and this year.   
 Q.  Never made the trip down when you were a kid?  
HAROLD VARNER III: No, no.  I didn't play much golf when I was in Akron competitively-wise.  Or outside of Akron either.  Yeah, place is awesome.  I like places where par is a good score.   
 Q.  Sister's wedding today.  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah.   
 Q.  Any aspect of playing for her?  
HAROLD VARNER III: No, no.  I sent her a text message this morning.  She was pretty busy.  I don't think even she replied back.  It's a big day for her.  Obviously wish I could've been there.   
This would've been the one cut I wish I could've missed, but you don't play to miss cuts.  She's happy for me and I'm happy for her.  It's not like she's not going to be my sister if I don't go to the wedding.   
 Q.  Is it weird at all, the fact that your little sister is getting married?  Make you feel old at all?  
HAROLD VARNER III: No.  I can't really say right here, but I'm happy for her.  She's really mature and knows what she's doing.  I'm going to support her decision.  Same thing she would do for me.   
She's not as wild as I am, so we're all right.   
 Q.  Does her level of understanding of why you would miss her wedding if she looked at the score today?  
HAROLD VARNER III: I don't know.  I haven't even got my cell phone yet.  Doesn't matter.  If I shot 1000, she would have been like, Whatever.  It's golf.  It's life.  We move on.   
So I am going to do the same thing today.  I played well.  It's fine.  That's why we play.  But still got to play tomorrow.  Obviously I've been in contention a few times this year, and got to get a little better.   
 Q.  Did you think about her at all on the course?  
HAROLD VARNER III: No.  That's weird.  No, I didn't think about my sister on the golf course.  Come on.   
 Q.  Talk about the six birdies in the nine-hole stretch and what that feels like?  
HAROLD VARNER III: I didn't even know that.  It feels good.  I like making birdies.  I'm not thinking.  I'm doing the same thing when I play bad.  I just think about how am I going to birdie this hole.  Sometimes you do and sometimes you don't.   
That's fun out here because the course is way harder.   
 Q.  You're not conscious of it?  Don't know you're on the run?  
HAROLD VARNER III: You know my memory is not that good.  Whenever you guys come up here and tell me stuff like this I'm usually like, Oh, really?  Thanks for the stat.   
I want to do the same thing tomorrow.   
 Q.  Did you have a number in mind today of what you needed to get yourself in in contention?  
HAROLD VARNER III: I did.  6-under won last year.  I don't think it's playing that much easier.  Obviously a little bit the rough is not up.   
The Saturday last year I want to think the high was like maybe 55 and it was really cold.  So I knew I think 7 or 8 is going to win.  I just need to get to 4.  Shoot 8-under on the weekend, that'll do you well around here.   
 Q.  You playing without any pressure, but with a little less given what you already accomplished?  
HAROLD VARNER III: No.  I want to play good every time.  Pressure is a privilege, you know.  When pressure comes around you're obviously doing.   
Something right.  I'm playing well, and then ya'll's so-called pressure comes around every time.   
I just need to accept it, embrace it, and go play well tomorrow.   
 Q.  Even though you have the card it still matters?  
HAROLD VARNER III: You know it.  It's exciting, though.  You know, I'm moving up slowly, and obviously if you play well you are going to move to where you need to be.   
I don't know what number I need to get to, but I think a win would help a lot.   
 Q.  That motivate you, trying to move up?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Well I've never won, so that motivates me more than anything.  If I won and you told me I still wouldn't get into as many events, I would say I got better that week.  If I win this week, that's huge for me, I would think.   
 Q.  Best club in the bag today?  
HAROLD VARNER III: My putter.  My driver is still giving me -- I'm hitting it sideways.  At least I'm hitting it in a vicinity where I can find it.   
I don't have to drop it when it's out of bounds and I don't have to re- tee it.  That's awesome.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT