WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2014
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Like to welcome Harold Varner III.   Harold, this is going to be your third PGA TOUR event that you're going to be playing in.   You played earlier this year in the Northern Trust Open, but coming back home to Charlotte, kind of talk about your thoughts teeing it up in a TOUR event in your hometown area?   
HAROLD VARNER III:   It's very exciting.   I want to thank Wells Fargo for having me.   It's just an awesome place.   I feel like I've been out here eight or so times and just watched.   You know, I really didn't think about playing in it.   I always wanted to, but as I kept getting better, and I was fortunate that I didn't have to Monday qualify this year.   So I'm just preparing myself the best way I can, and I'm going to play great.  
   
 Q.   Have you tried in the past to Monday qualify?   
HAROLD VARNER III:   Yeah, I tried last year for the first time, and no good, obviously.  
   
 Q.   You grew up close to here.   Did you ever play over here?   How often did you come over here and play?   
HAROLD VARNER III:   I didn't come over here until I was a senior in high school.   A guy named Bill Williamson, pretty good friends with, he's a member here and he brought me out.   The fairways were aerified when I played, so number 9 I was hitting driver and driver.   It's a little different.   I played a few times the last three weeks, and obviously, it's in great shape.  
   
 Q.   You've had a couple starts now on the PGA TOUR.   Do you try to make the most of these to get some money, get another exemption and get to another tournament?   What is your goal to play in this week?   
HAROLD VARNER III:   That's the goal.   But I think if I learn something, it's worth it.   Whether I miss the cut or finish top 10, I need to have some type of learning experience that's going to further my career that way because that's going to go further, but it's nice to get a paycheck.   I don't know.   I'm really into those things.   They keep me going.  
   
 Q.   How is the weather?   We're expecting a lot of rain over the next couple of days.   When you go out there Thursday, how will it affect how you approach things?   
HAROLD VARNER III:   I'm not in the Pro‑Am, so I hadn't planned on playing on Wednesday, but I played in the Pro‑Am yesterday.   I was able to get out of Midland, Texas.   So I played two weeks ago and it was like 60 and a little soft.   So I don't really think about it.   You just see it and believe it, and just keep going.   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   Certainly I would imagine your gallery will be a little bigger this week than before.   How many are planning on coming over?   How many of those people have been able to follow you in the past?   
HAROLD VARNER III:   I don't know one of those questions, the one where you said how many people have watched in the past.  
   
 Q.   How many are going to come watch you?   
HAROLD VARNER III:   Oh, a lot of people.  
   
 Q.   I know some folks went to California, but I imagine this will be a little bigger gallery.   
HAROLD VARNER III:   This is going to be fun.   My parents, my mom and dad haven't seen me play golf in any tournament since junior year of college, so that will be good.   I think it's going to be really exciting.   I'm playing well.   I've just got to focus on the task at hand because I know at the U.S. Open last year I didn't do a very good job of that.   I was a little star struck, and it's weird when people are like right next to you like this and you're trying to hit a golf shot.   I'm not really good with that because I want to talk to them instead of trying to hit a shot.   So I'm getting better.   I'm getting closer to my goal, and I have another opportunity that I want to make the most of.  
   
 Q.   With the folks that are coming out, do you feel there is a little bit more pressure on yourself to perform?   You obviously want to play well, and you just said you like those checks and making those checks, so do you feel you put a little more pressure on yourself to show up for the home folks?   
HAROLD VARNER III:   I don't put more pressure on myself.   But I think pressure is a privilege, because that means you're doing something right.   So, yes, it's added pressure.   I'm excited about that.   
When I get on the tee on Thursday, I have to just calm down.   That is one thing I have a hard time doing because I'm really excited about this opportunity and the other ones before.   So if I just focus, I know I can play great.  
   
 Q.   How much have you thought about this since you got the exemption?   
HAROLD VARNER III:   Every day.   Yeah, I mean, I get to play literally 30 minutes from my house, and that's a blessing because I get to sleep in my bed.   But you dream of stuff like this.   To be here, I just need to focus.   I'm not good at that, so I need to do that.  
   
 Q.   How special is it for your parents?   
HAROLD VARNER III:   Well, they still love me regardless, but they've told me they love me a lot more this week, so it's good (laughing).  
   
 Q.   You mentioned you played in the Pro‑Am yesterday.   What is your take of the new greens here at Quail Hollow?   And they were looking pretty quick over the weekend.   
HAROLD VARNER III:   They're good.   I mean, they're green, they roll well, I'm ready to putt on them.   I like 16.   I haven't hit it in the fairway yet, but I'll somehow manage to get on the green.   So it's good.   I don't think they're going to have trouble with them.   I think if you mow them down a lot they're going to be really fast, but everyone's got to play it.   I will be prepared.  
   
 Q.   For someone who has come to this tournament a bunch, can you talk about the changes on 16 and 17, and if anything, how that will play in the years coming up on the PGA?   
HAROLD VARNER III:   I think some people are going to have a lot of fun on the old 16.   Holy cow.   It's good.   I don't think‑‑ I think that bunker on 16, you've just got to step up there and hit a good shot.   Supposedly someone was telling me they're going to move the green further to the left on 16.   I'm not really about the water.   They can leave that somewhere else.   
But it's going to be good.   You still have to hit great shots, got to hole some putts.   Same thing you have to do on the other however many other holes.   Just try to keep it simple.   I think the other guys are going to do the same.   I think that's what the best players in the world do.   They have these crazy situations and they simplify them and they execute.  
   
 Q.   What are you hitting on 17?   
HAROLD VARNER III:   I hit 5‑iron yesterday, but there is no telling.   You just want to hit on the front of the green and hope it doesn't end up in the water.  
   
 Q.   Did you come to this when you were younger and watching?   How many of these events did you come to when you started playing?   
HAROLD VARNER III:   I think I've come every year since the ninth grade, maybe.   So that's like, holy cow, man.   I'm getting old.   Eight years, wow.   It's good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT