A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 12, 2019
Harold Varner III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A place you had success at last year when it fell in the 2018 calendar year. Tell me how satisfied you are with your start.  
HAROLD VARNER III: Super satisfied because, you know, I get nervous, even though I just played like two weeks ago. Just doing the same thing I guess. Just need to figure it out.   
I feel like there are going to be some low scores, so just ready to rock and roll again. I wish I could go play again.   
 Q.  You alluded to fact it's only been a few weeks since we last saw you in action on last year's PGA Tour schedule. What have you been doing leading up to this week and the kickoff of this season?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Playing around on the land that I just bought for my parents. Just mowing grass and tearing stuff up when I can. It's been good. Wish I was still there. It's all right. It's work.   
 Q.  The fall schedule already here. What goals do you have? Sounds like a lot of guys are going to playing more this fall than in the past. What are you looking at to try and grab those FedExCup points?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Just keep playing well. Everything will take care of itself. No need to put anymore emphasis on all of a sudden like I need to play much better.   
I needed to play better last year. It's pretty simple. I'm still playing golf. I still love playing golf. Why would I change?   
 Q.  You've got to have some good memories being back here a year ago with a Top 5 finish; I know you would've liked to have won here. What do you enjoy most about Greenbrier and how well you play here?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Like to play well and I play well here, so that's number one.   
It's pretty easy. Obviously the hotel is right there. Room service has been great. I've been gaming a little bit. It's good. Just excited to I guess just get going.   
I get all these weird jitters before I play the first tournament of the year. Those are out. I'll have some more tomorrow. Just keep playing and keep figuring out how to get better.   
 Q.  You made it deep into the FedExCup Playoffs last season and you got the new season off to a good start. What was the best part of your game today?  
HAROLD VARNER III: I drove it really well. You know, every course is really well from the fairway, so, yeah, it's pretty simple. Just got to keep doing that. You know, I really just want to have a chance to win. If you think about that you're getting ahead of yourself, and when you do that you're not doing your job of just staying in the present.   
Did such a good job at the end of the year. Learned a lot. Just using that in every tournament has helped out a lot.   
 Q.  Good vibes here.  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yeah.   
 Q.  Like you said, you played well here last year. It's nice to come back to a place you play well.  
HAROLD VARNER III: Yes, for sure. I feel comfortable on a couple tee shots. Just, I don't know, I don't feel like I did anything crazy different. Gave myself a lot of looks. If you do that on a lot of golf courses you're going to play very well.   
 Q.  You mentioned the fall season. Important since you're going to play early to go out and play well early, right? I mean, is that sort of the mindset?  
HAROLD VARNER III: The biggest thing for me every since I've been on TOUR is every tournament is important. It's a great opportunity to be doing something I love to do.   
I just try not to make it bigger than it is. That was a big thing about the playoffs. Yeah, they're the playoffs, but at the end of the day you need to play well. Why would I not take that same mindset here?   
 Q.  Is this course playing any differently in September than July of last year?  
HAROLD VARNER III: It's pretty firm, which I like that. I hope it gets firmer so it gets tricky. I think that's when golf is the most fun. I don't control that, so I'll just be ready for whatever comes my way.   
 Q.  The way the schedule worked out you're teeing off in the morning, the very first group to get to see the course before about 95% of the golfers. How much did that help you, especially when you were able to make a lot of putts on the greens?  
HAROLD VARNER III: I'm not sure if it helped me. I was still nervous. I don't know, I get these like weird jitters. I don't know what they are. As long as those are there I know I'm focused and ready to compete.   
Yeah, just trying to take advantage of when I was doing a lot of good stuff. Just got to keep doing good stuff.   
 Q.  Harold, how important is it to get the quick start first tournament of the year, first round, and you're already up on the top the leaderboard? How does that set you up nicely for the week?  
HAROLD VARNER III: Oh, great. I mean, it's better than shooting 1-over, so...   
That was such a rude answer. I apologize.   
No, it sets me up well. Man, I want to play well. That's really what I want to do. When you're doing that, you focus on it, try to learn from it, and I try to do the same thing when I'm playing bad.   
I'm playing well, and, yeah, I'm going to play some golf. I'm excited.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT