HONDA CLASSIC
March 21, 2021
Brandon Hagy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. To bounce back in this final round, what did that mean?
 BRANDON HAGY:   Yeah, I felt good about my game, even with shooting 76 yesterday.  It was playing really hard, there are a lot of high scores and I hit a lot of good shots, some of them didn't work out yesterday.  But today I just tried to stay even out there and I got off to a good start, which is kind of what you need to do out here on those first six holes or so.  Made a couple bogeys, I wasn't perfect, but I played it to the right spot on a lot of the holes and was able to shoot a good score.
 Q. Tough to know how it's going to finish at the end of the day, but what do you take away from a week like this?
 BRANDON HAGY:   That I can handle some intense pressure, for sure.  There's a lot of tough holes out there and there's big stakes for sure, but I've been working on some good stuff and it's nice to see some of that pan out.  I mean on Monday I was practicing back home in Scottsdale, so it was nice to be able to apply some of that right away.
 Q. So you were in Scottsdale until Tuesday, is that right?
 BRANDON HAGY:   Yeah, I took a 3:30 flight on Tuesday afternoon.
 Q. What was that turnaround like?
 BRANDON HAGY:   I got in at 11, got to my hotel at midnight, 12:30.  The PGA Rules woke me up that -- Commitments woke me up at 9 o'clock saying I was in the field.  I was actually still sleeping.  So that was kind of what happened.
 Q. What were you most -- you touched on it here -- most pleased with game this week?
 BRANDON HAGY:   Yeah, I mean, I've been struggling a little bit with having my driver be consistent.  I'm always going to have the length, but it's been hurting me a little bit in some of these tournaments where I've struggled.  So it's been nice to add a few different shots.  I kind of added a low fade, just kind of to get it in play, but still be able to hit the driver, so that's kind of worked out well.  And just a few things in the swing -- actually picked up a little bit more speed, my speed was kind of down a little bit and I worked just a couple things on my swing and it kind of ticked back up again I was able to take advantage on some of these holes this week.
 Q. What does a week like this do for you moving forward?
 BRANDON HAGY:   Yeah, I mean, it's been an interesting couple years.  Obviously, the pandemic, technically I lost my card last year, but still having an opportunity to play out here this year, I was pretty far down the FedExCup coming into this week, but this is a good week for me to set up the rest of the season.  I feel like I made some good adjustments that I applied this week and I look forward to putting them into play the rest of the season.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT