HONDA CLASSIC
March 19, 2021
Brandon Hagy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. 8-under, bogey-free, obviously the wind was up yesterday.  Was there a difference out there for you today and what was the difference?
 BRANDON HAGY:   Yeah, I mean, the wind wasn't as strong today, at least for us.  It looks like it's picking up a little bit right now.  But I think we just had good visuals on where we wanted to start the ball and where we wanted to finish it based off the wind, so we just tried to commit to that on every shot and I was able to.
 Q. Obviously, you finished off with birdies at 8 and 9 but maybe that par save at 7, how key was that?
 BRANDON HAGY:   Tough tee shot there on the par-3.  I kind of curved it the opposite way I was trying to.  So it actually ended up not being that bad a spot.  I think you probably saw it over there, a lot of green to work with.  But yeah those type of putts are big, obviously, to set yourself up for the weekend.
 Q. At the start of the week you were not in the event.  Kramer Hickok withdrew.  When did you find out you were in and what was your week like leading up to when you played yesterday?
 BRANDON HAGY:   It was pretty hectic.  My initial plan last week was to do the Monday qualifier and if I didn't make it, do the Korn Ferry tournament.  Then I scrapped the whole trip and was just going to practice for the week and go to Dominican from Scottsdale.  Then on Tuesday I was practicing at Whisper Rock and I checked my number and I was two out, so I'm like, okay, I probably should get a flight.  So I got a flight, got in late, actually early Wednesday morning, did my COVID test, and that was that.
 Q. A lot of times maybe you don't think about the preparation, but as you played yesterday were you feeling comfortable out there?  I know you've played out here enough, but was it a comfortable start for you yesterday?
 BRANDON HAGY:   Yeah.  I've done Q-School here.  I've played it three times already in this tournament, so it's pretty clear out there what you have to do.  The greens are going to be quick.  There's a lot of water.  You hit the appropriate shot on those holes and try and give yourself the best chance.  In a lot of ways it probably is a decent week for that to happen.
 Q. I think 62 is a pretty good way to take advantage of a bonus round.  Would you say so?
 BRANDON HAGY:   Yeah, it's a tough course out there.  Hit a lot of good shots and obviously very pleased with the round.
 Q. Can you talk us through the approach that you had on 9?  You stuffed it to about a foot from the cup.
 BRANDON HAGY:   Yeah, it was set up really by the drive.  I think I only had like 70 yards in, just had a good feel for the shot.  I caught it maybe a half a groove low, but it was perfect because I was trying to hit it low anyway, and then read the break well.  We knew it was going to break a little bit left-to-right from the fairway, so, yeah, it was a great shot.
 Q. You had a bit of an up-and-down year, playing really well today, obviously.  Is there something clicking today that you've been working on?
 BRANDON HAGY:   It's been kind of a funny week.  I was in Scottsdale on Tuesday afternoon and get a flight last minute, fly out Tuesday, don't play practice rounds, you know, maybe I'm feeling like I'm playing on a little bit of house money a little bit, so I kept it pretty loose out there.  I just tried to have a good feeling for every shot and I am just kind of grateful for the opportunity.
 Q. When you come in late like that does it almost free you up a bit?
 BRANDON HAGY:   Yeah, I mean, I didn't play a practice round.  I've played the course, I've played the tournament three times before, so I know what the holes are doing, I know where to leave the ball.  So I think it just kind of simplifies it a little bit.  I kind of showed up and sort of knew the shots I was going to hit and took it from there.
 Q. 17 played as the toughest hole on the course.  Today you birdied it.  What kind of confidence do you take from that going into the weekend?
 BRANDON HAGY:   Yeah, I played The Bear Trap well.  I think we just played the right shot given the wind on each of those holes the last two days.  The weekend's going to be no different.  You just got to take what the wind's giving you and just play the right shot for me in that moment and just, I think the key, this round and yesterday even, was I was really clear what shot shape I was trying to hit, where my eyes were going out when I looked out towards the target.  All that was really clear to me, which I think helped me, gave me some confidence.
 Q. Nobody starts out to say I want to be the 36-hole leader, but what does that mean?
 BRANDON HAGY:   I think it means I'm working on some good stuff.  Just, I mentioned over there, just some slight adjustments with my setup and stuff to get me in this position feels really good.  I really just implemented that a couple days ago.  So it feels really good to compete against this type of competition and be able to put that in right away and have it pay off.  But it's just, it's a good opportunity.  That's what we're practicing for, so...
 Q. I know you're having fun with the whole, how you found out, how soon.  It's an unusual story, obviously.  I know you're saying your playing with house money, but are you really thinking about, I mean, does it really feel different in any way to you this week?
 BRANDON HAGY:   I mean, you know, it felt good that I had an opportunity to play, I think that's the best way to say it.  Practicing is great back home and stuff, but this is why we practice, to be in these type of positions.  And to have the opportunity on a tough golf course like this to hit the shots that I'm hitting, it feels good.  So that's, like I said, that's why we practice.
 Q. We saw a 61 yesterday, 62, we have seen 64s.  This place does not give up those scores, it hasn't been easy necessarily either.  Any rhyme or reason as to why it's happening?
 BRANDON HAGY:   I think there are some birdie holes, so you take advantage of those and then you play the right shot on the tough holes.  This is the type of course where, sure, one bad swing in the wrong spot you can make a big number, but you just got to know where to miss it on some of these holes and then the good shots are going to get rewarded, if you plan it out correctly.  So there are birdies and then you just have to manage the holes that are tough out here.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT