AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 10, 2013
Jim Harbaugh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You birdied the first two holes.   
JIM HARBAUGH:   Jason Day birdied the first two holes.   We were watching him.  
   
 Q.   How was the whole experience?  
JIM HARBAUGH:   Great experience, great week.   Just the support out here from the 49er fans, probably first and foremost, that was the thing that was the best part of the experience.   Great players to play with like Jason Day and Matt Bettencourt and James Driscoll.   And the weather was phenomenal.   Real treat to be able to play Pebble Beach and to be in this tournament is a great honor.   So everything is just A‑plus‑plus.   
   
 Q.   Jason Day, playing for a tournament, still reading every one of your putts, how was that?  
JIM HARBAUGH:   That was unbelievable, he was in the Top‑10, Top‑5.   Everybody should be a big fan of Jason Day.   
   
 Q.   What was the best part about your caddie?   
JIM HARBAUGH:   You were encouraging, very enthusiastic, did a tremendous job.   
   
 Q.   Did you ever have any thoughts of winning?  
JIM HARBAUGH:   Yeah, we were definitely in a position to win, and didn't get anything going.   I didn't know if I was going to top the ball or hit like two inches behind the ball, or somewhere in between.   
   
 Q.   Big gap there.   
JIM HARBAUGH:   Very big gap, too big of a gap, I suspect, in golf.  
   
 Q.   Is it fair to say that since last Sunday, this is what the doctor ordered for you, this kind of thing?   
JIM HARBAUGH:   It sure was nice.   Just the folks out here, from the kids to the 49ers fans just saying so many encouraging things, I appreciate it and it means a lot.  
   
 Q.   I thought you were going to tell your brother the fix was in on that last play.   Have you talked to him about that at all?   
JIM HARBAUGH:   No.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   Why not?   He's your brother.   
JIM HARBAUGH:   He is my brother.   
   
 Q.   You have not played golf in quite a while, you have to be a little bit encouraged by how well you did.   
JIM HARBAUGH:   It was fun.   I don't play golf very often.   Any time I do, it becomes a real treat, and so to be able to play out here, that's extra, extra.   So good time.   
   
 Q.   Next year we're going to see you back, the parade will be Tuesday next year and you'll be back Wednesday for the Pro‑Am?  
JIM HARBAUGH:   We are thinking about the Combine right now.   That's in less than two weeks, head to Indianapolis.   
   
 Q.   You're back to work tomorrow?  
JIM HARBAUGH:   13 or 14 draft picks, and Trent and all the scouts are working, worked all week and working through the weekend, so we'll join them on Monday and get going on this draft.   
   
 Q.   Had you played this course a lot before the last couple of years?  
JIM HARBAUGH:   Maybe once or twice before this.   
   
 Q.   How much does that help, a little home‑court advantage?   
JIM HARBAUGH:   Yeah, I guess.   You know, the rest of the country under snow, probably watching this, and I don't know what they think, if they are mad at us or what.   But it's just been beautiful and the people out here, just so classy and so nice.   Really nice to be included.   
   
 Q.   What was the most memorable thing this week?  
JIM HARBAUGH:   Most memorable thing really, had dinner last night and sat across from Clint Eastwood.   My wife and I had a really nice conversation with him and also Phil Mickelson was sitting at our table there.   That was pretty darn cool.   
Bill Murray; my wife danced with Bill Murray the night before last.   Those will probably be my two best memories of the tournament.   
   
 Q.   Do you follow the golf tour much during the off‑season?  
JIM HARBAUGH:   Like everybody, yeah, I want to see who is the best, who is the champion.   Tune in quite a bit.  
   
 Q.   Anyone specifically?   
JIM HARBAUGH:   I'll be a big fan of Jason Day here on out.   I love his story, came from a very humble background, Brisbane.   His dad found a golf club in the junkyard when he was three years old and gave it to Jason, otherwise Jason said he would have been still in the meatpacking business and picked up a club when he was three.   
Now he's 25, and he could not be a better guy.   You're not going to meet a better guy.   Going to be a huge fan of his going forward.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT