NCAA MEN'S REGIONAL SEMIFINALS AND FINALS: LOUISVILLE
March 28, 2019
Grady Eifert
Nojel Eastern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Purdue-99, Tennessee-94   
 Q.  There was a problem early on.  The whole team was able to focus in?  
GRADY EIFERT: Yeah, just one of those things where no one's really making them on the team, and so it's tough.  But we were able to get some stops and have them foul us again and we were just able to come away with more stops down the stretch and get to the free throw line and knock a couple down.  We couldn't extend the lead, but it was good teamwork.   
 Q.  We know Ryan's confident, but clearly he's --  
GRADY EIFERT: Yeah, he walks in, not a lot of things faze him.  He's got a presence to him that he's put in the work and he knows what he's capable of doing, which is always good to see from the leader or a senior.  And he's just -- he can really shoot the ball, as you guys saw tonight.  It was just huge for us.   
NOJEL EASTERN: I mean, we just we proved we can hang with the best of them.  Tennessee is one of the best teams in the country.  They played amazing today, shot the ball really well, made big plays.  It was a dog fight out there.  We proved we can fight, for sure.  Everybody's athletic, but if we fight together as a group, that's the most athletic you can get.   
 Q.  They were going to make a run.  You're up 18 at one point.  They go on a 14-0 run, tie it up.  What's the mindset of this team when they come all the way back?  How do you stay in it?  
NOJEL EASTERN: We talked about it in the locker room.  We knew they were going to make a run.  It's not something we didn't expect.  We come out here, stick as a post, stay with each other and stay as a group.  That's what we did.   
 Q.  Talk about Ryan's performance.  
NOJEL EASTERN: Oh, man.  He didn't want to go home today.  I can't say it much better.  Obviously, you guys know how he played and how well he shot the ball today.  He had the fight in him that he didn't want to go home.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT