NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Deron Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DERON WILLIAMS: I've never had a season this frustrating, personally and as a team.   
 I look forward to the second half of the season and improving a lot.  
  
  Q. Do you just want to get back to playing basketball --  
 DERON WILLIAMS: Yeah, that's part of it. That's part of the job. I knew that coming in and I have to accept it and I don't want to keep talking about it forever. At some point we have to move on and we have to accept it. Can't live in the past.  
  
  Q. How did you handle some of that fallout after Coach decided to step down?   
 DERON WILLIAMS: It was frustrating. There was a lot of reports out there that were false, and I can't really control all that. There are going to be people who choose to believe the first thing they hear and first thing they hear on SportsCenter.   
  
  Q. What kind of read do you have when Karl Malone came out with this isn't Jerry's personality?   
 DERON WILLIAMS: Of course he's going to defend his coach. Somebody came out and is saying bad things about my high school coach, I would defend him. Same situation. I don't read into it any other way.   
  
  Q. How different are Ty and Jerry?   
 DERON WILLIAMS: Personalities, they are a lot different. Ty is 30 years younger, so can relate to us a little bit better. A little bit easier to approach. Coach can be intimidating a little bit just because of his stature. He is a Hall of Famer and he's been here for so many years, so it's hard for a lot of guys to approach him.   
  
  Q. What's gotten you through, whether it's family --  
 DERON WILLIAMS: Family, my spirituality. God does everything for a reason and you go through struggles. Everybody does, and you've got to work through them.  
  
  Q. Have you seen any light at all? Are you starting to feel better about this whole thing?   
 DERON WILLIAMS: Yeah, it was weighing on me a lot. Just hopefully getting away a little bit will help.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT