NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 24, 2007
Deron Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you address the question on being selected to the U.S. team.  Your thoughts on that? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  It is a great honor.  I definitely look forward to it.  I was hoping my name would be called for that, and I have known for a while, since the Houston series. 
 I am just happy to be a part of that. 

 Q.  How about being with Boozer as well? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  It will be great to get a chance to play together even more in the summer and work on things and play against the competition we played against.  And with the guys, it will do a lot as players. 

 Q.  You pulled your weight in the series.  What will it take to get everybody involved in Game 3? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  Hopefully coming home will give us confidence, give everybody confidence and we can get back on track.  Some guys making shots, everybody is playing hard.  It is not a matter of that.  We've just got to get everyone going to beat this team. 

 Q.  Jerry is talking about defense and you guys getting lost on defense.  Has that been the problem in your eyes as well? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  Definitely.  We have had mental lapses.  We gave them easy layups, cutting layups going to the basket.  Things we can take away mentally to get the series. 

 Q.  If you can pinpoint one thing defensively that you guys have to do better from here on out, what is that? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  Keeping Tony Parker out of the lane, Ginobili, keep all those guys out the lane.  Their penetration is hurting us.  They are getting to the baskets, getting fouls or layups or kicking out to the shooters. 

 Q.  What's the difference that you are down 2-0 compared to Houston? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  We are playing against a different team.  We are playing against the championship Spurs.  They have been here.  They know how to close out teams.  We are fighting against all odds right now.  And hopefully we can try to even things up at home. 

 Q.  Is there particular ways you can pick up the pick-and-roll? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  We have to keep trying new things.  It is tough, it is a tough way to guard.  We will have to stop them if we want to win. 

 Q.  Is the importance of home court being oversold, is it really that crucial? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  I think it is, you know.  It definitely helps.  You are supposed to win out on your home court.  You start out 2-0, teams start losing confidence and things like that.  I think we are a strong enough team we can fight back.  Similar to the east series, we just need one game to get our confidence.  We need to get the one on Saturday and take it from there. 

 Q.  How confident are you that Okur and Fish find their shots? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  We are confident.  They struggled for two games with their shots.  Third time will be the charm.  They will break out and we have confidence to keep passing to those guys and hopefully they can get going. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT