NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 21, 2007
Deron Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  You had an unbelievable game in Game 1, but it wasn't enough.  Is it more important to get the other guys the ball? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  Guys had open shots.  Like they weren't getting open.  Just didn't get shots.  Listening to the first half, you know what happens. 

 Q.  You seemed to drive in the fourth quarter.  Are you going to try to do more of that throughout the game? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  I was trying to get my teammates involved early.  I got away from being aggressive a little bit.  That's what the defense is giving us. 

 Q.  You get the open shots and progress up the court? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  Especially against a team like this, you never get too many of them.  When you get a good one, you have to take it. 

 Q.  Is the fourth quarter a confidence builder to know you can play this team in this building? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  We just had a bad second quarter.  Obviously a bad second quarter is enough to cost us the whole game.  We got to be more focused.  We got to come out and play a full 48 minutes.  We said that all the playoffs.  It is just a matter of going out and doing it. 

 Q.  You were down 2-0 before and came back. 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  It is one game.  We struggled a little bit.  We thought we could play better and hopefully we can do that. 

 Q.  Have you played in louder environments so far? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  It wasn't loud.  It is hard to get into a game when your team is up 20.  I am sure it can get pretty loud in there. 

 Q.  Is there something that changed for you in the fourth quarter? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  Just more aggressive.  Guys weren't helping out Carlos.  They were focused on Carlos.  When I come off screen and rolls, I got in the lane. 

 Q.  It was that early way earlier, wasn't it? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  A little bit. 

 Q.  When Manu and Tony are on, it is tough to stop Tony in the back court? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  Definitely, those are two big players, in my opinion.  Those guys are tough to stop in those hands.  A lot of pick-and-rolls, and Manu is creative.  Tony is just quick as a jet so it is tough to stay in front of him. 

 Q.  To get a split on the road, is that accomplishable? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  Still have a chance.  It will be big for us, big for our confidence to come here and get a win. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the second half from the first half? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  In my mind I've got to stay on the court.  I had a lot of fouls in the Golden State series.  I don't want to go to the bench.  It is just a little hard to be more aggressive and more physical when you have fouls. 

 Q.  (Indiscernible). 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  You've got to try to stay in front of them.  It is a tough task.  The first half is so quick. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the challenge at half time and how you responded to it? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  He came in and basically said we are being selfish, guys are passing the blame to other guys saying it is your fault.  We understood that. 
 We understood we could play a lot better than we did and I think we came out and did that. 

 Q.  What do you have to do with game two? 
 DERON WILLIAMS:  The second quarter is what killed us.  We lost the game in second quarter.  You can't get down by 20 points with a team like that and expect to win.  We have to play for 48 minutes. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT