SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2009
Juan Quiros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You started out kind of shaky and you had a strong finish, yes?  
 JUAN QUIROS: Yes, I started so badly. I hit the ball terrible. My head is not so good concentrating.   
  
  Q. Okay.   
 JUAN QUIROS: But I finished pretty well.  
  
  Q. So a little nervous or a little on the first hole?  
 JUAN QUIROS: No, no, not nervous. I played so many tournaments it's not nerves. No, not nervous. But I start practicing this morning good, and I don't understand why I hit the tee shot on the first hole terrible. But then it was good.   
  
  Q. You've had a great run since 2005, you came back from kind of a physical injury and you have had a great 2007 and 2008.   
 JUAN QUIROS: Um-hum. My back there, yes. But I had a good recovery. And I start with the physical preparation and it turned out great.  
  
  Q. So is it more physical or technical, the last two years, your great years?  
 JUAN QUIROS: It's been more physical. The technical, I already got that.   
  
  Q. Last year you won the Irish Senior Open. That's fantastic.   
 JUAN QUIROS: Yes, fantastic because the condition was, I never played like that before, so it's cold, rain, wind, yeah. But obviously on the last hole I said to my caddie, okay, I want to finish now, because I finish second. But I win by one shot. And I want to finish a good week for me if I finish second. And it was a strong week for me, so I thought.   
 So I told him, it was very, very cold and so windy. But the first hole I hit a pitching wedge and I said, oh, the ball is very, very near. And he said, yeah, that's very near the green too. And I had a bad 3-putt and I said, whoa, how did that happen?   
  
  Q. How do you like the course today?  
 JUAN QUIROS: The course is very tough course. But in here, I never see a lot -- it's getting so much more in America, I see all the time that I see bigger greens, I see the small greens here and they are very tough. The greens, the courses are very tough. But they're great, great courses.  
  
  Q. You birdied on 8 and 15. Good holes for you?  
 JUAN QUIROS: Yeah. Yeah. If I make birdie, it's a good hole for me. No, I hit a good drive in there and a pitching wedge, second shot a pitching wedge. It's such a difficult green, but I think it's a much, I think it's the most difficult green on the course.   
 15, I had a good putt. I had two great shots near the green and chipping not so well, but I had a good putt and that's a birdie.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT