NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: REGIONAL SEMIFINAL: GEORGIA TECH VS SOUTH CAROLINA
March 28, 2021
Kierra Fletcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  South Carolina 76, Georgia Tech 65
 THE MODERATOR:   We are joined by Kierra Fletcher.  We'll open it up for questions.
 Q. Can you take me into the third quarter of the game there, what happened for you on the other end, not having an answer for Carolina's offense?  Also can you speak on what it says about the quality of your team to keep bouncing back from the Carolina runs?
 KIERRA FLETCHER:   I think our team did an incredible job of answering whenever South Carolina went on their runs.  I think it shows how resilient we are as a team, that we don't have any quit in us.
 They're a great team, of course.  But I think we did an incredible job just answering whatever run that they came at us with.
 Q. What did it mean to be able to have this tournament this year?  Last year, seeing it canceled, to just be able to have been here and actually participated in March Madness this year?
 KIERRA FLETCHER:   It means the world.  We're disappointed with the way the season ended last season with the pandemic, just how grateful we were to be able to participate in this tournament because we just worked so hard in the off-season and during the season.  We were just trying to soak in every moment.
 This was a special run for us.  We're disappointed in the way that it ended, but we're ready to bounce back for next season.
 Q. Coach Fortner told us a moment ago her message to you guys was to not hang your head.  What are your emotions and your teammates' in the locker room after this one?
 KIERRA FLETCHER:   It was a disappointing loss, just because we felt like we were right there.  South Carolina, they were the No. 1 team on and off in the country all season.  Just the way we battled with them through these 40 minutes just said a lot about our team, how resilient we are.
 We were disappointed.  At the same time we're trying not to hang our heads just because we have not been in this position before.  Just the way we've been able to fight during this tournament just says a lot about us.
 Q. 20 years from now, how are you going to remember this team?  What will be your predominant memories of this bunch?
 KIERRA FLETCHER:   Definitely our fight.  Those are my sisters back there in that locker room.  I love each and every one of them.  I think this is the closest team I've ever been on through and through.
 They're just family.  20 years from now I'm pretty sure I'm going to stay in touch with all of them.  I just love them.  They have incredible fight in them, great players, great players, great teammates.
 Q. You did make it close.  Every time they pulled away, you got it close.  In the fourth quarter you were only down by six points.  What changed after that?  What couldn't you get going down the stretch?
 KIERRA FLETCHER:   I think it just came down to defensive stops.  I think in the games prior to, we were really able to lock down and get those defensive stops.
 It's hard when we're playing against an All-American post player.  It just came down to getting stops.  I think we really pride ourselves on our defense.  This game it got away from us a little bit.
 Q. Do you have any thoughts on coming back for an extra year?  Tell me what those conversations look like.
 KIERRA FLETCHER:   I haven't really been putting much thought into that.  I've been really focused on this season, helping my team to get into the best position possible.  I think I'm definitely going to have conversations with my coaches, just to see where their head is at and where my head is at and what is best for me moving forward.
 Q. What has it meant for you to be able to play for a coach like Nell Fortner?
 KIERRA FLETCHER:   It means everything.  From where I began in my college career, her coming in, she's instilled a lot of confidence in myself and my teammates.  She's an amazing person through and through.  She really cares about us as people.  She just makes it fun for us.
 She makes us want to play for her, fight for her, fight for each other.  She's just one of those people who are just genuine.  You don't really have that a lot these days.  So it's just incredible playing for a person like her.
 Q. Where do you see the program going under her direction?
 KIERRA FLETCHER:   I think the sky's the limit.  The way that we've been payable to develop, progress in these two years, including a pandemic year, I think says a lot.  Just adding more pieces to this team, future teams with her leadership, the assistant coaches, as well, the type of players we have already, just developing our freshmen, I think we're going to be a team that you have to look out for for the next years on end.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you so much for your time today.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT