U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2015
Min Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Just describe your round today.  1-over for the tournament, even for today.  How did your round go today?MIN LEE: The same as yesterday.  I have a tough start and then came back pretty good.  I'm really happy with that because the back nine is playing a little harder than the front nine, because you really have to get some birdie on the front.  But I had some problem out there.  I mean, I'm happy with that, yeah.Q. So you think the front nine was playing harder than the back nine, but four birdies on the back nine today.  What changed for you?  Were you more aggressive?  What changed for you on the back nine?MIN LEE: Well, I just change a little bit my attitude.  It's more aggressive, and then like I have nothing to lose, so why don't I just go for it and we'll see what I can do.  So it turned out really good.Q. Coming into this week, what were your goals and expectations, and seeing how you finished now, how do you think you met those expectations?MIN LEE: This is a really good week for me because I was struggling a couple weeks ago.  I was still fighting for the Money List on the LPGA.  After this week I feel more confident that I can do that. This is the really tough golf course and then I can do well, so that really helped me a lot.Q. Was this your first time playing this course this week?MIN LEE: Well, first time here and then I practice on Monday, Tuesday.Q. But you hadn't played in a prior tournament to this?MIN LEE: No, I didn't.Q. What are your overall impressions of this tournament, this venue, this course and the fan support out here this week?MIN LEE: They are so nice because we didn't get a lot of crowd at the normal tournament.  Then all these spectators are so nice to me, even I'm not American.  They are just cheer for everybody.  They are so nice. My housing has followed me the whole week.  They are really cheering for me, make me feel like I'm part of their family, just like home


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT