SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 29, 2015
Min Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Now, you haven't been playing too well the past couple of events.   Have you changed anything?   What's going on?
MIN LEE:   I've been struggling for a while, like a couple weeks.   And then so last week is an off‑week, and I was looking for like what's different when I'm playing good at Symetra and then here, and I kind of lost myself a little bit for the past few weeks.   And then after women's pro, we played U.S. Open qualifier, and I just changed my mind and I really enjoyed it, and I played really good, and I just bring the attitude here to today.

Q.   Awesome.   Did you make the qualifier?
MIN LEE:   Well, I'm the first alternate.

Q.   Okay.   But you played well?
MIN LEE:   Yeah.   I played better than the last few weeks.

Q.   Perfect.   Did you change anything with your swing?   What did you change or what were you concentrating on?
MIN LEE:   I'm more focused on my attitude, because I was very like, oh, I have to make it, make something.   But instead of waiting for it to come.

Q.   Sure.   You were wanting it way too much you think?
MIN LEE:   Yeah, I think I do it too much, so I kind of just like get back a little bit.

Q.   Yeah, just kind of relax, let things come to you?
MIN LEE:   Yeah, I think.   The most important just enjoy golf.   Why you come here, just play golf and you like golf, then just enjoy.

Q.   Perfect.   So you think you had high expectations coming into your rookie season, you set a lot of goals and you were getting frustrated?
MIN LEE:   Yeah, a little bit because I really want to, you know, win a tournament.   Everybody wants, but I think I am too hungry about that. 

Q.   Do you think you're getting more comfortable out here?   Do you think that that will have something to do with it, maybe getting just more comfortable with the travel and things like that?   Do you think you're feeling more comfortable?
MIN LEE:   Yeah, it's pretty‑‑ I think it's better than last year I play on Symetra because we drive a lot, and right now we just flew a lot.   I mean I kind of like this because it's easier way to do it.   Bigger city, and people are nice.   Yeah.

Q.   Awesome.   What about this course do you like?   Did you ever see this course before?
MIN LEE:   This is my first time here, and after the qualifying school I just come straight to here and then stay a couple of days before this tournament. 
And then I really like the golf course.   The greens are very tiny and little, and it gets very windy.   But it's windy in Taiwan, too, so I'm kind of‑‑

Q.   So you like windy conditions?
MIN LEE:   Yeah, I really like.

Q.   So growing up in Taiwan you were used to playing windy shots and stuff?
MIN LEE:   Uh‑huh.   Yeah.   I know how to deal with it, but, well, just be patient.

Q.   Did you know it was always windy here?   Did anybody tell you that or did you kind of just know when you got here?
MIN LEE:   Yeah, I just kind of know when I got here because the first day is some thunderstorm, and the next day is so windy.

Q.   You were ready for it. 
MIN LEE:   Yeah.

Q.   How many practice rounds did you have before this week or like how many practice rounds did you get in?
MIN LEE:   I think three rounds, and then I played a pro am.

Q.   And the pro am.   Okay.   So do you like to do that, a lot of preparation typically?
MIN LEE:   If I can, yes.   But I still have to keep my energy, because that's very important, too.

Q.   Yeah.   Balancing that.   Okay.   What about the round today?   Anything that stuck out?   Any holes that stuck out in particular that were good?
MIN LEE:   Yeah, on No. 3, the par‑5, and I had hybrid in my second a second shot and I hit it a little past the pin and I eagled that hole, and that was pretty good. 
I mean every hole it's very like just, you know, fairway, green and 2‑putt or sometimes one‑putt.   Yeah, just kind of like want to calm down a little bit and just relax, don't think about too much.

Q.   What was the strength today do you think?   Just management or just‑‑ what was the strength of your game?   Best part?
MIN LEE:   I mean, I think best part of my game today, just my iron shots pretty good today.

Q.   Irons.   Okay. 
MIN LEE:   Especially there's a few holes very long, and then you gotta be very, like‑‑

Q.   Accurate?
MIN LEE:   Yeah, accurate. 

Q.   Cool.   All right.   Anything else?   Anything else going on?
MIN LEE:   No.   Everything is good.

Q.   All right.   Perfect.   Thank you so much.   Good round today.   Nice job. 
MIN LEE:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT