SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 8, 2020
Harold Varner, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. What a solid round of golf for you out there, Harold.  Found all those birdies out there; just a single bogey.
 HAROLD VARNER III:   Yeah, it was good.  Just good to be back playing.  It's been a while.  Haven't played since Napa, so I just wanted to get back to it.  Nothing too crazy, but, yeah, made a lot of birdies.
 Q. I always think this golf course kind of fits your personality.  I know you're one of the more aggressive players out there.  You can be aggressive out here.
 HAROLD VARNER III:   I think Vegas fits my personality more than the golf course, but that's nor here or there.
 Yeah, I've played well here.  I just would like to -- like to just finish a tournament.  It's just good to get back in the swing of things.  I love competition, so it was good to get back in it.  I was a little nervous at the start, which is really weird, but it is what it is.
 Q. When you start on that inward nine, when you start at 10, you got a lot of birdie opportunities in the first two hours.  Does that put more pressure on you or you just play the golf course as it comes?
 HAROLD VARNER III:   I really didn't know there was more opportunities there.  Yeah, for me it was.  I mean, I get what you're saying.  I just want to give myself a lot of looks, and I think you can do that on this whole golf course to be honest with you.  You can tell by the scores.
 Q. When there is no wind on a golf course that's got no rough and you see that the scores are already 5-, 6-under par when you're teeing off and one of those is the reigning U.S. Open champion, do you have to kick yourself in gear or just go from --
 HAROLD VARNER III:   No.  My foot is pretty far up my butt by the time I start, so we're ready to go.  What do I need to do?  I play golf.  If he plays good and I play good, I like my chances.
 I don't know.
 Q. Does the scoreboard dictate anything that you do?
 HAROLD VARNER III:   If you tee off in the afternoon and you see that, you just know there is a lot of looks out there.  So be patient and good things will happen.  Not so much kick yourself in the rear end, but you got to make birdies.
 I don't mind it.  My rookie year I would overthink it for sure because you want to play well so bad.  The best thing you can do when it's this easy is just be patient.  You never know when you're going to rip five or six off.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT