WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2017
Harold Varner, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Harold, we can officially be the first one to congratulate you on working your way into the FedEx Cup Playoffs.  
 You told us yesterday you had been working so hard.  What does it mean to see all that hard work payoff?   
HAROLD VARNER, III: It feels good.  Little pumped right now so I'm trying to stay calm.  Just a great opportunity today and I was happy to take advantage of it.  I'm ready to go play well next week.  We got another opportunity next week.   
 Q.  When you told us you finally started seeing results from that hard work, when you saw where you were on the standings, what did that look like for you, what the that mean?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: You have to take a look at yourself.  When you're not putting in the time you shouldn't expect too much.  They now that tell you when you're not working hard enough, you see this.   
 Q.  How did it feel on 18?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: 18, it was just hard.  I knew where I was standing and I just didn't -- gosh, I couldn't execute the shots here and there and just happy it's over, you know, that it was a grind.   
You're trying to win a golf tournament but also trying to make sure -- you can't -- I felt like I couldn't just go for it.  That's a tough spot to be in.  I don't wish that upon anyone.   
 Q.  How was your mindset over the week?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: For the week?  Couldn't do anything wrong.  I play golf.  I'll be all right.  No one is going to die out there.  It obviously helped a lot, keep that mindset and just take it on the next week.  Next week we'll get after it.   
 Q.  How satisfying is it to face what you faced and then make it happen?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: It's awesome.  I've actually been in a similar spot when I was on the Web, finishing 25th.  So, I knew how that felt and I knew that was going to be a long day because of that and gosh, it feels good to put in that hard work like I was saying long ago and see it payoff.   
 Q.  What were the galleries like out there?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: It was good.  They were pretty wild.  They got super, super excited and you could tell they were obviously rooting as hard as they could.  I guess it helped for sure.  I think it's tough playing at home but I think it helped for sure.   
 Q.  The last day like this and you're that close to the line, how aware are you of you're at 116 or 123?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: I'm very aware of what's going on.  I knew what I needed to do.  It was weird.  For a second there I had no clue.  When I started off, when I was making birdies, just easy and then hit it over the green on 10.   
You don't start thinking about it until you start hitting shots where you don't want to.  I think every time I missed the green I made bogey.  I was just trying to hit the green.   
But, I'm glad it's over, glad -- want to get back to work on Tuesday morning.  I think we have another good week.  I'm trending in the right direction, I think.   
 Q.  You said because of where you were you maybe had to hit some shots to be a little more conservative than you usually are.  
 Do you feel like you weren't playing the course the way you normally would because of where you were in the standings, change it up, taking that spot?   
HAROLD VARNER, III: It felt like I couldn't just let it go.  You can't really like blow one by, like five feet, which you can sometimes.  I think I did a good job.  The job is done but I got -- I got a good feeling about next week.   
 Q.  When did you look at the standings and say I need to get to work?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: When did I start looking?   
 Q.  Yes, I have to get to work, work harder.  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Wasn't so much the FedExCup standings, it was just me putting in the time.  It sucks that, you know, the FedExCup seemed like it dictated the hard work I put in.  It shouldn't.  I think you should work hard and the results will come.   
They might not come when you want them to but they'll come and I mean that was a perfect last three weeks have been a perfect time.  Last week helped out a lot because I got a week off in there not playing the PGA Championship there and just helped me a lot.   
And it pissed me off a lot.  I really wanted to be there.  Okay.  I learned a lot from it.  I don't even know where the course is next week, honestly.   
 Q.  Long Island.  You'll get there.  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Planes go there.  It's all right.   
 Q.  Do you think working hard as you did this week, is it like to win --  
HAROLD VARNER, III: It's more the work I did than prior to getting to the course.  By the time you get to a tournament it's time to play.  You have a great opportunity, you're just trying to execute shots and see how the hard work maybe paid off.  Just gosh, I'm thrilled to get the job done.   
 Q.  You were pissed off by the PGA, moreso you were around Charlotte, everybody is there, you're kind of like a part of it, you're home and can't get out to the course?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Yeah.  I mean I can go out there but I didn't.  I had to do an outing out there and just seeing people hey, good luck this week.  You know, I'm not playing.  That's a stinker.  Doesn't feel good.  Still, I don't even want to talk about it anymore.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT