WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2017
Harold Varner, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Harold, I guess get some comments on your 3rd Round if we can, please.
HAROLD VARNER, III: Just, you know, real solid.  Had a lot of fun.  Played with Wags probably, you know, 50 or so times so I knew it was going to be relaxed.  Helped out that he played well.  I kind of fed off of it and just still hanging in there.
Q. You're right in contention going into tomorrow.  What is it going to take tomorrow?
HAROLD VARNER, III: Lot of courage and a lot of patience.  I'm not really good at either one of those.  I feel courageous all the time but that's not always a good thing.
Just take my time and just keep doing what I'm doing.  I feel like good things are happening on the greens, not the whole time, the whole round but I think I can put it together for 18 holes, you know, give myself a good chance going with 9 holes left.
Q. Do you watch the scoreboard a lot tomorrow?
HAROLD VARNER, III: You can't miss it.  It's massive, bigger than some of the greens.  At the end of the day, I still have to execute shots.  That's what I'm going to do tomorrow.
Q. You mentioned today playing with him and when you saw last night, what were your thoughts about that?
HAROLD VARNER, III: I thought about Tweeting it.  One of my favorites, for sure.
Q. Eagles from the fairway on Hole No. 1 and game on and --
HAROLD VARNER, III: Kind of caught me off guard.  I hit a really good shot in there, let's go and make birdie.  He holes it.  All right.  I can't make 2.  I hit a good putt and it's just -- it's a part of it.  It was fun.  Glad that I fed off of it.
Q. You had a bunch of chances up to the front-9 and seemed to kind of fuel you in the back-9.  You seemed to get hot on the back-9.
HAROLD VARNER, III: That's what it's about, give yourself as many chances as you can get and eventually you're going to reel some in.
Q. Harold, has it been more purple each day from East Carolina?
HAROLD VARNER, III: Today was pretty funny.  I had a good time out there with it.  I feed off of it.  I think it feels good to be loved.
Q. Obviously you won in Australia.  How does this opportunity compare to being on the PGA and going into the last day?
HAROLD VARNER, III: Similar.  Lot of -- you know, I think I might have been two back in Australia, as well.  But, regardless, both times I had to play some good golf.  That's what I got to do tomorrow.
Q. Does it mean more that it's here and in your home state or is it just a PGA event you want to win?
HAROLD VARNER, III: I'm always wanting to win one.  You can't win without executing the little stuff.  That's what it's about.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT