WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2017
Harold Varner, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Harold, great way to finish.  That second shot at No. 9, your 18th hole.  Tell us about that because the hole location was kind tricky to get to.  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Got a little lucky.  Hit a little right.  Got over the ridge fed down. Absolutely perfect.  Just like I said yesterday. Didn't get off to a great start but finished really well on the backside.   
 Q.  Your iron play has been really good.  You missed only three greens yesterday, only two greens today in proximity to the hole.  Inside 25 feet yesterday, inside 27 feet today.  
 You're giving yourself some really good looks.   
HAROLD VARNER, III: Wow, I didn't know that.  That's what it's about.  It starts from off the tee.  You hit the fairway, you can attack from there but if you're in the rough, you got no chance.   
Yeah, just keeping it simple.  I know where I stand, I know what I need to do and I guess in my eyes that's a good thing because you either do or don't.  No gray area.   
 Q.  You were in the dark blue shirt.  It is warm out here.  Has the heat been a factor at all?  
HAROLD VARNER, III: It's pretty hot.  Thankfully I grew up playing in this weather as a kid.  Just been -- it's fun.  I don't really get too worried about it.  If I was a little older, it would be pretty tough.   
 Q.  You've got the East Carolina logo on the golf bag.  This is a meaningful event for you because you went to college pretty close by.  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Yeah.  The support was pretty awesome.  Obviously they're getting a little rowdy out there which is exciting as well because I'd be doing the same.   
I need to focus on my game and do my job and then we can celebrate on Sunday if we do well.  Just give myself as many opportunities, just keep it simple and I feel like I'm still -- I haven't peaked yet.   
That's exciting to go me.   
 Q.  Last question, were you trying to get Johnson's attention?  Saw what he did out there, the eagle and albatross, the par-5s.  
HAROLD VARNER, III: That was him?  I didn't know that.  No.  I didn't know that.  Yeah, he lives in Charlotte.  We played a good bit of golf together.  I tried to get him to laugh.  He didn't mess up.  He saw me.   
 Q.  3 and 2 on par-5s.  
HAROLD VARNER, III: Yeah.  I'll give him a hard time about it.  "Took you all that to do that?"  It will be good.  Hopefully we can play together.  I think he's at 9 as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT