WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2017
Harold Varner, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Harold, good round for you.  You made a major move up the FedExCup Points.  You got a long way to go.  You needed a good start.
HAROLD VARNER, III: Just played really good round of golf.  I hadn't played one in awhile.  Things are working together, working hard at it so the results are paying off.  The hard work is paying off, rather.
Q. It's nice when you bunch those birdies together.  On the front you had 3 in a row and on the back you had 3 in the row.  You had nice little runs.
HAROLD VARNER, III: I didn't know until you said that.  That was good.  It was playing pretty easy when I saw Every shot 61 before I even teed off.
Just had to play my game and give myself a lot of looks.  Got to get it in the fairway if you're going to score around here.  I did a pretty good job of that.
Q. When you come into an event like this, you know where you stand, is it like, hey, I got to go low, I really have to go low or just another golf round, you hope it happens?
HAROLD VARNER, III: I just think that -- almost makes it easier because you let it go.  You try to hold on to something, you're not going to do as well.  Just play golf.  I love playing golf and that's what I want to do.
Q. You hit a great shot at 17 that caught that slope and came back down.  Were you meaning to do that because Mark McCumber was in the booth, he wasn't sure?
HAROLD VARNER, III: Hit it a little long and it went a little longer than take I thought.  I didn't give myself a great look.  It's golf.  Everyone got to play it so that's a good break I needed.
Q. When you go low you got to have breaks like that.
HAROLD VARNER, III: For sure.  That was one of them.  I just wish I could have capitalized on.
Q. Go low tomorrow, just a few hours sleep and out early.
HAROLD VARNER, III: Should be asleep right now.
Q. Harold, excellent start out there.  Get some comments on your round.
HAROLD VARNER, III: Just played well.  I mean obviously the score shows.  I hit in it play and gave myself a lot of looks.  Just trying to figure out a way to do that tomorrow, you know, get as many looks as possible.
Fun, obviously when the game is that easy but I know that it's going to be a grind somewhere out there and when it happens I'm ready for that, that opportunity.
Q. That stretch of 6 birdies in 9 holes, what was going good and -- the putter --
HAROLD VARNER, III: All the above.  I was playing solid, getting it in the fairway.  When I was getting it on the greens either I hit some really close or made some good 20-footers.
Q. On 12 you missed a birdie try and came back with three straight birdies.
HAROLD VARNER, III: I knew I was playing well.  I needed to give myself looks.  That was a tough putt and to -- you just walk away and go to the next hole, take it one shot at a time.
I know what's in front of me, I know what the holes are like.  I just need to pick targets and try to execute them.
Q. Different than a regular Thursday, last week?
HAROLD VARNER, III: I didn't really think about it.  It was a golf tournament.  I knew I needed to play well.  It was nice to do that.
Q. Lot of purple and gold out there.
HAROLD VARNER, III: Pretty wild.
Q. Tailgating on 15.
HAROLD VARNER, III: That was cool.  It sucks I couldn't really interact with them because still trying to focus.  Yeah, I appreciate the support for sure.
Q. Do you feel like the home town guy --
HAROLD VARNER, III: I grew up in North Carolina, not too bad, the heat.  You got to keep your hands dry and -- it's way easier when you have a caddy.
Q. You had some opportunities at Bridgestone and Canada.  Are you the type of guy that learns from those and takes motivation or put them behind you?
HAROLD VARNER, III: I had already forgotten until you said something.  It's just a part of golf.  Didn't execute the shots like I did today and I learned from it and I knew -- I felt as if something like this was going to happen.  Just a matter of time.  As long as I think that, I feel like I'm going to be okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT