NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CARDINALS v BREWERS
October 15, 2011
Edwin Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Edwin, just wondered kind of your approach as you go in? Your bullpen's been doing so great. As a starter do you feel, hey, I want to get six or seven innings, or does it really matter at this point?  
 EDWIN JACKSON: I mean as a starter everybody wants to go out and, you know, go as deep as you can for as long as you can. Fortunately we have had, you know, luck with our bullpen coming in and getting the job done when the starters haven't been able to go deeper into the game. So that's always a good problem to have.   
 Of course, you want to give those guys as much time off as possible, but they have been coming in and definitely keeping the game still tight when they have been in the game.   
  
  Q. Edwin, I'm assuming you saw Carpenter close out the Phillies. As a starting pitcher what do you pick up from that? What do you notice? Is there anything a little different in the close-out type of situation?  
 EDWIN JACKSON: I mean that was a gutsy performance. I mean at this point in time everybody is out on the mound and everybody is trying to perform, you know, and go as deep as they can in the game. And of course, it would be nice to be able to go a complete game every time. It's not always going to work out that way, but while you're out there you're trying to go as hard as you can for as long as you can whether it be five, six, seven, eight innings or a complete game.   
 But definitely it wouldn't be a bad idea to be able to close it out with a complete game, but it might not work that way. Just go out and leave it on the field for as long as you can.   
  
  Q. Do you look over your shoulder for Tony, even in the fourth and fifth inning? It's a little different in these playoffs.   
 EDWIN JACKSON: I mean I'm not looking over my shoulder. I can't really speak for anyone else when I'm out on the field. I'm too busy worrying about what hitter is coming up next to be looking over my shoulder. Obviously there's points in the game where there's times that you could be out, especially when you have men on base and a lefty coming up and they might want the lefty-to-lefty matchup.   
 But as a pitcher you kind of get to know when your time is running down or when it's not, but while you're out there you're not really worried about it at the time, just trying to get outs.   
  
  Q. You just faced him a couple of days ago. Seeing it's the same team, they see you, how do you kind of look at it, is it an advantage to pitch or advantage to hit or what are the challenges?  
 EDWIN JACKSON: I don't think either team has an advantage. There's neither advantage for a pitcher or the batters. I mean there's no secret what I have, there's no secret what they can do. It's just a matter of execution. Whether they hit pitches that you miss or whether you throw pitches where you want to and get outs, it's just one of those things where you're not going to change up the game, I'm not going to change up my game plan, go out and attack the strike zone and take my chances with them putting the ball in play.   
  
  Q. Not knowing whether it's a day game or night game, how does that affect your preparation as far as tonight and tomorrow?  
 EDWIN JACKSON: It won't. I'll be watching the game, so by the time the Detroit game finishes, I'll know what's going on. By the time you get to the field, you know, you're ready to go anyway, whether it's a day game or night game. So the preparation part as far as at night, it won't be much different.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT