AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 1, 2020
Harold Mayot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








H. MAYOT/A. Cazaux
6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. The emotions for you? Obviously you let a big emotion after the win. How does it feel to be champion?
HAROLD MAYOT: Well, yeah, it's an amazing feeling to win here in Australia. Was something amazing to win a Grand Slam.
First of all, I don't really realize that I won. But, yeah, obviously was an amazing feeling.
Q. What is the experience like when you're playing here in the junior tournament at the second week of a Grand Slam when there's still the singles going on, people like Novak and Domi? What kind of interaction do you have with the pros?
HAROLD MAYOT: It's great to see the pros are playing at the same time of us juniors. But we don't see the pros a lot of time because they're in a different locker room. But, like, it's kind of different juniors and singles main draw players.
Obviously it's great to play on the same court. It's a great experience to have the opportunities to see them play on court.
Q. You and Arthur know each other very well. What was the dynamic? How did you feel out on court playing him today?
HAROLD MAYOT: Yes, of course, Arthur is my friend since we are young. I know him pretty well. We won a lot of title together in the French team. Yeah, was tough to play against him today in the final. But was great to play against a friend.
I hope to play against him for the biggest trophies.
Q. You are based in Paris with the FFT, is that right?
HAROLD MAYOT: I train in the CNE in Paris.
Q. What is that experience like when there are other French players? You have 12 players in the top 100. How many do you hit with regularly, do you have a relationship with?
HAROLD MAYOT: Yeah, I saw them at Paris very often. It's great to have the opportunity to play with them. Obviously it is great. Jo, Gael, they are playing in the CNE sometimes. We have the chance to come play with them. Yeah, of course it's great. I think that's a great experience to train with them, with the pros. Yeah, that's it.
Q. Your team was getting quite emotional. You were thanking them for the work they've done. What does it mean to have the people around you who have made this Grand Slam possible?
HAROLD MAYOT: Yes, it's means a lot to me. We work very hard since so many years, since I'm young. I want to thanks my family also and all the people who made this possible before.
But, yeah, obviously I have a big relation with my coach Thierry and Sebastien is there. Yeah, of course it's very hard work. Here we are.
It's just the beginning and I hope to win a lot of title this year.
Q. A lot of the juniors who have won recently in majors have gone quickly to try to make it into the pros. What are your plans in the next few months? You've played some on the ATP.
HAROLD MAYOT: Yeah, I play some challengers, too, before I come to the Australian Open juniors. Yeah, we start to play some pros, some challenger, maybe some ATP if I got the ranking, some wild card by the federation or the tournament.
Yeah, of course I will start to play pros this year. That's the plan goal, yeah.
Q. Will you play Roland Garros juniors?
HAROLD MAYOT: Yeah, I think so. I'm going to play juniors. Not sure for the moment. Of course, it's in France. I am French, so I think I will play there.
Q. Are you considering college, university at all?
HAROLD MAYOT: Not for the moment. It's not the goal, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT