ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 13, 2015
Preston Mommsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BEN FOX: A quick note before we get started.  Just to let you know, obviously, it's been well reported that we've had suspensions (Indiscernible).  Obviously, it's an internal matter, and we're not going to be able to speak about it today.  So if you'll just focus on the game tomorrow, that would be fantastic.   Q.  (Indiscernible) the way he played until the game he took a heavy tumble in the way he was bowling.  I know he was fine after, but is he still going to be well to play in the game?  PRESTON MOMMSEN: Yeah, he's fine.  I think that was initially he was crazy with a cramp, so he's good to go tomorrow.   Q.  You've had a pretty quick turnaround from the Sri Lanka game.  Does that compromise your preparation or is that a good thing so it doesn't give you much time to dwell?  PRESTON MOMMSEN: Yeah, it's a good thing.  We know it was a tough game for us, but at the same time we did some good stuff during that game, both with the ball and with the bat.  We know tomorrow again it's a quality side with a very strong lineup, and they won't be taking us lightly. So, yeah, it's been good to kind of just reflect yesterday, a quick reflection couple of discussions being had on where we can improve for tomorrow, and the boys will be out this afternoon putting their final preparations together ahead of tomorrow.  Obviously, very exciting game for us to play against a world champion side, so something that we as a group are very much looking forward to.   Q.  How valuable is that experience for your bowlers bowling against Sangakkara, and having to bowl tomorrow against guys like Warner and Maxwell?  PRESTON MOMMSEN: It's invaluable.  Not only for the bowlers, but for the batters to be able to witness that and see how they go about their needs in such a composed nature.  Yeah, we're under a lot of pressure with the ball, when Kumar and Dilshan were batting and making things look very easy out there in the middle, and they've got a lot of time. But I think the boys are set up well there.  We're under the pump and quite reasonably looking for 400 plus there.  So I think we took a lot out of it, and kept them to 360 by taking wickets.  I think throughout the tournament we've taken wickets.  We have a pretty good strike rate as a bowling unit, which is something we're quite proud of.  So hopefully tomorrow it could be more of the same. Hopefully we'll learn from there were a couple mistakes during that Sri Lanka bowling innings.  But hopefully we can learn from that, and the key for us to stay composed for as long as possible, even if these quality players do get in, and they do get partnerships going. For us, it's about hanging on and creating chances even if that means creating chances in the field.  We have to make up in other areas.  Yeah, Sri Lanka was a huge learning curve for us, but we're strong for it, and hopefully the bowling unit can stand up tomorrow.   Q.  Taking on a home nation in their own country and preparations in terms of how big a game it is for you guys -- how big a game do you consider it to be taking on a home nation in a World Cup?  PRESTON MOMMSEN: It's obviously a huge game.  It's a huge honor as well to be playing against the host nation.  We obviously expect a pretty good crowd tomorrow as well.  So that will of course amplify everything.  It will be a huge arena for us.  But it's something that we're, as a group, looking to embrace the experience. For an associate nation, these sort of games don't happen very often, so it's very exciting for us.  We have to stay level, stay composed for as long as possible and try to find a way into the game as early on as possible.   Q.  Given how you guys get to play against test opponents, how big is the stand between yourselves and (Indiscernible) the other day?  PRESTON MOMMSEN: I think it was pretty important, as it was Kyle's knock against Bangladesh, and the partnership myself and Kyle had in that game.  I think it's important when we're at the crease that we show that we can fit in that environment and feel comfortable in that environment. So I think looking back at that Sri Lanka, if you look at the score on the board there, I think we were 150, 160-odd for three in the 30th over, something like that.  Which is, I think, very reasonable and respectable for a platform to go and get a decent total.  So that's a very positive thing for us.  Obviously we don't really want to be chasing scores of 360, but at the same time these days scores of 300-plus are something you need to accept and come to expect in games. So I think there have been huge positives in the way we've gone about our batting in the top order in the last two games has been very pleasing.   Q.  I think this is the first time you've played two in a row in the same venue.  You obviously know what it's like.  Would you rather chase or would you rather bat if you win the toss tomorrow?  PRESTON MOMMSEN: Yeah, the game in Sri Lanka, we lost the toss.  We would have batted first.  I think it's a very good batting wicket there.  I think we have to put some runs on the board and create some extra pressure that way.  So, yeah, either way it's a good wicket.  I think in previous games at this venue it showed that it can be quite a hard ground to defend on.  So chasing it is not such a bad thing as well, so long as you get that first soft spot on and make sure you're chasing a score that is chaseable.   Q.  What is the mood like in the camp going into this game?  Obviously, Australia are playing very well at the moment, especially considering you guys are winless today and you have players at home for disciplinary reasons?  PRESTON MOMMSEN: The mood is actually pretty good still.  We know we haven't won a game, which is very disappointing for us.  But we know we still are relatively young when it comes to World Cup experience, and apart from Majid, no one had played in a World Cup before. So you do as much preparation as you can for these sort of events.  You have good discussions about how you're going to approach things, but when you actually arrive here everything is amplified when you are playing in a World Cup.  It's not just on match days.  It's everything in between the day to day, commitments, et cetera, et cetera.  There is a lot going on. So for us, it's been hugely, hugely valuable just being here and gaining those experiences.  So I think that the guys feel in a much better place with all of those experiences.  Better cricketers, much stronger mentally definitely.  And I think we leave this tournament as a stronger and better team, even though we haven't yet had a victory with one game to play. Yeah, we're still very positive.  The guys are in a good frame of mind.  Obviously, the incident, that's disappointing from a team point of view.  But I can't really say too much more.  It is disappointing, but these things do happen, and they'll be dealt with.  As a group, we're focused on tomorrow.   Q.  How do you think that Matt crosses where it stacks up with the rest of the week?  Does he stay in the tournament?  PRESTON MOMMSEN: Yeah, his stats are very, very impressive if you look at his catches and stumping behind the wickets.  I think if you look at his overall career and his strike rate, so to speak of dismissals per innings is very good.  You know, up there with the best in the world.  So I think his stumping against England was up there with one of the best players in the tournament.  So that is something that he can he be very proud of and something that we can be very proud of.   Q.  Think Josh Davey was the leading wicket taker until a few minutes ago.  What's been the secret to his success and the fire power in his tournament and conditions that he's not all that familiar with?  PRESTON MOMMSEN: Yeah, Josh is an interesting one.  He's one of these bowlers that throughout ever since I started playing with him, he's one of these guys who has a knack for taking wickets in difficult situations.  Just gets thrown the ball, and could easily have a spell where he picks up two or three in the space of two overs.  You know, you want guys like that in your bowling lineup.  So it's been a brilliant tournament for him.  We need him to step up again tomorrow and have a huge game for us.   Q.  How do you feel when you know you're taking on Australia?  Any nerves at all?  Is it more excitement?  How do you actually feel going out there?  PRESTON MOMMSEN: It's going to be excitement.  We had our fixture against them a couple years ago at The Grange in Edinburgh, which we ran the strength that day, missing quite a few county players, and we probably had the wrong mindset going into that game.  In the end, that probably cost us, and we were nowhere near our best. I think the guys who played in that game have learned from that experience, and there will definitely be a shift in the mindset as we approach tomorrow's game.  We're very excited.  It's obviously a huge honor to be playing against the best in the world, a great experience.  We're very much looking forward to it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT