PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Johan Kok
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   This has been probably an amazing week for you in many respects, but certainly today putting a 67 on the board on a golf course, that's probably playing 100 and some yards for some people.   Speak about that round for us.
JOHAN KOK:   Yeah, we got on the range this morning and like I mentioned yesterday, just haven't been playing that good.   I said to my brother, listen, we're going to stop worrying about the golf swing, stop worrying about posture or grip.   We're going to hit golf shots today and enjoy it. 
Grinded it out there in the rain when we started.   It was pouring down rain the first five holes.   And then started getting some momentum with my driver and putter, great all day.   I chipped in twice, which always helps.

Q.   Where were the chip‑ins?
JOHAN KOK:   No. 6, that tough par‑4, I chipped it in from the right of the green. 
And then on 12, I was yacking all over that hole and then canned it from behind the green, so that was great. 

Q.   You also have credit for the Play of the Day on ESPN from yesterday with that monster putt.   That had to be fun, too?
JOHAN KOK:   How amazing is that?   Yesterday I'm getting all this press and it was a miserable day on the golf course for me after that. 
Today was so solid.   It's really cool.   It it's been a great week.   For me, I had some goals, just come out here and have fun and not make a fool of myself and enjoy my first major and it's been an awesome week. 

Q.   It makes you hungry to get back?
JOHAN KOK:   It makes me hungry to keep my golf game back up in shape.   I really have been neglecting it the last couple of years.   I'm not I saying I'm going to compete with these guys, but I can have a good week and make the cut and enjoy it.

Q.   As you know, the Top 20 PGA club professionals, this is a great reward, a great perk.   There's so many things that each one of them has different goals.   Like you said you wanted to have fun but you wanted to see what you could do with your game?
JOHAN KOK:   Right.   Yesterday was great.   You know, the eagle on the first hole, all the people out here, was awesome.   My first major. 
Today I wanted to prove that I could play with these guys.   Obviously a 4‑under par today, I think it's one of the lower rounds with McIlroy today.   I've proven to myself that I can play with these guys, which is great.

Q.   Help us out with your immediate competitive plans in the next six months and so forth.
JOHAN KOK:   I don't really know.   After yesterday my back was hurting so bad I thought about withdrawing from some tournaments, but after today's round‑‑ next week in Knoxville, we actually have our section championship again.   That's a big one.   If you can win it, you get into the FedEx next year.   That is kind of my immediate thing. 
Then we got another big golf tournament at the players.   Then we've got some team events.   I'm leading in the player of the year points right now so I finished second in the last few years, so I would like to get that under my belt.   So that is my goal for the season.

Q.   The road to the PGA Championship on CBS, we heard about your connection with junior golf.   I know that's dear to your heart.   Could you speak about that connection and what it means to go back to your community and be apart of that?
JOHAN KOK:   Yeah, a lot of our juniors were out here yesterday and today.   It just gives them something to look up to, they have a general manager at the club that can play golf with these pros out here.   It gets them excited.   All my members are excited.   Heck, I there's two or three past members that are going to be rejoining next week they were so excited.   All of that is great.   Anything we can do to grow the game of golf, make it more fun, I'm in.

Q.   As you know the PGA of America owns Valhalla Golf Club, so you are welcome back any time.
JOHAN KOK:   Thank you very much.   I'll be back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT