NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2012
Moe Harkless
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on being drafted by Philadelphia? 
MOE HARKLESS:   Thankful for the opportunity and thankful for Philadelphia for drafting me.   Hope I can help the team any way I can. 

Q.   Talk about how your stock has risen in the last couple of months and what impression you left on a lot of the NBA teams to be a first‑round pick?
MOE HARKLESS:   Going into the workouts, I showed teams how hard I work and how hard I compete.   A lot of teams didn't think I could shoot the ball and I showed the teams I could shoot the ball really well.   I think I just left a good impression on Philadelphia. 

Q.   Short of going to the Knicks or the Nets, you're closer to home with the Sixers than any team, what does it mean, family and friends seeing new Philly, and you'll play against the Knicks and Nets a lot in New York. 
MOE HARKLESS:   That's really cool to me because I've pretty much been close to home my whole life, going to St. John's and being from New York and having my family close and being able to come out to games is definitely a great feeling. 

Q.   What do you know about the Sixers organization and the roster as it is right now? 
MOE HARKLESS:   I know that they are a really young team and that they play really fast.   I think that's the type of game that I like to play, and I think I'll fit in well.

Q.   Do you think you can fit on the floor all at the same time with Thaddeus and Andre Iguodala? 
MOE HARKLESS:   I can play different positions and those guys can play different positions, so I think it will be great. 

Q.   How hard have you worked to get here? 
MOE HARKLESS:   Man, I worked really hard.   It's the hardest I've worked in my life, and I didn't think I could work as hard as I've been working.   It's definitely a great feeling and I'm happy to be here.   I'm blessed. 

Q.   Your mom must have been pretty excited about Philadelphia since it's only 90 miles away.   She must have been ecstatic. 
MOE HARKLESS:   She's excited about just being here.   The team didn't matter; she was really emotional and she's probably out there still crying.   I'm definitely glad I could make her happy and make my dreams come true.

Q.   Since it's only 90 miles from St. John's, is she going to make you finish your degree? 
MOE HARKLESS:   Oh, yeah, I'm going to finish school.

Q.   Did you work out with the 76ers and were you surprised when your name was called by them?
MOE HARKLESS:   Yeah, I did work out with the 76ers.   Not really, because talking to the organization, they told me they really liked me and that there was a really high chance that they would pick me.   So it was definitely a great feeling, and I kind of had a gut feeling. 

Q.   You're the first guy we've seen at the podium who was not a Green Room invite.   Talk about that experience, watching other guys down there together and shaking hands and you being away from that. 
MOE HARKLESS:   Watching those guys, I'm definitely happy for those guys because a lot of those guys I know.   Whether I was in the Green Room or not, it didn't really matter.   Just grateful to have my name called and be given this opportunity. 

Q.   What part of your game do you still have to work on in the off‑season to better prepare you for the pro game?
MOE HARKLESS:   I think the main thing is just getting stronger.   I think that's really what's going to take my game to the next level. 

Q.   What was it about Philadelphia that you had a gut feeling?   What happened between you guys that gave you that feeling?
MOE HARKLESS:   You know, the workout went really well.   I did well in the workout, and also afterwards when I was talking to the GM and the coach, it felt really comfortable.   I felt like they would genuinely like me and that there was a high chance that they would pick me. 

Q.   Do you like playing in that arena?   How do you feel about that? 
MOE HARKLESS:   It's a nice place to play.   I can't wait to actually get down there.

Q.   Talk about what St. John's was able to do for you. 
MOE HARKLESS:   Kind of just being there humbled me a lot.   I was very humble but being there and working with Coach Rico and Coach Dunlap who is now the coach of Bobcats, they taught me how to work hard and dedicate myself to the game; I think they helped me a lot with the little things.

Q.   Were you surprised that you were not invited to the Green Room? 
MOE HARKLESS:   I mean, I felt that I should have been invited to the Green Room, but like I said, it really didn't matter to me because I'm just blessed to be here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT