NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 24, 2017
Clarke MacArthur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How is it moving past last night?  
CLARKE MacARTHUR: Very excited, obviously, to come back and -- you know, Andy played an incredible game for us.  They had a lot of shots, but I thought we did a better job in the middle of the ice.  We were opportunistic like we've been all year.  Game 7, anything could happen.   
 Q.  Do you have to do anything different?  
CLARKE MacARTHUR: We got to get on the offense a little more.  We obviously don't want to give up that much zone time.  You know, at the same time, we're deflecting a lot of things to the outside and a lot of perimeter shots.   
So I mean, we'll do some slight adjustments, but what we got last night is what we're going to be looking for tomorrow.   
 Q.  You've gone through this whole year with people doubting you.  You seem to feed off that?  
CLARKE MacARTHUR: Yeah, I think we've answered to a lot of people.  I remember coming home after we lost 7-0.  I was driving back talking to Dion, and he was like, We're going to get this series.  And I was thinking the same thing.  It's how do you think that after you lose 7-0?  So we've got one of the two, and we have a job to do going into Game 7.   
 Q.  Why did you think that?  
CLARKE MacARTHUR: I don't know.  I just believe in the group we have.  I know when we play our game, and if we're on, we can beat any team in the league, and if we're off, you can have an off night.  But I feel like this team, I've never been on a team that reloads as quick as we do.  That's what this time of year is all about.  It's forget it and move on.  We did that, and now we've got to forget last night too.   
 Q.  Was that a conversation where you guys were just talking to yourselves and agreeing with each other?  
CLARKE MacARTHUR: Yeah, basically, it's just nice hearing someone thinking the same way as you are.  I know it goes through our whole dressing room.  It's always good comments to hear.   
 Q.  Is that the power of positive thinking, like in sports psychology, visualizing and that kind of stuff?  
CLARKE MacARTHUR: I think everyone has a little piece of that or has worked with someone or done something.  You know, if you think the right way and you go into games knowing how to execute, knowing what you want to do, good things can happen.  And if you -- visualizing things can pay off.   
 Q.  Sounds like there's still a pretty confident feeling going into a pretty hostile environment.  
CLARKE MacARTHUR: Yeah, it's going to be tough.  We're going to have to have our best game.  They're going to come after us, and we've got to do the same.  We didn't put a nice suit on today to come get a loss.  We're going there to win a game, and we're going to lay it on the line.   
 Q.  Is the feeling going into Game 7 (inaudible) winner take all?  
CLARKE MacARTHUR: I don't know.  I think they're all different.  I think for us it will be what we do in the first ten minutes of that game.  I feel like, if we have guys going out and blocking shots and doing the right things through the first ten minutes, it seems to feed through the whole lineup, and everyone seems to get confidence from that.  That will be our main concern, the first ten minutes of the game.   
 Q.  The fans here in Ottawa have been (inaudible), what was it like?  
CLARKE MacARTHUR: It was amazing.  Last night was amazing.  Even that last minute, just the countdown to the last minute, guys had to make plays, and the crowd was going crazy.  It's something I'll be thinking of when I'm on my death bed, that's for sure.  It will be a memory that will go that long.   
 Q.  There's not a lot of you guys have that have been here, but your coach has been in this exact same position.  Does that matter?  He's not on the ice?  
CLARKE MacARTHUR: Yeah, it helps.  Getting advice from him, things he's been through.  I think we've been using that.  The biggest thing for our team is we know who we are.  We know we're not flashy.  We know what style of game we play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT