VIRGINIA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 7, 2017
Justin Fuente
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Virginia Tech - 23, Boston College - 10   
JUSTIN FUENTE: I was tickled to death.  Our guys responded like we asked them to do.  We didn't play particularly fantastic at times, disappointed in the penalties, but played well enough to beat a very physical and tough, hard-nosed football team at their place.  We played really well on 3rd down defensively.  In the first half we made a few more plays on 3rd down.  We got pretty far down the ol' depth chart there at the wide receiver position, but I thought the young guys stepped in and performed admirably.   
We're into bye week and focus on some self-improvement and get some guys healthy and get ready for the next stretch.   
 Q.  You mentioned the young guys stepping up at receiver.  You don't have Carroll, Cam goes out.  What's going through your mind at that point?  
JUSTIN FUENTE: Well, that's why we work those guys.  Obviously we'd like to have Cam out there when CJ has been so steady for us, but that's part of the deal.  That's why we rep all the guys that we do, to try and prepare them for that opportunity, and it was good to see Eric make some contested catches in there on some slats in there in coverage on 3rd down.  Murphy, I don't know how many catches he had -- he had a couple catches in the first half, I don't know if he had one in the second.  But it was good to get those guys in there and playing well.  We've got to get them playing a little better without the ball.  There are some things we've got to get done.   
 Q.  Are you at least encouraged by information you've gotten so far on Cam?  
JUSTIN FUENTE: Yeah, and the limited information I got, I have, everything checked out as a sprain, and the bye week is coming at a good time.  We'll get him healthy and get ready to go.   
 Q.  Five sacks tonight, 109 rushing yards --  
JUSTIN FUENTE: Yeah, I thought that was some shared responsibility there.  First of all, they're really good at end.  Really good.  And second of all, there's a couple times I thought Josh, when things just weren't right, we were getting wired a little bit at wide out, at times guys and guys weren't just slam open.  I thought we held the ball just a little too long.  I told Josh a couple times, just throw that away and just go play the next play.  It's just part of his kind of maturation process.  So combine that with the fact that we (indiscernible) caused them some problems, which probably led to that inflated number.  That number is far too many.   
 Q.  Obviously with Cam out, Eric really stepped up seemed like at receiver.  Especially your touchdown scoring drive in the second quarter he had three catches on 3rd downs.  
JUSTIN FUENTE: Yeah, some big plays on 3rd down into man coverage, really, really encouraging to see Eric win those inside routes and break a tackle and make some good plays.  It was nice, because you're right, usually that's Cam in there, and that's what a team does.  That's what a team needs.  That's what we need is we need our young guys to continue to improve to give ourselves a chance to be the best that we can be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT