ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 6, 2017
Justin Fuente
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JUSTIN FUENTE: Happy to get the win last week.  Our kids have done a good job thus far turning the page to focus on Delaware.  We have a tremendous amount of respect for them.  Good football players, a fantastic head coach that's won everywhere he's been.  We're anxious to open up back here at Lane Stadium.   
 Q.  Coach, I'm curious, is there any carryover defensively from what you saw against West Virginia with the odd front?  I know Delaware bases out of the three, but it seems they've switched to a four-man front a lot.  Is there any carryover there?  
JUSTIN FUENTE: Not a lot, no.  I mean, there is some kind of base philosophies that I would say are similar, but, no, not a tremendous amount of carryover.   
 Q.  How would you evaluate your running game, how they performed against West Virginia?  
JUSTIN FUENTE: Oh, I thought it was pretty good.  We talked about it after the game.  My one piece of criticism I would have is I wish we'd had been a little more consistent, but found a way to run the football.  You know, I was pretty pleased.   
 Q.  I know Josh got a lot of attention after the game, and rightfully so.  But it seemed like your group of running backs had more success than you'd seen in a lot of games last year, particularly McClease.  What do you see from that group?  Do you see McClease taking a bigger slice of that pie?  
JUSTIN FUENTE: I was really pleased with Deshawn.  It was good to get him back.  He didn't play hardly any last year.  I really thought he gave us a spark in there in the second half.  Had a nice little touchdown run.  But, overall, I was pleased with those guys' performance.  There are certainly some things we can work on.  I don't know how the carries will be distributed as we move forward.  But I was pleased with McClease and kind of what he brought to the table.   
 Q.  In an ideal world, would you like to see Josh run a little less than that?  I know people kind of seem to be surprised at how much he ran.  Is that an effective part of his game or is that probably a little bit of an outlier in terms of what you'd like to see from him week to week?  
JUSTIN FUENTE: I don't know.  It seems to be a hot topic.  I've been asked this question it seems like every week since I've been here about who is running the ball and all that sort of stuff.  The we called three designed quarterback runs for Josh.  Everything else was a read or an option and had a run or a pass off of it.  So the defense actually dictated who carried the ball on those plays.  I was pleased with how efficiently he ran the ball and took care of it.  You know, we'll continue to share the carries and find ways to be efficient so we can run the football and ultimately make plays in the passing game.   
 Q.  What are some of the strengths of the of the Delaware team that you and your staff have been particularly focusing on this week with your players?  
JUSTIN FUENTE: Well, I think the first thing is their personnel.  When you turn the film on and watch the guys that they're suiting up, I mean, those are good, athletic football players.  I think the second thing that jumps out to you is the job Coach Rocco and his staff have done in a short period of time.  They're incredibly sound.   
I don't know Coach personally, but I've followed his career and everywhere he's been his teams have been disciplined, hard-nosed football teams.  This is certainly no exception.  You can tell very quickly that this is a well-coached group.  So when you get a group of guys that are disciplined and cohesive in their schemes, combined with having some talent, it's a dangerous mixture.   
 Q.  Talk about Delaware's wide receiver Cherry; have you seen him on film, and what type of player is he?  
JUSTIN FUENTE: I have.  He's got some good size and strength, ball skills.  Seems to be a polished player.  Their quarterback looks to be a big, athletic guy.  So like I said, they've certainly got skill players out there that can cause you some problems.   
 Q.  Let's talk about that atmosphere on Saturday coming home for the first time since you guys won your first home game in a very long time.  Talk about what that atmosphere's going to be like?  
JUSTIN FUENTE: I'm sure it will be fantastic.  Our fans very rarely, if ever, disappoint.  They travel with us on the road everywhere we go, and they all look forward to the home games as we do.  I'm sure it will be a raucous event.  Hopefully our kids will play well and give them more reason to be excited.  We've got to bring our own energy as well though.  We can't just rely on the fans to do the job for us.  Though they do a fantastic job, we've got to make sure we do a great job in our preparation.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT