VIRGINIA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2016
Justin Fuente
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
^   
Virginia Tech - 34, Notre Dame - 31   
COACH FUENTE: Awfully proud of our football team today.  Things did not start well for us in any phase of the game.   
They continued to battle back in an absolutely beautiful environment; really special celebration of college football.  My first trip here.  It's everything that I had been led that it would be.   
Also, before I take questions want to thank the Hokie Nation.  Hokie Nation.  It was a fantastic turnout.  They were loud and proud and a lot of fun to play for.   
 Q.  What did you tell the guys at halftime?  We heard the TV interview.  Didn't sound like you were particularly pleased with the first half.  
COACH FUENTE: No.  I mean, I don't think there was any great revelation at halftime.  It was just, We've got to play better.  We're out there dropping the ball on the ground and giving up big plays; you know, just not playing Virginia Tech football.   
I think guys kind of settled down and got their feet underneath them felt like if they just execute they would have a chance to have success; that's what they did.   
 Q.  (Question regarding momentum in the second half and Cam.)  Did you worry that might take the wind out of your sails there?  
COACH FUENTE: I was pleased with how we did respond.  Cam in particular, and the team.  Obviously that was a big play.  We felt like we were going to have a big pass play there and it didn't go our way.   
Then in turn, they hit us on a long run I believe it was after that.  Our guys just kept battling through.  I don't know if it's their belief in each other or the work that they've put in, but they just kept plugging away.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
COACH FUENTE: Exercised?   
 Q.  Yes.  Was that partly the call and your team's play, or all just that call?  
COACH FUENTE: You know, I think -- I obviously disagreed with the call vehemently.  But, you know, I wasn't trying to make a point, I can tell that you much.   
I wasn't trying to do anything other than I wasn't very happy.  I really wasn't happy that I got the penalty.  Not with them, but with myself.   
You know, I mean, we approach those things on a daily basis on it's my job to do a great job setting that example.   
I wasn't happy with either set of circumstances at the time, the call nor the way our team had been playing.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
COACH FUENTE: Well, I thought it was big.  They were all big in a close game like that.  We felt like we had a little something going there offensively heading into the half, even though we were down and it hadn't been particularly pretty.   
Then felt like we had a decent handle on their adjustments and what our answers were going to be.  It was nice to see C.J. in the No. 25 streaking down the sidelines.  Certainly was a big play for us.   
 Q.  Jerod had a very accurate day throwing the football.  What did he tell you about these conditions and how was it affecting him?  Obviously he handled it quite well.  
COACH FUENTE: Yeah, I felt like the wind was a much bigger factor in the kicking game than it was throwing the ball.  I thought both quarterbacks through the ball into and with the wind pretty well.   
I think there were a couple plays that it did affect the ball flight a little bit.  Sometimes when you're going with it it's harder to control the ball.  Jerod throws a fairly tight spiral.  We throw a lot of balls underneath, and he was pretty accurate with it today.   
I just for whatever reason, early in the game we were having a hard time handling the football, as if we had never done those things before.  It was really an odd set of circumstances.  I'm not sure why.  Once they settled down they handled it much better.   
 Q.  After you win the game, standing there with your wife, can you describe that moment for you, what it felt like?  
COACH FUENTE: Well, I'm awfully grateful, when I think back, of all the football games I've been a part of in my life.  The first thought is not throwing a post for a touchdown or scoring a touchdown or calling a play that results in a touchdown, or any of those things.   
It's always getting a chance to share those things with other people.  Having a chance to share that with Jen was special.  Virginia Tech is a special place.  I don't mean just a special place to coach football, but it's a special place to be a part of.   
The pride the people have in Virginia Tech, whether they live in Blacksburg or work at Virginia Tech or went to school there, it's palpable.  You can see it.   
Sometimes you can seeing it a little bit easier at road football games.  It was a great example of it today watching the Hokie Nation turn out and cheer on our kids.  I tell you, I'm working them hard now.  They work hard.  To get that reward is special.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
COACH FUENTE: His makeup, is that what you said?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
COACH FUENTE: Well, you know, I think he's got confidence in himself, first of all.  I think he knows, but he's also honest with himself and knows when he's messed some things up.  Wasn't just him that led to our rough start.  It was a lot of people.   
I think he's got faith in knowing that if he continues to do what we're asking him to do on a consistent basis, that will lead to him playing efficiently and us ultimately having a chance to win.   
There is no time for sulking out there in front of 80,000 people when things aren't going your way.  You can go in the tank or pick yourself up and go back to work.  That's what he did, and what you have to do if you're going to play quarterback, and ultimately what the team did.   
 Q.  They had 299 yards on you before halftime, and then they kind of shut Notre Dame's offense down.  Did Bud's adjustments give you guys a chance there late?  
COACH FUENTE: Certainly.  I mean, there were I don't know how many series in a row there where we were getting stops.  I don't know what the numbers were.  There was a point in time where it became much more difficult for them to move the ball.   
I think that is a credit to Bud and our defensive staff and knowledge of our scheme and how to manipulate it to give ourselves the best chance, it's a compliment to our players in how they settled down and began to play the way that we all believe they're capable of playing.   
 Q.  (Question regarding the Coastal Division.)  
COACH FUENTE: I don't know.  I want to win the game next week.  With that game does come the Coastal Division Championship.  I don't know what it means other than we get a chance to play again if we win.  We get an extra game together, our group, seniors, kids that have given so much to our program, get another opportunity to play.   
So beyond that in year one, two, three, I don't know.  I do know that these kids want to do it, but we'll have a tremendous task ahead.  I don't know who won the Georgia Tech game.   
But I've seen Virginia in crossover film, and they're continuing to get better.   
 Q.  Are you a guy that talks about conference championships with your team beginning of the year?  
COACH FUENTE: No, I haven't talked about that much.  Until we got down here to the last -- we were in it and playing championship games.  But we didn't lay out things like that.   
We focused on the internal things that give us a chance.  I think it's understood though if you coach at Virginia Tech you're expected to compete for the Coastal Division Championship.  I think those kids know that, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT