ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 7, 2018
Justin Fuente
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JUSTIN FUENTE: We've got another big challenge in front of us going on the road to play at Pitt, a team that's in first place in our division and playing very well.  They've always been very well-coached.  Coach Narduzzi has done a fantastic job up there.  They're very good in all three phases of the game, and it's going to take a great week of preparation for us to get ready to take on this challenge.   
 Q.  They've rotated three different running backs through and all have found success at times.  Is there a dramatic difference in what they do with each of them, or is it more kind of riding the hot hand?  
JUSTIN FUENTE: I don't see a huge difference.  I mean, they all three look like your prototypical Pitt tailbacks, big and strong and powerful with great vision.  So I don't know -- I don't see a huge difference in what they're trying to accomplish with each one of them in the game.   
 Q.  As you look at your team, I know you guys have the 1-0 slogan and you've kind of built things around that.  Is it hard to keep chatter about the bowl streak and some of those things out of your locker room?  
JUSTIN FUENTE: No, not too hard.  Guys have been focused on the next game and us trying to get better and continuing to improve.  So no, it hasn't been a hard thing.   
 Q.  Justin, two years ago you guys had a lot of success winning the so-called 50/50 balls against their press coverage.  Would you anticipate needing similar results from Damon and Eric if you're going to win on Saturday?  
JUSTIN FUENTE: Well, one of the things you know going in to play Pitt is that you're going to get press coverage.  I mean, that's who they are.  That's what they do.  They make it very difficult to run the football by playing their version of quarters defense and challenging you on the outside.   
You know, I think that's always going to be important, not just for us but for everyone that plays them.  You'd like to find a way to get some easy completions, but when it comes down to it, there's going to be times when you're going to have to make contested catches, and I don't think this game will be any exception to that rule.   
 Q.  And then last week they did a really good job of pressuring Perkins and corralling him.  What have been your impressions of their pass rush and the pressure they've been able to bring?  
JUSTIN FUENTE: I think the one thing that stands out is just their effort and passion with which they're playing.  You know, they did get Virginia behind the chains a few times and maybe took away the primary read.  They do some good things in long yardage situations.  They have a sub package, and they mix up the looks and do a really good job with that.   
But the bottom line is it all stems from them playing with great effort and passion, and combined with a neat scheme that they change up from week to week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT