U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 1994
Kelli Kuehne
Rae Anna Staples
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 LES UNGER:  We had the kids in before with the Peanut Butter
press conference.  We are a stage above that now.  We have two
young ladies who in the last couple of weeks qualified for the
U.S. Women's Open.  On your right is Rae Anna Staples who is 14
years old from Florida.  And she was the low scorer or medalist,
however you describe that, in Florida.  And we have Kelli Kuehne
on your left who qualified in Texas and last week won the U.S.
Junior Girls Championship. The two of them met in the semi finals
of that event and Kelli won that too.  They are certainly two
of the leading junior girls in the United States.  And Kelli,
I am going to start with you because you got the gold medal. 
What has life been like back in Texas?  I know you haven't been
there long but since you walked away with your championship.

 KELLI KUEHNE:  Really great, had a lot of friends and family
call to congratulate me, just to tell me good luck for the Open.

 LES UNGER: Rae Anna, you played in the girls junior four years
ago at 11, played in it four times.  I told you we were going
to discuss this because I think it is a fascinating story about
the hole -- the par 3 hole back there when you were 11.  Would
you just tell us a little about it.

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  I was on a par 3.  It was about 180 yards
and I was playing with two great golfers, and they both hit hole-in-ones
in the same hole.  I was the only one who couldn't reach the hole.
 I hit way short and I probably made a double bogey.  I couldn't
even reach 180 yards with the driver.

 LES UNGER:  The two girls used 5-irons for holes-in-one, and
with a driver she couldn't get there but things have changed.
 Kelli, you have had a couple of practice rounds.  Tell us who
you have played with, and what you think of the course, and what
is it like being around with some of these pros?

 KELLI KUEHNE:  Yesterday I got to play nine holes with Michelle
McGann and that was really neat.  I met her when I was younger.
 She hits it long. And I was just kind of hitting it trying to
keep up, and it was really fun.  She was really nice and got to
talk to me a lot.  Today I played with another amateur and Margaret
Ward.  It is nice.  The rough is a little thick, greens are huge,
but it is really good.  It is very nice.

 LES UNGER:  How much did Michelle McGann outdrive you?

 KELLI KUEHNE:  Probably about 20 yards.

 LES UNGER:  Rae Anna, you just came off a pretty interesting
group, tell us about it.

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  I played with Nancy Lopez, Brandie Burton
and Kelly Robbins.  Well, talk about long hitters.  Kelli Robbins
is the longest one on tour.  She was outdriving me by 70 yards
on the fly, and she was a really good player.  I love the course.
 It has great greens but the rough is really high, but it is out
of play.  But I like the golf course.  They have great conditions.

 LES UNGER:  Just for the sake of identification, Mr. Staples
is the skinny gentleman there with the white hat and Mrs. Kuehne,
where are you, ma'am?  She is sitting down there, and as far as
I know, they accompany their kids on most tournaments; maybe not
all.  And now the floor is yours.  Who has got a question?


 Q.  What do you learn by playing with players who have so
much more experience than you have?  Either one of you.

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  Well, that is why I am here.  I am here to
get experience and it is a good feeling, and I like playing with
better players.  When I play at home I play with, you know, not
so good players. It makes me play better when I play with better
players.

 KELLI KUEHNE:  I think a lot -- they enjoy it a lot and they
try and have fun; especially with the amateurs because I know
yesterday I was a little uptight playing with Michelle the first
hole; then just  -- first hole she started talking to me and I
relaxed a lot, and she just said, enjoy it, have fun, enjoy the
atmosphere, the people, the players, and just go out and play
golf; that is why you are here, learn about, you know, growing
up on the course.

 Q.  Do you expect to be nervous Thursday?

 KELLI KUEHNE:  Yeah.  I am going to be a lot more nervous the
first tee.  I like people-- that makes me feel like a lot of people
are watching, and it gets me excited, so I think it will be a
-- definitely going to be nervous, but in a good way.

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  Well, I can't get more nervous than I was
today playing with Nancy.  I guess I will relax a little more
since I am playing with another amateur junior, so that will be
fun.  I won't be as nervous as I was today.

 Q.  Did Nancy say anything to you?

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  Gosh, yeah, when I told her I was 14 she said,
wow, you are 14.  I went, yeah, I am here - my first Open.  She
asked me how many Opens I have played in.  This is my first one.
 Then I asked her how many she played in.  She said 17.  I said
great.

 Q.  Is pro golf in both your futures?

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  For me it is, I hope so, after college.  I
hope to play the LPGA.

 KELLI KUEHNE:  I am going to go through four years of college
and then I hope to play on the LPGA Tour and come out here and
play with all these girls.

 Q.  Have you got a college lined up?  Do you know where you
want to go?

 KELLI KUEHNE:  I am looking mainly at Oklahoma State and Tulsa.
 Arizona State, maybe.  Kind of still wide open.  I haven't decided
yet.

 LES UNGER:  Kelli gets a lot of influence from two brothers
who are attending Oklahoma State, so that is part of the deal?

 KELLI KUEHNE:  Yes.

 Q.  How much of an influence is that, Kelli?

 KELLI KUEHNE:  It is definitely a big influence, a lot of pluses
and minuses to it.  It is great having two brothers because we
can help each other; we go play together; companionship, camaraderie,
whatever you want, between three of us, there is probably more
plus to going to school with them.  I kind of want to get away
when I go to school.  My brothers are going to be right there,
though, if I go to Oklahoma State.  Either way I think it will
be great and it will work out.

 Q.  Are there not periods of the year where you cannot play
golf?  There is more golf in Arizona; isn't there?

 LES UNGER:  Couple of places you are talking about are warm
weather and Oklahoma State is not.

 KELLI KUEHNE:  Oklahoma State you get a lot of different weather;
variations.  It is very hot and very cold.  I think that is an
advantage because the weather-- you learn-- you don't play in
perfect conditions ever.  You learn how to play with the wind;
when it is cold and hot and the weather is so perfect in Arizona,
that can be good, but I think in a big way it can also take away
from your learning experience in how to play golf.

 LES UNGER:  Rae Anna, there was rumor last week that your
sister was going to caddie for you. Is that going to happen?

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  That is what my dad says.  He always tries
to push it a little, but she is a little young to carry my bag.
 Especially, I have a light Ping, these caddie killers, no way.

 LES UNGER:  Your father is going to caddie.

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  Yes.

 LES UNGER:  Kelli, tell us about your caddie.

KELLI KUEHNE:  Tracey Phillips, one of my teachers, along with
Hank Haney (Phonetic).  He is just out here helping me along and
caddying and trying to teach me how to play golf.

 LES UNGER:  You and he have a little conversation - if the
pattern holds- he lines you up; is that basically what happens
and then he steps off.

 KELLI KUEHNE:  Yeah, sometimes when I start hitting it bad, I
can't do one of the easiest things, which is lining it up.  He
helps me get in the right general direction and just steps away
and I hit it.

 Q.  What kind of expectations do either one of you have for
this week?

 KELLI KUEHNE:  I think my first goal was getting here and now
that I am here I think my next goal is going to be make the cut,
just put two solid rounds together and play my best and make the
cut.

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  Exactly for me.  I was just happy to make
the field.  I was really surprised to be a medalist (at qualifying).
 I didn't even think--  it was just for fun, really, but I played
my best that I could, and I am hoping to make the cut here and
play as well as I can.

 Q.  Any surprises here this week thus far; is this what you
thought it would be, or is it better than you thought it would
be or worse?

 KELLI KUEHNE:  Well, mom, don't laugh. But when I first got here,
I really wanted to, you know, get a chance to sit down and talk
to Nancy Lopez, and I walk in the locker room and the first person
I see is her, and she is in the middle of a conversation.  I was
sitting there going oh, my gosh.  I just froze and I am not shy
at all.  Most people think I'd just walk and talk to her.  I looked
at her, I was just -- my mouth dropped open.  I walk in, my locker
-- her locker is a couple down from mine.  I ran and said, mom,
guess what, look what I am next to.  I saw her, but I think it
is great. It is everything and more than what I expected it to
be; the course, perfect fairways; smooth greens, huge greens,
lots of hills, rough.  I heard all about the rough.  You know,
it is hard to get out of, and it has definitely held up to its
expectations.

 Q.  Did you finally talk to Nancy?

 KELLI KUEHNE:  I haven't had a chance to.  I regret not saying
hi or anything to her.  But hopefully I will have a chance to.
 Next time I see her, I will not be quiet.  I am going to run
up to her and say hi.

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  This is not at all what I thought it would
be.  It is really nice.  I love these tournaments.  I wish the
juniors would be like this.  But I have always really wanted to
meet Nancy Lopez too.  My dad signed up in the practice round.
 He is, like, yeah, I want her to play Nancy Lopez. I was like
dad, no, because I would get so nervous.  And I finally got to
play with her.  I was so nervous on the first tee.  And I go up
and I hit it in the rough, I am like, great, here it goes.  And
I played really well.  I played really well.  I was happy I finally
got to meet her.

 LES UNGER:  Who told you to hit the second ball on the first
tee?

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  My dad.

 LES UNGER:  I thought that was one of the girls.

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  Nancy said yeah, go ahead and hit another
one because if you hit a bad shot, then you hit another one.

 LES UNGER:  Anybody got a question for a golfing mom or pop?


 Q.  Excluding the Girl's Junior last week, what is the highest
level of competition that either one of you have faced?

 KELLI KUEHNE:  I play on American Junior Golf Association Tour
and I have been highly competitive on the AJGA Tour playing and
all these different events; never played in amateur, like U.S.
Women's Amateur anything.

 Q.  A state amateur?

 KELLI KUEHNE:  No, I have just played -- not junior golf-- high
school golf and that is it.  I haven't had the -- you know, the
experience of coming out, playing in the Open or playing in any
other bigger events.

 Q.  Are you the best player on the high school team; do you
know?

 KELLI KUEHNE:  My high school is just a bunch of -- me and my
friend, I got these girls to work hard and, you know, we have
a team.  It is a great team, they work.

 Q.  It's a girl's team though?

 KELLI KUEHNE:  Yeah, girl's team.

 LES UNGER:  She won the state with a 67, 32, 27 hole score
last year.

 KELLI KUEHNE:  Yes.

 Q.  Rae Anna, same question to you.

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  Well, I have played in the Women's Amateur
two times when I was 12 and 13.  I played more Women's than I
do Juniors, I don't know why. I just played so much better in
Women's.  I played in the Public Links I was the youngest for
that, and the Women's Amateur, that was really a good tournament.
 That was -- it is -- they treat you like the pros there.  It
was really nice.

 Q.  That was at Kemper Lakes?

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  Kemper and last year was at San Diego Country
Club.

 LES UNGER:  Then this is your 7th U.S.G.A. Event?

 RAE ANNA STAPLES:  I believe 8th.

 LES UNGER:  I will accept your numbers.  Well, thank you very
much for being here.  Well, I hope there is a reason to bring
you back, and certainly wish you the best of luck here.  Thank
you.


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT