PATTISON CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DRAW CEREMONY
October 13, 2010
Nick Eaves
Don McWilliam
Randy Otto
Jeremy Roenick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   DANNY LOISELLE: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon. I'm Danny Loiselle. On behalf of Woodbine Entertainment, welcome to the draw for the 73rd running of the Grade 1, Pattison Canadian International, one of the world's great races. 
 The Pattison Canadian International has a long and storied past, having been won by such racing greats as Dahlia, All Along, Youth, Chief Bearhart, Sky Classic. But it was put on the map for all time back in 1973 when Secretariat made The International the final start of his brilliant career. 
 With Big Red having made his last start here at Woodbine and in conjunction with the recent release of "Secretariat," the movie, Saturday at Woodbine will also be Secretariat Day. We'll be displaying memorabilia and photos, drawing for Fred stone Secretariat, drawing for Pattison Canadian International jackets. And Penny Tweedy, who owned Secretariat, her daughter, Kate Chenery Tweedy, will be here Saturday signing copies of her new book, "Secretariat's Meadow," on the second floor of the grandstand. 
 And also on Saturday, Woodbine, in conjunction with the Daily Bread Food Bank, is proud to be participating in the Race to End Hunger. Bring a nonperishable food item to Woodbine on Saturday, receive a free Secretariat poster. So you can catch a great day of racing and help to feed the city's hungry, just a tremendous cause. 
 What a great day of racing it will be. Along with the Pattison Canadian International, we will have the Grade 1 E.P. Taylor Stakes, presented by Fly Emirates, and the Nearctic Stakes at six furlongs. All three races on Woodbine's world renowned E.P. Taylor Turf course. 
 At this time, would you please join me in welcoming the President and Chief Executive Officer of Woodbine Entertainment, Nick Eaves. Nick? 
 NICK EAVES: Thank you very much, Danny. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This Saturday truly represents the culmination of Woodbine's fall turf championships. We'll be awarding $3.5 million in purses to those three Grade 1 races on the turf that Danny has already mentioned. All three of Saturday's races are part of the Breeders' Cup win and you're in series. The winner of those races automatically earning a berth in their respective divisions at the Breeders' Cup on the 5th and 6th of November at Churchill Downs. 
 As you're about to learn, as you're introduced to the field for The International, as you can see from the draw boards for both the E.P. Taylor Stakes and the Nearctic, yet again, all three races have attracted a truly international field with horses shipping from great Britain and Ireland, France, Germany, the United States, and some of Canada's very best stabled here at Woodbine. So a truly international field. That international exposure will be enhanced with the races being shown on ESPN as well as TSN. 
 I wanted to recognize three important corporate partners of Woodbine's. First, Pattison Outdoor and Randy Otto. Randy and his team have partnered with us and are now in their eighth year sponsoring The International. That's a partnership we value greatly, one that has sort of evolved over the years and one that we're looking forward to continuing in the years ahead. 
 Also, Emirates Airlines and Don McWilliam and his team, we'd like to thank them for their continued support of racing. Everyone knows that Emirates is a global supporter of horse racing, and we at Woodbine are lucky we've got -- we've been able to harness that interest and support locally. So thank you for that. 
 And lastly, for the Breeders' Cup, Matt Lutz, the Chief Operating Officer of Breeders' Cup, will be in from Lexington for the races on Saturday. Woodbine is proud to be one of the few Breeders' Cup Challenge day events, and that's certainly a profile that enhances our races, but quite frankly, it's an inclusion in the Breeders' Cup program that does a great deal for them as well. 
 To all of the connections who have shipped their horses in from afar, thank you for supporting our races this Saturday. To our local horsemen, thanks not only for this Saturday's support but for supporting our racing program year round. And to all of you, the very best of racing luck on Saturday. Thank you. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Ladies and gentlemen, Nick alluded to corporate sponsorship. It certainly is an important component of horse racing's major races. For us here at Woodbine to have aligned ourselves with such great companies as Pattison and Fly Emirates makes us extremely proud. Would you please join me in welcoming the President of Pattison Outdoor Advertising, Randy Otto. Randy. 
 PATTISON REP: Thanks, Dan. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of everybody at Pattison Outdoor Advertising, we want to tell you how pleased we are to be here. Nick, to you and your team, it's almost hard to believe it's been eight years. It's been a great relationship with Woodbine. We're thrilled to see the lineup for Saturday's race, very pleased to be associated with your other sponsors this Saturday. 
 I want to thank everybody who has brought their horses to Woodbine for this weekend's race, and best of luck to all of you. Thank you. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Ladies and gentlemen, would you please welcome the Manager for Canada Emirates Airlines, Don McWilliam. Don, if you'd come forward, please. Don McWilliam. 
 DON McWILLIAM: Thank you very much. On behalf of Emirates, I can't tell you how pleased we are to be back again this year. This is my first year with Emirates here in Canada, replacing Mary Herron, who's done a remarkable job for us over the past few years. 
 Even though it is my first time here with Emirates for the Breeders' Cup, our airline is no stranger to sponsoring thoroughbred racing. In fact, Emirates has been supporting this very race for three years now. Also, in fact, Emirates has a global commitment to horse racing, as I'm sure most of you are aware. It's a very busy Autumn season. Over the course of one month, we sponsor six races on four continents, including, of course, the Breeders' Cup Challenge taking place this Saturday, leading up to the event of the 2010 Breeders' Cup World Championship, taking place in Churchill Downs in Kentucky on November 5th and 6th. 
 Strength, determination, world class are the characteristics of making a true champion, not just in thoroughbred racing but also in the success of an award-winning airline. I'd like to thank everyone in this room for your support of Emirates, particularly the person that's calling me and I can't get to it, in Canada, where we operate our airlines, two A-380 super jumbos three times a week from Toronto to Dubai. We hope that more Canadians will have the opportunity to enjoy our world class service, and I hope this person wants a reservation. 
 Thank you very much. We look forward to seeing you in the future. Have a great day. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Don, your seat on the plane is confirmed, and you have a spot in the spa at 3:00. 
 Ladies and gentlemen, if I could direct your attention to the television monitors throughout the tent. There is a short video presentation on the starters in Saturday's great one, Pattison Canadian International. 
 >>: Nine high class turf experts will compete for $2 million and an automatic Breeders' Cup berth. Let's meet the competitors in Saturday's Grade 1 Pattison Canadian International.
 >>: And the rail has opened up for Redwood. Let's see what Redwood has.
 >>: Redwood is the force to beat in The International. The 4-year-old son of High Chaparral is a four-time winner from ten starts. In his last three starts, he has captured a Group 3 at Goodwood and a Grade 1 right here at Woodbine, where he was impressive in his North American debut. 
 >>: Irish-bred Chinchon is a hard trying 5-year-old with five career victories and over $1 million in earnings. The son of Marju has failed to earn a top five placing just twice in his 20-start career. Like Redwood, he's a European-based runner that has proven himself in North America. 
 >>: And Chinchon. Chinchon absolutely flying. 
 >>: Two starts ago, he was the last to first winner of the United Nations, his first ever Grade 1 score. 
 >>: And they're off. 
 >>: Al Khali is a versatile type of runner that can win on the lead or from off the pace. 
 >>: And it is Al Khali bounding away from the field. 
 >>: The Kentucky-bred son of Medaglia d'Oro has yet to win from a distance of ten furlongs, but was third in the distance at Sword Dancer. 
 >>: And they're off. 
 >>: The 4-year-old enters The International on the strength of a great score in the Bowling Green Handicap at Belmont Park. 
 >>: Al Khali's got running room now. And Al Khali has got the win! Holding on bravely. 
 >>: Last year's Chief Bearhart winner, Simmard, makes his third start of the season in the Pattison. Most recently, the 5-year-old Roger Attfield trainee returned off a long layoff and performed gamely in the Bowling Green, defeated by just a neck in the 11-furlong event. On Saturday the chestnut son of Dixieland Band will be trying 12 furlongs for the first time ever. 
 >>: Fifty Proof was almost 30-1 in last month's Northern Dancer. 
 >>: It is Fifty Proof who is setting the pace. 
 >>: The Ian Black trainee nearly lit up the tote board at Northern Dancer, finishing a half length behind Juddmonte's Redwood in the Grade 1 event. The chestnut son of Whiskey Wisdom is a graduate of the Ontario sire program and a three-time winner over the E.P. Taylor Turf course. 
 >>: For the second year in a row, Marsh Side is back to try and become the first two-time winner at The International since Majesty's Prince. The 7-year-old son of Gone West had an off day in the Northern Dancer. Two starts ago, the Neil Drysdale trainee was in fine form, taking the Sky Classic by five lengths. 
 >>: Joshua Tree is a wakeup possibility In the International. The 3-year-old hails from the world class yard of Aidan O'Brien, out of the stakes winning dam that captured the 2003 Dance Smartly. In last September's Royal Lodge, the son of Montjeu knocked off Godolphin's Vale of York, the eventual winner of the Breeders' Cup Juvenile. In 2010, the bay has yet to find his winning form with just a third place finish and the Great Voltigeur on his resume. 
 >>: 5-year-old Memorial Maniac ran fifth in last month's Northern Dancer. The slow tempo of the Grade 1 certainly compromised the late-running gelding's chances. 
 >>: They're off. 
 >>: Two starts ago, the son of Lear Fan was up in time to tally his first ever save in the Stars and Stripes at Arlington Park. 
 >>: Stockholm Cup winner Mores Wells might become known as the horse that kicked the hornet's nest with the upset at Saturday's $2 million Pattison Canadian International. The 6-year-old son of Sadler's Wells has all the same Swedish of Pattison that Collier Hill employed in 2006. The Richard Gibson trainee appears at his best in a mile and a half, having compiled a record of three wins, four seconds, and one third from 12 starts at the distance. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Our thanks to Woodbine's broadcasting department for the production of that video. 
 Ladies and gentlemen, our special guest today is Jeremy Roenick. Born in Boston, from a young age his outstanding hockey abilities were readily apparent, leading his bantam team, the New Jersey Rockets, to state championships and back-to-back national championships. In 1988 Roenick was drafted straight out of high school into the NHL by the Chicago Blackhawks, eighth overall. During his 20-year professional hockey career, he played for Chicago, Phoenix, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, and the San Jose Sharks. He played in nine NHL all-star games and twice won a silver medal for the U.S. Olympic team in '98 and 2002. 
 In November of 2007, Roenick became just the third American-born player in NHL history to score 500 goals. Among hockey fans, Roenick was always a fan favorite. They appreciated his genuine interest, and with the media, he was also popular for his brash and honest assessments. He always wore his heart on his sleeve. 
 In August of 2009, he announced his retirement and finished his career having scored 1,216 points in 1,363 games. He's now a regular contributor to TSN's Off the Record and was also an analyst for NBC during the Vancouver Olympics in last year's Stanley Cup Final and is currently a judge on the hit CBC show Battle of the Blades. 
 If I could once again direct your attention to the television monitors. 
 >>: With a career that spanned an incredible 20 seasons, the man simply known as J.R., is one of the most recognized and outspoken players to have ever laced up his skates in the NHL. A Native of Boston, Jeremy Roenick was drafted by the Chicago Blackhawks in 1988. Over the course of his career, this nine-time NHL all-star played over 1,300 games and recorded over 500 goals and 700 assists, respectively ranking him third and fourth all time among American-born players. In 154 playoff games, Roenick scored 53 goals and 69 assists and ranked second all time in Game 7 goals scored. 
 >>: Roenick shoots. He scores! Jeremy Roenick has propelled the Flyers to the Eastern Conference Finals. 
 >>: On top of his many accomplishments in the NHL, Roenick is also a two-time Olympian, who proudly wore the red, white, and blue for Team USA and came away with the silver medal in the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City. 
 Never one to hide his emotions, Roenick was a fearless player both on and off the ice. His outspokenness made him a favorite among fans and members of the media, whether talking about his opponents. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: I want to know where he was in Game 3, probably getting his jock out of the stands, out of the rafters at the United Center. 
 >>: Or the NHL's top brass. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: It's a joke. Wake up. NHL, wake up. 
 >>: J.R. never minced words and always spoke from the heart. On August 6, 2009, Jeremy Roenick officially announced his retirement from the NHL. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: It's a great day for me. I'm very, very happy at this time. I had the greatest career that I could possibly ever imagine. I know truly in my heart that it's time to leave the National Hockey League. 
 >>: Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Jeremy Roenick. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Ever been to the races, buddy? 
 JEREMY ROENICK: I love the races. My first time at a racetrack where people are coming to me instead of coming to see the horses, which is obviously a good thing. I'm a huge horse fan, race fan. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: You went to Del Mar? 
 JEREMY ROENICK: I own a couple of horses too. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Really? Tell us about your experience at Del Mar. You were talking about that earlier. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: It's an interesting situation. I go every year to the opening of the Del Mar Racetrack. I'm friends with Corey Nakatani, played golf with him many times. He invited me down to the jockey room. So here I'm all excited I'm going to get the inside scoop on who's going to win. I'm thinking this is going to be great. 
 I sit down at his locker, and all the little guys walking around me. Usually I'm the small guy in the locker room. Now I felt like the big guy in the locker room. Corey is getting dressed. He's putting his stuff on. I've got my program. 
 I said, oh, good, who do we like? He goes through the program. This horse is no good. It's not going to win. This horse is running good. Then I get to the third horse, and I see, you know, Corey's riding this horse. He goes, this horse is no good. This is a bum. We're not going to win. So he Xs that one out and goes down to this horse is going to win. He gives me the top two horses in the race that he's going. I'm going, this is great. I run upstairs and go put my money in on the horses he says. You know, I put them together. I get the Trifecta, all that stuff going. 
 And guess who wins the race? Corey. That son of a bitch. He wins the race on the dud horse. I went down to him, and I said, Corey, what are you doing, man? I was going to bet on you. You told me not to do it. He goes, I don't know. The horse had a good day. The other guys were bad. Thanks, Corey. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Worst handicappers in the world, jockeys. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: I took about 200 off him on the golf course and got my money back later that day. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: When you were 7 years old, you had an encounter with Gordie Howe. Tell us about that and how it affected you the rest of your life. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: I think throughout my whole career I prided myself on making sure I gave back as much as I could to the fans, to the people that approached me, whether it was at the arena or in the street or some -- one of those -- wherever I was, I was one of the guys who made sure I took time to shake hands, say how you doing? Ask their names, give them a little attention. 
 And it goes back to when I was 7 years old. I used to live in Hartford, Connecticut, and the Hartford Whalers played there at the time. And Gordie Howe was playing with his two sons, with Mark and Marty. And we were playing on a Saturday morning, and I remember we got off the ice. And I took my skates off real quick because the Hartford Whalers were coming on to have their morning skate. I jumped off and got into the stands. I was hanging over the glass watching these guys go by. It was awesome. Waiting for somebody to break their stick and throw it over the glass so we could run and get it, all that fun stuff you do as a kid. 
 Gordie Howe came by and scooped up a bunch of snow and dumped it on my head. And I was like, that was unbelievable. And I was like, hey, buddy, he just dumped snow on my head. Not you, me. Right? And he skated around again, and he came back, and I'm wiping the snow off my head, and he gave me a wink. And for those, that 30 seconds -- it was 30 seconds, and it was me and Gordie Howe. I mean, arguably probably the most influential, best hockey player of all time. But he picked me out of a whole row of kids to dump snow on my head, and that was so cool for me. And I remembered that forever. 
 Okay. So when I became a professional athlete, a professional hockey player at 17, 18, I still remembered that. And so I knew now as a professional hockey player, that I can affect people's lives and kids' lives day after day, week after week, game after game, where, if I was in a game, I would throw a puck to a kid, or I'd reach through the glass and grab some kid's french fry and eat it during a game. I would do something that I would pick out one kid or two kids and just -- it was just me and him. 
 For athletes, that's a gift. To be able to, for 30 seconds, affect somebody's life forever. If you don't take advantage of that gift, you know, good luck in your next life because it's not going to be as good as the one that you're in because I tried to do that every single day and I try to do it more than once. I just wish other athletes would do that because it's real easy. It takes, what, 30 seconds. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Right. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: 20 seconds to say hi, do something stupid, which I have done many, many times, but it will affect somebody forever. And at 7 years old, that was instilled in me. So I hope you enjoyed that one. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Tell us about your retirement. Was it an easy decision? Did you do it on your own terms? What led to the decision to retire? 
 JEREMY ROENICK: Actually, it was a lot easier than I thought it was going to be because I played 20 years, and I played 20 years really hard. Anybody that watched my career, I didn't go tippy toe through my career. I busted a lot of bones of my own and other people's. 
 So, you know, coming down to the end in San Jose, everybody's saying, J.R., play one more year, play one more year, fans, friends, teammates. And I was like, okay, I'll play one more year when in my body and in my mind, I'm going, gosh, I don't know if I can do it another year. And Doug Wilson, who gave me the opportunity to play in San Jose and kind of revitalized my career, looked at me with 13, 14 concussions -- where am I? 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Do you know where you are? Okay. I knew that was coming. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: He said, you know what, J.R., I think you're done. You know, I worry about your well-being. I worry about your health. And when he said that, it was like the world lifted off my shoulders. I took like the biggest breath of like kind of relief that I had felt in a long time. And I know when I felt that way, when he said that, when a friend of mine that I respected and loved said, J.R., that's it, and I went, oh, and I left, and I haven't missed it since. 
 Because I'm still a part of it. I still -- I'm a big fan of the game. I use -- now I can go use the best part of my being, which is my mouth, and talk about it and give my opinion still on TV and radio, but the skates are just not in my repertoire anymore. The only ice I see is the one in the bottom of my glass on a day-to-day basis. That's it. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Let's talk about your mouth for a second. You've said some pretty controversial things earlier in your career, and in my opinion, as your career progressed, you tempered those comments just a little bit. Was that a conscious decision? 
 JEREMY ROENICK: I don't know if it was so much a conscious decision. I just think I allowed my personal being, the person that I was -- I talked a lot, and I said a lot of things because I knew that I could go on the ice and back it up because I'm always one of those guys that, if you can't back it up, don't say it. But I was one that could do it and liked doing it, so I said anything I wanted to. 
 Well, as I get older and get a little bit older and older and my body changes and I'm not as good anymore but I still keep talking, all of a sudden your personality changes and your reputation changes, and then your respectability changes, and that happened to me throughout the latter course of my career, where I was getting to be where I think my personality was hurting me more than it was helping me. 
 In 2006/2007, when my contract ended, nobody wanted me because he's a problem, he's a mouth, he's not doing as good as he is on the ice as he was. And Doug Wilson, like we just talked about, being the friend, allowed me to come to San Jose and asked me to come finish on a proper note. But he said, listen, we're going to come, and we're going to keep our mouth shut. You're going to accept your role. You're just going to come play hockey. It's not a media thing. It's just simply play hockey. 
 And I had two of the best years of my career in San Jose, and I did it with my mouth shut. Which, you know --
DANNY LOISELLE: Which was a rarity? 
 JEREMY ROENICK: Yeah, it was a very big rarity. But you know what, I retired with respect, and I retired with dignity, and I retired saving a career that was very, very important to me, that has allowed me to move on to what I do now in TV and radio. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: You're eligible for the Hockey Hall of Fame in 2012. How important is that to you? Or if it never happens, are you quite comfortable with that? What's your thoughts? 
 JEREMY ROENICK: No, I won't be comfortable with that one. That's what I hold on to the most. I get inducted into the U.S. Hall of Fame on Wednesday, a week from tonight. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Congratulations. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: Which will be great. So that's one notch, you know. That's one notch in the armor. I think the Hockey Hall of Fame is very important to me because I never won a Stanley Cup, and I always go through my life, for the rest of my days, you know, with that looming over my head. I never wanted to be one of those topics of conversation, who's the best player to never win a Cup? Now I'm in it, you know. 
 So I've got Mike Gardner, a couple of them, Keith Tkachuk is now in there too, but I'm in there. So Hall of Fame would be one of the things that I grasp on the most. If that happens to me, that will be by far the biggest event that's ever happened in my life. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Speaking of big events, tell us about your Olympic experience. How did that rank up there? 
 JEREMY ROENICK: I had a couple of good ones. I won the silver medal, as you guys saw. It's probably the best playing thing that's ever happened to me, playing against Canada in the Olympics in 2002, even though we lost. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: We're all upset about that. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: I know, I know. But you know what, when I grew up, U.S. -- Canada was always our rival, but we could never compete with Canada because we weren't as good. But then as we developed and developed and got to be a super power in the hockey world, U.S. versus Canada was now a great rivalry. So to have that situation in 2002, U.S. versus Canada, even though we won, it was still a perfect -- I think a perfect scenario. It couldn't have happened -- which happened again here in February in Vancouver, which, by the way, was the single greatest event I've ever been a part of in Vancouver. Number one, because I think the hockey was the best hockey I've ever seen. The scenario, the way it played out, Canada getting their gold medal on home soil was priceless, and having their golden boy win it for them. You couldn't have written a better situation. 
 But the way that Vancouver threw a -- I would say a party, an event like they did, the way that the people embraced it, the events, it was the best organized, most exciting event I have ever seen. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Wow. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: And I give Canadians a big round of applause and credit for putting on, I think, the best Olympics I've ever seen. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Can you tell us once again who won that game, that final game? 
 Last question. You're a broadcaster now, and I'd be remiss -- and you're in Toronto. This is a local crowd. I'd be remiss if I didn't ask you this. Evaluate the 2010 version of the Toronto Maple Leafs for us at this stage of the game. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: Get the Cup. Get it. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Start the parade. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: Start etching the names. You guys are in already. We've got the bandwagoners on. Let's go. One thing I will say about Maple Leaf fans, they're not bandwagon jumpers. You guys will complain and bitch and moan and whine and cry as much as anybody I've ever seen, but you deserve to because you love your hockey and you deserve a good hockey team. Unfortunately, since I knocked you guys out of the playoffs in 2004, you have not had a good one. 
 But I think this year's a little bit different. I think they're young. I think they're energetic. I think they are turning that tide. They have a very good goaltender. The defense is very good. Yes, they are 2-0. They've had two home games against two okay teams. Playing Pittsburgh tonight, this is going to be a difficult one, but I think this is a team that, if Ron Wilson keeps them playing with grit and keeps them playing with a lot of energy and tenacity and Giguere can somehow stand on his head and do acrobatics, it's going to be a very good year for them in relation to what it's been the last two, three years. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Jeremy, thanks for joining us today. Good luck with the battle of the blades and your broadcasting career. We hope you get in the Hall of Fame in 2012. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: Thank you. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: I know your schedule is busy. We were talking about it earlier. Thanks for taking the time. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: Thanks for having me. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Jeremy Roenick, ladies and gentlemen. 
 Ladies and gentlemen, our Director of Racing and Racing Secretary at Woodbine, Steve Lym, will conduct the draw, Saturday's Pattison Canadian International with nine runners. 
 Before we begin the draw, I should mention that the draw for the E.P. Taylor Stakes, presented by Fly Emirates, and the Nearctic have already been drawn. The fields and their positions are located on the draw boards just to my right. There's 10 fillies and mares in the Taylor and 12 sprinters in the Nearctic. 
 So let's draw The International. The purse for the Pattison Canadian International is $2 billion, the richest purse in Canadian racing with the winner to receive $1.2 million. Let's begin putting the names on the board. Christina Barth and Christina Pringle, heavy on the Christinas. 
 So your job, J.R., is just to pull those out one at a time, give them to me. Steve will match them with a number, and we're in business. 
 And the first one is Al Khali. Al Khali will have Post 5, owned by the Brous Stable and the Wachtel Stable. Billy Mott, who trained Lassigny to the '95 International victory, is the trainer. And the jockey is Alan Garcia. Post 5 for Al Khali. 
 Next is Joshua Tree, Post 7. Joshua Tree owned by Derrick Smith, Susan Magnier, and Michael Tabor. Susan Magnier's Ballingarry won The International in 2002. Aidan O'Brien trained Ballingarry to that victory. Colm O'Donoghue flies in to ride Joshua Tree. Post 7. 
 Next is Chinchon. Chinchon, Post 2, owned by Darpat France. Trained by Carlos Laffon-Parias. Ridden by Garrett Gomez, who won The International last year with Champs Elysees. Post 2 for Chinchon. 
 Mores Wells. Post 3, Mores Wells, owned by Denis O'Flynn. Trained by Richard Gibson. Will be ridden by Sebastien Malliot. Post 3 to Mores Wells. 
 You're doing a hell of a job there, J.R. Redwood. 
 JEREMY ROENICK: No one is chasing me, hitting me with hockey sticks. It's easy. 
 DANNY LOISELLE: Redwood, Post 8. Winner of the Northern Dancer Stakes last month. Owned by Juddmonte Farms. Won The International three times, in 1990 with French Glory, in '94 with Raintrap, and last year with Champs Elysees. Trained by Barry Hills, who trained Sir Harry Lewis to a third place finish In the International in '87, and his brother Michael Hills is the rider. Post 8 for Redwood. 
 Simmard, Post 4. Owned by Santa Maria de Araras. Trained by Roger Attfield, who's won every major race in this country except The International, three times second with Steadily Power and Spice Route. Javier Castellano, who won The International aboard Marsh Side in '08, will ride Simmard from Post 4 for Hall of Fame trainer Roger Attfield. 
 Memorial Maniac, Post 1, owned by the Butterfly Stable. Trained by John Graham and ridden by James Graham. Post 1, Memorial Maniac. 
 Marsh Side, won The International in 2008. Owned by Robert Evans, trained by Neil Drysdale, who's a great supporter of our fall stakes program here at Woodbine. He trained Marsh Side to that victory. Edgar Prado flies in to ride Marsh Side. Post 6. 
 And certainly last but not least is Fifty Proof. Post 9, Fifty Proof, second in last month's Northern Dancer. Owned by Kinghaven Farms, John Fielding and Ben Hutzel. Ian Black trains Fifty Proof. Justin Stein is aboard. Fifty Proof, Post 9. 
 Ladies and gentlemen, the field for the 51st edition of the Pattison Canadian International. 
 Ladies and gentlemen, the morning line for the Pattison Canadian International has been established. I won't give you the full field, but when betting opens on Saturday, Redwood will open at the 2-1 favorite. Chinchon will open at 7-2. Marsh Side will be the third choice in the wagering at 4-1. And Al Khali will open as the 6-1 fourth choice. 
 And I should mention that updates on the Pattison Canadian International can be found online by going to Canadianinternational.com. News, updates, videos, and other pertinent information can be found on that site. So pay it a visit, Canadianinternational.com. 
 And also, as Nick mentioned earlier, for the third year in a row, ESPN is bringing in a crew to broadcast all three races on Saturday afternoon live across north America in high definition. Locally, TSN will be picking up that feed, and the broadcast time is 4:00 until 6:00 p.m. 
 Enjoy the rest of your day. The buffet is open. We'll see you on Saturday afternoon. Thanks again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT