DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 29, 2020
John Peers
Michael Venus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PEERS-VENUS/Klaasen-Marach   
6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Your first title. What are the thoughts?  
JOHN PEERS: Yeah, a lot of excitement. I mean, worked hard the last few months to try to play at this level for a whole tournament. It was really good and pleasing we were able to do that together.   
I know we'll take a lot of confidence with that moving forward, take a look at the areas we need to keep working on. We got to keep improving, look to do that. Besides that, just try to enjoy it.   
 Q.  What has the journey been like together?  
MICHAEL VENUS: Any new partnership, you don't know how it's going to go till you get out there really, until you get on the court and you start to understand exactly what your partner likes to see in certain situations, how they react to things and that, it takes time to figure those things out.   
We really spent probably the last two or three weeks sitting down, trying to go over it to try to have a better understanding. I think that really helped us.   
It's something that we'll need to continue to do as we're still learning about each other, learning how our games mesh together.   
 Q.  I would think this is a step towards something bigger. What sort of evolution would you want to see achieving that goal?  
JOHN PEERS: I think at the end of the day, results will take care of itself. As Mike said, we have to keep looking at where we need to improve, sitting down and analyzing what we've done well, but also what we haven't done well so we can improve that.   
At the end of the day we have to look to keep improving. That's the biggest goal for us, make sure we can keep improving, keep enjoying our tennis.   
 Q.  Two different nations. I hate to ask this, but anything that you do to be like the Woodies?  
JOHN PEERS: Not really. I just don't talk rugby with Mike (smiling).   
MICHAEL VENUS: We've both played quite a while now. It's not often you actually end up playing with someone from your own country. You're kind of used to playing with people from different cultures and backgrounds and that.   
Yeah, I think it makes it exciting, too. You get to learn new things and about new places, too. It's exciting. Looking forward to continuing to work together.   
 Q.  When you end the season, what exactly would you like to have in the cabinet?  
JOHN PEERS: We have Dubai in the cabinet. Let's start with that, see where we can go from there. At the end of the day we have to keep working, keep looking to improve. We worry about the results too much, they won't happen. We just got to keep looking to improve.   
MICHAEL VENUS: Ideally every tournament you enter, you want to win. So does everyone else in the draw. Everyone else is working hard, too.   
Like John said, keep doing the right things, hopefully you can have more moments like this. With tennis, though, you can't take things for granted. Need to get back on the practice court and keep trying to get better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT