AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v MARINERS
October 14, 2001
Ichiro Suzuki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What do you think and what do you feel when you are at bat in a situation such as the seventh inning? 
 
ICHIRO SUZUKI:  Well, the game was already tied, and my at-bat was just like the regular season.  I just felt the pitches I could hit, I wanted to hit.  And already, the game was tied; you know, we would not go home losing in that situation.  I was just as normal as possible.  
 
Q.  If anything, Ichiro has not played in a playoff in Japan, is there anything in your experience that will affect you in a game situation? 
 
ICHIRO SUZUKI:  Well, it's not my experience with the playoffs.  I have had pressure on my shoulders all the time and I went over all the pressures all the time.  Even though in a lot of pressure situations, my mental situation is as normal as possible, as I could be.  And I went over all the pressures and I have been faced with a tough situation all the time.  
 
Q.  You hit against Colon the first time you faced him.  Were you surprised to be in that situation again? 
 
ICHIRO SUZUKI:  Well, I wasn't surprised at all.  I am prepared in case the pitcher was taken out and they changed to another pitcher or Colon stayed.  So I prepared for both situations.  
 
Q.  Ichiro is 8-for-15 against Colon, and did that affect anything in that particular situation? 
 
ICHIRO SUZUKI:  Of course, I know any previous result, against Colon, and no matter who is on the mound, the game was on the line, but I have a lot of confidence I could face any pitcher who is on the mound.  
 
Q.  Well, the game was delayed two hours and 20 minutes, and you always emphasize your preparation for the game.  How do you prepare for the delay in the game today?  Please describe what you did today. 
 
ICHIRO SUZUKI:  Well, first of all, I prepared for the game for 1:20 and I loosened up, and once I heard that the game would be rain delayed, I took a nap using my pillow.  I brought my pillow, so I prepared for a rain delay in the game, and once I woke up, I just prepared again for the game.  
 
Q.  My question is, how many post-season games in Japan have you played, and what's that like compared to playing in the post-season here? 
 
ICHIRO SUZUKI:  I have played twice in a Japan series which is just like a World Series in the United States, in Japan.  Well, the Japan series is a best-of-seven, and this is my first time playing a best-of-five.  I feel a lot of pressure to play a best-of-five because I feel like we cannot lose any one of the games, and I feel a totally different feeling in this best-of-five games.  
 
Q.  Everybody talks about the crowd being a big effect in the post-season, but in Japan, they are very animated and now you finally got a chance to see a real American crowd in the playoffs.  Can you describe the difference, or is it the same excitement that you felt? 
 
ICHIRO SUZUKI:  Well, in Japan, even when we go to away games, the ballpark is divided half for the fans on the home field and the other half is for our fans.  But here, almost 100% of the fans are their fans; so that makes a difference.  
 
Q.  Well, you lost a large run deficit yesterday but the Mariners came back with a win and you're going back, how do you feel about that? 
 
ICHIRO SUZUKI:  Well, because it's such a short series, rather than how we lost or how we won today, just the series is tied 2-2 and we go back to Seattle.  So that's just the result,2-2, just go back with us to Seattle.  
 
Q.  You said that against Colon you had prepared in case they changed to another pitcher or Colon stayed.  What does preparing for that situation mean?  What do you mean by that? 
 
ICHIRO SUZUKI:  Well, you know, I had the image if Colon stayed, how he was going to pitch; that's the preparation I had in case Colon stayed.  But if Colon was taken out, I started to think that  -- to prepare for who was coming in, and if such and such a pitcher is coming in, how he's going to pitch to me.  So that's how we prepared.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT