LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 4, 2017
Secdrick Cooper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
North Texas - 24, Louisiana Tech - 23   
 Q.  J'mar confirmed it for me, but I want your thoughts, the fourth quarter, did it feel like a bad dream to you guys?  
SECDRICK COOPER: Kind of.  But we tried to stay positive in the fourth quarter.  We've been through this situation plenty of times.   
We just try to stay positive as a defense and offense, we try to keep those guys up as a defense; we try to bring the juice to the team.  And we just couldn't get it done today.   
 Q.  Seemed like throughout that first drive run by North Texas, you guys were able to get them into a lot of three-and-out-type situations.  At the end of the game, was it a matter of just sort of running out of gas on their final drive?  
SECDRICK COOPER: Not running out of gas.  Just guys who have to fill our gaps better and take on blocks better and just gotta do a better job of executing on defense.   
 Q.  What were some of those things specifically that you feel like you saw maybe (inaudible) they go in and touch down there, what were some of the things you guys maybe weren't doing properly?  
SECDRICK COOPER: The thing we wasn't doing properly, we had a lot of people keeping their energy up.  And it's not really nothing we wasn't doing properly.   
It's just we just couldn't execute, like I said, and guys, they were on the sideline picking each other up, saying we've got this, gotta go back out there, get another stop; we believe in our offense.  But we've just got to execute better.   
 Q.  You guys have been here -- I know this is another game where you guys lost the lead in the fourth quarter.  Do you guys -- you've been here before.  So today, did you guys have the confidence that they're going to score another point but we're going to come back and win this game, did you feel confident even after --  
SECDRICK COOPER: Yeah, when we was on the sideline, when they went up, go-ahead touchdown, we knew our offense had a chance to punch it in.  We thought they was going to get the job done.  But we had our opportunities, too, back on defense, and we just didn't execute and get the stop that we needed for the team.   
 Q.  Three games left in the season, still need two wins to obtain that goal.  What's the mindset of the team for the following weeks?  
SECDRICK COOPER: Mindset, com in here tomorrow, go to work, see what we can do better on film and practice even harder, practice way harder than we practiced last week.  Every day just taking it play-by-play, and that's our mindset from here on out.   
 Q.  You all are talking about that possibility or just --  
SECDRICK COOPER: It comes up.  But we try not to pay attention to it.  We just pay attention to taking it play-by-play, day-by-day and game-by-game.   
 Q.  You're a senior.  You've been here the last three years.  You've been here for those three bowl seasons and those three bowl wins.  Just how tough has the season been for you?  
SECDRICK COOPER: It's been real tough.  I haven't experienced this in the last few years, but it goes back on our part:  Leadership.  We've got to bring those guys together and get back to where we were what we know we can do, and that's executing on both sides of the ball.   
FastScript   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT