LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2017
Secdrick Cooper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








South Alabama - 16, Louisiana Tech - 34
Q. I know it had to feel amazing to have not only one interception tonight but two.  So talk about being back on that horse tonight.
SECDRICK COOPER: It felt great.  The first interception of my career and it was great to have two of them, but my teammates, we practiced hard this week, we had a different type of focus this week, and it showed at clutch times in this game.  And I want to thank Coach Baker for helping us out by having us out fighting each day and competing.
Q. How important was it for you guys to kind of play like that when the offense maybe wasn't going as well as it could have been?
SECDRICK COOPER: All season we talked about taking the fire out and today we did just that, take the fire out.  We had our chance last week and we didn't execute.  And we just preached, just do your job, do your job.  When the moment gets bigger, just do your job and everything's going to take care of itself.
Q. Talk about what it takes from you guys on that side of the ball where, like in the season opener, Northwestern State strikes pretty quickly in the first quarter and tonight these guys jumped out ahead of you guys 7-0.  So what does it take on the defensive side of the ball to not let those early scores get to you and just sort of stay in the game?
SECDRICK COOPER: It takes leadership.  We just tell our guys to stay up, we got 60 minutes of football, we got a whole game left and we just trust in our offense that they're going to go out there and make plays.  But most importantly we just are a family together and we pick each other up, no matter who made the wrong play, we pick them up and bring them up and just play together out there as a family.
Q. In the red zone, you guys limited them to a bunch of field goal attempts, a bunch of turnovers.  How important is that for you?
SECDRICK COOPER: When the field gets small we got to, everybody has to do our job that much more.  We bring a different intensity.  We lock in much more.  And just, as a defense, we preach every week, once they get down there, we got to take the fire out.  We got to force them to -- a field goal is a win for us.  That's how we handle that situation.
Q. I believe it's 55 points now that the defense has given up in the last 13 quarters.  How impressive is that for you, as one of the leaders or one of the seniors on that side of the ball, how impressive is it for these guys to go out there and really limit the opposing offenses as much as you guys have?
SECDRICK COOPER: It's very impressive.  Actually, I didn't know that.  But I think it goes back to how we practice.  We practice with a sense of urgency.  We don't try to have any off days, we try to go out there fired up every day and just up lift the team and basically our leaders, we try to get the team going every day.  We don't want no one slacking.  If anybody is slacking we get on them and stuff like that, but it's going to be good if we keep practicing the way we practice.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT