BUICK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2005
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You have to be happy with your round today again, 3 under?
JERRY KELLY:  Yeah, just consistent.  You know, I hit a lot of good shots.  You're going to get some strange bounces out here.  You don't really know if it's going to spin back or bounce forward.  So it's a little potluck where you land it on the green.

I hit some good shots and a few good putts.  Really, you could hit a wedge that releases 30, 40 feet like mine did on the last hole.  You could get a wedge that spins back and you don't really know what you're going to get.  There's a lot of burned out spots, and if you hit one of those, it's going to go forward.  If you hit a green spot, it's going to stop.  That question mark can get guys hitting different clubs, and it's tough to attack pins.
Q.  Can you take us through the last hole, it looked like you had a downhill lie on your approach?
JERRY KELLY:  It wasn't as much the downhill lie.  It's just was I was right in between.  I couldn't quite get the sand wedge back there.  If I would have known it was going it bounced like that    I had almost 130 yards to the pin; that's a pretty big sand wedge for me.  So I went ahead and went down on the pitching wedge and really nipped it like crazy.  It still skipped back there.

I made two 3 putts on the back side that kind of hurt me.  I was just kind of plodding along, doing things well and just missing.  Those two 3 putts didn't make me feel too good but came right back and birdied the next hole and got 18, some momentum.
Q.  What's the mindset
JERRY KELLY:  I'm a much better player than I used to be.  I won twice in 2002.  If I could just really get my rhythm; my short game is better, everything is better, it's just a matter of trusting and I'm not quite there yet.  I feel things really turning around now.
Q.  Years ago did you put pressure --
JERRY KELLY:  I've always kind of liked that scenario.  I do well in Milwaukee.  I do well here.  It's kind of potluck.  You use it to your advantage sometimes and it helps, it always helps, put it that way.
Q.  What's the mindset now going into the final round so close, what's the one thing that you think in your mind?
JERRY KELLY:  I just need to make more putts.  That's all there is to it.  I'm hitting plenty of greens. I'm hitting solid shots off the tee.  It's just a matter of getting the right speed and line and knocking them down.
Q.  As the day wore on with the wind, did change the back nine?
JERRY KELLY:  It just changed the greens so much.  Those shelves, if you land them into the shelf, it's going to stop.  If you land it just up on top, it's taking a monstrous bounce.  So you can't go after pins.  It's difficult to get it close to make a birdie.  But, you know, you've got to play a little more safely out here than you normally would.  They are taking some big bounces.
Q.  It's been kind of a drought for you
JERRY KELLY:  I've played awful this year.  I don't know if you want to call it a drought, but I've tried to make a lot of changes.  I kind of went backwards a little while, and I think now I'm a much better player.  It's just a matter of things clicking all together and getting it done.

I've been working with my swing for a long time.  Some of the changes are really starting to take effect.  Working on the same things for seven, eight years or so and I'm really just starting to get a solid feel of them.  I know I'm swinging better.  I just need to trust it.
Q.  What would it mean now, a win?
JERRY KELLY:  I don't know what exactly it would mean.  It doesn't matter where you win.  Winning here would be that much more special.  A win is a win.  I don't care where it is.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT