PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2005
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  A couple bad breaks, balls trickling into the rough?
JERRY KELLY:  I didn't reach a green on any of them I don't think.  And I put it in there too many times, but the things that got me, I really had two bad mental mistakes and that was No. 6 and No. 11.  I didn't get enough credit to the lip on the bunker on 11, and I should have just played from the high cut instead of a regular shot.  3 putting, that was really the first putt I went for on 6, but still I never should have gone after the first one like I did.  It totally made the read go wrong because it was the wrong speed.  I had a tough time reading, especially down the stretch, it was pretty dark.  Phil was talking about it, too.  It was actually difficult to see on the back side quite a bit.  So we were hoping that they changed the timing.

I was just a hair off on my tempo.  I did everything I wanted to do, I stayed in my shot, I tried to execute, and just I was such a hair off with my tempo that it just made the shots go 30 feet instead of 20 feet and shots just into the rough.  Shots were bouncing away from the pins just a little bit too far, landing a little bit too far away from the pin.

But I did a lot of what I wanted to do.  It didn't happen, obviously.  I'm 4 over, disappointed in my score, but I handled it much better than I ever have in the past.  It's a great stage to be on out there.  The fans were pretty awesome.  I mean, they were pulling for me.  Actually there was a ton of people for me.  It was really cool.
Q.  Guess who you've got tomorrow?
JERRY KELLY:  Who do I have tomorrow?
Q.  Who is the first guy in at even par?
JERRY KELLY:  Do I got Tiger?  Absolutely, I would love to do that.  What other coattails would you rather pull on?  I mean, that is perfect.  To play with Tiger the final round in a major, both have a shot to win, that's excellent.
Q.  You talked the last couple of days about not beating yourself up, this new attitude, how important was that coming down the stretch for you these last seven holes, just keep making pars, not let the wheels fall off?
JERRY KELLY:  Yeah, I mean, if I would have been the way I was normally in the past and being really hard on myself for being 4 over, there are a couple of situations there, you know, like 16, goes up against the back cut, I probably would have been too mad to really get that good up and down and hit a good touch put on the next one.  So it showed me in a few places where it's going to help to be the way I was today.  You know, I hope I can continue.  There's no reason I can't.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT