PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2005
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JERRY KELLY:  It does feel good, especially the year that I've had.  You know, it's been pretty mediocre.  I knew it's been coming.  I've been close.  It's just nice to put it together.

I kind of made it effortless, which is what I've been looking for.  I've been putting so much effort into it for the last two years really, that I guess that's what it took to kind of took the pressure off.
Q.  What was it that was clicking for you?
JERRY KELLY:  Just keeping the ball in front of you, not spraying the driver, hitting good crisp iron shots.  If I missed a green, just good chipping and good solid putting.  The whole game was there.  I just didn't really get unnerved by any shots out there.


You can always throw that away.  Every tournament is a new beginning.  I've kind of let a lot of past tournaments into my head in the past, but really what happened at the British Open was exactly what I've been looking for for a long time.  It was just a calming experience and really to get me excited.  I was enjoying myself.  I was basically patting myself on the back after even some shots that weren't as good as I would have liked, but they were still in position.  That's something I haven't done in a long time, and hopefully it's going to continue.
Q.  Can you comment on that final shot?
JERRY KELLY:  It'll make me sleep a little easier knowing that I executed the way I wanted to, and that's all I want to do is have my game plan and execute.  If I stick to my game plan and just swing the way I've been swinging, I'm not going to worry about a missed shot here or there and just go out and do my job.
Q.  What is your mindset tomorrow?
JERRY KELLY:  No different.  I haven't been shooting at a ton of pins.  I've had pretty long irons into a lot of these holes, so it's not a course where I can shoot at pins, and that's taking a lot of the pressure off, as well.  I'm able to play to the middles and shade it a little bit right or a little bit lift and it's given me makeable putts.
Q.  Considering where Phil is and where the course is playing, is there a number you have to get to in order to win this thing?
JERRY KELLY:  No.  If they didn't squeegee or spray down some of the greens, they were getting really crusty.  It almost worked to a disadvantage.  You've got some back pins that you want it to skip back to, and it stopped on us quite a few times, so we had some long putts uphill.  If it would have gotten more crusty, you know, it would have been a lot easier than those chips downhill.  They kept it in perfect condition.  The greens were still plenty fast and they did a great job out there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT