THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 22, 2003
Chris DiMarco
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Jerry, Chris, thanks for joining us.  Tough day for the United States but there's still a lot of golf to be played, 12 matches tomorrow.  Maybe start with some opening comments. 

JERRY KELLY:  The best thing about today is that today doesn't matter.  Tomorrow matters.  Tomorrow is where you win the Cup or you lose the Cup.  They put themselves into position today but they haven't won the Cup.  That's the bottom line.  You've got to play four days, just like any other tournament, and if they don't think we're going to be fired up coming off a drumming like we took today, they can go ahead and take it easy tomorrow. 

CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, that sums it up pretty good.  You know, we're now in the position into they were last night.  Overnight they were down three points and now we are down three points. 

Like I said, like Jerry just said, I think there's going to be some fired up individuals tomorrow.  The course played very difficult today.  It was very windy.  You know, it just looked like it was hard to make birdies, and they played better.  Got to take the hats off to them.  They went out and won the matches today.  You know, we live for another day. 


Q.  We know the Internationals had their party at Ernie's place and words of inspiration.  Did you see something palpably different, did they look more fired up when they came out today?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  No, I don't think so.  I just think that they played better.  In this type of situation, you would never think that somebody is going to go 6-0 but it just happened.  It was  -- who knows.  That chip Ernie chipped in on 18 might have inspired them because it was looking like we might sneak a halve in there and they winded up winning the four points.  It was a big, big chip-in and who knows, maybe that was a little inspiration.  Who knows?  It wasn't a good day for us.  All we can do is go back, shower up and get ready for tomorrow.


Q.  All the smoke out there, did it make it difficult to judge distance? 

CHRIS DiMARCO:  Made it difficult to breathe.  That was what was difficult. 

JERRY KELLY:  The eyes are burning.  But everybody was in it.  It wasn't like the bloody Americans aren't used to that smoke.  (Laughter.)

You know, we've just got to go out and play.  We've got to suck it up.  That's the bottom line.  We have to get out and do what we set out to do.  We didn't do it today but we can still do it tomorrow. 


Q.  Were you guys aware of the way that the matches were slipping away while you're out there and kind of trying to crawl things back, the momentum slipping away from you?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, I saw it out there.  At one point there was three of us at 4-down.  And Justin played great, I have to take my hat off to him.  He played great coming in eagled 14, birdied 15 and then I birdied 16 to give us at least a chance. 

They played good.  Robert and Mike played solid all day.  You could see it out there.  It's hard.  It's hard when everybody is down to try to get some motivation, and even the matches we were up, all of a sudden we're down and it was like, geez, we need to get something.  It's hard to do that.  They see it on the other half, everybody leading; that's just more momentum for them and they have to be fired up. 


Q.  What was the crowd like today? 

CHRIS DiMARCO:  Let's just say, it was pro-International. 

JERRY KELLY:  They have been pretty darned good, know.  All of the stories that I've heard in the past, I've been pretty impressed.  I hear a comment here and there but generally, you get collapse for the Americans and you get loud yells for the Internationals.  You know, they have been pretty good spirits.  I've been pretty impressed with them. 

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Jerry, Chris, thanks a lot.  Good luck tomorrow. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT