THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 6, 2003
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  Jerry Kelly, 3-under 68 for you today, Jerry.  Started off with a birdie and the bogey and then another birdie on the front.  So you got it going a little bit faster than some of the other guys, although that doesn't sound that fast out here.  But everybody else kind of came away even it looks like off the front.  Talk a little about today's round. 

JERRY KELLY:   Well, getting over par early  -- well actually I got it under par at the second hole.  That's right.  That was about a 80 foot putt that was moving briskly as it hit the center of the hole.  So that kind of put me in a good frame.  I know I did bogey the next, I think.  But bogey's going to happen out here.  You're going to miss the fairway.  You're going to miss the green.  You're going to have 120 footer.  Bogeys can happen pretty easy.  So you got to get the ball in the fairway, No. 1.  That is all important.  Otherwise you can't control what your ball's going to do into these greens.  And I got the ball in the fairway the majority of the day.  What I didn't, I seemed to short side myself in a decent short side position.  So I didn't have a real difficult up-and-down.  It was just a pretty steady day.  Didn't make anything crazy, except for that one on 2.  Didn't really hit any squirrely shots either. 


Q.   Happy with the way you played this year by and large?

JERRY KELLY:   Happy or satisfied? I don't know.  There's a fine line between the two. 


Q.   After what happened last year?

JERRY KELLY:   One of them I'm not.  But I've got to understand that I've come a long way to get where I got to last year to even get to where I am this year I've come a long way.  So I got to appreciate what I've done.  But satisfied, no.  I really would have liked to have followed up 2 wins last year with at least a win this year.  I know the year's not over.  So I will wait to until the end of this tournament to see if I'm happy and satisfied.  But as of now, it's a little unfulfilled. 

TODD BUDNICK:  You had some critics I think early in the year that kind of questioned whether last year was just a fluke or not.  But would you say you followed it up with a pretty strong season. 

JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, whoever had me as overrated hopefully I proved to them with -- No. 1, the way I worked over the last 10, 12 years.  I have put in as much time as anybody.  Except for maybe Vijay. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Everybody does that.

JERRY KELLY:   But I'm working hard to get where I'm going.  And I'm not to that point where I'm going yet.  I'm still going to keep on working really hard and hopefully improving every single year like I have.  So I know I've got a long ways to go, but I made the strides and I've got to appreciate what I've done.  But I don't have to be satisfied. 


Q.   Nobody's really going too low out there today.  Is it because it's just those huge greens or tough rough or what is it? Still some good scores but nothing spectacular.

JERRY KELLY:   It's certainly strange.  Well actually, Paul, my caddy, looked at that little green sheet where you write down the clubs and I think we were through like the 13th hole and he's like, you haven't hit anything less than a 6-iron yet.  So he said I averaged a high 5-iron.  I had 3-irons, I had 4-irons.  I'm not hitting my driver particularly long right now.  I don't know what it is with my swing.  I'm not really killing the driver.  But I am hitting it straight.  So I'm not really worried about fixing that.  Hopefully down there at the Presidents Cup I'll have a partner that hits the crap out of it. 


Q.   Do you know who your partner might be?

JERRY KELLY:   No, doesn't matter to me.  Just put me in, coach. 


Q.   Curious, seems like the build-up this week has been kind of what happens to Player of the Year race if Tiger wins, Weir wins, Vijay wins, whoever almost like it's been like a four or five man field.  And I wonder whether there's any part of you that came in here kind of relishing the possibility of sort of mucking up that race by winning yourself.  And kind of talk about that. 

JERRY KELLY:   I definitely came in here looking to win the golf tournament.  That's the only reason every single one of these 31 guys came here is to win the golf tournament.  It's up to you guys to create a stage for all these races that are going on.  Which is great for golf, great for the game.  But I pay no attention to that until the ballots come out and I see what they have done.  My job is to win this golf tournament.  End of story.  After the tournament, it will be fun to kind of look at wherever anybody finished.  And go from there with the Player of the Year.  But that's a long ways from my mind. 


Q.   What do you suppose you bring to that cup team, apart from playing?  Everybody sort of looking to you to be the guy to be sort of the emotional sparkplug. 

JERRY KELLY:   I'm going to bring it. 


Q.   Are you ready to kick some ass and take some names?

JERRY KELLY:   I'm definitely going to bring some emotion to that table.  I'm borderline coming to tears thinking about it.  I am ready to go.  And this tournament, I've been tired towards the end of the year, I had some health problems this year, just haven't been able to work as hard as I want to on my body.  But I'm up for this tournament.  I know it's not just because it's the TOUR Championship.  It's because I know what's coming.  I've got to show  -- I don't want anybody to think that there's a weakness in that team.  And I certainly don't want that weakness to be me.  I'm ready to go, believe me. 


Q.   Is this tournament any harder to win because you're facing the guys 30 guys who have had the best year or easier from the standpoint that there's not as many guys that have you to beat in four days?

JERRY KELLY:   Definitely easier.  No question.  We play plenty of tournaments with all the same 31 guys in the tournament.  We play probably almost eight a year with the World Golf Championships and the Majors.  But anybody can win any week as Micheel and Curtis showed.  So without another 120 guys that could win, that's a whole lot easier with only this many.  It doesn't mean you have to play any less.  The odds are just that much greater.  


Q.   Your Presidents Cup captain is Jack.  You're a Big-10, you grew up in the Big-10 environment.  Obviously Jack was the biggest golfer in America, but was he your guy because of a Midwestern connection? Was he your idol, was he your everything?

JERRY KELLY:   Oh, he was just my idol just because he was Jack.  I mean he was, when I was growing up he was prime Jack.  That smile, that wink.  To be good enough to sink a 50-footer and wink at the guy and just know you're going to beat him.  You know, that's just steel-hearted.  That's so good.  And he's the best player that ever lived.  Best pressure player.  He brings a lot to the table.  To want to play for him.  And I would love to seem him bring about 10 pieces of that Ohio State band with him.  Maybe let me bring some of the U W band with me too.


Q.   Obviously winning and this -- what I'm saying is that stars maybe won't affect you as much as you were when you were a kid but do you think you might be star struck sitting with Jack Nicklaus in the team room when you're down there.  Just, wow, how cool is this?

JERRY KELLY:   No, I have known Jack for a little while now.  So the first time I hit -- the first hole I played with him, I drove that thing right down the middle and knocked it right by him and I had about 163 to the pin and I think the wedge shot I hit next from about 80 yards showed how I felt about playing with Jack.  I laid the sod over it so bad.  That was that kind of wink and that laugh like that.  "Yeah, Jerry, don't worry, I do that to everybody, bud, don't take it personally." 


Q.   Where was that?

JERRY KELLY:   That was at Bear's Club down in Florida.  And I just -- he's given me some good advice.  I tried to ask him after I had won once and was tired the next week and won the next time and tired.  How do you repeat?  He's just a real genuine guy and will offer up just about anything.  He's a great family man.  So I see him as a whole individual now rather than just the accomplishments and that.  I really appreciate that I can be close to a guy like that.  Because he's just a great guy.  More than he is a fantastic, the best golfer ever. 


Q.   When was that round at Bear's Club?

JERRY KELLY:   It was right when the Bear's Club opened.  They didn't even have a clubhouse.  So it was probably six years ago.  Five years ago.  It's been awhile. 


Q.   Nice place?

JERRY KELLY:   It is a nice place.  And I had known him awhile before that too.  But that was the first time that I got teamed with him. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Your card, Jerry, you said you made a 80 footer on No. 2.  And then followed it up with a bogey on 3. 

JERRY KELLY:   Can't see 3.  Oh.  It was just a simple little shot.  Boy I hit a great drive right down the middle, just pushed a 6-iron shot side.  Like I said, I got knew wedges in my bag and the ball came out just beautifully.  Just a little bit too long.  And it just lipped out to about a six-footer for par downhill. 

5, driver 3-iron.  2-putt from a long ways. 

13, next par-5, it was driver, 5-wood into the right bunker.  And I hit a great 54 degree wedge from about a 40 yard bunker shot, 30 yard bunker shot.  Something like that.  To about four feet.

16, par-3, just 5-iron kind of choked down.  Pulled it just a hair left of the pin and I was about three yards off the green.  I used the putter.  Kept the pin in and it rolled right in the front of the cup. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Okay.  Thank you, Jerry. 

JERRY KELLY:   Thank you. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT