KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2018
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk a little bit about the round today.
JERRY KELLY: I putted so bad yesterday, hit the ball pretty well and I started out with a tap-in, six inches on the first, which was 10, and then 11 and 12, I had to make 5-, 6-footers for par.  So that kind of got me over that hump a little bit, freed me up, started making birdies.  Then I made good par saves on 7 and a good birdie on 9 to finish out the round.  So struck it pretty similar both days, just I got the putter working better today.
Q. Talk about the course conditions.  A little harder this afternoon than the guys had this morning?
JERRY KELLY: You know, it calmed down later, so I don't think -- it's not like the greens got much faster.  I think they're very slow with the dew in the morning, so I think with the heat it might play easier in the afternoon than it does in the morning, so I don't think it got bad either way, but the ball goes so far when it gets hot it really helps the short hitters.
Q. Talk about the greens.  Jack loves those quadrant greens.
JERRY KELLY: Yeah, I mean I don't find anything wrong with it.  There's a way to get to every hole, you just have to strike it well.  Augusta has smaller areas to land your ball into and they usually have one side that completely feeds away.  A lot of these are bowls that if you hit the shot, you're going to have a close birdie putt.  So they look tough, but if you're striking your irons well, you can get the ball fairly close.
Q. What are you looking forward to the next couple days?  What do you think it's going to take to stay in contention?
JERRY KELLY: If the weather stays like this you just got to have the pedal on the gas, you just don't know what these guys are going to do.  Scotty's got his game on, he's bombing it, so he's getting to every par-5.  He's going to have eagle chances out there.  I don't know if I can get to many of them, but I've got to strike the ball well to keep up with that distance.  Joe's always going to hit it well, it's just a matter of if he gets the putter going.
Q. Can you describe your birdie on 9?
JERRY KELLY: Driver, got a little mud on it, so I had to lay up with a 5-iron.  And then just hit a wedge to about I don't know, 12, 15 feet right-to-left, made it.
Q. Sluman and you had the low round of the day.  Did you see that coming at all this morning?
JERRY KELLY: I mean, I hit the ball extremely well yesterday.  I missed a few inside of four feet for birdie that I normally don't miss and didn't really get anything out of my round.  So I knew that if I was, if I could turn the putter around, yes, I could have a round like that.  That's what brings me back every day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT