ADVIL WESTERN OPEN
July 5, 2002
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Guys that are teeing off now, are the greens going to be better after they've dried out a little bit, going to be more consistent?
JERRY KELLY:  There's going to be a lot of footprints out there.  This is poa annua.  It doesn't get better as the day goes on, it gets worse.  It gets bumpy and it gets very uneven, so you have to have very confident strokes.

Q.   At what point did the juices start to flow?  Was it when you started to see it was getting to be a shoot-out out there or a lot guys moving up in the round?
JERRY KELLY:  Oh, once you start making birdies, then you can get the feel of it.  You know, you probably get more nervous when you're just getting up and down for par, but when you start making birdies, then the good juices flow, you know.

Q.   Can you take us through your run of birdies there? I think, again, 4 or 5 holes, and then was there any what you would describe as --
JERRY KELLY:  Where, today, this afternoon?

Q.   Yeah, this afternoon.
JERRY KELLY:  It was too long ago (laughter.)

Q.   Was there anything that really got you going?
JERRY KELLY:  No.

Q.   No one hole?
JERRY KELLY:  No.

Q.   No long putts you made?
JERRY KELLY:  No.  Everything was inside of 12 feet pretty much.  I hit the ball fairly consistent.  I lost a few shots to the right today, but I came back and started to hit better, "made a few, missed a few" kind of thing.  I never got out of tempo really because I wasn't struggling with anything, but I wasn't really zeroed in on anything either.  You know, it was kind of wishy-washy or whatever you want to call it.  Not very strong.

Q.   Do you feel good about your position?  A year ago you started strong and had kind of a road bump there and --
JERRY KELLY:  I'm in position.  That's what matters out here.  You know, I kept trying to tell myself on that 18th hole after I left my fourth putt in a row short that, yeah, it would have been nice to get all four of them and be clear of the field, but, you know, I'm in a position to do that at some point during the week, so I got to stay positive.  That's big for me.

Q.   You talk about -- I know this is kind of old news now, but what did it mean to win your first event and how has it affected you since then?
JERRY KELLY:  Just knowing I can play my game any other week and come out on top.  You know, if things go well, then I can win with my game.  I didn't do anything special.  I just played consistent down the stretch.

Q.   Do you almost expect now when you come into a tournament to do that?
JERRY KELLY:  Well, yeah.  I mean, you have to.  I expect to have a good mental game and sometimes it doesn't show up.  




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT