GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 28, 2001
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JERRY KELLY: It was better.  I worked on the range yesterday after I played.  Cooper (pointing to his son) showed me a few things.  He was out there practicing.  It was a pretty loose round yesterday, I came back just wanted to be, you know, solid, I just wanted to hit the ball off the tee, get it in the fairway, and then just use my irons which I know I am hitting well.  I didn't miss many greens.  When I missed them they were on the fringes.  Really only hit one bad shot today; that was on 17.  No idea where it came from.  Hit three shots on 17 to the right so there is something about the hole.  Came back and actually hit it right over the pin on 18.  I am sure I am not the first who has done that.  Watching Beemer do it right after me, just it wasn't the way it seemed into the wind and soft, so, made a good chip though.  
 
Q.  Leader board been so crowded today. Why is that?
 
JERRY KELLY: I think it shows it's that much tougher in the afternoon rounds than the morning rounds.  When those greens are receptive I guarantee you the shot that I had on 18 in the morning would have been a foot from the hole.  It would have landed and spun back and in the afternoon you know, you get some goods putts, you got spike marks, it is just harder to score in the afternoon.  It is not that you can't   -- I mean, you can shoot 66 in the afternoon too.  It is just probably got to be a little better than some of the ones in the morning. 
 
Q.  Is there more pressure in the afternoon rounds on the weekend?
 
JERRY KELLY: Yeah.  Unless you are doing reverse horseshoe and we had a rain delay, yeah, the afternoon has a little bit more pressure than the morning.  It's  -- I am feeling so much more comfortable with the pressure, I don't know, that -- that is not what is stopping me from having a low round.  It really is just the fact the course is tougher.  The pins out here are tucked in spots where you have only got five yards to each side.  It is firm.  You might be landing on a downslope, I mean, you just never know.  
 
Q.  Why do you think you are handling the pressure better?
 
JERRY KELLY:  Well, I think TPC helped me, no question.  It let me know that I can hit quality golf shots under pressure for an entire tournament which I probably hadn't done up 'til that point.  And especially in that setting.  Came back the next week and did it again and you know, I took a week off and then things went down but I feel I am hitting the ball solid.  
 
Q.  We talked at the start of the week, after like you said missing a couple of cuts you came here with your mind made up and you did a lot of hard work and I think  -- it's obviously paid off because you were very, very confident starting on Thursday?
 
JERRY KELLY: Yeah, I put a lot of hard work in after two tough tournaments and it's definitely paying off.  I went back to basics completely and it works for me right now.  I know what my swing is doing.  I don't know what I was doing the last two weeks.  I know the mistakes I made and that is another step in the right direction is knowing the mistakes I made and what I was trying to get myself into thinking it was my basics.  But it wasn't.  My feels were lying to me.  I had to really work hard to start at scratch.  Sometimes that's really hard to do because you have got a lot of those things still floating in your head trying to fix something when you have missed a couple of cuts.  You know, I got myself back to where I felt like I could really swing freely and that is the key for me is to just swing freely the whole round.  I felt great off the tee and my irons. 
 
Q.  You also mentioned the fact that you discovered a few things about your putting.  Has that paid off this week?
 
JERRY KELLY: Yeah, they were related, both of them were interrelated.  Something with my shoulders and you know, it's a strange game.  That is why it is kind of hard to put four rounds together and a full year together, things like that because your feels lie to you and you really have to have a good handle on your basics and your body and know exactly what you are trying to do with your golf swing. I feel like I am better at that now.  I have never been in that position before so it is kind of fun. 
 
Q.  Getting that kind of birdie on the last hole what does that do for you going into tomorrow, anything?
 
JERRY KELLY: Yeah, it's great.  I guess after my first bogey on 17 you know, I came back with a great shot, didn't turn out great and you know, I came back.  So doesn't matter what happens tomorrow, if I am patient and play my game, you know, I will have those birdies.  You can't say I am going to go out there and try and play no bogeys.  You just play.  If you happen to have a bogey here and there just know that you are playing well enough to make birdies.  You can still shoot a low round with a bogey or two. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
JERRY KELLY:  My foot was overhanging the sprinkler head and you get a drop because it interferes with your stance, so I was able to drop it and there was some flat grass right next to it and I could get my club on it that much better and came out exactly where I wanted to.  Landed it on the fringe and rolled right into the cup.  
 
Q.  Which club?
 
JERRY KELLY: Lob wedge.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT