WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2016
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Comments on another solid day for you.  
JERRY KELLY: You know, greens are so good and if you don't put yourself with straight uphill putts, you've got tough putts.  I feel like I missed everything today.  Struck the ball pretty well.  I only chipped once.   
So, it definitely feels like I let a lot of them get away but they were tough putts.  I mean it's classic Donald Ross, don't put it in the right spot, you got to get perfect speed and perfect line.   
 Q.  This is one of those tournaments that you've really enjoyed playing over the years, though, isn't it?  
JERRY KELLY: Absolutely.  To me it's all about the golf course.  As far as I'm concerned, nobody has done it better than Donald Ross.  You know, there's a few guys out there, modern now who are understanding and are find something creative instead of just stupid length.   
I mean this course holds up to you.  I mean it's tough.  It's firm conditions like this you can have short clubs in and it's still difficult.  They can learn a lot from the premodern era.   
 Q.  You're not coasting into the PGA TOUR Championship, you're playing some really good golf here.  Talk a little bit about the rest of this season with the Playoffs coming up and then your plans for next year.  
JERRY KELLY: Well, I was kind of pretty laissez faire about it most of the year, then with the last three tournaments which I knew I really liked, I kind of told myself don't go out on a sour note, don't go out missing for your first time.  There's no sense in doing that.   
So, I was really happy with myself bearing down and getting Hartford done.  Now it's just see how far you can go.  Now I'm back to being a pain in the butt to myself on the golf course the last two weeks, you know, trying to get further and further rather than just -- it came to me when I let it come.  That's not my MO.   
 Q.  Will you split some time next year between the Tours, playing those tournaments you really like out here?  
JERRY KELLY: I'm not going to skip Champions events for PGA TOUR events except for my first one, play with Aaron Rodgers at the AT&T, but I'm going to play some in the fall and I'll play The Players and the Sony, you know.  I definitely want to play a full schedule out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT