THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jerry, another solid round for you out there.  I looked at numbers, 16 of 18 greens two days in a row.  Your thoughts on that one today?
JERRY KELLY: I just really like the way I'm striking it.  I know the greens are going to get tougher for the weekend.  They're going to suck the moisture out of them and make it tougher for us to hit that many greens.  But I'm happy where I'm at.  Tough restart, but I'm ready to go for tomorrow.
Q. How different was the golf course compared to yesterday?
JERRY KELLY: Not as much as I thought it was going to be.  I mean, there's some moisture in the air helping these greens, but this weekend is going to be a treat.  They are not going to let us have any breaks.  They're going to dry those things out.
Q. Your thoughts as you go to the weekend, you're 9-under par, not that far off the lead.  For a guy who's going to be 50 in November, Champions Tour, you're playing with the big boys, still great.
JERRY KELLY: I enjoy it with the big boys out there, too.  I'm looking forward to whatever I'm playing.  I'm really looking forward to the Champions Tour.  I think it's a great place.  I'm looking forward to seeing a lot of friends that I've had during my life traveling.  I think it's a treat to be able to go.  I'm not too worried about playing both or anything.  I don't know what I'm going to do, but I want to play well this weekend.
Q. You shot 5-under yesterday, 4-under today.  Was there a big difference for you day-to-day or about the same?
JERRY KELLY: About the same.  I know keeping it to one bogey in 36 holes is going to be tough to do on the next 36 for what they're going to do to these greens, but happy with the way I struck it.  I putted pretty well.  Just keep doing the same.
Q. How do you feel about where you're at right now heading into the weekend?
JERRY KELLY: I mean, I love the position.  I like being probably not in the lead just yet.  But I've been here before, so I really just have to close one of these out.
Q. Let's talk about that since you have been here before; how has this tournament changed during the 20 years you've played here?
JERRY KELLY: Well, it's dictated by weather so much.  I mean, we couldn't have it any more perfect out here.  The scores show it.  It's pretty aggressive, the scores these guys are shooting.  I just watched Chappy birdieing eight out of the last 10.  It's pretty incredible.  It's out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT