DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2015
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You make birdie and you advance to the BMW Championship in Chicago.  Did you know the situation?  
JERRY KELLY: Absolutely.  I saw I was 71st on 17.  I think that was before I made bogey.  Trust me, I knew I had to make birdie to get in.  I knew top-10 would get in.  I hope it stays there.  They told me that last year.  We'll see what happens.   
 Q.  At 48 you've got so much experience out here, you've won plenty of time times.  You know what it takes to play in the PGA Tour.  But how much anxiety surrounds the FedExCup and trying to advance week after week in the playoffs?  
JERRY KELLY: Yeah, I think they've got the right amount of movement.  I think it's pretty good.  I was 79 coming into it, dropped to 94 and now I've made it up into the top 70.  Top-10s are rewarded, but there's no way I should have moved up any higher than that.  So it's a pretty good equation right now, and I have to do my best next week to get in the top-30.   
 Q.  How did you feel after 17?  Maybe that's a hole that didn't go your way?  
JERRY KELLY: The only solace is that I did the exact same thing last year.  I bogeyed 17 and I eagled 18.  I knew all I needed was birdie.  But I was just kind of disappointed that I put myself in that position.  I was not afraid of the situation but I was very disappointed that I put myself in that position.  Two three-putts today.  I mean it was a tough golf course today.  I hit a lot of 4-irons and 3-irons.  I hit a couple of good shots that didn't turn out anywhere near where I wanted to because of the swirly wind.   
 Q.  How did you feel after the first nine?  
JERRY KELLY: I'm tired.  That's all there is to it.  I did not have my lower body as well as I had yesterday.  It was more like one of the first two days where I was kind of loose.  And then I was definitely lifting my head on just about everything, from putts to sand wedge shot in the middle of the fairway on 15.  So that's my normal jumpy nature.  And I just wasn't good enough in my legs to stay grounded.  Just a little tired.   
 Q.  Big picture, going from 94, that's a big number heading into the weekend to where you are now?  
JERRY KELLY: Yeah, it's a home game for me the next tournament.  Chicago, I love going down there to visit as much as I can.  It's definitely going to be a home game.   
 Q.  Tell us, survive and advance, how stressful was this final day?  
JERRY KELLY: Well, it was probably a little more disappointing than stressful.  I kind of let it go.  I knew I had to have a clean round and make a bunch of birdies.  It was a tough day out there today, no question.  It was not an easy course for a shorter hitter.  The balls were really releasing, everything is a little shiny.  It's in great shape.  There's nothing wrong with it, it's just a tough golf course right now.   
It was disappointing when I started throwing away shots.  Reachable par 5 on 7 and then three-putt on 6.  And I started getting a little disappointed.  I kind of lost a little energy towards the end.  I was just kind of having fun.  And then all of a sudden another three-putt hits and I'm like, I actually have to start working here.  And I hit two poor shots on 17, bogeyed.  Did the same thing last year, made eagle to make it.  So, again, I was more disappointed from where I was then.   
 Q.  What satisfaction do you take now that you did cross that finish line?  
JERRY KELLY: Yeah, yeah.  I mean I'm an old guy, I'm still hanging with these guys as much as I can.  Play Conway really short, that will help.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT