AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 29, 2015
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JERRY KELLY: Had a couple 3-putts in there but other than that, played fairly solid.   Was hitting it too far off line.   Recovered, hit some good up and downs when I hit it off line.   Good, steady round.   Nothing special.  
   
 Q.   What did you think of No. 14?   
JERRY KELLY:   I made a 2.   I would have counted those as 1-under par 4.   That's all I got to say.  
   
 Q.   You've got a great spring, certainly, season coming.   What's been responsible for that?  
JERRY KELLY:   Well, I really did some great work with Jim Schuman the end of last year and especially in Hawaii and then when I left him and went to Palm Springs and then had four weeks off, totally lost it.   
Came back really bad and I finally saw him again right before Harbour Town and it was no surprise that here I am back on a streak again of almost four weeks which you know me in the past, a week here, week there, the good weeks when they happen.   He's got me in a position where I can play consistently well now and that's great.  
   
 Q.   What about going into the weekend?   What's your plan?  
JERRY KELLY:   The plan is to go get a really big dinner, maybe have a little bit of red wine that calms my feet.   My feet are sore.   Really helps my feet.   I have absolutely no plans.   Only going to play some golf.   Love to be paired with Jordan again.  
   
 Q.   Jerry, you had a little momentum coming in here from Colonial and it showed this week.  
JERRY KELLY:   I've been playing well since Harbour Town.   I had a real dry spell early spring but got to see my boy Jim Schuman and he really got me dialed in and it's carried over.   I've made some mistakes and he's bring me back into reason but it's been fun swinging well.  
   
 Q.   I can see Colonial is built for you but this is really a long golf course, not that short a hitter but not a bomber, either.   Strategy out here?  
JERRY KELLY:   Dude, I'm 190th on Tour.   I am a short hitter.   Let's get that out of way right now.   
And Colonial played -- that was a heck of a long golf course, let me tell you.   I never hit irons into those like we did last week.   So it's kind a continuation of the same here.   There's a lot of short holes out here.   The long ones are longer but I'm tired.  
   
 Q.   You also have to be happy.  
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, I am.   You just -- you like making birdies and the ability to make those really solid saves, it just makes the birdies that much better.  
   
 Q.   I always think a confident golfer is a dangerous golfer.   You're very confident now.  
JERRY KELLY:   I'm doing all facets of the game well, not every single shot, not every single hole but I've got a grasp of what's going on and that's all I can ask for and try to commit to it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT