U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 28, 2019
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just a continuation of all the good things going on with your golf game right now?  
JERRY KELLY: Yes.  Definitely a continuation last week.  Got a great feel, it's just been the last five weeks or so that I've really had a great feel of my swing and putting.  My short game has been good, because I wasn't hitting it very good in the year.  So that's tuned up.   
So it is, and it's just always having to chase these guys every single week.  I mean, it's low every week.  So it teaches you to keep going, keep going.   
 Q.  Did you have to adjust with the scoring being low at a Senior Open, what the mindset used to be, just kind of hang in there and be patient?  
JERRY KELLY: No.  This is the way we play every single week.  And if it would have been Broadmoor, we would have adjusted.  But we don't have to adjust to anything right now.  It's too soft.  So it's just keep on the pedal.  Keep hitting good shots and keep trying to get those putts to go in.  Just give yourself chances.   
 Q.  Was Broadmoor a good experience regardless of -- you led for the first three rounds?  
JERRY KELLY: Broadmoor was awesome.  That was one of my favorite tournaments I've ever played in.  I thought the course was fantastic.  The USGA did a great job.  Give you your props when you deserve it.  (Laughing.)  No, it was fantastic.  I'm glad we're going back there in 2025.  And I hope I didn't spoil the surprise for anybody.   
 Q.  Have you played many other courses that Crenshaw and Coore have done?  Does their style fit your eye?  
JERRY KELLY: Boy, I don't know.  I mean, Kapalua, that one was always kind of awkward to me.  I was surprised how people shot so low.  I haven't seen Sand Valley since it's been finished.  Yeah, I -- we don't play too many of them in tournaments, and that's kind of all the golf I play, is tournament golf.  I tend not to play leisure golf.  So I haven't played too many of them.   
 Q.  Given what you've done the last couple weeks, where is your confidence level right now?  
JERRY KELLY: It's good.  I mean, I'm confident in the way that I'm swinging the ball, striking the ball and putting it and chipping it.  But it comes down to execution and keeping your mental side in there.   
 Q.  How would you describe your relationship with Steve?  I mean, you guys seem linked by more than Madison.  
JERRY KELLY: Yeah, I mean, we've played each other since we were juniors.  And he was quiet, and I was not.  He was really good, and I was kind of not.  And I think he helped me along.  And then when he was on his downside, I helped him along.   
And then we've both been -- his trajectory went crazy after that, which was really cool to watch.  It's competition and support and friendship.  It's all of it in there.  I appreciate everything he's done for my game.  I hope he knows I've been there for him.   
I remember when he took 3rd plays in Houston, that was his first good finish after being in the abyss.  We were almost both in tears in the locker room.  It was cool.   
 Q.  Fair to say different personalities?  
 A. Fair to say.  Fair to say.  You know, he and most other people would put up with me until they got to know me.  (Laughing.)  Some of them wouldn't get to know me, so they just have to keep putting up with me.  I'm a little different person off the golf course, and my friends know that.   
 Q.  Is it preferable to be playing with him tomorrow or not be playing with him?  
JERRY KELLY: Always preferable to be playing as close to the lead as you can.  We'll see how it filters out.  There could be some low scores.  You never know what could happen.  Fully expect DT to be up there still.   
So I'd much rather be in the lead group and see what's going on.  I'm a scoreboard watcher, so I might as well watch the guy that's on the scoreboard.  That's totally fine with me.  And I can't help but putt better when I watch that stroke.   
 Q.  I just wondered with the friendship and everything, it's sometimes harder to play with your friend than to just --  
JERRY KELLY: No, because we've got a great -- it's -- it really almost started as a competitive bond.  I mean, it started -- like we're so different.  It started more from mutual respect or when he started to see that -- I don't know how to put it.   
But, no, it's -- it's -- we have a good time.  We pull for each other, but we want to -- I mean, even when we're teammates, we want to make that putt first.  We want to be the one to -- absolutely.  Yeah.  No, it's really cool that way.  He feels the same way.  It's been really fun that way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT