JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2014
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You were trying to body English a few of them in there, but it was a heck of a show today. 
JERRY KELLY:   Thanks.   You know, I really hit the ball solid this weekend.   I think I missed one or two, I can't remember, but it was‑‑ I was putting constantly.   I didn't give myself the closest ones today.   I played it a little safer, wanted to let my putter do the work.   The double breakers I had, I was just‑‑ I thought I had them where I wanted them and they just died the other way probably four or five times in a row there.   I did what I could.   It was really fun.   I enjoyed the way I played.

Q.   You spent a lot of time on that putt at 14.   Did you feel like if you got that one to go down that it could have been a little bit different result? 
JERRY KELLY:   I can't believe I left it short.   I mean‑‑

Q.   I wasn't going to say that. 
JERRY KELLY:   Come on.   Yeah, I mean, they were definitely slower, but that green I know that if it's downhill at the start and then it starts peeling left, it never stops once it starts peeling left.   And Willy's putt came down and went pretty far.   I couldn't be stupid.   My reads come off of good speed, and sometimes that means I'm going to leave them just short.   I hit the putt I wanted, it just didn't do what I wanted it to. 

Q.   Do you feel like you ran out of holes because you started a little too far behind?
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, I felt great.   I felt like every iron shot I was going to give myself a chance.   You know, I didn't hit it quite as pure, but still, a commitment was there, so the shots were at least 20 feet.   In the past without the commitment I would have been missing greens.   I'm not missing greens.   I'm hitting it just off when I miss it, and when I'm hitting it well, I'm hitting it very flush.   I enjoy the way I'm playing.

Q.   As much as you're looking forward to maybe a little R & R as you said, you can't wait to get back out when you're playing like this? 
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, I can. 

Q.   Really? 
JERRY KELLY:   Oh, yeah.   I've done a good job of not playing this year.   It's the least amount I've ever played.   Week on, week off, week on, two weeks off, week on, week off, week on, week off.   Never done anything like that.   I wish I would have a long time ago.

Q.   Really? 
JERRY KELLY:   Absolutely.   But, you know, I did what I had to do to put myself in position lifetime for senior, things like that.   I've done a good job with my career.   I didn't manage it winning tournaments and winning major‑wise, but I wasn't that kind of talent anyway, so I did a good job of managing my career, making the most out of what I've got and making the money so I could be exempt out there and enjoy my life.

Q.   Do you feel working smarter when you get to a certain age‑‑
JERRY KELLY:   I'm not smarter, don't get me wrong.   Okay, I'm working smarter, I'll give you that one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT