JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2014
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A stealth 65 today with all the rounds going on, you put yourself in a heck of a spot. 
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, you just try to be consistent out there.   Just keep making putts, that is the key.   I actually hit it better today than I have in the last few days, so I made up for the long ones the last couple days.   Just try to stay consistent and maybe you're going to have one of those days where you're just consistent with the irons and they're going to drop.

Q.   Consistency 17 of 18 greens, obviously, it was soft and you were going to be able to take advantage of that and put yourself in some really good positions. 
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, I've had some greens in regulations stats like I used to have a little bit.   Like I said, I found something in my hotel room Wednesday night after just two horrible days, and, you never know where you're going to find it or when, just go play.

Q.   Zach gets a lot of crowds, Steve gets a lot of crowds.   Could we steal some people in your group tomorrow, do you think?   You're local.   You've got some local flavor here. 
JERRY KELLY:   Definitely the stepchild though.   There is no doubt about it.   I'm the unwanted one, the black sheep, kind of always have been, but I'm all right with that though.

Q.   Consistent 65 for you? 
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, it was very consistent ball striking.   I felt really solid out there with my body.   The club and my arms in front of me, everything was just kind of working.   I only missed a few shots.   I really didn't get close enough, but I think there are some good pins out there.   You really had to be on it.   After the last couple of days, kind of a little bit off, I wasn't firing at everything.   I'd like to just say I'm going to come out and play the same way tomorrow and hope everything drops.   I think that's the best chance.

Q.   Do you like the position you're in as you head into the final? 
JERRY KELLY:   I'd like to be up by 8, maybe 10, 20.   You know, it's in position to win.   You know, I mean, these guys just got to 18, Brian did.   I know how solid he is.   His irons, he can be tough to beat.   You know, tomorrow's another day, and who knows what it holds.

Q.   What is your mentality going into tomorrow?   Will you start earlier? 
JERRY KELLY:   I can't go after it right now.   I'm saving all my energy just getting up these hills right now.   I'm not as in shape as I'd like to be.   In the humidity and these hills on the frontside and the backside, I'm puffing.   So, you know. 

Q.   Brian's obviously at 18.   Do you have to take a bit more of an aggressive approach when you see yourself down by 4 even being in the top few? 
JERRY KELLY:   No, because the frontside can hold anything tomorrow.   So basically the tournament starts backside Sunday.   It's the classic Augusta‑type thing.   But it starts if you're in contention going into the back side on Sunday, you know.   So you've got to catch up to it a little bit and maybe they falter a little bit, which is very possible on that front side.   So you never know what the conditions are going to be like.   I'm sure they're going to play the ball down, may get some rain at the end of the night.   Next thing you know there is mud on the ball, who knows what's going to happen with that.

Q.   You have been close here a number of times.   What's been the biggest difference between 1 through 3 for you here? 
JERRY KELLY:   Historically, I usually play better in round four, so, yeah, I hope history holds true.   It's usually tough starts for me.   I'm in a good spot, I just need to be consistent.   That's the bottom line. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT