JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2014
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the day overall. 
JERRY KELLY:   The day was all right.   I mean, I didn't strike the ball well.   I mean, I shouldn't say that.   I just didn't hit it crisp.   I hit the fairways most of the time, hit the greens most of the time.   I just made some decent putts in the beginning, and then I got loose on a‑‑ actually hit a pretty good drive on 8, just kicked left into the fairway bunker, and I absolutely suck at those.   I'll figure that out one of these years, but I haven't in the last 26, that's for sure. 
And then just missed a drive on a 500‑yard par‑4.   I'm playing exactly the same.   I know there were a couple of bogeys, but I'm playing exactly the same.   I'm going to make some bogeys the way I'm hitting it, but I'm going to make a lot of birdies the way I'm putting.

Q.   What were you most pleased about with your performance today?
JERRY KELLY:   Let's see, I said I'm going to make bogeys of the way I'm hitting it and I'm going to make birdies because of the way I'm putting it.   I think I like my putting right now. 

Q.   As you know, this is a course where you've just got to go run and make birdie after birdie.   Those bogeys become awfully expensive, do they not? 
JERRY KELLY:   Gee, really?   I mean, I kind of feel like‑‑ who's the Spurs coach right now?   Bogeys are expensive.   Really? 

Q.   Out here how much more expensive are they?
JERRY KELLY:   I'm glad you told me that, because I was planning on making a whole bunch and still making a lot of money, but I guess I can't. 
Yeah, a guy shot a 59 here, man.   Bogeys don't make me happy.   That's just the way it is. 

Q.   You always play well here as well as Stricker and Johnson.   Is this a course that sets up well for Midwest guys?
JERRY KELLY:   Well, it's the grass.   We just understand the bounces it's going to take.   We'd like to say this is about the purest grass you can play on, pure bent, a little poa annua mixed in.   The Bermuda you've got to pay attention to the grain so much, and we usually overplay or underplay.   Here just what you see is what you get.   It's a pretty comfortable feeling.

Q.   But it's just like what you've grown up playing; is that why you guys do so well? 
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah. 

Q.   How difficult is it to win when you're in your 40s out on the PGA TOUR? 
JERRY KELLY:   I mean, I have already.   But I'm 47, getting close to 48.   I don't feel it, just mentally I'm still about 12.   You know, it's just as hard as it is any other time.   If your body is holding up and you're playing‑‑ I mean, I've never been a consistent four‑round player.   In this, as we call it, Tiger era, if you don't play consistently four rounds, you're not going to win much, and that's been my down fall.   Take it as it is; I've been a pretty steady player, pretty solid player, but just not a consistent four‑round player.

Q.   What would another win mean to you at this point in your career? 
JERRY KELLY:   Really?   I mean, are these supposed to be tee‑up questions or what?   Holy crap, guys.   Get some insight so these people can learn.   Boy, I'd love to win.   Come on, guys.   Give me something. 

Q.   Tell us about all those majors coming to Wisconsin the next couple of years and how much it would means for you‑‑ what that means for the state. 
JERRY KELLY:   I mean, that's cool.   We've got a whole bunch of them.   We've got a new course Sand Hills being built, too, by Coore and Crenshaw.   I mean, there's a lot of fun staff happening with Wisconsin golf.   You know, I hope Strick can put together a senior event by the time I get there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT