U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 27, 2019
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What is it that's bringing out the best in you in the last couple of years?
JERRY KELLY: Besides accepting my game for what it is a little bit more, understanding my game.  The golf courses we play, I can play my game.  The golf courses and the majors on the regular Tour, I mean, that's driver, 3-wood, and hope I can get to the green.
That's not really playing golf in my game.  You know, we can compete at this kind of distance and kind of play the way we've always played.  These guys know their style of golf.  We know our style of golf.  We're not going to bash it out there as far as we can.
We're going to shape it, we're going to get the ball in the fairway.  When you've got those courses that fairway matters, there's a premium because you have to control your ball from the fairway into the greens, that's kind of what all of these guys have grown up doing and know how to do.
I like where I'm at.
Q. What was the best part of what you did today?
JERRY KELLY: I'd still get the ball in the fairway.  I managed myself well when I did get in the rough.  I got the ball on to the green.  I just had one three-putt.  These are tricky greens.  I hit a couple good putts on putts that didn't go in.  That's going to happen, even on short to mid-range ones.  They break a lot.
The greens held up well for how soft they were.  They really did a good job.
There was nothing you could complain about course-wise.  Mother Nature gave you guys some -- a soft course, and guys are taking advantage of it right now.  I feel like if we get some sunshine and some wind and no more rain, let's see what happens.
Q. Is there carryover from last year?  Is there something to that or maybe not?
JERRY KELLY: Well, I'm definitely tired, but I managed it well.  The emotions were good.  I've been trending for a solid five tournaments, so it's not like it was just last week.  I know I've been playing well.  I've got a pretty good foundation of what I want to do with the swing.
I missed two drives today farther than I've missed it in probably three, four years, as well, so I found them and I got to play them, so I was lucky there.  It's just managing to get the ball in the fairway for me and then taking advantage of the iron game that I have going.
Q. You navigated that 4, 5, 6 stretch at 1-under.  How crucial was that to kind of your overall success today?
JERRY KELLY: Yeah, I mean, you forgot 7, and I bogeyed that (laughing).  I knocked it 15 feet and three-putted on that one.  I got excited.  I wanted to get to 8.  I knocked it past and I missed the next one.  So that's not a very good mental play.  That's not playing my speed of putts.  That's jamming it, and I paid for it.
You get the ball in the fairway on those holes and you hit solid shots, they're very manageable.  I hit a good recovery shot on 3.  I was behind that big tree in front of the bunker.  But I'm pleased with how I managed my game around the course.
Q. Is that kind of the key to attacking a place like this, is just managing your shot and figuring out when --
JERRY KELLY: You manage that tee ball, then you pick your spots where you want to get aggressive.  If you don't manage your tee ball well, you can't get aggressive.  I think that's the biggest key, is just getting that ball in the fairway.  I mean, it's hard enough off of wet grass in the fairway.  You get wet rough, it's tough.
Q. Is it fair to say it's not surprising how low guys went?
JERRY KELLY: No, it's still spread.  This is kind of normal for us, really.  You're going to have some guys going low every single day.  I don't know if it can sustain 8-under per day.  Could it sustain 5-under par day?  Absolutely, if the conditions stay like this.
But it would be nice to get a really low one in there and separate yourself like these guys already have a little bit.  So you need a low one to catch up, and then you keep pace.
Q. What's the key to doing that maybe tomorrow and really putting yourself --
JERRY KELLY: It's all -- when you start shooting scores like that, it's making putts.  I mean, it's one thing hitting the fairway, hitting the greens, but you've still got to -- you've got to finish that off and make the putt.  I think we're looking forward to getting to some smooth greens in the morning and see if we can't make a few more.
Q. I know you said you've been trending in the right direction.  Is it safe to say that your confidence is maybe at an all-time high here?
JERRY KELLY: I don't know about all-time high.  I've still got -- there's always demons in my head, you know.  I've got sort of five personalities in there that want to come out.  It's just keeping them down for a while.  You know, I've had a fairly quiet mind, and really I think that's because I'm understanding my body and feel pretty good about what I'm working on with my swing right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT