SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2014
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good playing.   
JERRY KELLY:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Nice putt at the last.   
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, that was key, after two three‑putts on the back side.   Two of the last four holes I three‑putted, but I also made two long putts.   Yeah, it is what it is.   You've got to judge the grain, and I misjudged both times.   14 was really slow and I didn't hit it hard enough and thought I was downgrain when I was actually cross‑grain on 17, didn't hit it hard enough.   I putted great, so it's just the way it is.   
   
 Q.   Are there a lot of Bermuda greens in Madison, Wisconsin?  
JERRY KELLY:   Luckily my parents spent some winters down in Florida that I could come down when I first started, when I turned pro, and really learn the grass down there.   It was key.   Through college I was putting a lot of Bermuda, which helped me a lot when I turned pro.  
   
 Q.   You always seem to play well here.   Any particular reason?  
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah.   I mean, firm with‑‑ there's not a lot of hit it high and land it.   It's scoot‑it golf, and I'm pretty good at scooting it golf.   My miss is usually a good clean miss, and I keep the golf ball in front of me and keep it bouncing towards the pin.   I don't play the sky‑ball, land‑it‑soft shots.   It plays to my game.   It's nice when it's firm.   It's been pretty wet the last bunch of years.   Hopefully we don't get too much from that tonight.  
   
 Q.   How at home do you feel here?   
JERRY KELLY:   Well, you've got a big Wisconsin W on the back of No.16 green, so I feel pretty good every time I walk up there.   The people have embraced me even before I won.   One of the reasons I won here is because I've really enjoyed coming here and I've done a lot of things with a lot of people outside the ropes, which makes for a fun week.   
   
 Q.   As you talked about your game and what it is and how the course is set up today, do you have to take advantage of the courses when you get to these kind of places?  
JERRY KELLY:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel a little added pressure in situations like that?   
JERRY KELLY:   No.   I feel like, all right, here we go.   I feel added pressure when I'm on the other side, when I have to hit these shots that I'm not used to hitting, which happens to be just about every major that you play.   You know, I'm surprised I haven't played well in the British Open, the Open Championship, but that's a little more long ball than I ever gave it credit for.   Some of the short ones I did well, except for St. Andrews.   I still haven't figured that one out.   
No, I relish the opportunities rather than put pressure on them.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT