JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2013
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Continuation of the last couple days as far as your ball‑striking?   
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah.   I didn't hit it as clean early, but I came around, got the feel back.   Everything was good.   I mean, I missed a lot of shots but just a fraction to being real close and didn't execute from 10, 12 feet again.   I hit good putts, just off here and there.  
   
 Q.   Like 18, right?  
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, a lot like that one, thinking it's in, thinking it's in, ooh.   
Yeah, I'm right there.   Going into tomorrow it's going to be really good.   
   
 Q.   One guy went kind of crazy today but it doesn't mean someone else can't do it tomorrow.   
JERRY KELLY:   Exactly.   I'd rather do it on Sunday than Saturday.   
   
 Q.   Right in the mix.   Can you talk about heading into tomorrow and what you think it's going to take to get up there and chase down the leaders?   
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, all you know right now is it's going to take a low score, and the scores are low.   This is a good golf course, but with benign conditions it's there for the taking.   Greens are great.   Everything is right there.   If you strike it, you're going to score.  
   
 Q.   Has it been consistency for you the last few days?   
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, the last few months just struck it well.   I had my putting coach come in, and I've putted better.   I can still do better, but I'm kind of right there, so we'll see what happens tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Being a Midwest guy, is it nice to be at the tournament that's near where you're from?  
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, any time I can drive, I'm going to like it.   I'm going to like the people, I'm going to like the food.   I'm going to have a good time.   This is my kind of place, no doubt I like it.  
   
 Q.   Was there something that got you rolling out there today?   
JERRY KELLY:   It was just consistency.   I didn't really get it rolling.   Just birdies here and there, just not making mistakes, and it could have been a whole lot better, but I'll take where I am.   
   
 Q.   The last four holes I thought you had four birdies.   You hit really good putts.   
JERRY KELLY:   I felt really good about every single one of those.   That's kind of the way the week has gone for me.   I've struck it really well.   I've given myself an awful lot of chances.   I'm making a percentage of them, I'm not making all of them.   If I could make all of them it would be one of these low ones like these guys are shooting.   There's still Sunday to go.  
   
 Q.   Another one of your rounds today and I think you might have it.   
JERRY KELLY:   Well, you never know.   These conditions guys are going to go low.   Sunday might make it a little tougher on some guys, but just go out there and try and have fun making birdies instead of stressing.   It's a fun tournament.   
   
 Q.   You're playing with David and he's playing well, too.   Are you feeding off each other?   Does that happen?   
JERRY KELLY:   I like the Canadians.   We're up here in the north, so we have a lot of hockey to talk about.   We had a good time, so we had a good flow going.   We had plenty to talk about.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT