JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2013
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Parred the 17th, birdied the 18th, you got it in the house. 
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, well, yesterday I bogeyed with wedges in my hard and made birdies with 5s and 4s, so the same thing kind of today, but I cleaned up those shorter holes a little bit better.   But I left plenty out there, made some great birdies.   Just a really comfortable day. 

Q.   Lots of fairways, lots of greens the first two days.   You must be really happy with your position. 
JERRY KELLY:   I am.   I'd like to be a little farther up next to Woodland, but I did a good job of staying within myself and just getting the ball in the fairway, knowing that's my game, and not trying to overpower what I can't overpower anyway.

Q.   What's been your pathway to success around this golf course? 
JERRY KELLY:   I usually have pretty good irons.   This is a second‑shot golf course, but you still have to get it in the fairway to make it a second‑shot golf course.   I'm doing both of those well, and it's taking pressure off my putting, and I'm putting well, too. 

Q.   Bogey‑free 64 here on Friday for Jerry Kelly.   How complete of a round was this and how pleased are you with this low one you were able to put up?
JERRY KELLY:   Very pleased.   It seems like I've been playing better, just kind of been making mistakes along the way like I did yesterday with some wedges in my hand.   Today I cleaned everything up.   There was a lot more I could have made, but I'm never going to argue with a 7‑under.

Q.   You talked about playing well.   You've made your last five cuts out here.   Where is this trend coming from, and what do you have to do to sort of take it to the next level to be there come Sunday?
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, the ball‑striking seems to have been there, but I've been lacking in the putting.   I've been seeing Brian Geiberger, and he really helped me earlier in the year on the West Coast, and I putted fantastic.   I've lacked that on the weekend.   I've had it Thursday and Friday and been in contention, and then didn't really get it done. 
So hopefully‑‑ and ball‑striking has been there for a while now.   If I can put the putting with it, I'll be in good shape. 

Q.   Just talk about your 64. 
JERRY KELLY:   It was just very comfortable.   I hit‑‑ if I didn't hit all the fairways I can't remember one I missed.   Well, I can, sorry.   It just came back to me. 
No, I struck the ball very well, both with the driver and the irons, gave myself an awful lot of chances.   I missed an awful lot of putts within 10 feet, even with a 7‑under.   It's almost comfortable; it's a low round, but when you know you left some out there that usually brings you back solid for the next day. 
I'm just happy with the way I'm kind of doing everything, but I need to do that for the weekend.   I've done it Thursday and Friday, even Saturday a few times this year, but four rounds together with everything firing I haven't done.   I haven't done that for a few years.   I'm looking forward to it. 

Q.   Must be that Midwest air. 
JERRY KELLY:   Exactly.   I mean, the people, the food, I love everything about it.   I really enjoy coming down here.   It's a comfortable spot for me. 

Q.   Is this a nice course, nice event to come to, a little easier golf course, a little more forgiving? 
JERRY KELLY:   You know, it's going to start to firm up, but it is forgiving because the fairways are fairly wide, but it's a good second‑shot golf course.   You have to hit your irons well.   You can still‑‑ there are some tight holes out there, as well, with the driver.   You'd better not fall asleep on this place, otherwise it can bite you.   But if you're playing well, you can be aggressive and make up some shots, yeah. 

Q.   Halfway home, and that leaderboard looks pretty good to you I imagine?
JERRY KELLY:   Sure.   You know, halfway home is nothing.   We really just have to get four rounds in.   I'd like to be in contention coming into the last few holes.   That's all that matters, and we'll see how my game stacks up then. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT