THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2013
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First of all, two twos on 18 this week, and the one on 14, how do you explain all of those? 
JERRY KELLY:   I can't explain that.   Now Leishman got one today.   You've got to tell me, I feel like I made a two on 18 way back in the day when I was leading.   I think I went from 5 to 7‑under and I think I made it on 18.   They said there were only three of them up until Leishman.   I think I was one. 

Q.   I'll go back and check.   They list like Glen Day and Carlos Franco?
JERRY KELLY:   So maybe I just put it in there.   I thought I did, but my brain's getting a little old these days, so I don't know.

Q.   You just touched on that.   That's a hard hole to make a two on.   There have only been three or four. 
JERRY KELLY:   That is a hard hole.   That is one of the premier holes out there that I would give myself a two on.   That and 18 are all you want.   18 was ‑‑ Mother Nature's nice with a little down out of the right, but it's still a tough hole.

Q.   Little spontaneous bump with you and Aaron? 
JERRY KELLY:   Yeah, last time I did that was with another Aaron, Aaron Rodgers on Pebble Beach this year.   So I had a little practice.   I'm glad he jumped otherwise I would have looked kind of foolish.

Q.   Aaron is a good kid.   He's really struggling, and he took a little joy in a good shot a playing partner had.   Is that typical of Aaron? 
JERRY KELLY:   As you know what I'm going to say, Aaron is probably the nicest guy out here, period.   Great family man, which I appreciate, and he exudes all the stuff that I'd rather have myself be, but I'm not quite to his attitude yet.

Q.   I know the wind kicked up and things got a little firmer out there this afternoon.   But overall the scoring, when you stick 144 of the best players in the world and you have the conditions like yesterday and the conditions like this morning and even a little tougher today, you guys are going to do what you do, aren't you? 
JERRY KELLY:   Absolutely.

Q.   The rules staff can't stop you?
JERRY KELLY:   No, Mother Nature stops us, really.   You can get the USGA to trick things up.   Hopefully the PGA keeps things in check, because these things can get crusty with their SubAir.   But we know and we expect that here.   That's what you're going to get at THE PLAYERS.   You're going to get the crispy really fast and know the putts are going to skid for a lot longer than normal.

Q.   How many twos do you think you have in competition out here? 
JERRY KELLY:   I don't know.   But I know that's at least my third hole out with a 4‑iron.   I made two 4‑irons at Harbour Town for hole in ones, both of them on the 4th hole too.   That one‑‑ I don't know.   No clue.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT