DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2011
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I have you down for 11 fairways, 15 greens. Beautiful ball striking.   
 JERRY KELLY: It still wasn't quite there. I really hit the ball great my last two shots. I thought I kind of figured something out on the drive, and I hit 7-iron, and it came off really good. It was hard to find those solid ones amongst the others. I hope that I start striking it well and manage the course as well as I have the last two days. My brain has been my biggest asset.  
  
  Q. That's pretty good, if you can not strike it purely and still be somewhere in the top 5. Putter behaving today?  
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, putter was fine, I just wasn't getting it close. I actually made some good putts for my second putts. You know, it's a little bit of a struggle compared to the way I've been playing the last three weeks, but still, I'm hitting fairways and greens. That's my game. Whether it's perfectly solid or not, I've got to accept that.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're on some top of a roll?  
 JERRY KELLY: Well, I mean, I'm playing golf really well. That's the key. You don't have to strike it perfectly to play golf really well. You know, I've always kind of got down on myself on days like the last two days, but I've also gone after it a lot harder, and when I go after it harder and miss it, I have weird misses. I'm kind of smoothing it out there a whole lot more, which is when I'm not striking it and smoothing it, then I'm losing a whole lot, I think.   
 But I know fairways and greens here are pretty huge. You go after a lot of things on this course, it'll get you in trouble. I've been hitting to the fats of greens, haven't hit it real close, but if I can start striping it -- I just want to play golf.  
  
  Q. You were in the mix here a couple years ago, weren't you?   
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, we played together, he won it and I didn't.  
  
  Q. But you were close?  
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, yeah, that feels good (laughing).   
  
  Q. You've got a decent record around here?  
 JERRY KELLY: I like the golf course. You know, sometimes I can reach the par-5s, sometimes I can't, but the pin placements, they've got some nice little spots where you can still go after a wedge shot, things like that. You know, I need to pick up the par-5s. I bogeyed the fourth hole today.  
  
  Q. That's the drivable --  
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, I think that was my only bogey, a three-putt, same as yesterday. I keep hitting greens. Just keep hitting greens, keep hitting fairways. It's cliché, but that's my game because I'm somewhat shorter. I'm not an attack, I'm a wear-you-out kind of guy.  
  
  Q. How far is your alma mater? Semi-close?  
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, it's close. Everything is a couple hours out here.   
  
  Q. I'm trying to picture it in my head. Close enough for you to be classified as a local?  
 JERRY KELLY: They put me as a local in the paper. I love that. Are you kidding me? I absolutely take that. Boston gives me the nod.  
  
  Q. And you're Irish and --  
 JERRY KELLY: Absolutely, I love it. I've got plenty of friends here, let me tell you.   
  
  Q. Coming off that T4 at Wyndham, how much did that help you heading into the Playoffs?   
 JERRY KELLY: Well, playing so well at the PGA, that's what pushed me into the Wyndham. To strike it like that at Atlanta Athletic Club, long golf course, that made me feel really good about going to an old Donald Ross golf course and playing around there the way I know I can. And then last week another Donald Ross. Even though that played right into my hands a little bit, I didn't take advantage as much as I would have liked, but I didn't see 19-under on that course, either.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT