THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 4, 2011
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JERRY KELLY: Struck it much better than yesterday. Took the stress off the round. It was a fairly stress-free round. I came over one 5-iron trying to keep it out of the wind but other than that, it was ok. 

 Q. We were talking to Ricky and he was talking about how it was more gusty. 
 JERRY KELLY: It was much tougher yesterday morning than it was this afternoon. Yesterday, you couldn't hear anything; it was like a freight train coming through. Today you could hear people talking and things like that. Not that it bothers us, but it just gives us an idea. I mean, you can't hear anything in the wind when it's really blowing, but that wasn't the case today quite as much. 
 It's changing a little bit, too. The wind is supposed to still blow tomorrow. It's shifting from north to south by Sunday. So the course is going to play a little different, no question about it. You get 10 and 11 into the wind come Sunday; it's a different ballgame, things like that. 
 You know, it's just a great course. Doesn't matter which way the wind blows. There's going to be hard holes and harder holes. And you know, you've just got to hang on through those really tough ones, hope you can either get it on the green or get it up-and-down and take advantage of the hard holes. 

 Q. As we are getting to the later part of the afternoon, how are the greens holding up with all of this wind? 
 JERRY KELLY: They did a great job. They put just the right amount of water. They are not too soft. They are softer than they were yesterday, but the problem is they haven't cut them. 
 So with the length, the grain of the grass is sticking up with people walking and things like that. So it's definitely a lot tougher out there than it's been. But they will take care of that, if the wind is down five miles an hour, tomorrow they will be able to cut them and roll them; it will be: Careful what you ask for. 

 Q. What do you think of the leaderboard?
 JERRY KELLY: It's a good leaderboard. The 64 Rory shot, I didn't think anybody was going to touch that this week, much less today, or yesterday. So whose on the leaderboard? This course could care less. You'd better strike it well. It's not like, oh, there's some long hitters up there and you can take advantage of it. You've got to be making putts, because you're not going to hit every green. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT