CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 11, 2010
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Jerry, last official event of the year. Easier to stay focused, harder to stay focused knowing that you'll shut it down for a little bit?
 JERRY KELLY: It's a little easier for me right now. I've had such a tough year, really haven't enjoyed myself all that much, and it's just a struggle with equipment and injuries at the beginning. 
 So you know, I basically started playing my kind of golf after the PLAYOFFS that I missed most of, and you know, it wasn't rededication. I was just healthy enough to start working out again, which I hadn't done in two years because of various things. And you know, found the equipment that I want to go forward with. 
 So you know, I kind of make it a fiscal year. I started a month and a half ago or so.

 Q. How about the condition of the golf course today? Some guys commenting about mud balls. Greens appear to be a little bit quicker maybe, and again, Tom Pernice, very impressed with your 66, puts your hat on backwards. Thoughts about the golf course today?
 JERRY KELLY: You know, the conditions are perfect for us to have this golf course firm and fast. There were an awful lot of mud balls. I literally hit knock-down drivers after the 7th hole. 
 The first seven holes I had mud on every single ball. It was moving it 15 to 20 yards. Couldn't get it close enough to make any putts, was getting frustrated, and said I'm just going to hit low-punch drivers. It's more important to not have mud on the ball than it is to get the distance in the air. And I started keeping the mud off the ball and getting the ball closer and making some putts.

 Q. How about this golf course compared to Magnolia? Do you try to set goals as far as 66 acceptable anywhere, but how much better is this round when you think about what you try to do tomorrow?
 JERRY KELLY: This course -- I'm thinking this course might be playing tougher than the other one. This isn't a gimme out here. I mean it's plugging in the fairways, and you're not getting any distance. 
 I don't know what it's going to be like over there. But when we get over there, that's when it's going to tell us how we're going to play it, because had to completely change today, and hopefully it's nice firm and fast for the rest of the week.

 Q. All right. The trivial stuff is out of the way. Badgers 8 and 1. You got a doable stretch down here. You got your birthday coming up, Badger football in your future? They're at Michigan after Indiana. Give me a thought about this football team. Can they get to the clubhouse 11 and 1?
 JERRY KELLY: I am. I'm going to be in California for Michigan, unfortunately. So you know, that Northwestern game, I'm not even sure where it is, but I think I might be --

 Q. At home. 
 JERRY KELLY: It's at home? Well, I'll be at the Northwestern game for sure. Just look for me on the sidelines backing away any time there's a wide field on that side.

 Q. Well, good start. Good luck the rest of the way. 
 JERRY KELLY: Thanks a lot. Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT