TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2010
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jerry, that's a nice grinding round. You make a couple of bogeys and still shoot 66.  
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah. I hit it pin high on the par-3 with a sand wedge and pulled it back about an inch outside the hazard stake, so you know, I knew that green was like that, but I didn't think landing it up there that far that I'd actually pull it all the way back off the green. The ball hasn't spun that much for me today.   
 But new wedge from last week, and you know, I could have gone a little more weary, but yeah, that one kind of bummed me out, right after I missed the four-footer on the par-3, too. So it kind of sent me into a little tailspin, but recovered well with three straight 3s after that, four straight 3s after that actually.  
  
  Q. 14, 15, 17, the birdies coming in, you've forgotten last week already. McInnis tells me you two have already discussed the whole mental aspects of that. Yeah, show me what's on that wrist right there.  
 JERRY KELLY: This one right here is my bubble number right there.  
  
  Q. That's just a little --  
 JERRY KELLY: Just a reminder, yeah. The other one someone gave me for luck, but that one is important to me because I got down on myself really hard, and I also found some incredible ideas the last week I've been doing most of the year when I've had great rounds and bad rounds, great rounds and bad rounds.   
 You know, I found a nice little key that I hope is something that's not -- going to make me not take steps backwards this much.   
  
  Q. Swing key or just a mental thing?  
 JERRY KELLY: It's both, like I said. It's both a mental and a swing key. But it definitely is a swing key.   
 I had a great talk with my coach on I think it was Monday night. No, it was Sunday night. I should have had the talk with him on Saturday night, but I was so mad and so down, I couldn't even speak.   
 So you know, I wasn't expecting that. I wasn't playing that great the first two days, it was even par and sixth place. And I was poised. It was a perfect golf course for me to be able to win an Open, and I don't get to say that about the U.S. Open Championship too much, so I'd like to go back a hole. (Laughs).  
  
  Q. We'll get you there. Hang in there. Good job today, again, of putting something together that could have gone the other way and a strong finish. You're back in the hunt again and that's gotta make you feel good.  
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah. Absolutely. I've been there a lot this year. I haven't finished in the hunt, but I feel really good about the way I've played all year, if I can just be Steady Eddie, something's going to happen.  
  
  Q. Keep up the good work. Thanks for your time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT