DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2009
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You've known Steve longer than anybody else out here.   
 JERRY KELLY: Possibly. We played junior golf together. We were a handful, myself, J.P. Hayes, Skip Kendall, we played a lot of junior and amateur tournaments in Wisconsin. You know, he's been beating me up for a long time.  
  
  Q. Back then did you think there would be days like today?  
 JERRY KELLY: I think both of us really wanted that. Really we had such a great Wisconsin group that that spurred us all into that spot. You see one make it to one level, you want to get to the next, and we just kind of kept leap-frogging each other until we all made it up. It's just a great group of guys, and it's kind of like the pairing today; it's the same type of situation where you can bring somebody along. We had a great time doing that today.   
  
  Q. How many times have you played together, outside of competitive rounds?  
 JERRY KELLY: We've played a lot of practice rounds together, it's almost like once a week. But we're not always playing the same tournaments, we're not always getting there at the same time. We don't always play together at home because neither of us really play at home. But we do play an awful lot of practice rounds together.   
 We like each other. You know, we're good friends. It's not just two guys being from Wisconsin, but we are real friends.  
  
  Q. Did you play a practice round together here?  
 JERRY KELLY: No, no. We came in at different times this week, where there wasn't really a whole lot of time for practice rounds.  
  
  Q. Does his tempo and his rhythm tend to rub off on you a little bit?  
 JERRY KELLY: It's fun to watch that short game work. It shows me how much more still and calm that I need to be on my short game, so it kind of bleeds into it. He's helped me a lot on it. I've got a long ways to go, but I'm getting much better.   
  
  Q. He schooled you on the putting before the Shark Shootout last year if I remember the story right. Can you kind of tell us about that?  
 JERRY KELLY: I finally got all of the good information out of it when it was to his benefit (laughing). No, it was great. He's been a great friend and a great help, and I appreciate it. You know, I feel like I was there for him when he had tough years, so we've just done it for each other.   
  
  Q. Is Presidents Cup on your mind at all, in the back of your head?  
 JERRY KELLY: Oh, sure, you never know. I'd have to win for Captain to probably pick me. But that's secondary. Winning the golf tournament is number one. Things come with that.  
  
  Q. What would it mean to you to win this tournament?  
 JERRY KELLY: It would mean I'm that much closer to the FedExCup, and that's what we're after. This is the Playoffs. You saw what Heath can do. That's the bottom line. That's what we're here to do is to get that Cup at the end of the four weeks, and this is just one of those steps along the way.  
  
  Q. When you say you spurred each other along, can you elaborate a little bit more what it was like out there today?  
 JERRY KELLY: Well, when we both stuck it in there on 1, he made a good putt, I made it on top of him. He made the putt on the 3rd hole, I just lipped out. I made the putt on the 4th. We just kept on going back and forth. You feed off each other on positives that way. That's what we did today.  
  
  Q. Talk about your round a little bit today.   
 JERRY KELLY: No, I'm talking about Strick's. No, I was happy obviously with my start. I had one missed short putt similar to the one I had on 16. My two bogeys were both very makeable putts. But six birdies on the front side. I was kind of surprised to be shut out on the back. But I didn't hit it nearly as close on the back. I must have got a little loose.   
 But they're tough pins. The wind is tough. The greens are firming up incredibly. I mean, you have to be careful; you can't be firing onto the pins in the back because one hop and they're gone. So a little protecting against being stupid, and that's what happens.  
  
  Q. Did you know his wife in high school at all?  
 JERRY KELLY: Oh, no question. We went to grade school together, too. I've known his wife longer than I've known Steve.   
  
  Q. Is it fair to say you have different personalities, he's a little more introverted, you're a little more extroverted?  
 JERRY KELLY: Absolutely. Maybe that's why we get along so well. I think it took him a little longer to warm up to me, but I won him over.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT