WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 8, 2009
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 1-under par through 7 holes, you birdied 8 and 9, two of the hardest holes on the course. Can you talk about that?  
 JERRY KELLY: It helps when the wind lays down a little bit. Yeah, they were strong birdies, so it gave me some confidence going into the next bunch of holes. But I thought I hit the neutral button there on the back nine.  
  
  Q. So the back nine wasn't satisfactory?  
 JERRY KELLY: No, the swing started getting really loose. I was all over the place with my weight and my setup and my backswing and I didn't have much of a through swing. I'll make sure that I work on it in my head while I'm at dinner.  
  
  Q. How aware were you of Tiger Woods's charge?  
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, you could see it. You expected it, that he's going to be up there. Tomorrow you've got to contend to win, not today. It doesn't really matter what he did today. He put himself in position, but just like every other golfer now, he's still got to close tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What's your game plan for tomorrow?  
 JERRY KELLY: I don't think you can have a game plan. We're supposed to have 20 consistent winds and 35 mile-an-hour gusts. It's all up in the air for tomorrow. We might want to keep it on the ground a little longer.  
  
  Q. I mentioned the rainstorm today. I thought the 69 was pretty sporty?  
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, I made some good birdies. I actually looked like I knew what I was doing half the time. The other half of the time it was all over the place. I was very poor with my weight at address, and that spilled over into my weight transfer in the transition. I got real loose out there, but I'm going to make sure I don't work on it right now, have a good dinner (laughing), and I'm feeling pretty confident about tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You missed a few fairways today. Was that because of the rain? Did that have something to do with it?  
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah. Yeah, that's it.  
  
  Q. That's the excuse, the rain?  
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah (laughing).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT