U.S. BANK CHAMPIONSHIP IN MILWAUKEE
July 19, 2009
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you sum up the tournament, happy with the way you finished or disappointed? 
 JERRY KELLY: A little bit of both. No question, I had my chances on that back side, and even on the front side. The only bogey that I even came close to making was the par 3 where I left a putt ten feet short. 
 But you know, I wish I could keep him with me every single tournament, it's just been great having him here and really working me into a great groove. I really hope I can keep this going forward. Believe me, I'll be flying him out any time I see something wrong.

 Q. Was there any time where you said, this is going to be it or maybe it's your day?
 JERRY KELLY: No, I thought it was it fairly early on. I really thought -- I was shooting for 8-under. I thought 15 would definitely win it outright. It would have. 
 I started leaving a few putts short. I don't know if it they put any water on them last night. They felt a little slower but possibly they might have been faster and I was protecting. 
 It was really cool. They have been so great to me over the years coming up to me, I wanted to make that birdie bad. 

 Q. It seems like often sometimes you are not pleased with your shot off the club and then it ends up being all right. 
 JERRY KELLY: I don't want it to be all right. I want it to be perfect. I'm a very large perfectionist, and yes, I can be unhappy with a 15-foot putt. That's something I've always had to deal with and I've got to learn to accept misses as just being human. I can't be perfect all the time. I felt so good out there that I was surprised not to see the shots come off exactly the way I wanted to, and I was still happy with the way I shot, with the way I hit it. 

 Q. Are you satisfied with what you saw today? 
 JERRY KELLY: It was a great turnout today. I don't know what it's been like the last couple of years but there were a couple of holes where they were lined the entire way down. I love all of the people in Wisconsin. They are great to come out and support us. I'm glad Mother Nature gave us a great week. You know, we've got to keep doing it. 

 Q. Do you think this will be enough to show a perspective title sponsor? 
 JERRY KELLY: I think so. I think we will be able to corral somebody. I don't think that's going to be as much of an issue. There are a few things we have to work out and once we get those things worked out --

 Q. How long? 
 JERRY KELLY: I don't know. I'd love to say two weeks. The TOUR would probably say two months. I don't know. It's tough. You know, there are some big people involved, and I can't push on them. I've just got to state our case and say, this is what we've got, let's get it done. 

 Q. What has to happen? 
 JERRY KELLY: Wouldn't you like to know. (Laughter).

 Q. Are you working with the tournament officials, you and Steve together?
 JERRY KELLY: Tournament officials. We had some great ideas and came to Tim. You know, he's been really great. He taught us a lot about the sponsorship, just a lot about putting on a tournament. So it's been really fun to learn about the business side of the PGA TOUR. 
 You know, I'm looking forward to learning more. 

 Q. Have you thought about putting your name on the tournament, or you or Steve Stricker --
 JERRY KELLY: I don't think I would be a big draw --

 Q. You never know. 
 JERRY KELLY: You never know. It would be fun. We almost did that with the Nike Tour in Madison. I had trouble even putting my name on a Nationwide Tour event. I'm proud of where I came from in that league, but you know, you've got to do an awful lot more than what I've done to warrant that. 

 Q. If you had to put a number on it, percentage-wise, how confident you are playing in this tournament next year?
 JERRY KELLY: I'm confident in the work we've done and what we are going to be doing going forward. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT