U.S. BANK CHAMPIONSHIP IN MILWAUKEE
July 18, 2009
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You have a chance. How does it feel?  
 JERRY KELLY: It feels good to have a chance. Again, you know, I feel things going, and then sloppy play and bad mistakes pop up.   
 I'm hitting the ball great. I go to hit my first cut, and I'm probably four over on my cut shots this week. You know, we haven't practiced that a ton, we've just been cleaning up and getting back to the regular swing. We haven't spent enough time on the cut. It's cost me a lot this week. So that's number one for this afternoon, just work on the cut.  
  
  Q. Are you close enough, Jerry?   
 JERRY KELLY: I'm close enough up. I mean, I think I understand what's going on. I just need to hear it. You know, he's out there watching me the other day, so he'll know what happened on 7.   
 And, you know, I think there was a divot underneath my ball when I was in the trees on 12. I really didn't hit a bad shot. But the divot got caught in between my club and the ball. Because I hit it plenty hard, and it only went about 60 yards. So that's one of those things.   
 But then I just didn't capitalize coming in, so. If I have a clean round tomorrow, I definitely have a chance, because I know I can make birdies.   
  
  Q. Your putting must be pretty good if you're making birdies?   
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, I mean, it's about the way it's been most of the year, which I spent a lot of the year in the Top 10. I think it can always get better. Not quite Stricker-esque at the moment, but, you know, it's getting better.   
 I am a much better putter than I was. I do have Steve to thank for that, but I've been working hard on it. And I've been improving. So, that's given me chances and that's going to put me into the winner's circle.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 JERRY KELLY: I like it, man, I like it. You know, I don't know what it is. But I perform here, and I know the pressure is there. You know, maybe I've got a built in excuse. Maybe that's why. I don't know.   
 I've tried to pick it apart a lot. But (indiscernible) as well. I think when I get somewhere, I can really feel it with the people, I play well. And whether there's pressure there or no pressure there, when I'm a little more at one with the people than normal, then I'm going to play well.  
  
  Q. Does it ever get old?   
 JERRY KELLY: No, that's why I still sign every single autograph that somebody asked me to sign. Because I figure when you stop signing autographs or when they stop asking for autographs, that's when you're in trouble. Except when I have a big fat steak in front of me for dinner, then don't bother me. Other than that, it's pretty good.   
  
  Q. What would a victory mean?   
 JERRY KELLY: It would mean everything to me. If I won here I would actually think, hey, I can win a major. Because that's the kind of pressure I put on myself, you know.   
 I feel like I can win a major. It's not contingent on tomorrow, but it's similar feelings for me. It wouldn't do the same things for my career, probably. It wouldn't matter to me. I want one of these bad.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us a little bit about Kyle Stanley?   
 JERRY KELLY: Kyle Stanley is the next big thing. I'd say he's got more game than Anthony Kim, more game than Danny Lee. I've put him in just about the best.   
 You know, he's got some polishing up to do around the greens, I think. I saw a couple of shots that I probably wouldn't have played. But, you know, he was getting into some grain and had some distance in between him and the hole.   
 Might not have had that shot all that often in our kind of rough, so. That swing was awesome, and I know he was off today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT