ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2009
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Very solid playing out there today?  
 JERRY KELLY: Well, that's pretty good coming from you. I appreciate that.   
  
  Q. You know, I think I've seen you hit the ball better. I think I've seen you putt better. I don't think I've ever seen you play better. Is that how it feels right now?   
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, it feels pretty good. I'm coming off just a bad few years it seems like. I haven't really had that kind of comfortable factor. It was just really comfortable out there the last couple of days?   
  
  Q. Well, obviously, you put yourself in position to win golf tournaments over that stretch that you call bad golf. But it seems like, like now, things are all headed in the right direction?  
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, I've felt that way for a while. But it never seemed to really fall together. And I'd get an injury, I'd get sick. Getting on old, it's tough.   
  
  Q. Well, I know it was tough out there this morning, and you don't ever wish ill will on anyone, but the wind's going to blow a little harder this afternoon. You have to be pretty pleased to be in at 10 under?   
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, there's no doubt about it. We didn't know what was going to happen today because we had clouds. Yesterday it was blowing, but it was crystal clear out there. So we didn't know if it was going to calm down or what.   
 I think it's going to blow through the entire weekend, so it will be consistent, anyway.  
  
  Q. Well, you're from Madison, but you spent so much time in Jupiter, Florida, where it blows every single day. Does that help on conditions like this?   
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, there's no doubt. I learned quite a bit in Florida. Amazingly I had more elevated shots at Jupiter Hills than I did up north. So it's great.   
 Having to keep the ball down even when you're going off an uphill lie, some of these uneven lies on these fairways, it definitely helps.  
  
  Q. What's for dinner tonight?   
 JERRY KELLY: I don't know. I'll find some place for you, though. We'll do it right.   
  
  Q. You've got to be pleased to be in the clubhouse at 10 under par especially when the winds start to pick up?  
 JERRY KELLY: I am. I hit the ball very well. It was really consistent over two days. I made a few more putts today than I made yesterday, and I'd like to keep that trend going.  
  
  Q. You got two Top 10s this year, but in opposite field events. Where do you feel your game is and how it's coming around?   
 JERRY KELLY: My game hasn't been there for a while. The timing of my game hasn't been there. I felt like my game was there. But I haven't put anything together. I chipped well, putted well, drove the ball pretty good, and my iron shots were pretty good.   
 So things are coming together, it's gelling.  
  
  Q. Gelling like Magellan?  
 JERRY KELLY: Exactly.   
  
  Q. Hey, this is a culinary major this week, isn't it?   
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, what do they call it? Gastro -- I can't even remember my quote. But it was good one back then. I can't remember my own.  
  
  Q. But you love the atmosphere of this place, don't you?   
 JERRY KELLY: I love it. Absolutely love it. To me, this is just about the coolest capital of the world. You've got such a great French influence, you've got very precise cooking. But the ingredients here are some of my favorites. So you put technique and spice together, and you've got a good spot.   
  
  Q. Talk about the difference between the Heritage, and what you felt when you left there?   
 JERRY KELLY: Pain. You know, dislocated rib. That's it. So, you know, painted myself into a corner, then I got the flu. And there was no sense in going out.  
  
  Q. But you've got everything going today. You've got to feel good about that.   
 JERRY KELLY: Well, it's a different week. You feel different, and that's the way it is.   
 Guys in the trailer did a great job on me. And I didn't have to medicate myself.   
  
  Q. When did you feel like you had it going today?   
 JERRY KELLY: Yesterday. Just very comfortable from the start of yesterday through today. No changes, I didn't play any different yesterday than I did today. Made just a few more putts. But it's just really comfortable on out there.   
 Playing with two great guys, Glover and Huston, so you can't help but have fun. It was a good time.  
  
  Q. Are you pain free?   
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Where was the pain?   
 JERRY KELLY: Right where it connects to the spine. Nasty, not fun.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT