WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2008
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Thanks a lot. You posted a nice number in the red there. We were wondering how you guys were going to do on this course. Many of you haven't seen it.   
 What are your impressions?  
 JERRY KELLY: I struck the ball really well. I had great distance control with my irons. I think that's probably the key to this golf course. Get on the wrong side of some of these humps, you've got tough two putts coming up.   
 Inch off the fringe on one of my shots which normally that's always -- I had to chip it over a mound and have it come around the side. You get pretty creative with these things but they can hurt you if you get on the wrong side.  
  
  Q. How beneficial is it for you guys who played Oakland Hills to come here knowing that you played a similar green structure?  
 JERRY KELLY: I give these a whole lot more credit, I think. Yeah. I like this place a lot. You know, it's Donald Ross but, you know, I think these stay a little more true to Donald Ross than maybe Oakland Hills had.   
 I think some things have been changed around there and this looks like Donald Ross a whole lot more than what we saw last week.  
  
  Q. You were one of the few players in the field that some way could be a possible Captain's pick for the U.S. Ryder Cup team. Is that somewhere bouncing around in your brain as you play this week?  
 JERRY KELLY: That's always bouncing around in my head. You know, Paul wondered why I hadn't come up to him and kind of juiced him about it and I said, "Paul, you really think I need to tell you how much I want to make the team?"   
 So, he knows where I stand on the matter. There's nothing I'd rather do than playing in the Ryder Cup, play for my country, especially watching the Olympics that are going on right now. Just fired up watching badminton yesterday.  
 I'm just playing golf, though. I know I need to win to get up in the FedExCup, I need to win to get on the Ryder Cup, I need to win to calm my head down after six years of knocking it against the wall.   
 You know, it doesn't matter if it happens this week or next week or the week after but, please, one of those.  
  
  Q. Jerry, talk about your first round that counted on a course you haven't really seen that much before. Nice job.  
 JERRY KELLY: Thanks. It was tough greens. Distance control is pretty much the key. You've got to get yourself -- even if you're not on the correct level, right or left is much better than being long and short on the wrong level even on the same level sometimes. So I think distance control is going to be paramount.  
  
  Q. This course kind of ripe for the taking after the rains yesterday. Was it as soft as you thought it might be?  
 JERRY KELLY: Yeah, it definitely helped us out. Sometimes the spin will get you on the shorter irons and, you know, sometimes you're looking for the release on the long ones and it doesn't happen.   
 Basically you try to hit it in the air the right distance and whatever the green does for you, you just got to accept.  
  
  Q. You guys hardly ever see Donald Ross courses anymore. Was this fun?  
 JERRY KELLY: We need to see more Donald Ross courses. It's real golf. You know, it's the way it was meant to be played. This is what I like to see  
  
  Q. You're in great shape in the FedExCup numbers. That's not a reason to be here. Ryder Cup might be a reason. Show your pal Zinger a little bit the next three weeks. He says he wants to see hot players.  
 Is that in the back of your mind?  
 JERRY KELLY: Absolutely. I'm here to support Greensboro, I'm here to support the troops. I thought it was a fantastic move to get over here. I kept on telling them, "Move over here, I'm coming."   
 There's no question I wasn't going to stand them up at that point. Still not even near the position that I want to be in the FedEx or I expect to be in the FedEx. It's been a tough year for me.  
 I missed an awful lot of cuts. I just got a lot of great feelings coming to Greensboro. The fans have always supported me in big numbers and, you know, you got the troops here. Can't beat it.  
  
  Q. Keep up the good work.  
 JERRY KELLY: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT