THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 31, 2008
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JERRY KELLY: It was a downhill birdie putt. And when you're late in the day and you just crawling them down there, I mean, so many of them looked like they were going in and then they went right off line, you know. I felt like I made a bunch of them, but none of them went in.

 Q. 17 pars on the scorecard around this place is not too bad though.
 JERRY KELLY: No, I'm striking it fine. I think I missed my first fairway out there on 15. Trying to hit it too hard.

 Q. Knowing that you're in a pretty good position going into Sunday now, what's the plan?
 JERRY KELLY: Just keep playing the way I am. I will probably be looking a little bit closer at the greens and getting myself the uphill putts, because that's what I'm going to need to do to win. If I just wanted to protect a score, which I'm not going to try and do, I would just hit it out there and have a tough 2-putt. But I think I'm going to have to take some chances out there. And that's kind of where I'm at. I haven't won in a while so you get in this position, you got to let it go a little bit.

 Q. You know the most important thing tomorrow? Have fun out there?
 JERRY KELLY: I have been having a lot of fun. I promise. Carol, I've been having fun. I promise. I didn't wipe the smile off my face all day.

 Q. Talk about the birdie opportunities. It doesn't mean they're all going to come true though, does it?
 JERRY KELLY: No, I had one uphill birdie putt and that was about 25 feet on 16. And I told myself I was going to hammer it and of course it eases off to the right. But you just, you got to respect the speed of these greens when you've got those downhill putts. And I hit a lot of really good putts.
 I stayed in my putts better than I ever have. And you look at the tape of this it might have looked short coming through, but my head stayed down better than I ever have. So if I continue that tomorrow and get some uphill putts I'm going to make some birdies. I'm not worried about that.

 Q. I heard you talking about keeping a smile on your face. All week we've been hearing from everybody, this is hard, this is hard, and everybody comes off with a furrowed brow. How important is kind of lightening up the attitude?
 JERRY KELLY: You know, I had a great talk with my wife, it was at the TPC, and she turned me around in a great way. I feel really good about the way I'm playing and life is great for me right now. I would love to win a golf tournament, but I got the best home life of anybody. So I'll take that over a win any day.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT