SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2008
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  3-under par 67, no bogeys.  Pretty good round out there today. 
 JERRY KELLY:  It was pretty solid.  I mean, I didn't hit as many fairways as I normally hit, and I definitely got some gratuitous lies, but I made up for it on that last hole.  I could barely see my ball when I was standing above it.  You know, giveth and taketh away. 

 Q.  You and George McNeill had the only two bogey-free rounds out there.  How hard was that? 
 JERRY KELLY:  It was tough.  It's normal Waialae.  I mean, this is the way it normally plays.  But being lulled to sleep for three days made it tougher.  I think if we would have been facing this all week, we might have seen more rounds like that.  But I'll tell you, I'd hate to be a rookie and just all of a sudden see this place on Sunday. 

 Q.  Now to the important stuff.  Your Packers win yesterday, the Giants beat the Cowboys, home game at Lambeau Field, and you've got the Wisconsin Badgers swim team out here following you.  How about that? 
 JERRY KELLY:  You've got to love it.  This is all-Bucky, all-Packer week.  I love it.  I'm definitely going to go to the Packer game, and then I'm going to be in Phoenix for the Super Bowl.  So hopefully I'll bring them some luck in that game and I can get to both of them. 

 Q.  Were you feeling the conditions everybody else was dealing with today? 
 JERRY KELLY:  I was definitely feeling the conditions.  My driver wasn't really on today, but management game went real well.  I got some good breaks in the rough, there's no question.  It took it back on the 18th with that chip lie which was pretty bad. 
 You know, overall I obviously can't complain.  I just played a solid Waialae round.  That's what I like to do around here.  I like it to blow because I like to manage a game.  I don't think any of these guys realize, at least the rookies realize, how much you have to manage a game on this golf course when it blows because it's so easy when it's not. 

 Q.  How difficult on a day when everyone is trying to chase K.J. Choi, it's difficult out there, probably as low as you could have gone today within reason? 
 JERRY KELLY:  Well, within reason.  I mean, I missed a bunch of putts right on the edge coming down the stretch and didn't birdie 18.  I could have got three more pretty easy. 
 But I got great lies in the rough.  I extricated myself quite well from some bad spots and made some great pars.  You know, it balanced out pretty well. 
 But when you look back and go, ooh, could have made that one, could have made that one, could have made that one, who knows? 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT