EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2007
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JERRY KELLY:  Let me know when someone gets in at 11 so I can have a beer (laughter).   
  
  Q.  You had a nice little battle there at the end.   
 JERRY KELLY:  That was for Peggy.  You know, I respected Byron, and two of my favorite people in the world right there.  He's not with us, but he kind of will always be with us.  The tribute that we gave him yesterday kind of shows he will never be forgotten.  He'll always live on, and this tournament better have the name as long as it lives.   
  
  Q.  She saw you do that, make eye contact?   
 JERRY KELLY:  Oh, yeah, she's great.  She's just one of my favorite people in the world.  I think my rookie year when I was here, she was my (inaudible), and I had absolutely no clue.  We had a fun time out there, and I found out afterwards it was Mrs. Nelson.  I was like, hope I didn't say anything around her.   
 No, I was a gentleman, so that's a good thing.   
  
  Q.  Do you think there should be more of the Top 10 players here just for the same reasons you've talked about?   
 JERRY KELLY:  Until this course gets renovated and it becomes top tier, no, I'm sorry, I can't blame them because this is a business.  It's not a business of being sentimental; it's a business of trying to win as many tournaments as you can.   
 You know, it is very difficult conditions out there, and, you know, that isn't the way a tournament named after Byron Nelson should be.  So I'm really glad that we're getting the thing done and bring it back up to stature.   
 I love the idea that D.A. is doing it.  D.A. Weibring is I think one of our best golfer architects that we have out here.  He has such intelligently designed holes.  I think you're really going to like what he does.  I listened to it last night on TV, and really, I didn't know if I was going to be able to come back if it was going to be in the shape it was.  But with D.A. talking about the changes and the greens the way they came back on Cottonwood so great, there's no question I'll be here again.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 JERRY KELLY:  I'm kind of going to trust what happened with Cottonwood's greens, and I already do trust D.A. Weibring.  I think there's no question I'm going to be back because it'll take something to keep me away.  It's not as much something to bring me back.  It'll take something to keep me away.  The only thing that could possibly keep me away is the shape of the golf course.  I think that's going to be settled so there's nothing keeping me away from this place.   
  
  Q.  Did it play as bad as it looks?   
 JERRY KELLY:  This is as late as I've played these greens.  It was interesting.  It was interesting.  I hit it within ten feet I'm guessing ten times today.  I'm glad I made about four of them.   
  
  Q.  You said it was a business.  A part of the business is getting these top players here to sell the product.  With that said --   
 JERRY KELLY:  This is a business from the players' standpoint.  Putting on as good as tournament as you possibly can with all the aspects involved.  The Salesmanship Club, those guys do a great job.  They run a fantastic tournament.  The shape of the greens has been difficult the last few years.   
 Once that's taken care of, there will be nothing to stop this from being a top tier event again, as it was in the past.  So the players will come back, but it will be a few years for the word of mouth.  Hopefully I'm one of the guys here giving the good word of mouth on the way out.   
 I think -- I know the golf course is the only reason they're not coming.  That's the only reason.  It's a great show, great fans, it's a fun tournament to be at.  I think that issue will be solved.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT