VERIZON HERITAGE
April 15, 2007
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JERRY KELLY:  You know, you definitely get the adrenaline up and rolling, and then it's kind of a letdown.  I think it's harder to get it up later in the day than it is to go ahead and get some sleep and wake up and contend on Sunday all over again. 

 Q.  Is there a way for you to try to simulate what you'll be facing in the morning tomorrow? 
 JERRY KELLY:  I don't think so.  I'm going to putt just because we don't get to practice in 40-mile-an-hour winds that often.  We've got the British Open, and it's always good to practice in some wind.  It's a very difficult situation to putt in.  We're going to face it tomorrow.  You know, the greens will only be slower.  They're not going to cut them. 

 Q.  You've been in final groups in the final round.  You've won PGA TOUR events, but it's usually late in the afternoon and you've got all day to think about it.  What's it going to be like for you to wake up and be ready to go first thing in the morning? 
 JERRY KELLY:  It's what I had to do on Thursday, so I'm going to take the same frame in there.  I played well on Thursday right away in the morning. 

 Q.  You went to bed last night with the lead and you were probably hoping you had it tonight, but not this way. 
 JERRY KELLY:  It was almost my first 55-hole lead.  I'll just wake up, and it's going to be similar conditions to Thursday a little bit, a little bit cooler, and there's going to be some wind still. 

 Q.  How do you turn all this bad weather into a positive?  You've got to, in my opinion, have the right mindset to be able to go out there and compete in this stuff. 
 JERRY KELLY:  Yeah, I think I was pretty calm this afternoon so I didn't really expend a whole lot of adrenaline getting up for this round and then having (inaudible). 
 But I think I'll be able to get the adrenaline back up tomorrow morning, no problem, and off to the races. 

 Q.  We were talking about ball-striking is one thing in this weather, but putting is a different breed altogether, and you're going to stay here and spend some time and practice putting because you've got the conditions to do it? 
 JERRY KELLY:  Exactly.  We don't get to practice in 45-mile-an-hour winds that often, so I'd like to do practice in different situations when I'm at home, and this can only help me tomorrow and for the British Open, and this year at Carnoustie -- we just don't get to see this kind of wind. 

 Q.  7:45 in position tomorrow, it's supposed to be 45 degrees, blowing 20.  That's your kind of weather, huh? 
 JERRY KELLY:  Yeah, you'll be freezing your little behind off, but I'll be fine.  I've got the hand warmers all set, I'm ready to go. 

 Q.  Does it change anything for you having to stop and start and stuff like this? 
 JERRY KELLY:  No, I was pretty calm and relaxed, so I didn't really expend that much adrenaline.  It wasn't that much of a letdown as it would normally be, so it won't be difficult sleeping tonight and having to come back tomorrow morning. 

 Q.  You sound like you're feeling a lot better than earlier in the week.  How are you feeling? 
 JERRY KELLY:  I'm still confident.  Every time you say that I have a cough come out.  I'm still coughing at night so I'm not getting a whole lot of sleep.  But I'll be ready tomorrow morning. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT