VERIZON HERITAGE
April 13, 2007
Jerry Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE:  We know you're not feeling great.  Thanks for stopping by.  Just a couple general comments about the day and we'll open it up for questions.   
 JERRY KELLY:  I started out really poorly.  I just didn't have a good pace on my swing.  I couldn't really feel my feet settle in, and that's kind of one of my cues to go through a little mental program, and it was -- it made it harder mentally.   
 I think the physical led to the mental.  I was set about yesterday.  I was looking forward to a bad day, a tough day, just to see what I could do mentally, if that could repair my golf game or my golf swing, and it really worked pretty good today.   
 I mean, easily after shooting even par on that front side, being 2-over through the easiest holes on the entire golf course, it could have been a rough day today.  But really, I hung in there.  I made some good birdies late.  You know, I hit a great shot on 18 that came up 20 yards short, and that's going to happen at Harbour Town.   
 It was a 75 turned into a 70.  I guess I can be pretty pleased with that.   
  
  Q.  Are you not feeling well?   
 JERRY KELLY:  No, I'm not feeling well.  It's been coming.  You know, I've really been holding it off pretty hard.  It came on at Augusta, and I said, I will not be sick at Augusta.  The adrenaline kept with me, and the last two nights, I just started coming down.   
 I actually took some medicine yesterday, took some -- also some anti-inflammatories, too, which I never do during a tournament.  Any little bit I can usually feel in my body or not be able to feel my body.  I think that was probably my culprit today, whether I talked myself into it or not.  I don't know, but I can feel myself a little better than this most of the time.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you're going to be able to -- right now, the next two days, are you going to be able to overcome this?   
 JERRY KELLY:  No, I think I'm just going to get on a plane and go home (laughter).  I'm leaving.  I don't have a chance.   
 I will be fine, no question.  You know, I don't think I approached it right.  I tried to flush it out after an early tee time, flush it out in the afternoon, and definitely kind of overmedicated myself a little bit.   
 I do that with other things sometimes, too (laughter), and it works out okay in the end.  You know, I feel sick, but I'm fine.   
  
  Q.  Were you saying earlier this is validation that your mental process works?   
 JERRY KELLY:  I think so.  I think it's -- it was really key for me to get -- this was a bad physical and a bad mental day.  I really -- those first five holes, I probably did about 20 percent when I've been doing 90, 95 percent.  It was very noticeable for me.  I couldn't get my mind right.  I couldn't get the focus in there.   
 To be able to come through and get under par no problem at a place like Harbour Town says a lot to the stability of my mental state.  I probably had 80 percent success rate coming in after starting out so poorly.   
 Me refocusing on what I'm doing seemed to help quite a bit to right the ship.   
  
  Q.  You look up and you see Ernie up there with a couple of 65s.  Do you start to think maybe this is the week he's getting everything back together and he's going to be maybe tough to chase down?   
 JERRY KELLY:  You might want to ask Ernie that (laughter).   
  
  Q.  Well, he's not the one looking at himself leading.   
 JERRY KELLY:  Sure he is.  He sure is.   
 It doesn't really matter who it is.  I mean, it could be Tiger Woods.  I mean, he shows he's human.  Not often.  But anybody can play well and anybody can play poorly.  It's not a matter of, okay, he's got his game together, he's going to shoot 5, 6-, 7-under a day.  I don't think that's the case.   
 This is a good golf course.  We're going to be playing two afternoon rounds coming up.  The wind is going to be up.  Sunday is going to be absolutely miserable, which is just fine with me.  You know, you're going to have to hit shots and forget about other shots.  I'm doing that pretty well right now.   
 I'm not focusing on who's in front of me, that's for sure.   
 DOUG MILNE: Jerry, thank you very much.  We appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT