MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 8, 1999
Scott Gump
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 SCOTT GUMP: It was cold this morning. First off, tee time 7:15. It was cold. But I hung
in there. I knew if I survived the first five or six holes it was going to warm up and
then I'd get a chance to play. There you go. 
 
Q. What's it like finding balls in the dark?
 
 SCOTT GUMP: Tough. You just try to get it airborne. You just kind of whack it and okay,
that's good, as long as you don't hurt yourself. 
 
Q. How many tournaments a year do you have to hit in the dark?
 
 SCOTT GUMP: More than you think. The first group you probably do it five or six times a
year; to get everybody in you have to. 
 
Q. Can you go over your card?
 
 SCOTT GUMP: 11, I made a bogey. It was so cold I had -- I think I had like 160 to the
front of the green, 168 to the hole, and I had a 5-iron, I swore I hit it solid and didn't
make it. But I made about a 25-footer on 13 for birdie, and that really got me going, that
helped a lot. 
 
Q. What did you hit in there?
 
 SCOTT GUMP: I hit 5-iron. 
 
 SCOTT GUMP: I hit a wedge in there about 10 feet and made it. 1 I hit a wedge in there
about eight feet and made that one. And then 2, I hit a very thin 3-iron that somehow
ended up about two feet. And I said, well, I'll take that one. On 5 I just got tired and
hit a fat 5-iron, and it actually kicked in the water from the back of the bunker, and had
a tough up-and-down for a bogey. On 7 I hit it in the rough, laid up and then hit a wedge
in there about 15 feet and made it. 
 
Q. You hung around three or four under (inaudible.)
 
 SCOTT GUMP: I had a 4-under after 16 yesterday. 17 and 18 played tough into the wind,
so I knew my work was gone. I had such a tough day. How many days on Tour is 1 under on
the leaderboard? That's unheard of. So you know it's playing difficult. 
 
Q. Was it easier today? 
 
 SCOTT GUMP: Yeah, the greens are a little softer, there's more dew on the ground. A
little less wind. I'll take this over 110 degrees, though. 
 
Q. You said on 11 you had 168 to the pin, how far --
 
 SCOTT GUMP: It hit right in the bank, it flew about 160. I swore I hit it solid. 
 
Q. Is that normal for you?
 
 SCOTT GUMP: For me, yeah. It's always been consistent, though. I know it's coming.
Luckily it should be warmer the next few days. 
 
Q. Top five, top six might get you into THE TOUR Championship?
 
 SCOTT GUMP: Unfortunately I don't think so. I haven't studied the money list, but it's
going to take a lot of money. 
 
Q. I think you're like 80 thousand out of the top 30?
 
 SCOTT GUMP: I didn't even look. The problem is it's not so much say I go make 30 or 40
or 50 or 60, it's the guys that finish first or second. There's a guy that's 70th on the
money list right now, if they win they are going to lead me by $150,000. That's the
problem, whoever finishes first or second the next three weeks, if they're within the top
80 of the money list, they're giving me problems. There's six guys right there. I like my
chances. Better than missing the cut, that's for sure. I'm stunned that I'm at 920
something thousand, and I'm not even close yet. That blows me away. It's like I finished
6th last week and only made 50,000. So to make a million you have to do that 20 times, and
that won't even make it. 
 
Q. So you consider second, twice at the Players --
 
 SCOTT GUMP: Well, I won't go into that. 
 
Q. But with that kind of the highlight of the year-to-date, I would think?
 
 SCOTT GUMP: Actually finishing second at a championship like that, with the field that
was there, yeah, I was more proud that I really didn't play that well that week, I just
managed my game. I didn't hit any foul balls and I left it in the right spots, got it
up-and-down when I needed to. I played far better in ball-striking tournaments, but it
took me about six years to learn that. 
 
Q. What was it like to make more in one week than you'd ever made in one year, really?
 
 SCOTT GUMP: Thrilling. It is, there's no question. But the growth of the Tour, the
growth of golf, obviously a lot of fun. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT