NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 1997
Jean-Marc Pellitier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Well, I do not think it was a real big surprise.  They were quite interested in my services. I had a good interview with the Flyers.  Brian and I, we got a long very well.  We are both very similar goaltenders.  It was their decision to draft me.  We will see what happens.

We will have to see what happens with what the Flyers suggest to do or what they want us to do. I mean, I am a hockey player above all and we will see what their recommendations are.  So, right now, we will know in a few days what happens.

I was a little bit disappointed.  I thought that I had one over the No. 1 job at Cornell, but the coach decided not -- to play the other goaltender who was more experienced and was about three years older than I am.  But those are things that I can't control and I just try to keep focused on things I could control, work hard.  It brings success.

(who is your coach) Jason  Elliot, he is a Detroit draft pick few years ago, eight round. He will be there, senior.

I picked up a lot of experience from Brian.  I saw him when we were in Lake Placid.  We were there for a week together.  We went over to Finland with Team U.S.A. for another week.  I was his roommate.  It was very -- I mean, it was a good experience for me to talk with the guy that had been drafted in the first round and who had lived the experience of a training camp.  Again, it was a lot of valuable experience.  And, I really look up to him for where I am now.

I am basically a very competitive goaltender.  If you ask what you my style is, i like butterfly when the shots are low and I like to stay up a lot when the shots are high.  Because of my size I cover so much of the net, it is hard for the shooter to score a goal. To score a goal it would be a perfect shot or a fluke goal. That is just part of what I am.

If you look at -- what is very important for me is my competitiveness and I like the way I am very consistent and extremely hard worker.  So, with that, it will bring you very far.

Yes, I like to handle the puck. Once the puck is in the zone, if I get the opportunity to, I  will fire it up to my wingers or out of the zone.  It was one of the big aspects of my game that I wasn't able to develop this year because the coach wouldn't allow us to do it.  But, if I get the opportunity to do it, I will handle it no problem.

My parents and I came to the decision that college hockey would be a good option for me because we had looked at the statistics the year before and the two goalies that were there didn't have all that great years and we decided that school is also very important.  So, we decided to get the best of both worlds, playing excellent hockey and getting a great education.

This is about where I figured I'd be drafted.  If I was drafted in the first round, it would have been, in my eyes, a bonus, but I am extremely happy to be involved in the Flyers' organization.

I mean, you look at the goalie situation they had this year in the Playoffs, I mean, I knew that they would probably try to stuck the goalie, but I don't know if it would be me or what not.  So...  Here I am.

It is hard to say.  You don't  really know what happens in the draft.  If you look at the guys who were drafted before me, that guy who came from Finland who played as many games as I did -- you never know.  It is like winning a lottery.  You never know when and if it is going to happen.

Not yet.  We are not allowed to have an agent within NCAA rules.

I don't know.  I am going to -- we are, I guess, sit down with the Philadelphia Flyers and going to go play junior hockey is also an option for me.  I really don't know what I am going to do next year.  I am going to do what is best for my hockey career.  I am a hockey player above all.

My major is communications. Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT