U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2017
Yu-Sang Hou
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Big win today; tell me about your match.  
YU-SANG HOU: I didn't start well.  I bogeyed on the first two holes.  But I just -- how do you say?   
 Q.  Hung in there?  
YU-SANG HOU: Yeah, I just hang in there, I had a birdie on the third.   
 Q.  Third hole?  
YU-SANG HOU: Yeah, and Lucy birdied that, so Lucy is 1-up, so 7, I had a birdie, so it's all square, and then after that I had a birdie on No. 9, and that made me feel a lot more better.   
 Q.  How long was your putt?  
YU-SANG HOU: Like seven yards.  It made me feel a lot more better and more confident.  But I bogeyed on 10, so the match is all square again.  But we missed the putt on 11.  We both had short birdie putts, but we didn't make it.  But I made a birdie on the next hole, on No. 12.  So it just keeps like all square, 1-up, 2-up and all kind of stuff, and my caddie told me, hang in there, just do your job, you're good.  I was 2-up until 16, and Lucy birdied that.  No. 16, a really good putt.  So 1-up, and 17.  She hit it into a right bush her second shot, and I hit it on the green, so I just won the match.  So it's a really good match playing with Lucy.  Good player.   
 Q.  She's a good player, and a lot of people know her.  
YU-SANG HOU: Yeah.   
 Q.  When you went into this match, you knew you had a good player?  
YU-SANG HOU: Yeah, yeah, she's young but she's really good and a lot of news for her.  It's kind of a lot of pressure, and I was texting to my sister, hey, I'm nervous.  She said, you've got this.  I won the match yesterday, and I played really well, so you just keep going.   
 Q.  So this afternoon you've got another match to play; does this feel good?  You have some momentum going.  
YU-SANG HOU: Yeah, just keep doing great and just hit my best shots.   
 Q.  Is this the farthest -- last year -- you were a finalist last year, weren't you?  
YU-SANG HOU: No, I played round 32, I think.  I played a match with my sister in the early morning that day.   
 Q.  How many of these have you played?  
YU-SANG HOU: Girls' Junior, this is my third year and last year, actually.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT