UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 9, 2016
Mike McGlinchey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Mike, curious how you kind of interacted with Brandon Wimbush, how much has there been from you to him given he's red-shirting this year and he's a sophomore, not playing?  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: Well, Brandon is a good friend of mine.  We're very close.  He's done a great job this year of staying locked in and staying on task with what he's supposed to be doing and learning our offense, because there's going to come a time where Brandon Wimbush is going to be called upon to lead this team.   
He has done a great job all year of sticking to it, staying positive, and helping the team whenever we need him to.  He's taken reps at scout team.  He's taken reps anywhere we've needed him to, and he's done a fantastic job this year of being an unbelievable teammate and understanding his role in learning for the future.   
 Q.  I think Coach Kelly mentioned, he complimented his leadership; says he knows everyone here, knows the janitor's name.  How does that speak to his personality, that he can not be playing and still be that engaged?  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: I think that's who Brandon Wimbush is.  He's a phenomenal kid and we're lucky to have him in our locker room.  I can't say enough great things about Brandon because ever since he's gotten here, he's done everything the right way, treats his teammates the right way and there's a lot of great things to come from Brandon in the future here.   
 Q.  Wondering if you were tuned in last night and what you made of everything, being the history guy that you are?  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: I actually took -- one of my electives this semester was a political science elective called Election 2016, so I did stay up for just about all of it.  I didn't see Trump speak last night.  That got a little too late.   
But it was an historic night.  I don't think anybody saw it coming.  It's a trying time for America and I just hope that no matter who would have won, that they stand unified and help this country keep changing for the better.  That's all we can all hope for but absolutely unpredictable and wild election.   
Definitely studying it this year.  It was almost entertaining, and it's not supposed to be; it's a political election.  We're supposed to be finding out who the President of the United States is, and it was mind-blowing, some of the numbers and the things that were coming out that we had looked for all semester in school.   
We had just talked two weeks prior that Clinton had a 90-plus percent chance of winning the thing, and in two weeks, something changed to the point where he got the W.   
Like I said, just hoping for the best no matter who would have won and hopefully Americans can all stand together and help the process keep moving forward.   
 Q.  Have you guys met yet this morning after your class?  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: We did, at 11:30.  It was today.  It was just kind of our professors were almost even in shock because everybody that was studying it and in the media about it kind of was dead wrong and they didn't really understand why.  There's a lot of studies that have gone out about their predictions and polling and all that, and it just proved that it wasn't where it was projected to be, and it was pretty mind-blowing last night watching it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT