UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 2, 2016
Mike McGlinchey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We have Mike.  Questions, please.   
 Q.  Coach Kelly talked a little bit about sort of the short passing game as an extension of the run game.  Does it feel that way for an offensive lineman?  Can a team be physical and still run a short passing game?  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: I think it can.  I think we already have that established in our offense.  We have different reads coming out of our run games of whatever DeShone sees back there.  If they have too many guys in the box, we're still going to go after our guys the same way.   
It's just sometimes they have one more than we can account for up front.  That's where we've come into some success there with the short passing game, reading out of the run game, and letting our guys on the perimeter make plays.   
Absolutely, it wouldn't change the style of play that we have up front.  Just got to stick to your job and do it to the best of your ability with a physical mindset.   
 Q.  I'm not asking for an exact percentage.  Roughly, how many of your run plays are locked-in runs versus the stuff that DeShone can pick and choose?  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: I would say a lot of our runs.  It's not even a switch to the pass because I think it's a part of our play call.  It's just determining what he sees in the box or what he sees on the outside.   
I think a lot of our scheme is based off of letting DeShone read the defense and do some things with what he sees.   
 Q.  I meant run-pass option that ends up being runs versus runs that are locked runs?  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: Like I said, I think it's a good portion.  We have a little bit of both.  A lot of it just depends on the defensive look.  It's not really a run-pass option because whatever we see is what we're going to choose to do with the ball.  So it's whatever they give us is locked in on what DeShone's read is.   
 Q.  I assume you guys are reading the same stuff.  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: Yeah, we see it.  But we're always doing our job for the run play.  They just throw it out and we're just trying to finish our guy the best way possible.   
 Q.  You couldn't change a play?  It's all on DeShone when it comes to that kind of decision making?  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: Yeah.  They don't give the left tackle the opportunity to change the play (laughter).   
 Q.  I thought maybe you see something and relay it.  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: It's more so we don't change play calls, but we have our hand in protections and stuff like that.  We obviously help DeShone see what's in front of him.  We have certain calls that we give that would allow him to change the protection to a certain side or change the play to whatever we need to do, yeah.   
 Q.  This is a week where we are normally focused on talking to the defensive players because of what Navy does offensively.  Is there a different feel offensively because possessions are so precious and how Navy controls the football offensively?  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: Exactly.  We know we have to be close to perfect with this one because they're going to take a lot of time to eat up the clock because of the way that they run their offense.  We have to be able to do what we can to keep putting points on the board every time we get the ball in our hands.   
That's the way we've always beaten Navy and the way we've always had success against Navy, is by having the most efficient offense possible and letting the defense do their job all day.   
It's a big task for them, going up against a team that runs that offense as disciplined as Navy does.  We understand our role on offense is to put points on the board as many times as we can because we know our possessions are going to be limited.   
 Q.  What is the biggest advantage you have playing against Navy, and what's the biggest disadvantage?  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: Well, I think it's not as much of a disadvantage as it is a challenge.  But Navy plays probably harder than anybody in the country.  They are an extremely disciplined football team.  Obviously the character of guys on their team are a little bit different than the ones across the nation.  They play extremely hard, and they are fighting more so than anybody to the whistle that we have.   
In terms of advantages, I think we understand who they are personnel-wise.  I think our advantage is that we are a little bit bigger across the board.  I think that's always how it is with Navy.  That's never limited them before.   
At the same time, we understand that, and we're going to play to those strengths and hopefully we can come out on the winning side of this one.   
 Q.  Their offensive line obviously plays low.  Does their defensive line play the same way because of some of the size and strength they give away?  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: I think so.  They definitely do.  But it's not as much playing low as it is their technique that they have.  They're very good at using the technique that is taught to them because they understand if they don't do that, they're going to be at a disadvantage across the board.   
Like I said, they're so disciplined with their scheme, with their technique.  It's a challenge, especially up front, when guys are trying to get inside you as fast as possible, and that's what your job is.  It's a good job up front.  It's an exciting fight.  We're excited for the opportunity to play and match how hard they're going to play.   
 Q.  When you play a team like Navy that's so disciplined, fights to the whistle, what's the point of emphasis maybe not just for you but for the offensive line going into this game?  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: Just to make sure you finish.  I think that's always what it is for us, but it's even more an emphasis this week because we understand who they are and what they do.  You have to finish your block, sometimes go through the whistle.  That's the way this game is going to be.  It's always a point of emphasis when we play a military academy.  They're going to bring it.  That's what we've got to do as well.   
 Q.  How much of it is the mental side?  It can get frustrating when these guys won't stop.  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: That's exactly what you're preparing for because you know they're not going to stop.  That's who they've been their entire existence of their program, especially in the last four years that I've known them.   
It's going to be a battle.  That's what we come into.  We get excited for this one every year because they're a rival of ours.  We know what kind of energy and passion they play with.  We got to match it.   
 Q.  If you are allowed to change a play, what are you going to change it to, if the left tackle gets that right?  
MIKE McGLINCHEY: Maybe a tackle-eligible pass or something like that (laughter).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT