NBA DRAFT 2017
June 22, 2017
Ike Anigbogu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Would you make a statement about what you think you'll bring to your team.
IKE ANIGBOGU: Definitely the things I provided at UCLA, just energy, just a guy who's willing to put it all on the floor, do all the dirty work, rim protection, rebounding, mobility on the perimeter, being able to switch some possessions, everything like that, and just a guy who's going to continue to work on his game and evolve.
Q. You worked out with the Pacers; what did you learn about the organization during your workout?
IKE ANIGBOGU: Oh, definitely just looking for guys who are going to work hard and trust into their program.  I met with the head coach over there.  He told me he wants me to continue doing the things I did at UCLA, and that's where people found value and don't stray away from that stuff.  So I am totally going to embrace that as I am in the program.
Q. Being a rookie in the league, how much will that help you to have your teammate TJ there?
IKE ANIGBOGU: Definitely.  This is a really great moment.  We already have the connection and he's my boy, he's been my boy for a long time, so this is a great opportunity.
Q. Was it difficult for you to slip down the draft board a little bit?  I know you thought you would have been taken a little higher.
IKE ANIGBOGU: I mean, I wasn't necessarily trying to think about where I was going to be picked, just the right program.  I had a great workout with them, they have TJ, so basically this is the No. 1 pick in my heart, so I'm just going to go there and show it all out.
Q. Do you have any Indiana ties or are you fresh to the Hoosier State?
IKE ANIGBOGU: Yeah, I'm pretty fresh to the Hoosier State.  I don't really have any connections, but I'm going to enjoy my time there.
Q. How much do you know about the other big guys who play for the Pacers so far?
IKE ANIGBOGU: Well, when I was working out over there, they mentioned Myles Turner a lot.  They said he's not only a 5 man but he can play the 4, too, and I'm usually a 5, so I can see some mixing there with him.  And yeah, just being able to play with him, alongside him, and TJ, as well, it's a great opportunity.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT