NEW YORK RED BULLS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 13, 2016
Denis Hamlett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Red Bulls - 3   
Montreal Impact - 1   
 Q.  What do you think of Bradley Wright-Phillips record tonight?  
DENIS HAMLETT: Awesome.  Brad's a great guy.  Couldn't have happened it a better guy.  I think tonight he was just clinical with his chances.  When he's in front of the goal and he has those looks, you can pretty much bet he's going to finish them, so real happy for him.   
 Q.  Just talk about the game plan for Drogba, looked like you guys were bodying him up.  Aurélien, when he was in, was kind of behind him and maybe one of the holding midfielders was trying to cut off the service before, but he only had three shots, one shot on goal.  
DENIS HAMLETT: Yeah, you know, he's a handful.  And so we talked about sort of, kind of a reminder to our guys about when we played Portland a couple weeks ago with Adi, sort of the same thing; but obviously a world-class player.   
He likes the physicality, so we just had to be smart in terms of how we sort of play a cat-and-mouse game with him.  Sometimes you get physical.  Sometimes you back off.  I thought Felipe and Shaun did a very good job in coming down and doubling down.   
Even Duvall (ph) took one for the team on a free kick, because around the goal, that's how he scores his goal.  We thought for the most part, we did a good job on him.   
 Q.  Obviously Dax getting hurt is a big blow for you guys, but you had Shaun waiting in the wings to step in.  What did you think of how he did tonight and how much confidence do you think he gained from that performance in L.A. against a team like that to play the way he did last week?  
DENIS HAMLETT: I think a lot.  We've said from day one with Shaun, it's just a matter of time getting him a run of games.  His confidence is high right now, obviously from the goal last week, and then coming in tonight and scoring another good goal.   
We feel good about Shaun.  Obviously with the injury to Dax, he's going to get a lot of minutes.  He's a humble kid, continues to work hard.  He works extremely hard in training.  Him and Felipe have a good partnership, a good understanding, so we were happy with that today.   
 Q.  It was very physical out there obviously and then after you put the third goal away, they really got physical with you; that's one.  And secondly, can you give us an update an Aurélien Collin, was he tackled down for the third time or did he go down on his own?  Was there a concussion?  
DENIS HAMLETT: I think when he came off, I asked him, he said he just couldn't see.  So I'm not sure if it was a concussion or not.  I think he just may be dizzy from the few hits he got.   
Yeah, the game was a physical game.  Look, they are a good team.  They beat us up at their place 3-0.  We knew coming in here, we knew we wanted to make sure now that we were ready for the challenge.   
And so, you know, they are a team that doesn't like to lose and we don't like to lose.  So I think it was a matter of us going out there and making sure we came out on top.   
THE MODERATOR: One update on Aurélien.  It's not a concussion.  He's fine.   
 Q.  A debut for Omer Damari, he came on towards the tail end of that game.  What did you see from him, and particularly with Gonzalo, looked like he was playing a little bit underneath.  What did you see from him tonight?  
DENIS HAMLETT: Well, the first part, obviously the heat really got to him.  I think within five to ten minutes, you could see it sort of had a shock to him.  But you could see clearly some moments around the goal how clever he is with the touch and his movements.   
Again, for us, it was good to get him out there, for him to get a feel of an MLS game.  And now it's just continue to build his fitness up and get him used to playing and us understanding and playing with him.   
 Q.  You mentioned the heat, you mentioned the physicality and early in the second half, it seemed to boil over for Montréal where they lost Oyongo and so forth.  Were you ever concerned about that on your side?  Did you start to see some things that players were getting a little frustrated at times because of the heat, the conditions?  
DENIS HAMLETT: No, look, I think the conditions were extreme.  And we talked about in halftime, just make sure that we keep our cool and try to keep playing and stick to our game plan.   
I felt obviously with us getting that third goal, I think the frustration came in on their part.  And obviously with the red card, they probably felt it wasn't a red card, and so now that even adds more to it.  They had some guys, the history with Felipe, obviously played there with them.   
But look, out guys kept their cool.  We have a good group of guys that understand that they don't cross the line.  So they step on the field and they're ready to compete.   
 Q.  Obviously this is a very physically taxing game with the heat as you mentioned.  How does this set you up now for a Champions League game?  You guys are flying down to El Salvador; you're going to have to change out a lot of players, I would assume.  
DENIS HAMLETT: Yeah, I think that game comes quick but we also know it's an important game because if you can get two wins in your first two games, then that sets you up pretty good, with the third game being at home.   
We'll get our guys in tomorrow, re-gen, get some training in and have the charter flight down to El Salvador and put a group on the field that's going to get us a win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT