CURTIS CUP MATCH
July 31, 1998
Ita Butler
Rebecca Hudson
Alison Rose
Kim Rostron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ITA BUTLER:   Our practice has gone extremely well, as the week has progressed -- as the week has progressed the players have come to like the course more and more.  In fact, from the moment -- from the first day they played the course they liked it but they are finding now as they get used to it they become aware of the right places to have the shot and the nuances of the course and we love it, we really enjoy it.  With regard to the question about pairings, there were a number of options open to me.  It's always -- I think John probably asked me one of the most difficult questions last time, what the most difficult question was last time, difficult for a captain was -- and this really is probably the most difficult -- deciding who you have to leave off because if you've got eight players and they are all keen to play, that's the way you want the team to be.  So the people I've chosen I have chosen because I've had to make a decision and I'm confident -- I have every confidence in them. 
 
ALISON ROSE:   Well, I'm very happy with the  way my game has been going this week.  We spent a lot of times out to the practice rounds, playing lots of short game shots, and I think that's going to be key this week to us.  So I think -- with the way our game is going this week, looking forward to getting going. 
 
ALISON ROSE:   I don't know much about my opponents.  I haven't seen either of them play, but I'm sure it's going to be a great game and Becky and I are looking forward it.  We haven't played foursomes much in the past and we have played in tournaments back in Britain and we know each other's game very well and hopefully it will go okay tomorrow. 
 
REBECCA HUDSON:   As in looking forward to the matches, this is -- this is what we have all worked for.  This is what every practice shot we've ever  played is for.  This is the pinnacle of what we've done.  I mean, it's just such a thrill to be here.  My game is okay.  I'm playing very well at the minute. Myself and Hilary aren't playing in the morning but we know the six who are playing are going to do really well and we're all rooting for them. 
 
KIM ROSTRON:   I've actually never played the Curtis Cup before. 
 
KIM ROSTRON:   I have played for the Vagarell (ph) team in Sweden last year.  And it's going to be a great experience for me playing this year.  I'm looking forward to it very much. 
 
KIM ROSTRON:  Oh, definitely, as Rebecca said it's the pinnacle of a ladies amateur career and it's  what I've worked for since I was about 14, 15 years old.  It was great to win the British Amateur Championship but that was for me and now I'm playing for the other 7 people in the team and I'm really looking forward it. 
 

Q.   Alison, can you talk to us about playing out of the rough around the greens and can you give us some nice vivid adjectives to describe what it's like?
 
ALLISON ROSE:  Well, as you probably are all aware, this course you have to really be on the correct side of the greens and be on the right part of the green.  If you hit the green so you can't you can have some very tricky chip shots but we've been practicing hard all week and it's all a case of feel.  You have to have a feeling of how the ball's going to run once it hits the green and we've certainly spent a great deal of time around the greens practicing these shots and I think we have got to grips with them quite well now. 
 

Q.   Is it like anything that you've ever experienced any why else and if so, where?
 
ALLISON ROSE:  Yeah, it's obviously different to play in courses in Scotland.  We played it more than we do in Scotland but we play a great deal over in Europe which has similar conditions, similar courses. I haven't played in America yet with myself, anyway,  but I have played courses that has had this type of rough, fast greens so yeah, I think we all have experienced it in some way. 
 
ALISON ROSE:   It really depends on what type of -- what's faced in front of you.  I mean, if you have fairly -- if you've nothing to go over, obviously, you can use anything, really, I mean whatever you feel most comfortable with.  I've even used some 8-iron chip and run shots from around about the greens which are worked really well or again if -- sand iron would be the ideal club on some occasions.  It really depends on what you're faced with and what you have ahead of you. 
 
ALISON ROSE:   No. 
 

Q.   Alison, you said that the short game is going to be critical.  Are those the kind of shots you're talking about or are you taking even other full shots or whatever else?
 
ALISON ROSE:   I think depending on where some of the pins are, we have to be very careful on what part of the green we hit.  Certainly on 7th hole the 9th hole, the 11th hole you have to be on the  correct part of the green or you can find yourself with impossible putts so club selection is going to be you crucial on numerous occasions out there. 
 

Q.   I had asked it earlier but I'll put you on the record. You had a chance with the team two years ago.  Are there comparisons, are these comparable teams totally different teams?
 
ITA BUTLER:   Personalitywise -- yes, I have captained a number of teams and I have not yet had a team -- two teams that are alike.  This is a totally different team and make up in some ways than the last team we had but this team has strengths that the other team had also but they are -- they present in different ways.  So really it is a totally different team.  Alison, you clinched the Cup two years ago. What was your feeling then and second part of the question, do you -- does your team feel the pressure sure to have to win it here or is the pressure sure on the American team? 
 
ALISON ROSE:   Well, having the winning put last time was obviously a great -- great for me.  I mean it's everyone's dream come true to have the opportunity to hold the winning put in my major Championship but to have the opportunity to have that put in the Curtis Cup when you're playing for Great Britain and Ireland is wonderful and it I'd -- it  wasn't that nice a feeling when it was over the putt but once I hold it was great.  So what was the second part. 
 

Q.   The pressure sure on your team or the American team?
 
ALISON ROSE:   Well, I think having won it in Kilarney was great for us but we have to start again this week.  We have to put that heinous we're not a totally new tournament now so we're all looking forward to a great deal.  I think maybe the Americans there is a little bit of appreciate on them they haven't won it out right in a few years now.  I'm not sure the statistics but certainly we've had it the last three times it's been played but maybe they are a bit anxious to get the Cup back from us. 
 

Q.   I was wondering if you could comment on the -- the age make up of the team and were you surprised of just how many were right there in that 20-something bracket as opposed to the U.S. Team which spans a couple decades?
 
ITA BUTLER:   Generally, our teams have been quite young in recent years and I suppose we were a bit surprised at the age profile of the American team.  But in my view, age has never come into a players selection -- to how a player should be selected to a team.  So we really haven't taken really a great deal  of note to the other team and we don't mean that arrogantly.  I think although we have a young team, we have a very experienced team and they are very seasoned campaigners they have played in a considerable number of international events so that isn't a problem for our team. 
 

Q.   Alison, again, as the veteran of the team having played in two Cups, what kind of advice have you given your teammates, especially the ones who are playing their first time here?
 
ALISON ROSE:   Well, it is quite difficult to give them advice.  They all know how they react and you know major situations but I think the only advice you can give them is to enjoy it.  It's an absolutely wonderful experience.  As Kim said earlier, it's the pinnacle of any amateur's career and it's just something that should be enjoyed.  It's a wonderful game.  It's a wonderful match and I'm sure we're all going to have a great time whatever happens. 
 
KIM ROSTRON:  No, this is the first time I've actually met them but I did watch Jenny play in the  U.S. Open I've never seen Beth play but I watched Jenny all the way through the U.S. Open and she is a great player and I'm look forward to playing with her against her. 
 
KIM ROSTRON:  Yes. 
 
KIM ROSTRON:  Not at all. I'm just -- me and Elaine are just going to go out and play the golf course tomorrow, not our opponents.  As long as we can stick to par up or better I think we will stand a good chance of winning the match but I'm sure they will be thinking the same as well. 
 
KIM ROSTRON:  Yes, yeah, I'm really looking forward it.  I'm sure I'll be extremely nervous, but no  I'm really looking forward it. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT