MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2016
Louisa Chirico
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. CIBULKOVA/L. Chirico
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Sorry about your defeat today.  Was it more the pressure playing in such a big stage that didn't allow you to play your game or she was just too good on the day?
LOUISA CHIRICO: Well, first of all, I want to give credit to her because she played very well today.  You know, regardless of the outcome, I think there were a couple things I could have taken care of a little bit better.
She really played well today and deserved to win.
Q. How different did this match feel being a semifinal of a big tournament, first time at tournament on the big court.  How different did all of that feel?
LOUISA CHIRICO: Yeah, it was different.  That court is very cool.  I enjoyed playing on it.  Obviously wish I could have performed a little bit better.
You know, it was an experience, and I'm happy with the week overall.  So it's been really fun week here.
Q. My question is a little bit about that:  are you more satisfied with everything or more disappointed with the result today?
LOUISA CHIRICO: Well, obviously disappointed with the result today.  The match wasn't obviously what I had in mind.  But I try and look at the big picture.  I've had a great week and a great bunch of matches here.
Trying to take confidence from it, and I will take confidence and positives from it and try and take the momentum to next week.  Yeah, so hopefully I can do that.  (Smiling.)
Q. How nervous were you out there?
LOUISA CHIRICO: I was a little bit nervous in the beginning.  I think just the situation, it's my first time in the semifinal and all that.  That is not an excuse and not the reason I lost, but I was expecting those nerves at the same time.  Obviously aware of the situation I was in.
Q. What are your plans going forward?  I guess Rome is off the table now or...
LOUISA CHIRICO: Well, I don't know what time it is.  I'm waiting to see if I got in or not, similar to this week.  I guess after this I'll find out where I'm going.
Q. Quallies?
LOUISA CHIRICO: Into quallies, yeah.
Q. What will be your lasting memories of this week?  This will be a notable week in the arc of your career.  Huge spike for you.
LOUISA CHIRICO: Definitely.  I think the whole week, I'll definitely remember parts from the whole week.  Like I said, it's been a really fun ride.  I just found out I'm top 100 now.  I don't know what exactly, but I'll find out on Monday.
So, yeah, I am just really excited.  It's been a great really and I'm trying to focus on the week is as a whole and not just today.
Q. You obviously came to have Europe o get a lot of matches under your belt.  Do you set new expectations going forward into the rest of the clay season?  Probably didn't come here expecting you would be in the semifinals of a premier mandatory event.
LOUISA CHIRICO: No, I don't think my expectations change.  It's just a week-by-week, day-by-day kind of thing.  I'll take every match as it comes and try and stay focused on the process at the same time.
Q. You won a whole of lot money here.  Do you have any plans for it?
LOUISA CHIRICO: I don't know.  I haven't gotten that far yet.  I haven't gone to get my prize money.
Q. It's 225,000 Euros.
LOUISA CHIRICO: No, I don't know what I'm going to do with it.  I am going to save it.  How Julie.
Q. If you don't get into Madrid are you --
LOUISA CHIRICO: Rome.
Q. Rome, then you'll head to the French for quallies I guess.
LOUISA CHIRICO: If I don't get into Rome I am planning to Trnava, a 100, in Slovakia.  So...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT