MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 5, 2016
Louisa Chirico
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
L. CHIRICO/D. Gavrilova   
7-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations on your victory today.  First WTA semifinal.  
LOUISA CHIRICO: Thank you.   
 Q.  Must be great feeling for you.  Can you describe how you feel right now?  
LOUISA CHIRICO: Yeah, I can't really describe how I feel.  Definitely excited.  I think my adrenaline is still going a little bit.  Yeah, I'm very happy to get the win today.  It was a tough match.   
I'm looking forward to my next match as well.  Hopefully I can keep going.   
 Q.  It was a really good match.  How do you feel in comparison to Stuttgart?  Do you see any progress in your game?  
LOUISA CHIRICO: Compared to Stuttgart?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
LOUISA CHIRICO: Yeah, definitely.  I think each week I'm improving.  My first round match in Stuttgart was obviously a little bit of a shock.  I went out there and I don't think I was quite ready for the environment and the atmosphere.  You know, tried to learn from it even so.   
I think I'm doing a much better job with handling all that stuff this week.   
 Q.  I know there is a lot of things going on right now.  You are going to be in in the top 100 next week.  How do you feel about that?  
LOUISA CHIRICO: I haven't actually looked at any of the rankings or the points yet, so I usually don't do that in the tournament until afterwards.   
But, yeah, so I am just focusing on what I have to do for my next match really.  All that stuff will be -- afterwards I'll enjoy that.   
 Q.  When did you think this week could be pretty cool?  
LOUISA CHIRICO: Well, it's been pretty cool from the beginning really.  I actually wasn't in the draw.  I don't know -- yeah, I wasn't in quallies when I landed in Madrid.   
We landed at 10 minutes until the 4:00, which is when the cut closes.  We were like, Can you call the supervisor?  Am I in?   
Lucky enough to make it in and then qualify and get to where I am now.  So it's been a really exciting ride so far, but I'm not finished.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Definitely you are one of the surprise in this tournament.  How do you feel about it?  Do you feel the pressure?  
LOUISA CHIRICO: No.  I really I don't have any pressure, especially now going into the semifinals.  I feel like a lot of people didn't know who I was before, so kind of like an underdog, I guess.  I am trying to just focus on each match individually.  So, yeah.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Last year obviously won the French Open wildcard with a couple good results.  This year playing really well here, but you are probably not going to get a French Open wildcard.  
LOUISA CHIRICO: Right.   
 Q.  How does that weigh up?  
LOUISA CHIRICO: I mean, I've played those wildcard tournaments for the past couple years and this year decided to come here and get some matches on the red clay and play these bigger tournaments before.   
So I knew I was going to not make the main draw of the French.  But, you know, at the same time I'm ready to play quallies, and that's what I've prepared for.  I'm fine with that.  I would much rather be here playing obviously, so I'm happy with the decision.   
 Q.  How are you feeling physically?  You came through quallies and quite a few matches and qualifications in Stuttgart and Prague.  The bye in the last round, did that help with the physical performance today?  
LOUISA CHIRICO: Yeah, actually got two days off after the withdrawal yesterday.  Physically I feel great.  I'm ready to go.  Like you said, I've played a lot of matches.  But that was kind of the goal coming into this trip, was to play as many matches as possible, especially because I missed the first couple tournaments of the year with injuries.   
So definitely happy to still be playing.  Not complaining.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT