NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 10, 2016
Kyle Larson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by our runner‑up finisher, Kyle Larson, driver of the No.42 Target Chevrolet for Chip Ganassi Racing. 
Kyle, certainly a great weekend for you. You started on the front row, finished runner‑up. Great past couple of weeks. If you could talk a little bit about your race this evening. 
KYLE LARSON: Yeah, definitely a good last few weeks for us. I think three top threes in a row. That's awesome. 
I definitely didn't think we were going to finish second today or tonight. But that last restart we were able to get four semi‑fresh tires there. I think we had like three laps on them. Three laps scuffs. Get to restart on the outside lane. That was huge. Kyle Busch, he kind of got trapped there. Where I was starting was on the outside, get a huge run around the top side. That was a lot of fun. 
It was pretty crazy. It was almost like a video game, only rookie mode. They were just way off the pace because they had a lot older tires. 
Wild finish for us, a lot of fun, hopefully we can keep this momentum rolling. 
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions for Kyle. 

Q. Kyle, at the time did you think it was the right move coming in and getting tires when you were that close to the front? I think you restarted 13th to come up and finish second. 
KYLE LARSON: Well, I was ninth when the caution came out. I was excited to see that caution come out because I knew we were going to come get tires. 
You know, I was having such good restarts all night long, I figured if we could restart on the outside lane, I'd have another good one. I didn't think I'd be that good. Definitely wanted a restart there. 
Chad made a great call. He said he'd rather see me on offense than defense. So we did a good job of that. 

Q. Looked like it was going to be a war of attrition there at the end. Caution after caution after caution. Did it affect the way you were driving? Were you trying to be careful? 
KYLE LARSON: I was at the front when all the cautions were coming out. It wasn't a big deal to me. I'm not good when it comes to the long runs. I was actually liking all the cautions we were getting. I could pass a couple cars each time we got a yellow. 
The race kind of worked out for me. Cautions fell at the right time. We were able to find our way up front. 
THE MODERATOR: Thanks for coming in. Good luck next week. 
KYLE LARSON: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT