NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: BOJANGLES' SOUTHERN 500
September 4, 2016
Kyle Larson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We're going to continue on with today's post‑race media availability for the Bojangle's Southern 500, and we're joined by third‑place finisher Kyle Larson, driver of the No.42 Target Chevrolet for Chip Ganassi Racing. Kyle, fantastic run out there tonight following your win last week at Michigan. Just describe what it was like for you, particularly on that final restart where it looked like you were taking some chances trying to gun your way up front. 
KYLE LARSON: Yeah, I got a decent restart there on that last one, probably cleared myself‑‑ could have cleared myself up in front of Kevin through the middle of 1 and 2, but left in that lane and kind of pinched myself down a little bit and didn't get a good enough run down the backstretch as I needed. He was on my back bumper, and I didn't really know what to do into 3, and I thought if I went to the bottom I could kind of hold my own to exit, but Kevin nailed 3 and 4 and was able to squeeze around me and get back to second.
Ended up third, but it was a tough race. We had to work on our Target Chevy quite a bit there early in the night. When the sun was out, it drove totally different. As the sun was going down, I could feel my car change and I was getting a little bit change looser and had to keep up with that, but we made some good adjustments. 
Our short‑run speed was really good, especially out front. I struggled on the long runs with getting loose off. I was trying to take care of my rear tires as much as I could, but it seemed like nothing I did would help me on the long run. 
That was frustrating, but all in all, it was good to be a contender two weeks in a row. I thought maybe there was some things that could have gone our way to maybe get the win, but we'll still take a third, build on our momentum leading up to the Chase, and hopefully have a good first round of that.
THE MODERATOR: How much fun was it to be out here tonight? We had a great crowd in the stands, everybody dressing up in the NASCAR throwback tradition. How much fun was that for you? 
KYLE LARSON: Yeah, this is such a fun weekend with the throwback stuff, but this racetrack itself just feels like‑‑ it doesn't even have to be a throwback weekend, it just feels like it already is when you come here. You've got the small town, the racetrack is right on that road right over there, grandstands kind of back up to it. Just feels really old school. The red and white painted walls is awesome. Every racetrack I feel like should have red and white walls like that. 
They needed to do all the old paint schemes and crew guys dressing up and all that; it's really cool. It's great for our sport. I think it gets a lot of eyes on this weekend, and what a great track to do it at. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT