NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDEX 400 BENEFITING AUTISM SPEAKS
May 31, 2015
Kevin Harvick
Kyle Larson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  AMANDA ELLIS:   We'll start our post‑race press conference for today's FedEx 400 Benefiting Autism Speaks here at Dover International Speedway, and we've now been joined by our third‑place finisher, driver of the No.42 Target Chevrolet, Kyle Larson.   Kyle, a strong finish by your team.   Today you had a strong qualifying effort, were able to back that up.   Talk a little bit about the run at Dover and just really the team, how you guys are gelling together to hopefully get that first victory.   
KYLE LARSON:   Really happy with how our team rebounded from last week.   We were terrible at Charlotte, and to get a nice run here this week is really good.   We were fast throughout the track.   We were good for most of the race.   We got off kind of midpoint of the race and got really tight.   I don't know why.   And then, yeah, we freed up a lot and got better.   Still weren't as good as we were in the beginning of the race there at the end, but was able to line up in the right lines it seemed like those last three restarts and gain a couple spots each time.   The inside row there, that last one, spun their tires really bad and got a bad start, so we were all able to roll around them and kind of cruise to a third‑place finish.   
Our first good run of the year.   Hopefully have many more.   Hopefully this will kind of transition into some momentum for us, for our team, and we can start getting some more top 5 and top 10 finishes.   
AMANDA ELLIS:   We've also been joined by our second‑place finisher, Kevin Harvick, driver of the No.4 Ditech Chevrolet.   Kevin, another strong run for your team, another second‑place finish on the season, but you definitely showed a lot of want there at the end to win the race.   Talk a little bit about those last few laps.   
KEVIN HARVICK:   Yeah, we just struggled at the end of the race on restarts, really all day on the restarts.   Once the track bar broke, we were pretty much in a box and just kind of had to hold on for the first 25 laps and if we weren't in the front then we struggled to just maintain what we had.   All in all, everybody did a great job, and I think when you look at Dover it's been a good racetrack for us.   We've led laps and just haven't quite finished it yet, but a good, solid day.   
   
 Q.   Kevin, what did you get out of that meeting last night, and how do you feel it could help either the drivers or the sport going forward?   
KEVIN HARVICK:   Yeah, it was a good, positive meeting.   
   
 Q.   For both of you, can you talk a little bit about the conditions out there?   It was hot, you really didn't have a break for a while until the very end.   Can you talk about that?   
KEVIN HARVICK:   I'll be honest.   I thought the conditions stayed pretty consistent as we went through the day and a lot of that comes from the rubber being on the racetrack and so many divisions running on the same tire.   For us we were tight from the beginning and pretty much stayed tight and got a little bit tighter towards the end but nothing with a huge, drastic swing for us.   
KYLE LARSON:   Yeah, and for me, I started off pretty good with‑‑ I had good front grip I thought in the beginning, and I don't know if it got hotter or what throughout the race, but I definitely got tighter the midpoint of the race.   As far as conditions in the car, it was definitely hot there at the end.   I don't know, maybe because I was working harder in there from the car not driving the way I wanted it to.   All in all it probably wasn't the hottest race I've had in a stock car, but it's always hot when you come to Dover.   
   
 Q.   It seemed like you guys are the field that Jimmie covered for most of the day and then he comes up here and wins again.   Is that at all deflating that it seems like even on his dominant days he goes to victory lane?   
KEVIN HARVICK:   I mean, this is a good racetrack for them.   They had everything line up for them and had a good car, and they had a good car in practice and were able to make it happen there at the end on the restart.   He's just good here.   
   
 Q.   Kyle, at the end going up against Jimmie and all his success here, what was that like?   
KYLE LARSON:   I figured it would be tough to have a shot at Jimmie.   I knew Kevin was on older tires than I was, so I was hoping to get a good run on him as we took off and maybe I could time it to get to his outside into 1, but he had a pretty good start and he almost got to Jimmie's outside there.   I was pretty surprised about that.   It was going to be tough to get either of them, I think, because even though they had older tires than I did, I felt like they kind of evened themselves out there after cycles and decent run there, the run before that last one.   
AMANDA ELLIS:   Kevin and Kyle, congratulations on solid finishes today.   We wish you the best of luck at Pocono next week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT