NASCAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 9, 2015
Kyle Larson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q. On being a father:   
KYLE LARSON:   I mean, we had him on December 22nd and have ran a few races since then and it hasn't affected me at all.   I don't think it will.   I hope it doesn't, because‑‑ or maybe if it does affect me, I hope it affects me in a good way.   It's just really exciting being a parent, and watching him grow up is going to be cool.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to be one of the dads who tries to steer his son away from the passion so he doesn't get in danger or something like that, or are you going to go full on board and try and‑‑ if that ends up being the path that he wants to take, encourage him?   
KYLE LARSON:   Whatever he wants to do.   I'm sure he can at least get the opportunity to try it.   I'm not going to push him away from racing, and I'm not going to push him into it, either.   I don't know.   It's tough to say.   He's not even three weeks old yet.   
   
 Q.   So year number two coming here for the Rolex, how do you feel this year after having one under your belt, and also the full Sprint Cup season?  
KYLE LARSON:   I hope it goes a lot better.   I don't know, I didn't feel like I did a great job last year, so I think just having that experience, even though I didn't think it was a great experience, I think that'll help for this year.  
   
 Q.   And as far as the Sprint Cup season goes, you came off of there pretty strong, didn't quite make it into the Chase, but both you and Jamie both had a strong showing in those.   Do you think you have momentum coming into this event after that then?  
KYLE LARSON:   Just this event?   
   
 Q.   Not just this event, but also the season coming up?  
KYLE LARSON:   Yeah, I don't think having to do with the Cup Series helps this event, but it definitely helps going into the 2015 season for the Sprint Cup.   Like you said, we both had great runs at the end of the Chase, or during the Chase, which hopefully will transition into the beginning of this year, even though we have rule changes and stuff in place, but yeah, I'm definitely looking forward to it.   Me and Jamie were both strong, and hopefully we can both get a win early in the season.  
   
 Q.   And most of the team is the same this year, but you have a couple of turnovers with Joey coming in and then also a little bit of the shuffling of the drivers.   Do you think that's going to change it this year for you guys at all?  
KYLE LARSON:   I don't know.   I don't know.   Probably not.   I mean, I think all the changes were good changes, so it should hopefully help both the teams.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT