MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: CAMPING WORLD 400
June 30, 2019
Kyle Larson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. For the second year in a row, Kyle Larson a part of an incredible finish here at Chicagoland. But, Kyle, unfortunately for the second year in a row you come up just a little bit short. You had Alex at one point. What could you have done differently there at the end?  
KYLE LARSON: Yeah, I could see him struggle when I was getting to him, and when I got by him, I'm like, all right, good, he's going to be in my dirty air and get loose. He could get big runs on me down the straightaways, and I think that allowed him to get that run into 1 and he got to the main side and I got tight, I don't know if him getting air on my spoiler or something got him tight, but I had to kind of breathe it a little bit, and then we side drafted on the backstretch.   
I wish I would have maybe done some things different into 3 instead of going all the way to wall, maybe chase him to bottom, just try to hang on his quarter, but he might have cleared me anyways down there.   
But yeah, I wish I could have got a win for McDonald's and got them to Victory Lane. But still a great day for Chevy and Hendrick engines. That was really cool to see a lot of us Hendrick engine guys up front and kind of drafting and breaking away from the groups behind us on the short runs.   
I felt good about my car on the long runs. If I was out in clean air, I think we just had a lot of downforce and drag in our car, so I just felt slow in clean air, but when I could get behind people I was okay and could just wait until we got laps on tires, then I could start making ground.  
Was actually surprised I even got to him. I thought when he came out about the same distance off pit road in front of me, I thought he was just going to check out. But like I said, he was struggling, and we were able to get to him and get by him, but he did a good job. He did a good job regrouping and figuring out how to make his car drive better and got the win.  
Cool to see him get the win there. Would have liked for him to have to wait another week or so, but happy for him. He's an open‑wheel guy, so cool to see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT