BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 9, 2012
Mona Barthel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/M. Barthel
  6‑4, 6‑7, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Mona, did you have some nerves at the end?   Was it trying to serve out the match twice?   Was that a new experience and one that's hard to get through a little bit?
MONA BARTHEL:   Yeah, I wouldn't say it was just nerves.   I stayed really calm, I think.   But, yeah, she's ranked No. 1 and she really kept fighting for every point. 
So, yeah, she deserved to win in the end.   But of course it was really close.   But, yeah. 

Q.   You've played her three times now this year.   This was a much, much closer match than the last one you played her.   Were you able to make this one much more competitive and really give yourself a chance to pull off this big one?
MONA BARTHEL:   Yeah, I think it's difficult to play the world No. 1.   For me it was always, always.   So now I played her and I felt like, you know, Okay, you can make it a little bit more closer, of course.
But, yeah, I really got into this match today.   I played really well, and then the crowd was amazing.   It really helped me a lot.
But, yeah, so, I was just trying to play my game. 

Q.   When you were down in that second set 5‑1, what kind of things were you doing to try to get the match turned around?
MONA BARTHEL:   I was just trying to continue to play like that because I knew it was close.   I lost some games where I had some game points, so I just was trying to fight, just trying to continue. 
I mean, I have nothing to lose against the world No. 1 so I can just play my game.   I'm happy I could turn the second set around.

Q.   Did you discover anything against Victoria that was working that maybe didn't previously work?
MONA BARTHEL:   I was just trying to stay aggressive.   Of course, if you let her play the point she's playing really good, so I was just trying to put the pressure on her and just trying to go for my shots and believe in myself to finally that I can maybe beat her.

Q.   Which part of your game were you most pleased with today?
MONA BARTHEL:   Um, yeah, I think I just was trying to be aggressive.   I think that was the key that I was trying to attack her serves and trying to serve well and just going for my shots.

Q.   You have a pretty big rise the last nine months or so.   What was going on before that?
MONA BARTHEL:   Um, I was always focusing on school.   I finished that in the end of 2009, and so after that I just had time to practice and to play some tournaments. 
Before I was just focusing on school and didn't have the chance to practice a lot.   It was just one hour a day maybe.   It wasn't a lot.   And after that, I think it's a normal process now.   I am practicing more and playing more tournaments. 
I have more experience, so I think it's no secret behind.   It's just working every day. 

Q.   How do you explain that so many girls from Germany are playing so well now?
MONA BARTHEL:   Um, I don't know.   I think it's a coincidence.   I mean, we are not practicing in the federation or something.   We all have our own coach and we are all doing our own thing. 
So I think it's just coincidence that we have right now so many good players.   I mean, there are always ups and downs.   We had really good players in the past, and after that not so many. 
Now, again, we have got really good players, yeah.   All of them are young, so it's really nice.

Q.   It looks like it's something else other than coincidence.   All you German women are big women, good players.   You almost think that Germany has acted to encourage big girls to be good tennis players. 
MONA BARTHEL:   Um, I don't know.   (Smiling).
Of course it helps us that we see each other playing really well.   I know Goerges a lot; I know Kerber a lot since we are little.   I see them a lot.   I see them playing really good tennis.   Of course then you think more you can do it also. 
And I think that is helping us a lot, that we push each other forward.   I think that's maybe the key. 

Q.   No one has beaten Azarenka this year, but you've come closer than anybody pretty much.   If you had to give the rest of the field in this tournament or anyone advice on how you beat Azarenka, what would you say is the key?
MONA BARTHEL:   I don't think there is a key.   I mean, she's playing really good tennis.   She's putting so much pressure on you.   She's taking the ball so early.
She wasn't serving really well today, so maybe you should take that to your advantage.   But, I mean, she's playing amazing tennis.   She's moving really well.   There is no secret.   You just have to go out there and play your game, and then cannot do more.

Q.   A long time at the net at the end of the match.   What did she tell you?
MONA BARTHEL:   She was just telling nice words and said, It was a good match.   Yeah, it was really nice of her.   Yeah.

Q.   What are the goals you want to achieve this year?
MONA BARTHEL:   Um, I don't know.   I think this year so far was really good for me.   I mean, I improved a lot.   I have to get used to the tour.   This year I just played ‑‑ all the tournaments I played was the first time.   I have never been to Australia before, never to Doha, Dubai, never been here before. 
So everything is new for me.   I just have to get used to it.   I mean, I'm just trying to play my game and trying to improve every day, and then we see where I'm at the end of the year. 
But I'm not saying I want to be like this or that.   Everything can happen all the time.   And right now, I'm playing really good tennis, and I hope I can continue like that.

Q.   When you talk about school, did you finish college or is it the same... 
MONA BARTHEL:   I think it's high school.   Normal school, yeah. 
But I mean, I went on a special school.   I saved a year, but I had the same amount of lessons so I had longer school days.   From 8:00 to 4:00 normally.   There was really no time for playing tennis.
But, I mean, I love to go to school and I love to do that.   So, I mean, I just wanted to be sure I finished school so that I have that not still in my mind and then after that I can focus on my tennis.   So that was important for me.

Q.   Do you remember this point:   you were leading 5‑4 in the third set and you were serving with a 30‑15 lead.   On the next point, you had what looked like an excellent serve and they called a let on it.   Without that let you likely would have had a 40‑15 lead and two match points.   Do you remember that point? 
MONA BARTHEL:   Yeah, I had some really good serves which were let.   I mean, they just touched it a little bit.   But, I mean, of course there were some really close points, even at 4‑2 and I had a break point and she had played the ball like this on the line where it challenged.
But, I mean, yeah, it's just the way it was.   It was on the line.   I mean, you never know what happen if it would be out.   It wasn't out; it was good. 
So, I mean, yes, of course I was really close today.   I mean, she's still better player than me.   I mean, she won today, so... 

Q.   On those long rallies you seemed to really raise your game on the big points when the big points came up.   Is that just part of the evolution of your game this year?
MONA BARTHEL:   Yeah, of course.   I'm playing more matches and I'm getting mentally more tougher.   I think I can handle all the situations on the court pretty good.
I mean, of course today it was difficult for me, I mean, serving for the match against the world No. 1.   But I think I did a good job today.   I mean, I kept fighting even though I was 1‑5 down in the second set. 
Yeah, I think I can be proud of myself with today's match.   Of course, I'm a little bit sad that I couldn't win, but, I mean, I will get another chance.

Q.   At the end of the second set, was it your mother who came and sat beside you?
MONA BARTHEL:   It's my mother, yes. 

Q.   What did she tell you?
MONA BARTHEL:   Yeah, she just said that I did a good job and I should stay, continue to play like that, and stay calm.   Just like something like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT