NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
April 3, 1995
Cameron Dollar
Tyus Edney
Bob Frederick
Jim Harrick
Mike Krzyzewski
Ed O'Bannon
George Zidek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Jim Harrick, a magical night for  your team.  How did you do it without the guy who got  you here.  

COACH HARRICK:  I think he had the best  tournament of any player of the 64 teams up 'til  tonight for what a gutty performance by the rest of our  guys.  I am so proud of them.  They just sucked it up  and played hard and ran everything we wanted and  guarded the three.  It was a great game.  


Q.  When did you know first of all,  he was in trouble and then when did you know you were  going to have to take him out of game?  

COACH HARRICK:  Right before he warmed up I'd  knew we couldn't play him.  I'd started him but I knew  he couldn't play.  


Q.  Tyus, how tough was that sitting  there knowing guys like Ed will have to carry the load.  

TYUS EDNEY:  It was a bad feeling but I had  confidence in my guys.  They played without me before;  I knew they can do it.  All of them stepped up.  When I  saw them playing as hard as they were I knew we weren't  going to have a problem.  


Q.  We have Ed O'Bannon over here,  closing out a college career tonight.  You guys had to  do it without Tyus.  What was it like for you guys  tonight coming into this one.  

ED O'BANNON:  We stayed positive the whole  time.  We put everything in the guy's hands.  We won by  faith, not by luck.  That is how it is.  That is what  -- we have been doing that the whole year, and  everybody stays together, Tyus is behind us, he brought  us here:  Tyus is the man.  


Q.  Cameron, congratulations.  Come  on, get in here.  How about this night for you.  

CAMERON DOLLAR:  I owe a whole lot to Tyus.  The two years that he had been with me he taught me a  lot.  I was able to apply it today.  


Q.  Tyus was your roommate when you  came to school.  You guys tonight really shut down  Corliss Williamson like we had never seen before.  How  did you do it.  

GEORGE ZIDEK:  I just played him best as I  could.  I tried to move my feet and I did it.  I don't  even know how I did it but I shut him down.  We played  hard.  We played hard and we showed everybody that we  got heart.  We proved all the critics wrong.  

CAMERON DOLLAR:  That is right.  

GEORGE ZIDEK:  We are the best team in the  nation.  


Q.  There is some nets waiting for  you go tear down the nets.  UCLA has won the National  Championship.  It was great being here with you.  Pat  O'Brien will be coming up when we continue from the  Kingdome after this message.  

     (Break).  


Q.  Before the championship game when  they were all worried about Tyus Edney, Ed O'Bannon  grabbed his crew together outside the lockerroom and  said fellas, it is only a pick-up game.  And for their  efforts tonight they are about to pick up a National  Championship trophy.  Let us go down to the voice of  the Final Four and to Bob Frederick.  

BOB FREDERICK:  Ladies and gentlemen, on  behalf of THE NCAA Division I basketball committee I'd  like to congratulate both teams on an outstanding  effort tonight and throughout the tournament.  It is my  pleasure at this time to present the National  Championship trophy to Coach Jim Harrick and UCLA  Bruins.  

COACH HARRICK:  I want to thank all the fans  on this side right here.  This is the finest bunch of  student athletes that I have ever been associated  with.  They are students, they are great, great people  and they are fine athletes.  Thank you very much.  

     (Media talking together).  


Q.  You might want to call them the  new wizards of Westwood.  They figured out a way to get  it done tonight.  With their data list, Ed O'Bannon led  the crowd.  We will be back.  

COACH KRZYZEWSKI:  Jim Harrick showed not  just through this game but all through this tournament,  through the whole season what an excellent coach he  is.  To lose Edney in this championship game, they had  a chance to rationalize, we have come this far now we  have excuse.  I think the leader of the team was Jim  Harrick.  


Q.  What happened.  

COACH RICHARDSON:  Well, you know, UCLA  played a great ballgame.  I think all their kids played  exceptionally well.  

We were not effective in the halfcourt.  They  did a great job in the quarters.  We didn't shoot the  ball outside as well.  You have got to congratulate  Coach Harrick and his ball club they just played lights  out.  


Q.  You will be losing 6 seniors  after tonight.  What can you say about them?  

COACH RICHARDSON:  I am very proud of our  kids.  I told them that prior to the game, I said just  being here after all the pressure you guys have gone  through, I mean, we might be able to escape one more  time, but you got to remember that this was one of the  finest seasons that I have ever been around with guys  that had to work so hard, and I am very proud of that  bunch.  


Q.  Congratulation on a great season  coach, thank you.  

COACH RICHARDSON:  Thank you very much.   


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT