AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ASTROS VS RED SOX
October 12, 2018
Mookie Betts
J.D. Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're joined here by Mookie Betts and J.D. Martinez.
Q. How excited are both of you guys for being here?  And what are some of the keys against Verlander Saturday night, both of you?
MOOKIE BETTS: I'm very excited about it.  Obviously we got that monkey off our back as far as getting past the first round.  So we can be excited about that.
But I think just Verlander is a good pitcher and with we have to just stick to our game plan and that's how we'll beat them.
J.D. MARTINEZ: Yeah, we're obviously excited to be here.  It's one step away from being in the World Series.
So as far as Verlander goes, this is a tough pitcher, and he's one of those guys you've got to grind out at-bats and kind of wait him out, wait for those mistakes and capitalize on them.
Q. Mookie, you talked about the monkey off your back and just what this feels like the last couple of days.  How different is it than getting ready for that first round which you've been through a few times?  Having won a series now, how different does this feel coming into this now?
MOOKIE BETTS: It's a good different, you know?  I mean I'm not packing my stuff up and going home.  I think it's just another few days to prepare.  And, you know, it's the same thing we did going into the ALDS, and now we get to do it again.  So it's a little different to do it twice.  But, I mean, like I said, it's a good different.
Q. J.D., you came here for this.  This is one of the draws of coming to Boston.  Getting that first-round celebration, at what point did you put that in perspective that this is happening sort of the way maybe you envisioned in February when you signed?
J.D. MARTINEZ: Yeah, you know, obviously coming here they had a great team last year.  That was one of the drawing points to come here and just help out as much as I can.  The fact that we're where we're at, you know, I feel like if you ask everyone in here it really doesn't surprise us.  It's one of those things that we all expect us to keep going and to be here.
So, but this is another series, another big series versus another good team.  It's going to be a tough battle, so we're going to be ready for it.
Q. How much confidence did you gain by watching Chris Sale do what he did the other day in New York?  And obviously how excited are you to have him on the mound in Game 1?
J.D. MARTINEZ: I don't know about confidence gained.  I feel like I've never lost confidence in Chris pitching.  He's been, in my opinion, the best left-handed pitcher in baseball all season.
So I mean my confidence has always been there, and it's obviously exciting have him go tomorrow.
MOOKIE BETTS: Yeah, I mean, same thing.  I think, you know what he's made of.  You know what kind of attitude he has towards the game, and he's a competitor.  So there was definitely no confidence lost there.
Q. Alex, after you clinched in New York, said people seemed to have given up on you, thought it was 2-0 when you left Boston 1-1.  Was there any sense in the room here that folks locally had written you guys off after the 1-1 split?
MOOKIE BETTS: For me, I mean, you know, I hate to say it but it's 25 guys and with the coaching staff that go in and play.  So I think we kind of block everything else out.  We can't worry about what the feeling is around us.  As long as internally we know what we can do and how we can win, I think that's the most important thing.  And we believed in ourselves, and I think that's why we went out and did what we did.
Q. Did you get any sense of that J.D.?
J.D. MARTINEZ: Kind of exactly what Mookie said, I feel like when you're on a team and especially our team, you kind of -- you're in a bubble.  And everything else is kind of distractions and everything else is kind of noise.  For us, like he said, we never stopped believing in ourselves.  1-1, it's not a big deal.  This series is even.
I think everyone kind of knew that it was going to be a, you know, kind of a back-and-forth thing.  We didn't think -- honestly, I honestly thought we were going to go all five games just because that's how it's been all year against them.
You look at the history, that's how it was the entire season.  They have a great team, and for us to go and put our heads down because it's a 1-1 going into New York wasn't a big deal, I think.
Q. Is this heightened or intensified because it's the two best teams in the Major Leagues going at it from this year?  And have you chosen a song yet to celebrate when you win this round?
MOOKIE BETTS: No songs.  But I guess knowing that they're a great team, we have a great team, too.  It's going to be a fun battle.  So I think we just -- you have to embrace it.  There's no sense in making it more than what it is.
I think we have to go out and play no matter who the opponent is.  I mean, that's just how you have to do it.  I mean, you just have to embrace you have two good teams.
Q. J.D., a song?
J.D. MARTINEZ: No song.  I don't know.  Not --
MOOKIE BETTS: You should know the song.
J.D. MARTINEZ: What's their song, "Deep in the Heart of Texas"?  (Laughter) I don't know, probably not.
Q. J.D., in some ways it's full circle for you playing the Astros.  And I know you discussed this a lot, but what do you remember from your time with them and especially toward the end where you had started to figure it out and they had to, they ended up deciding to move on, and that kind of set you on this path to lead to where you are today?
J.D. MARTINEZ: What's the question exactly?
Q. What do you remember from your time at the Astros, what stands out to you?
J.D. MARTINEZ: What stands out to me?  I think the growing pains, really.  I think I learned how to fail, if that's something.  I think I went through all my failure there and I kind of learned and I grew.  And I knew kind of what worked, what didn't work.
And then I just -- after that it was I thank God, gave me another opportunity and put me in a good situation with Detroit.  And that's kind of where I continued to grow until where I am today, really.
Q. J.D., from your time with Verlander, what stands out about his focus and preparation about getting prepared for big games, in playoff games, like we're in right now?
J.D. MARTINEZ: He's definitely well-prepared.  He always has been.  He's been that guy that's -- I remember he used to come in the video room and, J.D., what do you have on this guy's swing, what do you got on this, this and that.  We were in Detroit, and he's a great pitcher and he steps up in big games.
So I think we have a great offense and we have a great lineup, and we do our homework, too.  And I think it's going to be a good battle.
Q. Mookie, you played with Tony Kemp growing up.  What do you remember of him from that time?  And how crazy is it that you're both on this stage now?
MOOKIE BETTS: There's so many memories.  I mean, I don't even know what age we started playing together.  So I think it's just one of those things where I'm just proud to say there's another guy that I grew up with that's playing in the playoffs with me now.
And he goes back home and we see each other back home and mess around and do whatever.  But it's just a good feeling to know that where I come from there's Major League talent for sure.
Q. J.D., when you were in the AL Central together with Chris Sale, do you remember your reaction when he got traded to the Red Sox?  And then was it a relief, like, we don't have to face this guy a million times?
J.D. MARTINEZ: Exactly what it was.  I remember we used to always have, I felt like, always have a day game in Chicago, 4:00 game, not even a day game, one of those twilight, mid-shadow games, 4:00 games in Chicago.  And we always landed Chris Sale for that game.  And I was, like, dude, this is like a horror film, this is terrible.  (Laughter.)  And I remember when that happened, I was definitely relieved we didn't have to face many more.
Q. Mookie, another question on Kemp.  What did you think of his tweet back to yours?  And have you guys communicated since you beat the Yankees, knowing you're going to play against him?
MOOKIE BETTS: Yeah, we talked.  We texted the other day and just wished each other good luck.  It's just one of those things where he's like a brother.  Like I said, we grew up and played against each other and with each other in the summer.  It's just one of those things where you just hope for the best for somebody that you kind of grew up playing with.
Q. Mookie, without giving away any family secrets, how do you see the running game changing with Maldonado behind the plate?
MOOKIE BETTS: He's got one of the best arms, if not the best arm.  So he's a great catcher back there.  But I think it's just one of those things where we have to continue to do whatever we do to win the game.  And so I mean that's all you can do.  You have to respect him.  But we're good, too, and we'll find a way to get it done.
Q. You've had tremendous seasons, 1 and 2 in the battle title for Major League Baseball.  Can you comment on how perhaps you fed off each other, maybe competed with each other?  And can you carry that through the postseason, this healthy competition helping a team win?
J.D. MARTINEZ: Yeah, I think it was one of those things where our personalities are so similar that we're just always talking hitting and always wanting to, like, get better and work.  And so it's one of those things that it's almost like -- I don't know how to explain it -- it's like we're always in the cage together hitting, and we're always pushing each other in that sense, like, oh, what do you have on this, what do you have on that type deal and kind of game planning and getting ready for a pitcher.
I don't know, it's cool because I've been on many different teams, and you don't really find like personalities that are similar when it comes to passion for hitting as when I found him.
And kind of as far as the playoffs go, it doesn't really change.  We still prepare the same way.  We still go about it the exact same way as we went if we're facing, I don't know, a day game in the middle of April or something.  It doesn't matter to us.
I think we've always done a really good job of preparing the exact same way and not getting ahead of ourselves.
MOOKIE BETTS: Nothing changes.  It's been a long season.  We're successful this year and there would be no reason for us to change and do something different now.  I know I have to do whatever I do to -- that's how I scored 120 runs or whatever it is, just getting on base for him.  And we just continue to win games.
Q. What have you learned from J.D.?
MOOKIE BETTS: I could sit here all day and talk about what I've learned, but the most important thing is to trust your work.  I mean, I go in and put in so much work.  Like I said, we put in so much work and you have to go and trust it.  I mean, I think that's the most important thing that I've learned for sure.
Q. Your bullpen has taken a fair amount of heat this season.  What did they show you kind of in that first round?  And how much confidence do you have in them kind of going to this round?
J.D. MARTINEZ: I think the confidence has been the same.  They've been solid I feel like for most of the season.  They had a rough patch for a little bit.  And I think that first half, the first, the division series, they obviously got a lot of heat for the game or whatever, the first game.  But if you look back, I mean, the last two games they were solid.  And they got it done for us.  And I think the confidence is kind of the same.
This is the playoffs.  It's going to be a grind.  You're facing -- look at the lineup they were facing.  It's not an easy lineup.  It only gets harder from here.  So it's one of those things where, I think, everybody likes to point fingers and say, like, oh, this is this and that.  But people have to realize is that these are the best players in the world right now.  And it's all funneling down to the best teams, the best lineups, the best pitchers, the best bullpens.  And it's a battle.  It's not easy.
Q. Alex has gotten a lot of praise for the way he managed the series and all season long.  From your personal point of view, what are his biggest strengths?
MOOKIE BETTS: For me, his trust in the guys.  I mean, he trusts every single one of us.  And I think we trust him.  And so I think he puts us all in the right positions to succeed and the best positions to succeed.  And that's how he's getting the most out of everybody.
And I think when a manager can do that -- we all respect him and whatnot -- if a manager can do that, he's definitely going to have a successful team.  And that's what we are.
J.D. MARTINEZ: I agree with him.  He makes decisions that show that he's got faith in us and faith in the whole team, not just three, four, five guys.  And I think in order to have a team as complete, I feel like, and as good and well rounded as we do you need to have that.  You need to have that confidence in every player and everybody's here to do a job.
And I think Alex has shown that all year, and he's made that a point to the whole team.
Q. J.D., you talked about your failure in Houston.  How much did it/does it still drive you to this day?  And part two, I know the ALCS is special no matter what, but is it any more special because it's the Astros?
J.D. MARTINEZ: How much does it drive me?  I think my failures in Houston is what made me who I am.  I think it's given me that drive, that drive to keep working, because you never know what can happen type deal.
As far as it being Houston, no, really.  I mean, I learned a lot from Houston.  And you know what, it made me who I am and there's really no animosity there.  In a sense they did me a favor by allowing me to leave and going to play on another team.
And if it wasn't for that I probably wouldn't be here right now.  Who knows where I would have been?
Q. I remember one of your biggest issues was keeping weight on this season.  Is that still an issue?
J.D. MARTINEZ: It's definitely something that I work on.  I battle a little bit with.  Me and Yoshi in there, I kind of let him know day one and he makes me these big old shakes right before I go home, weight-gainer shakes so I don't lose weight.  It's kind of our little joke that we have on the side.
But, yeah, it's one of those things that I battle, and it's something I'll continue to battle through my career.
Q. Mookie, if you had three hits during four games in the middle of the season nobody would even notice or pay attention.  When it happens in the playoffs it gets magnified.  How do you sort of ride the ups and downs of the game being so important and everybody's expecting you to be one of the producers?
MOOKIE BETTS: I think it's just one of those things where I have to kind of embrace it.  If I have to go out and be one of the producers, then I have to go do it, no matter if you try to push to it the side or not.
It's just one of those things where I know I have to go in and do something and help the team win in some way.  And if it's getting three hits, then cool.  If it's making a nice play in the outfield, that's fine, too.
So I'm just going to do whatever I can to help the team win.  And I think we have a bunch of guys here that can do something to help the team win, so it's just one of those things where I don't feel so pressured to do everything.  But I know I have to do something.
Q. Is it because it's the postseason, is it different than it feels in that sense during the regular season?
MOOKIE BETTS: I think just the sense is that, you know, we have a limited amount of games, I think, so if you don't get it done now then it's never.  And where during the season you have 162 to get it done.  So I guess there is some sense of pressure there, but I have to understand that I can only do what I can do.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT