KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2019
Nelly Korda - Interview 2
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You sit at 5-under for the tournament.
You've improved every single round in this event so far.  What have you learned about Hazeltine national?
NELLY KORDA: It's tough.  You know, you just try to hit as many fairways and greens as possible and you give yourself as many birdie opportunities as you can.
Q. You took advantage of the birdie opportunities.  What clicked out there?
NELLY KORDA: Really my drives and had low irons.  I made sure that I was able to get to the pins.
Q. You were 3-under on the par-5s today as well.
What did you see on those that let you take advantage?
NELLY KORDA: My distance off the tee really helped me out there today.  I actually went for two of them.  So, yeah that helped.
Q. You rebounded nicely.  What went well for you out there.
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, yeah it was an unfortunate start.  It's a Major.  You're going to make mistakes and it's about bouncing back.  I was hitting it really solid off the tee after that and just giving myself some birdie opportunities and finally got one on No. 7.
Q. Your sister told us you were feeling and looking a little more comfortable at a Major.  Do you feel more comfortable out here?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I definitely do.  It's all about experience.  The more you get under your belt the better.
Q. How do you handle the expectations especially, when you're here at the top of the leaderboard?
NELLY KORDA: I try not to think about it that much.  Everyone is going to go out tomorrow and play their heart out so just looking forward to getting a good night's rest and see how it goes tomorrow.
Q. Do you look at the leaderboards at all when you're out?
NELLY KORDA: I do, yes.
Q. What do you think about where you stand and depending on where Hannah finishes up today, what do you think your plan will be for tomorrow?
NELLY KORDA: I'm going to keep it the same as I had every single day.  I've improved every single day, thankfully.  So, I'm just going to go out and play shot by shot and see how it goes.
Q. Nobody has been able to go get her yet the first three days.  What will it take for you or somebody to go do that?
NELLY KORDA: Probably a low one and not make any mistakes.
Q. Do you expect the weather, moved up the tee times and.  Threesomes.
NELLY KORDA: It will be like the first two days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT