BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2016
Zac Blair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Zac, with seven birdies against just one bogey today, obviously off to a great start.  Few comments about the round.  
ZAC BLAIR: I played good.  I just kept getting some looks, making the putts on the front side, and then was able to roll a few in on my back nine, which was the front.  But pretty solid day, just kind of kept it in front of me.   
 Q.  When you come to an event like this, there's a few different elements, one of them being the altitude.  How big of a factor is walking and kind of keeping your pace to where you can breathe and function?  
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah, I grew up in Park City.  So it's similar elevation.  So that's maybe an advantage that I have, which was nice.   
 Q.  That being said, are you able to kind of dial it back accordingly with the altitude, knowing you're going to go so much further?  
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah, again, like I grew up in Park City playing in this type of altitude.  So, I mean, my whole life playing and the ball going far and at least know what it's going to do.   
 Q.  And how are you feeling overall just coming into the week with your game right now?  
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah, it's been close a lot of the year.  Just kind of needs some putts to drop, stuff like that, and they did today, which was good.   
 Q.  And last thing:  With a format like this, it really gives you an opportunity to be a lot more aggressive:  Do you take advantage of that or do you just kind of keep to your game?  
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah, I've always thought that if you cannot make bogey still, it's good.  So obviously when you go out, have a round, make seven birdies and only one bogey that helps.   
But, yeah, you can be aggressive.  There's certain situations, like on 18 today where I probably would have laid up normally, but I thought we might as well try and get on the green, get a possibility for the five points.  But, you know, ended up hitting it in the water.  So might just stick to the normal game plan.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT