SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 17, 2016
Zac Blair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Are you pleased with your play throughout the week
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah.  I stuck to my game plan pretty well today.  I wasn't hitting it great, but found a way to make a couple putts.  It's too bad that last one didn't go in.
Q. Looks like you hit a good shot there at 17 and then again at 18.  Just couldn't get it to drop in.
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah.  One of the best putts I've probably ever hit right there on 18.  Unfortunately it didn't go in.
Q. Another good week on the PGA TOUR.  How much confidence does this give you going forward?
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah.  It's always nice to start your year out good.  So it's good to play well.  Looking forward to getting back out this week.
Q. Is that just a question about 17.  No anchoring they said, so talk a little bit that situation.
ZAC BLAIR: I honestly don't even know what -- I was a bit in shock when he even asked.  I was asking him, what is he talking about.  But I honestly don't know what to say, other than I'm not even sure what happened until I guess I saw it.  I definitely wasn't anchoring it on purpose.
Q. (Inaudible).
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah.  I played well, hit a lot of fairways and greens the first three days.  Today wasn't hitting it quite like I did the first three days.  Made a few good putts, but just didn't make the six to 12-footers as many as I should have this week?
Q. (Inaudible).
ZAC BLAIR: I really did.  I was pretty excited with about a foot to go.
Q. Zac, just a quick question.  So you were in the lead for a decent part of the day.  Do you feel like you -- what did you feel like when you were in that situation, I guess?
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah, I mean I felt very comfortable.  You know, I've won at a lot of levels in golf, you know, as a junior, as an amateur, in college.  So I felt good.  I just missed a few of those six to 12-footers throughout the day today and I think that was just the difference.
Q. Did you feel -- obviously this course allows for scoring and guys were coming from everywhere, not even in your group but further back.  Did you feel like you had to try to make birdies on every hole or did you feel like there was any point where you could kind of like settle down a little and not have to force the issue?
ZAC BLAIR: I knew people were going to play good.  It's the PGA TOUR and people always play good, especially on Sunday.  There's always people that post a low round.  And I just kept telling Andy, if we stay patient, we'll make birdies, and that's all we could do.
Q. Could you have had a better look at eagle than you did at 18 there?
ZAC BLAIR: No.  No.  It was like 290 yards, hit the best 3-wood of my life and to come within 10 feet, that's pretty good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT