SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 16, 2016
Zac Blair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Zac Blair into the interview room, 6-under par 64 today.  I know you're a little bit upset with the last putt, but still a great round of golf today.  If we can just get some comments.   
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah, I felt like I played well, hitting a lot of fairways, got the ball on the green, was able to roll in a few putts.   
JOHN BUSH: Just comment a little bit about your thoughts going into the final round currently tied for the lead.   
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah, I feel like if I can keep doing what I'm doing, getting the ball in play, getting it on the green, make a few putts -- I've missed a couple shorter ones, but it's been good so far.   
 Q.  Are you able to put stuff like that behind you real quickly, the missed putt there at 18?  
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah, I mean, I hit a bad putt, nothing more to it than that.   
 Q.  On 16 and 17, those were kind of fairly pressurized putts, but you made those pretty good.  You kind of move your feet around a lot before you set up for the putt.  Is that something you've always done?  
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah, I think it's something just subconsciously trying to get in the right position.  Everyone always talks about it, though.  (Laughing.)   
 Q.  You played well here last year, the last two rounds.  Was there an adjustment you made from Thursday to the weekend last year that carried over into this year, into this performance?  
ZAC BLAIR: I think it just kind of goes back to the same things.  If you get the ball in play and get it on the green, it seems like you have some good looks on most of the holes out here.   
 Q.  You played a few times in Hawai'i in college, right?  
ZAC BLAIR: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Did those experiences kind of help you prepare for out here?  
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah, a little bit.  The weather obviously is the same.  Seems like every time we played over at Turtle Bay it was obviously a little bit windier and the course never played as firm and fast as it does over here, which I definitely like it when it plays firm because I can get the ball out there pretty good.   
 Q.  How would you assess your game out here comparatively to the other guys that you've seen?  
ZAC BLAIR: I obviously don't hit it as far as most of the guys out here, but at the end of the day, I think it just kind of comes down to getting the ball in the hole, and if you're able to do that, you obviously seem to be finding yourself at the top of the leaderboard more often than not.   
 Q.  There was some discussion about your dad.  I think someone was saying, when you were asked the best player in Utah, you said your dad.  My question is how much did you learn from your dad?  How much does it him you him being here this week?  
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah, I learned everything from my dad.  He's been my only coach my whole life.  It's definitely great to have somebody like that with you all the time or a phone call away.  He's still a great player, and I still like to play with him, and I definitely keep learning from him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT