SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2016
Zac Blair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Zac, five-under par today, off to a nice start.  What was working for you today out there on the golf course?  
ZAC BLAIR: I just kind of followed my game plan, hit a lot of fairways for the most part and hit some good shots into the greens and made a few putts.   
 Q.  Is there something that you worked on during the break you had specifically?  
ZAC BLAIR: Not really.  Just kind of tried to keep it simple, keep it to the basics, and I'm just excited to be back out playing golf out of the snow.   
 Q.  You played pretty well towards the end of last season.  Is that something that you feel like gives you momentum coming into the 2015-16 year, the beginning of the calendar year?  
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah, for sure.  Anytime you have some momentum, it's nice to carry that over into the new season, so it's nice to get off to a good start.   
 Q.  Do you plan on getting a hair cut this year?  
ZAC BLAIR: (Laughs) sometime.   
 Q.  You got the new hat, though.  
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah, yeah.  We were wearing these the last few tournaments last year.   
 Q.  New look.  
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah.  New look.   
 Q.  You're a cagey veteran now.  Do you feel like you know, like this is indicative you know places a little better?  
ZAC BLAIR: It's obviously nice to go to a course and have actually played it under tournament conditions, kind of have an idea of where the pins are at and how the golf course is going to play.   
So yeah, I came in this week, got some work in, quite a few practice rounds, and the course is pretty similar to last year.  They got a little new look around the greens, but it's playing firm again, which is nice.   
 Q.  When was the last time you played?  
ZAC BLAIR: I played the week before coming over here.  Went down to Palm Springs.   
 Q.  When was the last time you played when the sport meant something?  You didn't go anywhere after --  
ZAC BLAIR: No.   
 Q.  Sea Island?  
ZAC BLAIR: Yeah.  Sea Island was the last time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT