BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2012
Bae Sang-Moon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CALVIN KOH:   Share with us your thoughts on your first round. 
BAE SANG‑MOON:   So during the first day of the tournament, there has been a lot of wind, and actually in the morning before I went out into the field, I was quite worried because the winds were so strong.   From the beginning, from the very first hole, things did not go well.   The ball went into the water, and in the latter parts, I made some bogeys. 
So the flow was not very good and things did not seem to be going well, but in the latter part of my game, I started to pick up my feel for the game, and I think 3‑over is not a bad score. 
Especially on this course, if things start to fall off, you can lose your score, but I still believe there is a chance.   And if I can keep up the good game that I showed in the latter part of today's round, I think I'll be able to get some good performance throughout to Sunday. 

Q.   So I think today at one point you had 5‑over par and the winds were especially strong in the morning, so a lot of the conditions were very bad, but you did not give up, and I would like to hear about your mind‑set as you played out?
BAE SANG‑MOON:   Usually, of course, there are times where you want to give up, and I did give up before in the past, but, you know, I've travelled all the way to Korea, and to be honest, I've been doing very well in the United States. 
So I didn't want to not make it through the cut and I didn't want to lose the scores this time.   So whether it's in the United States or Korea, Japan, as a player, I don't think you should give up.   And I really wanted to show and leave some good impressions in Korea, so I persevered until the end. 
While I played the game, I did not think about the latter part of my game.   I thought about Sunday, and I knew that the winds were strong, so I took that into consideration and accepted the fact that the winds were strong.   So I was able to play the latter part of my game in a very comfortable manner. 

Q.   So during the first, you played one round today and with this golf course, it's very hard to rank up your scores in one go.   So I think you have to look up some birdie chances.   So which holes should we look at for birdie chances?
BAE SANG‑MOON:   Well, I think the par5 holes give us a lot of chances, and the greens here are two‑tiered or three‑tiered; so if you miss your birdie chance, the ball will fall over and roll below the second tier, and you don't have a birdie chance and you will have two putts. 
At the bottom of the two‑tiered green, you have to aim for two putts; or, you could aggressively play using your iron shot and go for the long, wide distance.   And it's better, I think to land your ball behind the two‑tiered greens.   It gives you more of a chance.   I know it's very hard to do, but I guess that's some of the tricky parts about this golf course. 

Q.   So there was a lot of wind today and I would like to know how much the wind impacted your game today on your driving, iron shots and putting? 
BAE SANG‑MOON:   The tee shots were not difficult, the fairways are not too narrow.   But yes, the wind was a problem because I thought there was a strong tailwind and then I read the wind wrong, and there was a very big headwind. 
And so I was kind of thinking, should I follow how I interpreted the wind, or should I just follow my gut feeling.   And then on No.9, I committed a bogey there, but I thought there was a strong tailwind but there was actually a lot of headwind at the front. 
Of course it can be frustrating, and I prepared for my bunker shot.   I understand that other athletes also play in the same conditions, and as the day progresses, I think actually right now there are stronger winds. 
So it's all about experience.   Sometimes things do not happen as you thought it would happen.   Things do not happen the way you think they will happen.   So it's about mind control, and if you miss‑read the wind, you have to have mind control. 

Q.   I think there are some issues with your shots today and I would like to talk about your mental state, your concentration, and also how this impacted your shots?
BAE SANG‑MOON:   Actually, I'm in great condition.   I had a lot of rest.   I think maybe at times there might have been lack of concentration, but you know, the weather was really cold.   There was a lot of wind.   Last week in Korea, I had full rest.   Maybe to be honest, I lacked some practice. 
When you are going out on a lot of these tournaments, sometimes physically it can be very straining, so last week I rested a lot and I believe that this is only the first round and I believe my game will pick up and get better as we move forward to the fourth round. 
So even looking at today, the latter part was better than the beginning, and I'm sure that tomorrow will be better than today.   So I am full of confidence and I picked up the game in the latter part of today. 

Q.   So you are known to be very straightforward and very manly and masculine.   In these very difficult conditions, people talk about having patience and mind control.   How do you control your mind? 
BAE SANG‑MOON:   Well, so for me, I think during the first round, when you look at the times that I had a good performance, during the first half of the first round, I usually do not do very well.   If I can pick up my game and push through the fourth round, I usually get very good scores. 
On the first day when I do really good, sometimes I get very bad scores in the end.   So I think, you know, it's about controlling your mind and that determines your scores.   Especially today, from the first part of the game, when things didn't go very well and I gave up, then I think it would have really impacted my score. 
So I really know what type of person I am and my style.   So I worked very hard on the second part and I tried very hard.   Sometimes I'll just say, let it be, I don't care, let whatever happens, happen.   I'll just sort of let it be style.   On the 10th hole, the ball fell 260 yards from the bunker and I tried to get a it on in two on the green but the ball flew with the sand and then it fell in the right hazard and hit the tree, and I thought I could save par. 
So of course you need mind control, but at the same time you kind of feel you have to believe that you have some sort of luck.   So I think it's about mind control and believing that things will turn for the better. 
CALVIN KOH:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT