BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 25, 2012
Bae Sang-Moon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CALVIN KOH:   Obviously this week you are coming here back to Korea, tell us how important is this week to you and the Ballantine's Championship?   
BAE SANG‑MOON:   So, of course, taking part in the tournaments in the United States which is far away from home is always tough, and I've always thought that I would like to come back and thank my fans once I do very well in the United States.   But I think I've been able to return home quicker than I expected.  
So there is some pressure because I feel that I have to live up to the expectations of my fans.   But it would be great to win this tournament that is being held here in Korea and not in the United States, but there are many top players taking part in this tournament.   But it is with confidence that I have returned to my home country.   
CALVIN KOH:   You started your career obviously playing on the Asian Tour and playing in Asia, how check how much has that thought you and now especially playing in the U.S.  
BAE SANG‑MOON:   So I believe my experiences on the Asian Tour were very important.   I used to play in Korea but from 2007 I took part in the Asia Tour.   
So it has helped to widen my horizon in terms of golf and also personally when I look at my golf skills, I think it has helped me to boost my golf skills, as well.   
   
 Q.   So you talked about how you wanted to leave a good impression on your Korean fans here, and I think in your case, when you have always wanted to do well, you've been able to get some great results.   And yes, of course, sometimes that is not always the case.   I would like to know when you come to these tournaments and when you play the rounds, that feeling of wanting to do well, how much does it impact your game?   I think if you look at the Masters, some people say that Rory McIlroy and Tiger Woods did not really get the results they wanted because they wanted to win too bad.   So even as a young player and now as a professional, I was wondering how this sort of affected your game.     
BAE SANG‑MOON:   So I think if you want to do really well, then it does make the game a little bit more difficult to play.   But I think if you're too relaxed, and you might lack some commitment.   So I think it's all about control and how you control the game, I think affects your scores at the tournament.  
It was the same at the Masters and at the Accenture Match Play.   There were a lot of top players, and instead of rather focusing on, I want to do well, I just looked at my game and thought, let's do the best that I can do.   
I think if you're a little bit tense, it also helps to boost up your skills.   At these tournaments, there are over one hundred players, and if you are only looking at winning, then you're putting too much pressure on yourself.   So what I would like to do I think as a player, the best you can do is really focus on each shot.   
   
 Q.   So I think in the past in the Ballantine's Championship, you did not get the scores that you expected to and you have had a lot of experience on the big games and big stage.   So I would like to know what are your thoughts coming into this tournament, and also compared to some of the more seniors in your game, I think you have been able to get some really good results on the PGA TOUR early on in your career, so I was wondering what would be the differentiation point between you and your seniors, and what would be your secret to gaining some of these good results.   
BAE SANG‑MOON:   I think there was a lot of disappointment regarding last year's championship, and moving from Jeju before last year's tournament, I actually spent some time in Japan and I was doing well in Japan.   
So I think I was resting on my laurels, and I thought, if it works in Japan‑‑ of course it was the beginning of the season, but I thought if it works in Japan, I thought I had an opportunity to win here.   So I was a bit proud and I guess you could say a big immature, so rather than getting a big win, I was thinking, I want a big impact in this championship.   
But in the first two rounds I wasn't doing too well and then I was pushing myself too hard and then hurrying things and I couldn't make the cut.   But those experiences have helped me in my game in Japan and afterwards.   I think I learned a lot, and I learned how to control my mind a little bit better, and I think if I can control my mind this time, I'll be able to get some good results.   
So I've heard that with regard to some of our senior Koreans on the PGA TOUR, they have talked about how they would like to see many more Korean players come on board.   I was very happy to make it to the PGA TOUR after finishing the Qualifying School and in just three goes.   
When I entered the PGA TOUR, I knew that I would do a very good job, but I had many questions:   Would I be able to adapt very quickly; would it work here; would I work here in the PGA TOUR.   I knew that I could play good games in Japan and Korea, but I wasn't familiar to the United States.   So I was thinking, you know, will it work in the United States.   
But after playing a few games, you know, with a lot of top players, I can see that they are very good, but I don't think there is a huge difference between them and myself.   I think that I could win, and that it is a doable challenge.   Of course, in order to win them, I have to learn about what I have to do more.   
And of course, everyone wants to win, but I don't want to win right away and then make everyone's expectations really high.   Just like the current senior players have done, I would like to play the PGA TOUR for a very long time to come, for ten to 20 years.   And instead of just having a quick win right now, I would like to have consistent results for a very long time.   
So yes, instead of getting a quick win, I would like to have consistent results and I feel that I'm making the preparations to achieve this.   
   
 Q.   So you were the runner‑up at the Transitions Championship, and in Korea and Japan, you're known to be a golfer who hits very long distances and has a very aggressive play style.   I think on the PGA TOUR, your short game has improved a lot, as well.   So although it has not been a very long period, I think you've improved and upgraded.   So if you could look at some of the changes you felt to place during the past few months.   
BAE SANG‑MOON:   So before when I went to the United States, I went to the United States thinking I needed to improve my short game, and I think until I end my career as a golf player, my short game will always be very important.   
I think that the combination, that balance between your long game and short game, determines your score.   And there are so many different types of short games, and so it's like studying.   There's just endless things to study.   I think that you would have to spend a couple of nights to just study these different types of short games.   
And you have to study it and make it your own.   I think when you do that, you'll get the confidence to overcome pressure and different crises that could take place on the golf course.   And up until Japan, I thought my short game was okay, but when I went to the United States, I found out that I was wrong and I had a very long way to go.   
Especially during the Masters when I saw Tiger chipping, I was greatly impressed.   I could see that I had much to learn.   The way he controlled the ball was unbelievable.   I think everyone knows some of the miracle shots that Tiger has shown us, the long putts, the chip shots.   Before when I saw him, I thought, oh, I think it's part luck.   But when I actually saw him play, I could see that it was his skills.   His skills I think were maybe a level or two levels higher than myself.   It was really fantastic to watch him and it really motivated me to actually practice more.   
CALVIN KOH:   Thank you and good luck.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT