U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2004
John Aubrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
John, can you start us off with some comments about the shot on No. 3?
 JOHN AUBREY:  I started out real good.  I birdied one and hit it fairly close on 2, and my caddie gave me some good yardage on No. 3.  I hit a little 8-iron in there and it spun back and went into the hole.  It's a good feeling for me in a major championship to have that.  It makes my day.
Q.  3 under par after three holes in your first Senior Open.  Any comments?
 JOHN AUBREY:  I didn't drive it it real good in the practice rounds.  I hit a lot of 3-woods today.  I'm not that long.  I hit a lot of fairways, and on 15 I made a great 4 there.  I think I missed only one fairway all day.
Q.  Back to the ace, how far past the hole did it hit and spin back?
 JOHN AUBREY:  I fixed the ball mark maybe about a foot and a half from it.  It must have bounced forward and spun back in.
Q.  That was your third; is that correct?
JOHN AUBREY:  That was my 3rd hole.
Q.  The third ace?
JOHN AUBREY:  No, that was my second ace in my life.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JOHN AUBREY:  In our Tri-State section in Pennsylvania, I had one in a tournament there.  It was about a 220-yard par 3.
Q.  When was that?
 JOHN AUBREY:  It was at Quicksilver in the Pittsburgh area, oh, maybe four or five years ago, but I really enjoyed it.  The course is really great.  It's a fun golf course to play.  It's not very much fun if you hit it off the fairway.
Q.  Is your putter working well for you?
 JOHN AUBREY:  Yeah, I made a couple great putts.

I made a great up-and-down on 18.  I couldn't feel the wind on 18.  I was in between clubs there.  I fired it at the pin, and I made a heck of a good 4 there.
Q.  And obviously you're one of the first groups off the course here but you're 2 under.  How do you feel about that?
 JOHN AUBREY:  For a little club pro, I come from a little town called Butler north of Pittsburgh.  I own my own golf course there.

It's a real honor to play against these great players and shoot under par on a great golf course.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JOHN AUBREY:  Yeah, I have, I have, a couple in Florida, yeah.
Q.  Do you generally play well on difficult golf courses?
 JOHN AUBREY:  You know, I'm a pretty good chipper and putter and I don't really spray the ball that much.  If you can hit fairways and make some good power putts I think you'll do fine.  Tomorrow I might just shoot 80, but you never know.  I hope not, but golf is a funny game.
Q.  Thanks very much.
JOHN AUBREY:  Thank you guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT