NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 25, 1998
Jamie McLennan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GARY MEAGHER:  Questions for Jamie McLennan?


Q.  Tell me about getting to (Inaudible)...

JAMIE MCLENNAN:  Well, I mean all year we wore the 14 helmet, and he was a big part of the City of St. Louis he is a big part of the City of St. Louis.  You know, basically every time the guys would get down or whatever, he seemed like he was a real big force behind us.  He's a quiet guy, it's not like he was aggressive or anything.  He was a big inspiration, especially when you're going through something like that and you show signs of courage like that.  I just felt like it should have been dedicated to him.


Q.  Can you just tell us a bit about the health hurdles that you've overcome?  I know that it was pretty drastic there one time.  Can you just tell us when, and fill us in a little bit on what exactly happened?

JAMIE MCLENNAN:  End of the season in New York, I was driving home.  I had flown to Salt Lake City, had some stuff there, was driving home to Edmonton.  I used to play Junior in Leth Bridge and stopped  there to visit some family.  I just wasn't feeling well.  I thought I had the flu or food poisoning at worst.  Basically, long story short, I went to the hospital the next morning because I had been very sick all night and could barely move.  The doctor said I was lucky to get there in time, you know, if I would have waited a little bit longer, it would have attacked my whole body.  It would have been too late.  So, fortunately, I was there in time so that he could intercept and treat it. It took, I think, six or seven days in intensive care just to kind of get myself organized.  I don't really remember much.  I was kind of on the morphine or whatever.  And the biggest part was just the recovery, I mean just getting myself back up.  My muscles were so beaten up that I couldn't walk there for a while.  Then I got in to a walker and then a cane and was getting up and around the hospital, and that's when they released me.  So it was about a month in there.  And, you know, at that point it was pretty scary because I didn't have a contract; I was going to be a free agent July 1st.  It was scary because here I had this illness or whatever, and I had to battle back. And I lost 30 pounds and a lot of muscle, and I  was cramping.  I was only out of bed about an hour or two a day, just to try and work it out.  July 1st, my agent did a great job, Art Reese (phonetic spelling) out of Calgary did a great job just letting the teams know I was going to be healthy again; it was just a matter of time.  And St. Louis seemed to just be interested in me and to, you know, follow my progress.  And July 1st I agreed to terms.  And at that time, it was Mike Keenan and Bob Berry.  I signed a twoyear deal, and at that point John Casey and Grant were there, so we were kind of looking down the road for a full recovery.  Last year it ended up happening. So it was real exciting.  That's why, I mean, I owe so much to St. Louis, the organization.


Q.  So it was two years ago then?

JAMIE MCLENNAN:  Two years ago, May 6.


Q.  What was the name of the illness?

JAMIE MCLENNAN:  Bacterial meningitis.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT