CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2014
Jennifer Kirby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Greens are still soft.   Some of the girls have mentioned it's been hard to read the breaks today.   Did you find that?   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah, definitely.   It was a little tricky, but overall I don't think they're breaking as much as it was.  
   
 Q.   Probably be firmer tomorrow.   Will that help you?   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah, I mean, I don't mind it being soft because I hit it a little bit further, so it's kind of an advantage, but obviously lower scores with softer greens.  
   
 Q.   You're where you want to be right now though?   You're in position for tomorrow.   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah, hopefully I can go a little lower on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   How was the state of your game when you came into this tournament?   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah, I was feeling good about it I had a couple good rounds in Rochester, and a couple not so great, but overall I was hitting well and felt good about my putting and so it was in a good state.  
   
 Q.   Putting is the name of the game around here?   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   I talked to you last year and you said your main goal was to make the LPGA Tour.   What is your main goal for the rookie season?   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Honestly, just keep plugging away and trying to improve on all my results.   Obviously, you want to make the cut every week and get as close to the lead as possible.   So every day just try to see what the leaders are at and what the top 10 is at, just trying to get it as close as I can.  
   
 Q.   How tough is it for a player to keep their card?   It's so hard to get here and then to keep that card.   What is the weekly pressure of having that?   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah, it's obviously a reality.   You need to keep your card to continue to play out here.   But as long as you just keep trying your best and keep playing well.   The hardest thing is just being consistent throughout the entire year, and I think that's what's really important.  
   
 Q.   Is that tough to do when you're traveling to how many different countries over the course of the year?   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah, it's tough because there are a lot of four‑week stretches that we go through.   You don't have as much time to work on your game.   So it's kind of a work in progress while you're on the road.  
   
 Q.   How about the pressure this time of year of trying to get into those Asian events?   Everybody wants to be in those.   What's it like?   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah, that is the main goal.   To travel over there, no cut.   It's just free money, so that's everyone's goal, working towards the end of the year.  
   
 Q.   Do you let it push you the idea that the card is not something that everyone just holds on to?   It's something that's got to be attained and held on to, does it push you to make sure you don't lose it?   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   I mean, that's not really my goal.   I want to play as well as I can, and that should be just a result of good play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT