WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2014
Jennifer Kirby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY THESIER:   Hello, everyone.   We would like to welcome in 2014 LPGA Tour rookie, Jennifer Kirby into the interview room.   Congratulations.   A great 5‑under par round today, on a difficult golf course, and perhaps even more impressive, a birdie to finish on the most difficult hole on the golf course today.   Take me through the round.   What was really working well in your game today.  
JENNIFER KIRBY:   I definitely hit it close a lot today, so I mean I had a lot of short birdie opportunities, and I made almost all of them, which helps, and took advantage of most of the par‑5s which were close to being reachable.  
KELLY THESIER:   You're a Paris Ontario native, so not too far from home being up here in upstate New York.   Does this golf course remind you of courses that you grew up around or what are some of the characteristics of it that you enjoy.  
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah.   It's definitely very close to home, and the style of the course is very similar, you know, very traditional and big trees and stuff like that.   But the course is in great shape, and I really enjoy the layout.  
KELLY THESIER:   You're currently ranked 19th on tour in driving distance and we've been saying all week this golf course is suited for long hitters.   They tend to have an advantage.   How much do you think your length might have played a role in your round today.  
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah, I think definitely.   I mean before I went out I saw a lot of hitters at the top of the leaderboard, so I mean I knew in playing the practice rounds it's a big advantage to be able to reach most of the par‑5s in two and have a shorter iron into most of the par‑4s as well, and I had a lot of short irons in today, so it definitely played that way.  
KELLY THESIER:   Questions for Jennifer.   
   
 Q.   Was there anything to lead you to believe that you would play this well to start this major?  
JENNIFER KIRBY:   I had two weeks off before the last event, and you know, I worked really hard and I thought my game was in really good position, but I mean last week I didn't play very well, but I knew that I was playing a lot better than the score represented, so it was nice to finally get the scoring that was going with what I thought my game was at.  
KELLY THESIER:   What have you been working on specifically in your game?   Is there anything that you feel like you've made strides on recently?   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   I mean definitely putting all year has been, you know, improving continually.   So today I saw that, and just, you know, being able to get over putts confidently and know that I'm going to make them.   
But a lot of the‑‑ a lot of today was just being really solid from tee to green and you know, having short birdie putts makes it a lot easier.  
   
 Q.   All year long on tour we've watched the stars shine, the stars have been winning all the biggest events and then along comes Mo Martin after toiling in the Symetra Tour for six years, a Cinderella story, wins it.   Watching her win the Women's British Open, is that an inspiration for you this week?  
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah.   It was definitely nice to see a fresh face win, because it seems like the same people winning over and over multiple times.   So yeah, that was really inspiring, and congrats to her, and hopefully someone can do the same this week.  
KELLY THESIER:   Jennifer, you're in the midst of your rookie year.   What have been the biggest lessons that you've learned so far from being a rookie?   It's a little different when you're out there week after week competing professionally.   What have you taken away so far.  
JENNIFER KIRBY:   You need to find a good caddie, which I've done.   So I'm really happy with that.   
Just learning the course is a whole new experience each week, and you know, being comfortable.   You know, just being comfortable in new positions, like this is a new position for me, so tomorrow is going to be inexperience to feel comfortable, you know, being so close to the lead.   But again, it's Thursday and I'm just happy I played really well.  
KELLY THESIER:   Who's your caddie?   Who did you finally find a fit with.  
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Paul Martinez.  
KELLY THESIER:   And how long has he been on the bag now.  
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Probably over six events now.  
KELLY THESIER:   So you're starting to finally get that relationship going.  
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah.   Good relationship going and we know what each other is thinking, so that helps.  
KELLY THESIER:   I know one familiar face I tend to see out on tour every week is your mom.   Is your mom here this week?   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah.   My mom and my dad is here this week, so it's nice to be able to play in front of them.  
KELLY THESIER:   And what is it like kind of having someone with you, kind of going through this, because I know your mom's been that person?   What's it been like for you to have her out there week after week as you're kind of learning through this whole experience?   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Yeah.   I'm very lucky because she has been out to almost every event this year, so I mean she helps a lot just to take things off me like laundry and stuff like that when I'm on the road.   She's just trying to make it as easy for me as possible just trying to adapt and learn everything.  
KELLY THESIER:   I'm sure she enjoyed watching today.   It was a pretty good show.   Any more questions for Jennifer?   Well, thank you for coming in.   It was a great round, and best of luck the rest of the week.   
JENNIFER KIRBY:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT