NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 19, 2006
Greg Johnson
Patrick Marleau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Patrick, could you talk a little about the improvement in Toskala this season and how he's managed to win the starting job for the Sharks.  

PATRICK MARLEAU:  Always knew Vesa was a good goalie.  He was able to get his opportunity to play this year, he basically stood on his head for us and helped us get into a playoff spot.  

Q.  Do you think it's a little unusual to see two goalies, neither with playoff experience, starting in the series?  

PATRICK MARLEAU:  Actually, I would usually say it is.  I think all over the league this year, there's a lot of goalies that don't have playoff experience.  That being said, these goalies know how to win games.  It's not going to be that much different for them.  

Q.  Patrick, could you talk a little also about what the attention on Joe Thornton and Jonathan Cheechoo has meant for you and your line?  Has it been able to make you guys more effective?  

PATRICK MARLEAU:  Yeah, I think so.  I think especially, when other teams, they have to pick their poison to see basically who they want to match their lines up against, it gives me and my line an opportunity to play against some different players.  Sometimes they can't get out always against Joe.  

I think it's good both ways like that.  Even our third and fourth line, they get a little help that way, too.  

Q.  Greg, did the team do anything differently with the knowledge that Tomas Vokoun won't be your starting goaltender and Chris will?  Do you have to do anything different?  

GREG JOHNSON:  I don't think we want to do a ton different.  We were at one point a couple weeks ago giving up way too many shots, 40 to 45 a game.  It didn't really matter if it was Tomas, Chris, whoever it would be, we weren't going to go very far the way we were playing.  
We've started to get shot and scoring opportunities defense down.  We've been playing better defensive hockey of late.  That's going to have to continue in the playoffs if we want to go anywhere regardless of who's in net.  

Q.  You talked about playing good defensive hockey.  What has Brendan Witt's acquisition meant? 

GREG JOHNSON:  He's been great.  We have a lot of puck-moving, skating defensemen.  He's brought some grit and toughness to our D, can kind of punish some players in front of the net, finish checks.  He's been a great addition on the ice and in the dressing room.  

Q.  How do you stop a guy like Joe Thornton and Jonathan Cheechoo who have been ripping up the league definitely?  

GREG JOHNSON:  Obviously, two of the hottest players in the league.  Joe is probably the best player in hockey right now.  

We're going to try and close time and space on him as quick as possible.  The key is going to be to take his options away.  If we can take away his passing options as far as his wingers and D jumping in, then somehow try and close on him, we think we've got a chance to contain him.  He's a great player, he's going to get his points.  We just want to contain him as best as possible.  

Q.  I imagine that's where a guy like Brendan Witt comes in? 

GREG JOHNSON:  Absolutely.  It's going to be key for us.  As I said, for us to be successful, we're going to have to contain them.  But at the same time the Sharks are a very well-balanced team, Patrick getting 86 points, Alyn McCauley.  They've got some good players.  It's important also for us not to focus too much on the one line and kind of sit back and relax when the other line's on the ice.  They have a very good, well-balanced team.  We're going have to play well all four lines and all six defensemen.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT