NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: GOLDEN KNIGHTS vs JETS
May 19, 2018
David Perron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What was the flight like last night knowing you put yourselves in position where you're a win away?  
DAVID PERRON: Yeah, it's always a happy flight when you get a big win like that.  We got to find a way to play our best game tomorrow, really give ourself a chance to close it out.  They're a really good team so we expect them to put their best also.  We just got to match it and be better.   
 Q.  How much confidence does it give you that you have done this before on the road?  
DAVID PERRON: Yeah, we've done it twice, so we expect ourself to do it again.  Again, it's never easy to close out a series.  Felt like the last two rounds it was a really good game for us, the last game there, the last win.  We got to bring much of the same, have guys step up at the right time.   
You see McNabb scored the big goal against the Kings, Carpenter getting an assist on the empty net that closed out the last game.  It would be cool to see Eaks or Reaves score a goal for us, something like that.  They have played really good so far in the whole series.  We want them to keep going.   
 Q.  It does seem like this team has really become a team, where it doesn't matter who does it for you.  
DAVID PERRON: That's cool.  I mean, we talk about this now, but I think we feel that way for a long time now.  Again, it goes back to Flower's injury a little bit earlier in the year, where we found out what kind of team we had when we were playing with the fifth goalie, fourth goalie, whatever, and we found a way to keep winning games.  It was big for our confidence as a group because knowing we're extremely confident in Flower obviously, but knowing we could still win games.  When he came back in December, that's when I felt the team really gelled together.   
 Q.  What is it about this team, after you concede a goal in the series, you're right back on the score sheet.  Is it short-term memory?  
DAVID PERRON: Yeah, I think it starts with our coaching staff is really good for that.  They turn the page no matter what, after a good game, bad game.  They give guys a chance to go right back at it.  A big example with Nosie yesterday, takes a penalty, obviously at times different situation.  I'm sure he wasn't happy with the penalty, whatever, he still gives him a chance to go right back on the ice, scores a big goal for us.  I feel like it's happened so many times like that all year.  It's been fun to play for a guy like that.   
 Q.  Can you believe that you're in the situation when you look back five, six months ago showing up to training camp with uncertainty?  
DAVID PERRON: For sure not.  I feel like we built our way to get to this moment.  We still feel like we belong here, we belong to keep going.  We want to keep playing good hockey.  We're having fun.  We're fresh mentally.   
I think again it goes to Turk, the way he coaches us the whole year.  He's been unbelievable with us.  That's why I think we're fresh.   
 Q.  Do you still feed off the naysayers about this team, what you have been able to do?  Is that still bulletin board material?  
DAVID PERRON: You can look at it both ways.  Again, we don't see ourselves as an expansion team for a long time now.  At the same time it's always nice to keep proving people wrong.  We know even at this point I don't feel like people will believe we'll close it out.  We will find a way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT