WIMBLEDON
July 11, 2015
Sofya Zhuk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. ZHUK/A. Blinkova
  7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   You got off to a very quick start.   Was that helpful in your win today?
SOFYA ZHUK:   Yeah, the beginning was really important for me because I know with this girl, I lost against her four times in last two years.   I knew pretty good her.   It was really important to, like, start with the concentration on each point. 
For example, she began to play one game good.   It's easier to win the set or match after it because you have a couple games in front of you, so... 

Q.   She said she was overwhelmed when she saw the size of the court, the crowd, the yelling and everything.   Obviously it didn't seem to bother you. 
SOFYA ZHUK:   I don't know, because really me, I love to play on this court.   It was the first time I played when so much people are watching me.   But I really had a pleasure to make that. 
I'm just in love when it's so much people, everyone is supporting me, they're clapping their hands when there's a good point. 
I don't know what's up to her, maybe she don't like it to play like that.   I was in love and it really helps me a lot.

Q.   She also said it's difficult in a big stadium to find the ball.   Did you have any problem?
SOFYA ZHUK:   No, no.   I felt everything really good. 

Q.   In terms of Wimbledon history, boys' juniors seem to move on and hit big.   Among the young ladies, they don't follow suit so much.   Are you expecting to go big with the ladies singles?
SOFYA ZHUK:   It's my dream to win the Wimbledon, the ladies.   It was my dream when I was young.   It was my dream to first win the juniors and then after. 

Q.   What does it feel like to be a Wimbledon champion?
SOFYA ZHUK:   It's really excited.   Because before after each match, I was trying to control my emotions because I know if I will be too much excited, after I cannot play. 
Today all the emotions are going out so I'm really excited, so... 

Q.   Was it difficult to close out the match?   You lost your serve when you were ready to finish it.   She came back.   Was it nerves?
SOFYA ZHUK:   No, because I know, like, when it starts 3‑0 in the second set, just in middle of second set, I started to have lot of cramping in the calves.   I was trying to stay focused because I know if I will lose the second set, third set I cannot play because I'm really dead and stuff like that. 
So when I had one match point, it was score 5‑3 or 5‑2, I couldn't return the serve, but she hit a winner directly.   I tried to stay focus and I played my game, then I can win still the match, but maybe it's going to be more difficult. 
I began to move a little bit, not too good, like in the first set.   When I save one game point in the second set, so was like c'mon this point.   But after when I had a final match point, I were like saying to myself, You need to return this ball, I don't know which one is the most important one. 
So after, it's like I return it good, so I was really happy after. 

Q.   How will you celebrate this victory?
SOFYA ZHUK:   I think tomorrow in the ball and after with my family because I come back to Moscow with my friends and something, stuff like that.

Q.   Anything tonight?
SOFYA ZHUK:   No.   I don't drink at all. 

Q.   It looked from the outside like you were in control from the beginning till the end of the match.   Was there any other match during Wimbledon where you felt like things were getting out of your control and you could lose?
SOFYA ZHUK:   No.   Sometimes maybe in other tournament I had some like losing concentrations.   But this tournament I was really focused on each game, each match.   I never had something like some games I lose my focus. 
Here I controlled myself and I controlled each ball from first ball to the end. 

Q.   You're very young, so you're facing WTA restrictions.   Do you plan to continue to play junior slams in the future?
SOFYA ZHUK:   Yeah, maybe couple more.   Maybe I think US Open.   I think I hope I will play because I really want to. 
But the next year, I don't know really, but I hope so, yeah.   It's a mix between. 

Q.   Do you think you'll buy yourself a special present to commemorate this and any ideas what this might be?
SOFYA ZHUK:   I think yes, but I'm not sure why.   I think, yes, I want to buy special thing, like with the trophy, but I still don't know what. 

Q.   When you talked at the French Open, you talked about your practice schedule.   Have you changed it since then?
SOFYA ZHUK:   No, I'm following the same schedule like always. 

Q.   Have you heard from Justine at all?
SOFYA ZHUK:   Yeah, they are so happy.   They just make congratulations to me.   They are really happy for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT