ALLSTATE BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: LSU v ALABAMA
January 6, 2012
Trent Richardson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The LSU loss, after the corrections (indiscernible)?  
TRENT RICHARDSON:   We had like a real statement.   We came back into the next game, I think we played like Mississippi State or Ole' Miss, one of them guys, and we just said that we just want to re‑recon, and get back to where we was going headed to and make sure we stay in a straight line and make sure we don't forget what we're playing for.   
And we knew in our head that we were going to get another chance, at least we felt like it.   So we just re‑recon ourselves and got back to where we was in that next ballgame and make sure we stayed on the right course and make sure that the team leaders on this team here, that we made sure that we was standing up and not getting down about the situation that we was in.  
   
 Q.   Having been around you the last few weeks for the preparations (indiscernible), do you feel like you have something to prove?  
TRENT RICHARDSON:   Oh, yeah, most definitely.   Because we didn't win the first game.   You've got to have a chip on your shoulder anytime you're playing any type of sport.   I mean, as a competitor, as a man, you feel you should win all the time.   I don't know a person that likes to lose.  
You play to win.   And that's the bottom line.   And that's what we're here for.   And we're not shining unless we're winning.   We're not here for nothing but for the National Championship.   We're here for a trophy.   That's what we agreed on, and that's what we worked hard for all year.   And that's what we're here for.  
   
 Q.   Compare this experience to two years ago.   How has that experience affected you?  
TRENT RICHARDSON:   Two years ago, I was a freshman and another guy, really just a guy trying to find his way on the team and make a name for himself.   This year I kind of had a name coming into the season.   
So it was kind of different for me because I had to be one of those top leaders.   And when I was here, you know, in Pasadena two years ago, I was just a young guy, and it was leaders on the team, and there was captains and stuff.   
So all I had to do was follow.   Now I'm trying to lead the team and make sure that we stay on top of what we have to do and be one of those guys that is going to put the team on their back or that's going to spot the team or come into halftime, or if it's tied up, we got 30 more minutes to play, we've got to see them in the game.   To be one of those guys, it's incredible.   And it's tough, playing in an environment like we play in every week, week in, week out, and playing in the SEC, it's very tough.   
So to be one of those guys, man, I just‑‑ it's an honor for me, and I really want to thank God and thank my teammates for letting me lead them on this far and let me be the team captain for them.  
   
 Q.   The experience two years ago, how much did that help?  
TRENT RICHARDSON:   It helped a lot, most definitely, because I sat behind Mark Ingram, and he showed me a lot.   And with those leaders we had on our team, Orlando, Javier and Mike Williams, all those guys that we had over there and Terrance, it was a big experience.   
And it really helped us get prepared for this game because we've been here before.   We know how to win it.   We just gotta make sure we can stay on top of our game.   So get prepared for this game.   I think we did the same training, the same amount of stuff, the same amount of snaps that we did for that '09 game to get ready for this game here.  
   
 Q.   (Question off microphone)?  
TRENT RICHARDSON:   Oh, no, I don't expect it to be no high‑scoring game just because the way we play football around here.   I'm not trying to say that our offense can't score.   I'm not trying to say their offense can't score.   But with our two defenses and how they battle and how they be hitting, I don't expect for no blowout game or no 45 points up on the scoreboard unless we go into like five overtimes, and I highly doubt that there.   
So whatever it is, the games you've been watching, you're not going to get that here.   You're going to get a slugfest, man‑up game, and see who is the best man on the field come Monday.  
   
 Q.   How did it feel Sunday morning physically (indiscernible), overall your thoughts?  
TRENT RICHARDSON:   It really didn't hit me Sunday morning, because I still had a lot of adrenalin going from the game.   It hit really me like Monday.   Sunday when I woke up, I felt pretty good.   But Monday I was kind of sore, and I knew I had just been into a hard‑nosed game, a 60‑minute game, and you got a defense like LSU coming at you, trying to pound you all day, and you're trying to do as much pounding, I usually try to do‑‑ it's tough playing in the SEC and the defense that we do play.   
And so I had to make sure that I was prepared for next week, for the next two days, really, and make sure I was resting up my body and getting my body, getting all the knots and bruises out of my body.   But, overall, I came back and played pretty strong the next week.   
So it had to be a good experience, just being prepared for this situation here now that we're in.   I know they're going to bring it to us, and I know how they're going to try to come to me.  
   
 Q.   In high school you were on a successful team (indiscernible)?  
TRENT RICHARDSON:   First of all, it's just a big blessing, because in high school I never made it to the playoffs.   I didn't play a whole season until my senior year, really.   
And I only really started playing football until my junior year because I was hurt my first two years of high school.   And I was at a point where I didn't know if football was really for me.   And I had just had a child.   
So it was really tough for me.   And for being in the second National Championship game, it means a lot to me.   And I know it means a lot for the people from Pensacola and people from Tuscaloosa, because it shows that I'm another faith‑‑ just being another gift of hope, really.   And I just want to tell the truth about Pensacola and Tuscaloosa, that, hey, if I can do it, anybody else can do it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT