RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2010
Brent Delahoussaye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAURY LIVSEY: We welcome Brent Delahoussaye into the interview room for a second day in a row. As of right now you're still the leader of the RBC Canadian Open. Can you talk about your day and the first 36 holes?   
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: You know, today was good. It was a little tough out there, and the wind started picking up on my back nine.   
 But overall, for me it played a little tougher. Ball-in-hand, though, made it a little bit easier, but I don't know, it's tough to follow up an 8-under par round. So I figured anything under par today would be great for me, so I'm pleased for the round.   
 LAURY LIVSEY: Take some questions.  
  
  Q. Was part of the reason it was tougher at all to do with the fact that you slept on a lead and you were at the top of the leaderboard all day today? Does that add an element that wasn't there yesterday?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: It did a little bit. I try not to look at the boards, but I do. It doesn't really matter to me. It had a little bit of an effect on me.   
 I had a terrible shot on 14 and probably just because I got ahead of myself and started thinking too much. But overall, it was all right today. Wasn't too bad.  
  
  Q. Was the objective today not to make any mistakes?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: Well, obviously that's an objective every day, but yeah, it was. I mean I just tried to go out there today, and my goal was to shoot under par; and I achieved it, so I'm pleased.  
  
  Q. Brent, yesterday you had a lot of people say Brent Dela-who? They really didn't know who you were, honestly, but after two days and the kind of scores you've put up, do you think you've put that to rest now?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: No, probably not. To be honest with you, they're probably like who is this kid winning the tournament, but if I keep going like I am, I hope my name will get recognized more often.  
  
  Q. You said you started to think too much on 14. What do you mean think too much? What were you thinking about?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: Just getting ahead of myself. I saw a few-shot lead, and the camera started coming around. And like I said, obviously from my scores early on this year, I haven't had cameras coming around ever.   
 So I just started thinking about that, and then I made a bogey, but other than that, I played pretty well and kind of stayed out of my own way today.  
  
  Q. Is that a good bogey if it brings you back into reality?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: I mean I don't know. Certain times there's good bogeys. That wasn't a good bogey. I was right in the middle of the fairway with a 9-iron, just hit it in the front bunker, didn't hit a good shot, but can't complain. I had some good breaks earlier on also.   
  
  Q. You played with Adam; right?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: Yep. Adam.  
  
  Q. Obviously at the moment he's the low Canadian, and I think this is his first PGA TOUR event. What did you see from his round today? He had a nice score.   
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: It was. I think he shot maybe 5-under, 4-under. He played well, though.   
 Like I was telling my caddy, he's made a ton of birdies this week. I don't know how many total, but he's made a lot. He's a good player, and just fresh out of college, and doesn't look like any of this is affecting him. Some young guys get a little nervous out here, but he's hitting it well. He hits it long and he can putt it really well. So he's doing great.   
  
  Q. I don't know if you got the answer to this, Brent, but you and Adam, couple of rookies, and you see some veterans struggling to make the cut. So what are you guys doing differently than they do?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: I don't know, to be honest. I don't have the answer, but just how golf is. You never know. Some guys play well some weeks and other guys you see miss the cut, you're thinking how did they miss the cut.   
 But it's just how golf is. You don't play good every week, and when it's your week, it might just be your week. You never know.  
  
  Q. I'm just wondering, coming in here, sitting down in the club chairs and taking questions something you could get used to?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: I sure would love getting used to this. I don't mind at all. I would take all day if I have to, but it's good. Feels good to do.  
 LAURY LIVSEY: Any others? Brent, we appreciate your time very much. Thanks for coming in.   
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: Thanks, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT