RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2010
Brent Delahoussaye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: All right. We welcome our first round leader, Brent Delahoussaye. Appreciate you coming in for a few minutes. 62 today, course record. Thoughts on what might have clicked out there. What was the key to your round today?   
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: To be honest, key was probably hitting fairways. I figured the rough was going to be thick, after my practice round. I just figured if I could keep it in the fairway, it's going to be -- it's kind of a longer course for me, but I could still get it around the greens. So I hit a lot of fairways today and the putter got hot. I made a bunch of putts, to be honest.  
  
  Q. Also a tournament record with 62 as well in the 101st playing of the tournament. A lot of guys had said coming into this week that they thought this course would play tough. Were you surprised you were able to shoot 62 out here?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: To be honest, yeah, I woke up this morning and looked at the scores and I was like, wow. I did not see that many low scores out there in the practice round.   
 But it's good it's out there if you're shooting low. Played a little shorter today, to be honest, maybe than the practice round, maybe with the wind and some of that stuff.   
 But I am shocked. I mean I knew I was playing well, and I didn't even really know how many under I was at one point. So I just kind of kept going and kept trying to make birdies. So yeah, I am a little shocked that it's the tournament record and the course record.  
  
  Q. Tied for tournament record.   
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: Tied. That'll work, though. I'll still take it.  
  
  Q. You've played some Nationwide Tour events. First year on the PGA TOUR; is that correct?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: That's correct.  
  
  Q. Tell us a little bit about yourself. I looked in the media guide, and I'm still trying to piece this together a little bit. No offense.   
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: No. It's understandable. I've played bad all year, to be honest.   
 I'm from Greenville, South Carolina, along with half the other PGA TOUR members I think out here. There's a bunch of us, I think five or six. And I played golf at Clemson with a few of the guys out here. And I don't know, I played Nationwide Tour the last two years and had a few good tournaments, nothing great. But got my card through the Q-School this year. I made it on the number.   
 And I haven't played well this year, my first year out. Just been trying too hard, like everyone says not to do. And it just hasn't clicked, and I knew I was playing well. I've been hitting it well. I was just getting in my own way, and today I was like, you know what, I'm just going to go out there and play. This course doesn't set up good for me, so I'm just going to go out there with a good attitude and not worry about it. And look where I am now.   
  
  Q. Have you shot a 62 before?   
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: Yeah, I shot 61 on my own course.  
  
  Q. Where's your home course?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: Thornblade.  
  
  Q. Where is that?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: It's in Greenville. A bunch of guys, Lucas Glover, Jay Haas, Bill Haas, they all play out there also.  
  
  Q. Is that a course record there?   
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: I don't know. I think I had it for a while. Lucas obviously probably beat me.   
  
  Q. Just wondering, have you led a PGA TOUR event ever?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: No. Not even close, to be honest. I haven't shot many under-par rounds my first round for TOUR events. But never led an event before. I was I think second or so in a Nationwide event last year after the first round.  
  
  Q. How do you plan on going into tomorrow?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: Same way I did today. I'm going to try not to get ahead of myself. I know there's three days of golf left on a tough course, and just going to go out there and play one shot at a time like I did today and see what happens from there.  
  
  Q. Do expect them to maybe try to toughen it up somehow?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: I'd imagine it'll get tougher. To be honest, I think the forecast said rain the next few days, so might make the course play a little longer, but it'll be softer. You can never tell out here, to be honest. I mean, like I said, I didn't think the scores were going to be low today and look how low they are. They'll probably toughen it up a little bit. I don't know exactly what they'll do. It'll probably play a little tougher.  
  
  Q. What was the key to your round?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: The start, I think. I hit driver, 3-iron into 9, made eagle, and I think I hit a wedge close on No. 10, made birdie. So I was 3-under after two and thinking, wow, this could be good. You know, I'm starting out really well.   
 And made another birdie, I think on 12 or so. Then I had a bad three-putt and kind of got me not rattled, but you know, a little frustrated, and just played really solid after that, from that point in.   
  
  Q. Brent, did you feel comfortable, more comfortable as the day went on?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: I did, to be honest. After a while I was just kind of in my own little world out there.   
 I enjoyed playing with my two partners today. I've played with John Mills a bunch. He's a Canadian guy. I've played with him a bunch on the Nationwide Tour. And I don't know, I was just feeling comfortable out there, hitting my shots and just not thinking anything about it.  
  
  Q. Did you at one point kind of look up at the leaderboard and saw the scores?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: I didn't look earlier. I knew Vance had shot 6 and I think I was at 4 at that point, and I wasn't even really thinking -- I wasn't even really paying attention to it, to be honest, and next thing you know, I rattled off a few birdies in a row and there I was.  
  
  Q. The '06 tournament, is that your biggest professional victory?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: That is, yep. That was my first year, maybe second year out, I think. First Hooter's event I played and I won. So that's my biggest.  
  
  Q. How many wins did you have on that tour?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: One. That one.  
  
  Q. Is that your only professional --  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: Yep. That is actually.  
  
  Q. Sorry, Brent. You touched on this earlier. I was talking to John, looked like you guys were having a good time. I guess when you're firing 8-under, it's reason enough to have a good time. Can you talk about that, the camaraderie you guys had out there, why it was so much fun for you?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: It was good. All three of us, we played pretty well. I really don't even know what they shot, to be honest. I think they shot a few under, and we had a good time out there. The corral was really great for all of us. I know they're both Canadians, but they were really good to me, to be honest. And I don't know. We just had a good time. Everyone was kind of hitting it well and nothing too bad. We all enjoyed it out there.  
  
  Q. You said the course doesn't really set up for you. Can you tell us why it doesn't set up for you and what were your expectations if you came in and played a practice round and thought, awe, this doesn't set up for me?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: Well, I say it doesn't set up for me. I think it's a little longer than a lot of courses, but there's thick rough. And if there's thick rough and it puts a premium on hitting the fairway, it's good for me because I hit a lot of fairways. I don't hit it long.   
 I don't know. After playing the practice round, I thought it was going to play really hard, to be honest, and for some reason, like I said, when I woke up and saw the scores today I was like, I don't know if they changed courses or what, but it just wasn't playing the same that I thought it was in the practice round.   
 So you never know. I mean some courses, everyone said Hilton Head would set up great for me and I missed the cut. You can play good on any course, to be honest. Doesn't matter.  
  
  Q. Do you have any thoughts specifically on why you're able to get out of your own way after being there for a while?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: No, but if you can tell me, I'd love to know. I don't know. Just was playing well out there and wasn't even thinking about it.   
 I wasn't thinking about a course record or thinking about leading the tournament. I was just thinking about hitting shots, and I just need to take that mentality and do it the next three days.  
  
  Q. At last check the forecast tomorrow calls for thunderstorms. Could see some rain in the second round. Do you expect that's going to change the way the scores are?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: It might. I mean it's going to play softer. I thought the greens were a little soft today, to be honest, but it'll soften up the greens a little bit.   
 It's tough to say. I mean you never know with guys out here. They can shoot good in rain, wind, anything. You just gotta go out there and play your own game and see how it works out for you in the end.  
  
  Q. You were in the last group off 9 today. Were the greens kind of marked up or not bad?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: No. Obviously they weren't that bad. I couldn't really tell. We had one ball that bounced on John on a par-3, but other than that, they rolled true all day, to be honest.  
  
  Q. Anything unusual happen in the last 24 hours? Can you tell us when you got up, and were you intimidated when you did get up and look at those scores?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: The last 24 hours, actually, I went to the Bon Jovi concert, and he was sitting next to me, which is kind of ironic, and we didn't even know each other.  
  
  Q. Who ignored who?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: So that was fun. Went there last night, my wife and I.   
 And nothing -- I don't know. Nothing changed. Woke up the same way I do, put my pants on the same way I do every morning.  
  
  Q. What time did you get up this morning?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: I don't know. I didn't even set an alarm, to be honest. With a 2:15 tee time I don't have to set an alarm.  
  
  Q. Your low competitive round and your low casual round, what's your lowest scores?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: 61, I think, lowest I've ever shot.  
  
  Q. That's casual or competitive?  
 BRENT DELAHOUSSAYE: Casual. Not competitive. Unfortunately.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Thank you, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT