AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2005
Wayne Arthurs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Do you think the match pretty much ended on the second-set tiebreak?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  It would be nice to have won that second set, yes, go one set all compared to two sets to love down.  It's a big change.  But, yeah, I just didn't come up with the big points at the right time today.  It's very disappointing, actually.  
 
Q.  Two sets down against anyone is pretty tough.  But against the Argentinians who just hang in there, keep making plays, it's pretty much impossible, isn't it?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Well, not impossible, but very, very difficult, yes.  
 
Q.  The unforced errors count was very high compared to his.  Is that just because you have to go for a lot against those sort of guys?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, it was -- yeah, it is normally.  But it was probably a lot higher than it should have been today.  I just didn't execute my game at all properly today.  Yeah, I paid the price for hitting too many unforced errors and not winning any of the big points.  
 
Q.  To play those guys, the Argentinian guys, on this sort of surface, is it a really tough draw to get someone like that?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  I actually thought it was a pretty decent draw.  
 
Q.  Did you?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah.  I'm actually a little disappointed that I lost that match.  But the conditions today, they seemed very heavy.  I don't know, I've been practicing probably on the outside courts a little bit more than these bigger courts.  I don't know whether they've been laid later on in the tournament or they haven't been played on as much.  But they seem very gritty, and the balls, you don't get much benefit for your slice approach.  It's sort of sitting there and they've got a lot of time to hit the ball.  I don't know, I don't know whether it has to be 50 degrees to make the court surface faster.  But you'll find that a lot of the fast-court players will be happy to go out on the outside courts rather than the bigger courts. 
 
Q.  So you're saying the outside courts are a lot quicker?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  They seemed a lot quicker.  They've had a lot more play on them because the qualifying has been on them.  I've been practicing on them before, like three weeks, four weeks before the Aussie Open.  So they've had a lot more play.  Yeah, they are a lot quicker than the bigger courts.  
 
Q.  So that obviously doesn't suit someone like yourself?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  No (smiling).  It certainly didn't today, no.  
 
Q.  So what's your program here?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Still in doubles.  Playing with Paul Hanley here.  Probably start maybe Thursday.  We'll take it from there.  
 
Q.  Your year has been mapped out?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah.  I'm going to the States after the Australian Open for three or four weeks, then back for Davis Cup, back to the States for another four weeks.  It's a pretty busy schedule after here. 
 
Q.  You'll play a full schedule for the year?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Uh-huh.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT