OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 17, 2004
Wayne Arthurs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Wayne, third time you played Grosjean on the negative end.  What is difficult about him? 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Obviously, he returns very well, and he actually serves very well for a midget.  I mean, he's probably 5'8" or 5'9".  He serves very well, very accurate.  If you don't get the ball back to him at a good pace, his forehand's very dangerous.  Just wasn't able to do that today.  I think he played a great game in the second set.  I don't think I did anything wrong on my serve.  He hit three return winners.  Not much I can do about that.  
 
Q.  Does it get frustrating out there?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  It does get a little frustrating, yeah, especially when there's a few big points out there that didn't go my way, a few bad line calls.  I think I actually talked to Sebastien about it.  He actually agreed on all the calls against me.  He got a couple bad ones.  But they just happened to be at big times, a breakpoint in the second set.  Serve down the tee, it was an ace, called a fault.  And also in the tiebreaker at 3-2.  I'm not blaming that on the loss, but it doesn't help.  
 
Q.  The fact is, it's been a hell of an experience. 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah.  Wouldn't take anything away from it.  It's been unbelievable to be here.  We're still in doubles.  That's probably our pet event.  I think Todd and I are looking a long way in this tournament, not just today and maybe further on in the tournament.  Looking for one of those medals.  
 
Q.  You've made the point all along coming into these Olympics that you really feel that this is an event, the doubles, where you can medal. 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, definitely can medal.  Our draw is pretty good.  We have a tough match today against Kiefer and Schuettler.  I've got a partner in Todd Woodbridge who has been at the end of a lot of big tournaments.  So I'm looking forward to ending here on the weekend hopefully.  
 
Q.  Also the fact that you have the experience of playing Davis Cup doubles together. 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, we played some very, very big matches together and won a lot of big matches together.  That holds us in good stead through this tournament.  If we play at our best and at a standard we know we can play at, I think we can go a long way.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT