AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2004
Wayne Arthurs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Obviously, a real tough match.  Do you feel unlucky?  Disappointed? 

WAYNE ARTHURS:    I don't know where to start.  Just one of those very disappointing matches.  I had it in my grasp and didn't take it.  To be out there four hours and whatever it was, 20 minutes, and to come off the loser, it's not a good feeling. 

Q.  Have you ever played a longer match?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I don't think I have, no, length-wise.  But I felt pretty good out there.  Just a few bad technical mistakes, a few bad serves at the wrong time.  I was up a break in the fifth, and usually I serve out a match from there.  Maybe it means a little bit more when you get older.  Probably got a little bit tired at that stage and didn't execute the way I probably should. 

Q.  You still served pretty well.  Nearly 40 aces is a pretty good day's work. 

WAYNE ARTHURS:  It is. 

Q.  Normally it would get you over the line. 

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Normally it would.  But obviously, I served a double-fault to lose the second set 7-5.  Probably when I lost my serve, I served a couple double-faults.  Even though I served a lot of aces, you got to look at when you serve the double-faults.  It's not the right time to serve double-faults, obviously.

Q.  Were they the tactical mistakes you were referring to?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, they were.  There were a couple when I had breakpoints that I didn't execute the right shot.  Obviously, I went out there thinking very positive and attacking all the time, because I know I can't stay on the baseline with him.  That sort of got me into position to win, but also was my downfall in another way.  But, obviously, not serving well at the right times and backing my own serve was probably my downfall in the end. 

Q.  The disappointment is one that you really felt a good opportunity slip?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, obviously with Coria out of our section of the draw, not to have a seed in the third round would be a big bonus.  But it's not to be.  Yeah, it is pretty disappointing because I'm not getting any younger, as you know.  You never know how many opportunities you have.

Q.  Can Costa cause some damage?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah.  Obviously he's a Top 30 player.  Has been a Top 10.  With the draw the way it is, who knows.  But there's some bigger guys that will probably knock him off at some stage, I would say. 

Q.  You've got the doubles coming.  Still in the doubles?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yes.

Q.  An opportunity to take advantage of that?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Been on the bench for the last hour or so, trying to get back and ready for tomorrow.  I have to play a doubles match tomorrow.  Hopefully it's late tomorrow.  But, yeah, Paul and myself are looking to go a long way here in the doubles.  I got to get ready for that. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT