AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2003
Wayne Arthurs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Is it the same injury?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  It is the same injury, yeah.  But it's more of a fatigue factor more than anything else.  The five sets  -- the doctor has said five sets in the first round is not going to be good for it.  They've proved it right.  About the third game, third last game of the first round, it got really tight.  Went out this morning and had a little bit of a hit, and it was still very tight.  I thought it would sort of ease up during the match.  It never really did.  Really didn't want to risk doing anything else to it and be out for maybe another six weeks.  So I think that was the right option.  Wasn't going to gain anything by playing on.  He was kicking my ass, as well, at the time.  There really wasn't any point in pursuing a lost cause sort of thing. 

Q.  Feel great that you gave it a shot?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, very happy.  I surprised myself to get through one round even.  I was probably even more surprised actually to be playing here.  To win a round and to sort of come back after two sets down in that first match was pretty pleasing.  Just a lack of conditioning, I suppose, over the weeks that I was out hurt me and the five-set match hurt me, as well.

Q.  Was it a case of not risking further damage?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, it was.

Q.  Was it a case that you actually couldn't?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  No, it was more of a case of risking further damage to it.  The doctors have said if it got to that point where the stiffness and the tightness wasn't going away, then the risk of maybe further injury was heightened by that state of it. 

Q.  Is Davis Cup on your mind at all?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Uh-huh.

Q.  Part of the decision?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, it was a little bit.  Davis Cup and also  -- because I missed the two first tournaments of the year, obviously if something else happens to it, it's going to be another sort of five or six weeks out again.  That takes a lot of the indoor hard court season away.  It was a decision based on sort of my career over the first six months of the year basically.  I'm not getting any younger, so it's going to take me even longer to recover if something else happened to it.

Q.  When do you think you'll be ready to play again?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I'll take it day to day at this stage.  I've got possibly doubles on Friday.  Nothing else has happened to it; it really just tightened up.  I'll get a massage tomorrow and reassess tomorrow night whether I can play doubles on Friday.  That's the sort of state it's at.  It hasn't got any worse.  Hopefully by stopping, it's prevented something that possibly could have got worse.

Q.  Davis Cup is February 7th.  It would give you plenty of time to be right for that?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Oh, yeah.  That's three or four weeks away still.  Yeah, that's definitely a goal, to be ready for that. 

Q.  Pretty confident about that?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, I think so.  Yeah, where the tear actually was is pretty good.  Where I'm feeling the tightness is a little bit lower than where the tear is.  The actual tear came through the matches very well, and it's just a case of -- they said where the tear is, it can actually  -- the referred pain can go lower, which it actually has done, that's where the pain is now, the tightness, and you can actually retear it in a different spot, and that's the spot where it's really tight.  Really just a case of just not doing anything worse to it. 

Q.  So how is this going to affect your pre-Davis Cup preparation?  What will you do differently?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I'll just have to get massage over the next few days.  I reckon it will be pretty much a hundred percent in a week or so.  That's what the doctors are telling me.  Hopefully they're right. 

Q.  Who are you intending to play doubles with?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Todd Larkham, actually.  We got a wildcard.  We're not the happiest pair at the moment.  He being on a drip at the moment yesterday.  We'll wait and see what happens.

Q.  What do you make of the Australian success in general here this week?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Great.  Absolutely great.  There are obviously a couple young guys who are showing their potential.  No better place to do it than start at the Australian Open.  There are a couple of older guys.  Joe Sirianni had a great win yesterday against Max Mirnyi.  That's a great win.  Peter Luczak has a great chance as well of winning his second round today.  That's a really, really good start for him.  He probably had a disappointing end to last year.  He sort of went up and got to a little bit of a static point.  Probably the preparation he had coming in to here helped him in Sydney with confidence, qualifying there.  Yeah, obviously Lleyton and Mark have got a very good chance of taking out the title.  Looking good. 

Q.  Even though you have so many great players and we haven't got any, how confident would you say the Davis Cup players are about the tie against Great Britain?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I'd say we're pretty confident.  I would go in as favorites, that's for sure. 

Q.  You think? 

WAYNE ARTHURS:  We're just going to have to wait and see what Henman's movements are.  Obviously, he said he would be available.  Obviously, with Rusedski not being available, our confidence would have gone up from that setback for them.  If Henman is not there, I'd say we're very, very confident.  If Henman is there, then I say we're quietly confident. 

Q.  You must all be used to it by now, but is there still a certain pleasure in beating the POMs?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Always.  Any sport.  You created it; we beat you at it (smiling).

Q.  Talking to Todd Larkham today, he was talking about his apparel.  He says he gets all his clothes and racquets from you.  Do you give hand-me-downs, order more?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  No.  He gets my hand-me-downs.  Had a group of guys based in London last year.  He was one of them.  We all had the one coach, Brett Larkham.  I was supplying them with sort of my hand-offs when I didn't need them.  They're all sort of running around in my clothes after about a month after I don't need them anymore.  Hopefully he can get his own at some stage. 

Q.  What do you make of the speed of the courts with regards to how it helps or doesn't help Lleyton's chances of winning here?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I would say compared to last year, they started off faster than they normally do.  In the beginning, when they've been resurfaced, they're a little slower.  That really hasn't happened this year.  I think they're pretty quick compared to last year in the beginning.  I think Lleyton generally likes a faster surface.  The surface at the US Open is pretty quick.  It helps him gain a little bit of speed off his serve and also his speed of shot is helped as well.  The surface is pretty well-made for him at the moment, I think.  I can see him going a long way in this tournament.

Q.  Is Andre Agassi the most dangerous opponent that you see for him?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  If he gets to the final, he is.  He's on the other side of the draw.  There's a lot of other guys.  Carlos Moya has beaten him the last couple times.  I think he's in his quarter.  That's who I would be a little bit weary of in Lleyton's quarter.  He's come through a tough five-setter.  It's always good to get through that.  He can maybe  -- I can't see Todd really worrying him tomorrow night.  He's going to have maybe a little bit of an easy match.  But, yeah, Agassi, on his form today, pretty impressive - very impressive actually, beating the Sydney champion, only giving him a game.  Agassi-Hewitt final would be a pretty good way for the Aussie Open to go, I think. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT