WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2002
Wayne Arthurs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Must be very disappointing?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  It's very disappointing, actually.  Did not happen today.  Nothing really worked very well.  And felt like I was always flat-footed and sort of the late for the ball the whole time.  Just nothing seemed to go right.  Maybe a little bit too much pressure on myself to win that match. 
 
Q.  35 aces worked for you. 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, seems to be always the way, doesn't it?  I think something else got to click in my game rather than the aces all the time.  And just didn't win the tiebreakers today, where I been winning the tiebreakers before.  Just didn't go my way today.  And probably biggest opportunity to go further at Wimbledon than I've ever had.  
 
Q.  Particularly in that second set, too, when you had 4-2, he just reeled off five points in a row.  Just sort of a lack of concentration, did that cause that? 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  I don't know.  It's all a big blur at the moment, you know.  I really can't pinpoint one shot or whatever happened at 5-2.  But I was getting a bit of momentum there, and I thought I had a good chance if I won that set to go on with it in the fifth.  But it didn't happen.  
 
Q.  If you had got to two-sets-all, do you think you could have taken him out?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, definitely.  Wasn't really getting that close a lot of the time I was serving.  I just couldn't get the break in any of those sets.  And if you don't do it, then you're bound to lose in the end. 
 
Q.  Given the fact that you probably went in as a bit of a warm favorite, having your experience on grass against somebody who's probably more noted as a clay court player, did that sort of run through your mind as well? 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, it definitely does.  I mean, the three other times that I've been in the last 16, I've played three good players.  And this time was my best opportunity.  And obviously I didn't take my chance, I think.  And it was my biggest chance to make it to at least a quarterfinal here. 
 
Q.  At one point in the first set it looked like you were kind of overcome by maybe a bit of stagefright or nerves. 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  It's possible, yeah.  I didn't really feel nervous, but obviously I wasn't moving my feet properly and I played a really sloppy game to lose my serve in that first set.  Gave him an opportunity to sort of get the upper hand early, and sort of didn't recover from that point on.  I was trying my best; it just wasn't happening.  
 
Q.  Where do you go from here? 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Few days off - at least a week.  Then to play Newport next week, a tournament in the States on grass also.  And I have a good opportunity to win that tournament also.  It's not that strong, so...  I have to take a few days off and sort of beat myself around a little bit I think for a while (laughing). 
 
Q.  Have you seen any of Lleyton's matches?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  I saw a match the other night against Knowle.  He's the guy to beat I think.  I don't know whether he's dropped a set.  Has he dropped a set yet?  
 
Q.  No.  That was my question.  Do you think he is the guy to beat?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  I think he is, yeah.  Definitely.  The only guy that seems to be able to stop him in that half is Henman and he's got the (world?) over him five times in a row.  So I wouldn't be surprised if Lleyton's holding the trophy on Sunday. 
 
Q.  Mentally too tough for Henman?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  On grass, it doesn't look like he's going to be the greatest grass court player if you just analyze his game like that.  What makes him good enough to win it on grass?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  His hand-eye coordination is just amazing .  I mean, it really is  - on any surface.  You put him on any surface, you put him on a cow paddock out there and he'll still hit the ball in the middle.  It's just something that's  -- I wish I had.  Yeah, and I don't think there's  -- he's definitely got the mind to do it.  I don't think there's anyone that's going to beat him.  I really don't. 
 
Q.  What about Mark Philippoussis?  He seems to be slipping through. 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  He does, yeah.  Who does he play now? 
 
Q.  Krajicek today. 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Krajicek today, yeah.   It's gonna be one or two points in that match.  It's a little different today as well, it's overcast and the ball's not going as fast through the air. 
 
Q.  Cold and windy.
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Cold and windy, yeah.  Both got injuries.  But, yeah, I don't see anybody beating Lleyton; I really don't. 
 
Q.  How will the weather impact on him, do you think, if it stays like this?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Obviously when you got a little bit of an injury, you always think about it.  I don't know how good his knee is at the moment.  It must be pretty good.  You always go out there, maybe get a little bit of a niggle or something like that when it's a little colder and the sun's not on your back.  Krajicek said th same thing with his elbow.  And he's probably not looking forward to going out there in 8 degrees, I think it is out there today.  So I think also Rusedski's going to struggle a little bit against Malisse today too. 
 
Q.  I meant Lleyton in these conditions.  Is he better on a quicker court?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Lleyton, I think Lleyton is better on the quicker court.  But it also gives him an opportunity to break a little bit more against someone who's big serving, which is actually  -- I don't think there's many guys in his half of the draw that are big servers.  Henman, I wouldn't put him up there as a big server.  Consistent server, but not a big server, so... 
 
Q.  What's your main emotion as you leave?  Sort of regret that this one's passed?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, I think so, more than anything else.  Yeah, it's just disappointing; it really is.  I'm not getting any younger.  I think that was my best opportunity to do well here.  Having played now Lapentti, I played him a couple years ago.  Beat him on grass, so...  Yeah.  Very, very disappointing.  
 
Q.  You're hand's up for Davis Cup?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Of course.  Always is, uh-huh.  
 
Q.  You heard any word whether Pat  might be playing?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  I've heard a lot of things of Pat's playing, but only Pat knows I think.  If he's coming back, not coming back, who knows?  Seems to be his  -- he's the only one who knows.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT