WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2002
Wayne Arthurs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Did you ever think you were going to drop serve there?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  I was thinking about you counting in the background there, how many in a row I've held (laughter).  I was hoping not to.  There was one game, I think it went for, I don't know, four, five, six deuces.  That was about the only time I sort of felt a bit uncomfortable.  
 
Q.  How big an opportunity is this for you to make a quarterfinal? 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  I have just seen the draw.  Yeah, obviously a very big opportunity.  To play another unseeded guy in the last 16 is the biggest opportunity I've had so far.  So hopefully I can make it through to the quarterfinals.  
 
Q.  I think over the last two days you played seven consecutive tiebreaks if you look at the doubles.  Can you think of another time in your career where you've had that many in a row?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Wimbledon '99 maybe.  I had one 7-5 in the middle of that.  But I played four tiebreakers then, two against Lapentti next round, and three against Haarhuis, then actually two against Andre.  I won a lot of those.  I'm winning a lot here.  It's maybe an omen. 
 
Q.  Must be good for your confidence if you just keep playing and playing, you think, "I've done it before"? 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, definitely.  I'm getting more and more confident as the tournament goes along.  So I think I created enough opportunities.  And Taylor was just half volleying, at one stage, unbelievable in the second  -- I mean in the third set.  I thought I had made a lot of returns at him, he was just coming up with the goods every time.  I don't think it was totally dominated by the serve, the match, even though it looks like it is.  
 
Q.  It hasn't been your greatest period in tennis, the last 12 months.  Is there something that has changed for you?  Is it simply coming to grass?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  I really don't know.  Could have been the pressure of losing those points, sort of freeing up everything.  Apart from that, everything's been pretty much the same.  So I think more a little bit of pressure I've taken off myself more than anybody around me has allowed me to play better tennis. 
 
Q.  The Davis Cup loss, did that spur you on?  Did you think, "I'm a better player than this," even though you played well? 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Well, I thought I did play well in that match, and I got beaten by a better guy on that day.  He's still in here I think, as well.  My confidence tennis-wise didn't go down after that match.  I think more just putting pressure on myself and losing that match and everything else that went with it more than actually knowing that I can play tennis. 
 
Q.  Do you enjoy being away from Australia, the pressure?  I know a lot of the Australians play a lot better outside of Australia. 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Feels like Australia out there, so many bloody Aussies in the crowd, it's unbelievable (laughter).  No, I don't think so.  I don't put any more pressure on myself when I'm back home.  Maybe my results have not been as good back home.  I don't think playing at home is really a hindrance. 
 
Q.  Has Wayne Arthurs just done this or has there been somebody else behind him saying, "You can get out and prove yourself"? 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Definitely has a little bit to do with my coach, as well, Brett Larkham.  He's just telling me every time I go out there that I'm a better player than I have been the first six months of the year.  I've got to believe that.  Sometimes I don't maybe believe that I am, for whatever reasons.  But, yeah, there's a lot of good people backing me.  I thank them for that. 
 
Q.  Anybody else?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  No, just family, all that sort of thing.  Also I've had a bit of a physio with me the last two months or so.  That's really helped my body.  It's not getting any younger.  To have that stretching and all that sort of stuff, maintenance after a match, is really nice. 
 
Q.  Nobody special that you want to talk about?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  No, no.  
 
Q.  Have you thought at all about winning the tournament? 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  No.  Slept really well last night.  Didn't think about anything.  I try not to (smiling). 
 
Q.  How did you like the atmosphere out there on that court?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Pretty nice, intimate.  The people at the sides are very close.  You can sort of hear everything that everyone says, except for one lady who was a bit annoying at one stage (laughter). 
 
Q.  Did you hear the French guy who was kind of loud?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  No, no.  Maybe down the far end? 
 
Q.  Yes.
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  I did actually (laughter). 
 
Q.  Is there a sense of de'ja vu coming back to when you experienced three or four years ago when you got into the second week of the tournament?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Not so much.  I'd sort of done it at the French, made the last 16 at the French, and at the US Open.  Hopefully I can go at least one better this time.  It's probably my best opportunity to do it. 
 
Q.  Besides being a better player, what's the difference between then and now?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  A lot sunnier here this year (laughter).  The courts are definitely favoring me, as well.  The weather, the courts, it's a lot faster than I think is normal in the first week.  That's definitely helped me. 
 
Q.  Yourself, besides the courts? 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Maybe I've gone through a little bit more; maybe with the Davis Cup I've grown a little bit through those experiences.  It's hard to put a definite article on it.  I really don't know.  Definitely the weeks before leading up to here haven't given me a lot of confidence coming into here.  
 
Q.  Fourth game in the fourth set when he had the three breaks against you, you beat him back with the three aces, must have been  -- must be something great you can take with you?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Definitely.  I think I served very well under pressure today.  Yeah, that was a key moment in the fourth set.  I came up with three really good serves.  Yeah, had to keep him at bay somehow.  He was returning really well in that game.  I really don't think I played a bad third set tiebreaker, he made one good forehand return.  I didn't really do much wrong in that set.  Disappointing after having a match point in that third set to lose that set.  I kept knowing that he was not real close a lot of the time on my serve, just tried to hold my serve, and just wait for my opportunity.  
 
Q.  Would you say there's a bit more mongrel in Wayne Arthurs these days?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yes.  I think I should probably show it a bit more, as well.  
 
Q.  How about your next opponent?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  They're still playing.  
 
Q.  We talked at Queen's with the other Australians about the supposed slump in men's tennis after Lleyton.  What does three in the fourth round of Wimbledon say?  Perhaps there's more hope than we might have thought? 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  That's a difficult question because you know the three guys that are there, maybe not so much myself, but Lleyton and Philippoussis have been there before.  I mean, Mark can win the tournament, no problem.  There still is a little bit of a gap.  That's something that's got to be addressed.   The three guys that are in, possibly with Lleyton, in the last 16, that's always been there.  I don't think you can sort of take anything from that.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT