AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2001
Wayne Arthurs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  John Parsons from the Daily Telegraph in London. Curious match in many ways because you had  difficulty getting into it.  Then you seemed to be enjoying yourself very much at his expense in the third set.  How did you see the match yourself?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, it was a little tough coming out in such a big court after playing out in the back stalls for the first couple of matches.  Also at night is also I thought that was a little bit of disadvantage for me because I thought it was a nice hot day today and I thought if I get out there in the daytime I could have used my kick serve a lot more.  The court seemed to be a lot more springy and bouncy during the day when it is warm.  But no, started off very slowly and seemed to just draw in the crowd a little bit in the third set and sort of got on top of him there in that set.  Pretty unlucky to miss that pass on breakpoint to go up 2-Love. 

Q.  Did you feel at that point you had nothing to lose once you lost the first two sets?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Pretty much things were not going too well.  I don't usually get broken sort of maybe, I don't know, I think it is like three or four times and to lose those first two sets so easily was pretty frustrating.  Just gave it my all in the next set and played well and just a little unlucky in the fourth set.

Q.  You were obviously hugely upset after the 7th game in that second set.  You threw your racket down, hit the ball into the net, you must have thought you were dreaming then to be a couple of games later in control of the next set so dramatically?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, maybe that is what I needed, I needed to get a little bit of aggression out and to show that I wanted to win that match.  Yeah, I started to play pretty well in that third set.  I thought anyway. 

Q.  Do you feel he is known as a guy who dips in performance in a middle of a match?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, he has -- occasionally he has his ups-and-downs.  He can go off a little bit on his serve which he did a little bit, but it's pretty hard to give a guy Top-10 in the world two sets to love start.

Q.  On that form how do you think he would fair against Pat?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Tough to know what the conditions are going to be like.  I think it would be much better for Pat to play during the day, if it is going to be warm.  It should be a good matchup there, I think  -- I couldn't call it.  I'd like to hope that Pat was going to win. 

Q.  If he throws in a set like the third, one would think Pat--?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  That is the difference, Pat has been up there and he is going to take probably a bigger opportunity when and if that arises.

Q.  Bad luck.  Still a good tournament.  How do you rate this with maybe previous Grand Slams, Wimbledon in 1999 and where do you take your career from here?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I rate it pretty high.  My first two rounds were probably matches that I should have won and that is probably why I didn't play so well.  I put a little bit of pressure on myself to knowing that I should win these matches.  But it would have been nice to get a couple of more matches in the tournaments before.  Not played Lleyton twice, but it is a better start than I have had in previous years to the beginning of the season.  So doesn't look too bad.

Q.  Plans for the year, I guess Davis Cup and then?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Davis Cup; ten over to the States for about six weeks. 

Q.  (Inaudible)   got in touch with the old school?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I did.  I am very proud of them.  I got them tickets.  They were making the appropriate noise.

Q.  You had some contact with them now?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  My coach got some tickets for them.  He spoke to them after my second match.  It was good. 


FastScripts by ASAP Sports….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT