AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2001
Wayne Arthurs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Carly King (phonetic) from Channel 10.  Congratulations, Wayne.  It must feel good to be on the good side of it.

WAYNE ARTHURS: It certainly is, I've had a few rough draws in Adelaide and Sydney, it's good to get maybe a little easier draw coming into the Australian Open.  It's good to get the win as well.

Q.  Was it a bit scary at times? Did you think you would struggle to win it in the end?

WAYNE ARTHURS: It was a very up and down match.  I was actually pleased with the way I came through the last set.  I sort of concentrated a lot better than I had done in the first four sets and pulled it out 6-1.  So that was very pleasing. 

Q.  Wayne, do you find the crowd can be a bit ambivalent.  I guess it whips up the excitement.  Did you find it a distraction?

WAYNE ARTHURS: I didn't find it a distraction, no.  Playing in your hometown  --.

Q.  What I mean is does it affect your concentration at all? I mean they're very vocal.  They've been really great out there. 

WAYNE ARTHURS: No, I can only see that as a positive.  I actually fed off them in the last sort of set and a half.  Actually, I think there's about ten guys from Camberwell Grammar, where I used to go to school out there.  I don't actually know who they are, but they're making a lot of noise out there, which is great. 

Q.  You play Tim next.  Are you friends with him, close friends?

WAYNE ARTHURS: I wouldn't say we are great friends.  We've played doubles a few times, actually haven't played Tim in singles since the '94 French Open qualifying, which I beat him.  That's a long time ago and a lot of water under the bridge since then.  So I'm looking forward to the match. 

Q.  You're looking strong at the beginning of the fourth.  What do you think happened in the fourth and what were your thoughts going into the fifth?

WAYNE ARTHURS: I'm not really sure.  I had a bit of a lapse on my serve, which has been happening in the last couple of matches which I'm not really sure what it is.  I think it's maybe a little bit, too, the windy conditions.  But I  -- it's just something I have to sort out in the next day or so.  Coming into the fifth, I felt pretty good even though I'd lost the fourth set, I was up an early break in that set.  I still thought that I was going to win the match. 

Q.  You look  -- I think you look much more confident sort of rallying from the back of the court and doing different things, looping up the two backhands.  Is that something you have worked on during the year?

WAYNE ARTHURS: Yeah, my coach and I, we have a set plan for each player that we try and stick to during the match.  That was one of the tactics that we were trying to use. 

Q.  Can I just check with you what your thoughts are in terms of how much better you need to play to beat Tim?

WAYNE ARTHURS: Definitely I've got to concentrate a lot harder than I have been.  I'm not actually concentrating, but just the ebbs and the flows, there's got to be a little bit more on an even keel than  -- with a Top 10 player, you can't afford to have lapses in there.  They'll take advantage of that.  So that's something that I'll be looking to straighten out. 

Q.  Tim did comment that he was a bit in awe of your serve.  That must give you a bit of confidence going into the match?

WAYNE ARTHURS: That's good to hear.  I always like to hear that.  We practiced in Adelaide, and I didn't  -- try not to give too many secrets away on my serve, and just put it so he can return a few.  But I have a few tricks up my sleeve there. 

Q.  Richard Hynes (phonetic), Sydney Morning Herald.  It seems like a roller coaster for you since '99 when you did so well at Wimbledon.  Why has it been? Has it been injuries, just concentration?

WAYNE ARTHURS: I think because I've been  -- I hadn't been in this situation before, and at the end of '99 I went and watched Davis Cup and it was very draining, actually.  All the Davis Cup leadup to that, where I played in Brisbane and that sort of thing, it took a bit of a toll on me.  I wasn't used to that, coming out here, speaking to you guys sort of week in and week out.  I just didn't really get over it for three or four months.  Then I sort of got used to it sort of half way through last year, 2000, and started to play and get my confidence back. 

Q.  Was it a matter of being just comfortable with being considered a fairly top player?

WAYNE ARTHURS: I think it was, yeah.  It was just a strange situation for me at the time. 

Q.  How long have you lived in London now?

WAYNE ARTHURS: Approximately three years. 

Q.  How much of the year do you spend there?

WAYNE ARTHURS: Not a great deal.  I mean, around Wimbledon time, four or five weeks in a row.  But usually I'm back maybe two days or two days every three weeks or something if I'm playing in Europe.  It just depends where I'm playing.  Go through a six-week stretch in the States so I'm not really there at all in the next three or four months.

Q.  What do you remember of Tim from that French Open qualifying? Did he look like a future Top 10 player?

WAYNE ARTHURS: No, not at all.  (Laughing.) Yeah, he's always had the ability, he's always had the talent.  It's a bit of hard work on his part in the last couple of years, he's shown that he belongs in the Top 10. 

Q.  Your named today in a four-man Davis Cup team.  Do you get the feeling that you and Todd are the doubles? Have you spoken to Fitzy about that?

WAYNE ARTHURS: Not officially.  It's certainly a option.  There's also Sandon  here as well and I think Jason's going as well.  So there's a few combinations that could be tossed around.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT