US OPEN
September 5, 2000
Wayne Arthurs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Wayne.  
 
Q. How difficult were the conditions out there for you with the swirling wind? Did that
affect your serve?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Not too bad. It was actually a pretty nice day. It was a little windy,
but didn't really affect my serve. I did serve badly, but it didn't affect my serve. 
 
Q. What do you think the problem was?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: A little bit of fatigue maybe. I had a late night last night with the
doubles. I had to hang around a little bit. Feeling a little tired this morning. No
excuse, though. 
 
Q. What time did you get to bed?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I don't know. At a reasonable hour. It was just the hanging around here
from the rain and stuff yesterday. It was a little tiring. That's not an excuse why I lost
today. 
 
Q. A few foot faults, as well. Is that something you've had a problem with?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Crept in a little bit in my game. I think it's when I throw the ball a
little bit too far forward sometimes, just reach for it. It has something maybe to do with
a little fatigue, as well, just like not going up, going forward too quickly before I go
up to the ball. 
 
Q. You were struggling with your volleying today. Net points won I think was 30
percent. Do you think that was partly due to his returns?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Yes. He's one of the best returners. I knew it was going to be a tough
match because he does return so well. Putting a lot of pressure on myself by not getting a
lot of first serves in. I think my percentage was probably around 40 percent for the whole
match. Not good enough against someone who returns that well. 
 
Q. Was the wind gusting a bit? 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: A little bit, but not too bad. Much more pleasant day than like four or
five days ago when it was 90% humidity. 
 
Q. Were you affected by nerves today?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: No, I don't think so. I felt all right. I didn't feel nervous at all,
no.  
 
Q. You came through qualifying, won three matches in the event. Can you say to yourself
that you're pleased with that effort?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Yeah. If someone told me I was going to beat the No. 2 guy in the world
before the tournament started, make the fourth round, I'd be pretty pleased, especially
with the way my year has gone. All in all, I'm pretty happy with it. 
 
Q. What's your program now until the end of the season?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I have about four weeks off until Tokyo, a couple weeks in Asia,
Shanghai, then back to Europe for the bigger tournaments. Probably finish up about the
middle of November.  
 
Q. Is Davis Cup still always on the agenda? Are you happy to play whenever someone
wanted you?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Yeah, if I'm called up. My clay court expertise is not real good
(laughter). 
 
Q. I'm not talking about perhaps the final, but with the new regime. 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Definitely, yeah, I'm always available for Davis Cup. No problem.  
 
Q. Have you got together yet with John and Wally at all, talked about next year?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: No. I think that will be sorted out after everything is finalized. 
 
Q. I gather there's a bit of a do on tonight at the embassy. Are you going?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Yeah, I've heard about it. 
 
Q. What's that all about?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I think something to do with the UN, John Howard is there at the
consulate.  
 
Q. Who is actually going from here?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I'm not really sure. I think most of the Australian tennis players are
invited. Who turns up is anybody's guess, I suppose. 
 
Q. You're going for sure?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I'll probably pop in for a little bit. 
 
Q. Do you think having made the fourth round of a Grand Slam for the second time, this
will give you a kick for later on, experience perhaps?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Hopefully. I mean, it certainly raised my game after Wimbledon last
time. Then I had a bit of a lull. Hopefully I don't have the lull this time after this
performance.  
 
Q. A lot of guys can get there once. To do it twice must tell you you're not far away. 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I'm disappointed at the loss, but I'm not actually disappointed to where
I got, to this stage in the tournament. I'm fairly pleased with that. 
 
Q. How do you rate Johansson now?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I always knew he was good. I mean, the guy has been Top 20. He's just
been going through a little bit of probably a lack of confidence in the last six months or
so. To get to the Top 20, you have to be pretty good. I knew I was in for a tough match.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT