US OPEN
September 3, 2000
Wayne Arthurs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  How difficult was it to end up having to play a night match?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  It was a lot of hanging around.  It's hard to stay focused for that long.  You've just got to like calm down and have a little bit of a sleep or something.  It's the same for everybody.  It's hard playing a friend, as well.  Frommy is a very good friend. 

Q.  When you get on the phone tonight or tomorrow and tell your family about it, how are you going to describe that match?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I knew I was in for a battle.  Frommy has got a heart the size of Pharlap.  I knew he was going to fight the whole way.  Very pleasing to come through it in the end.  Got a little tight towards the end there.  Started throwing the ball over the net on the first serve, throwing it so far forward.  Just very exciting to be in the last 16 of the US Open.

Q.  What do you have to tell yourself when you're serving for a match, suddenly down Love-40?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I've got to have confidence.  I know that I've been doing it the whole match.  All of a sudden a little bit of nerves takes over.  That's where you've just got to focus and take a couple of deep breaths and think, "I've been doing this the whole match, what's going wrong now?" 

Q.  The crowd seemed to be with you. 

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, getting a bit of a following, I think, from the first match out with Kuerten.  People have sort of heard about me and they're following me around the back courts.

Q.  So you got some groupies now?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I don't know about that (laughter). 

Q.  What did you do in the afternoon while you were waiting to play?  How did you spend the time?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Just speaking with a couple friends over from England.  Tried to focus in the locker room, the first time, for about half an hour before the match, and then it rained again.  Had a bit of lunch, a bit more food.  I ate twice actually between this time.  Did the same thing again before I went out the second time.  Just sat by myself for half an hour.

Q.  How does that rate compared to all the matches that have come before this? 

WAYNE ARTHURS:  It was a little strange because it was Frommy at the other end.  I don't know.  It was a little strange match.  I mean, can't take anything away from being in the last 16 of the US Open.  It feels pretty good actually.

Q.  It appeared as though you gave it your all.  It was a pretty gritty match. 

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, it was.  It was very tough.  I struggled a little bit.  I don't know.  It's hard to describe how I was feeling out there.  I practiced with him for the last six months like every single day about.  I'm looking at him at the other end, we're playing a match we never played before.  A little strange.

Q.  What did he say at the end?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  He just said, "Good match, well done." 

Q.  How far back do you and Richard go?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Actually, we've only sort of become pretty good friends in the last three or four years.  Before that, he was playing tournaments that I wasn't. 

Q.  That's the first time  --?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  That's the first time we've played.

Q.  Would you prefer your fourth round to be outdoors and a bit quicker?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I think, yeah. 

Q.  Was that appreciably slower conditions tonight that you played in?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah.  It was a lot cooler, as well, which may have helped.  It was very hot the other day.  That's one thing I don't mind.  I'd rather play during the day when it's a little faster.

Q.  What did you think of your serve today?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I don't think I served that well, but I served well in the big points, I think.  I also gave him the breaks that he got in the second set.  I served two doubles to lose my serve. Also, in the fourth set, I think I served two doubles to lose my serve, as well.  That wasn't too pleasing.

Q.  There were times where you lapsed and handed him back the advantage.  How much of a contributing factor was it, having a mate at the other end? 

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Not that part.  It was just messing with my head that I'm losing my serve, serving two double-faults, and he's not really winning the game.  That's what was annoying me. 

Q.  Did you come across each other in the juniors at all or only just recently?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  No.  He was way better than me in the juniors, that's for sure.  I never knew him until  -- I probably met him for the first time, officially, like in about 1995 maybe, '96. 

Q.  Now, apart from practicing together, do you sort of hang out together?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  When we're back in Melbourne, we hang out a lot.  We're pretty good mates.

Q.  Only a couple weeks ago he was hitting at Melbourne Park.  Quite amazing for him to get where he has, Frommy?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, it is.  He's had a bit of an arm problem the last six months or so.  I think he went home a couple weeks after Wimbledon and took that time off.  Maybe it's helped. 

Q.  What about next round, Gambill or Johansson?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Never played Johansson.  Played Gambill in Adelaide earlier this year and lost in three sets.

Q.  He seems to be in good form. 

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Looks like he's playing well. 

Q.  Is it nice to know that both those guys are going through a pretty tough battle? 

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Is it hard? 

Q.  Is it good for you to know?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah.  They can stay as long as they want.  They can stay out all night. 

Q.  Yours didn't appear that physically taxing, a five-setter. 

WAYNE ARTHURS:  No.  I actually felt pretty fresh, which is a good thing. 

Q.  We've seen some stats this week about how well some of the top players do playing here at night.  Does it make a big difference to you whether you play during the day or at night?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Big players as like in? 

Q.  Sampras. 

WAYNE ARTHURS:  They always play well at night. 

Q.  Apparently he hasn't lost a match here at night. 

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Actually, he's in the other half. 

Q.  But do you think it makes a big difference?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Possibly.  I mean, probably those guys are more used to playing night matches, those types of matches.  If they come up against someone who is not used to it as much, they've definitely got an advantage. 

Q.  What do you do to celebrate, really celebrate?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Nothing yet.  I've just got to focus.  I've got doubles tomorrow.  I just have to focus on the next match. 

Q.  How do you reckon your nerves will be coming into the next match, one away from the quarterfinals?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I think I'm pretty confident that I can do well in the next round, as well.  Hopefully my nerves - I'll be able to handle it.

Q.  Was it Wimbledon last year where you probably really believed that you belonged at this level?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Uh-huh.

Q.  Was that the point?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Definitely.  I mean, at that point the two guys that I beat before, Agassi ended in the Top 10 that year, both Haas and Lapentti.  I knew I could mix it with some pretty good guys.  It's just nice to get good results on a different surface other than grass now, as well, which is probably what everyone thought I was beforehand, just a grass court specialist.  That's also pleasing. 

Q.  How much time do you actually spend now in London and Australia?  What's the ratio?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  I usually go home in about mid November, back to Melbourne, and come back over to Europe sort of February time.  Usually I'm away the whole time during that period. 

Q.  You spend a lot more time in London?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah. 

Q.  Did you talk with Richard from the moment that you found out you were playing each other?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, we were joking about it.

Q.  What?

WAYNE ARTHURS:  Nudging each other, that sort of stuff.  I mean, nothing, no sort of court talk or anything like that. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT