US OPEN
August 29, 2000
Wayne Arthurs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Wayne.  
 
Q. Feels pretty good?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Yeah, pretty good. No complaints (laughter).  
 
Q. They don't give bonus points anymore. 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: That's the unfortunate thing. That's maybe why I'm not so hyped up about
it. It would have been 100 bonus points out there. 
 
Q. You were back in that same serving mode you proved last year at Wimbledon?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I struggled in the first set to actually -- the depth of the court, I
couldn't quite get it in the first set. People are sitting down low. When you're back on
the outside courts, you have the fence up there. That took me a little bit of time to get
used to that. After that, I got into a pretty good rhythm. 
 
Q. Do you like the fact that he likes to sit five feet behind the baseline to return
serve?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Yeah, it certainly helps. It helps me get in closer to the net. I also
-- I can move the ball around a little bit further on him. Once he returns it low or
something, this far away (indicating). It helps a lot actually. 
 
Q. How much of an edge is that with your slice serve particularly?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: There's a few big points actually. I think it was in the fourth set
where I was down a few breakpoints. I served -- actually I took some pace off the second
serve and served it slower to him. He was actually reaching for it. 
 
Q. Did you have a feeling going into it that this could be one for you?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I've always played well here actually. I played Corretja here last year
and had a pretty good win. The surface actually suits my game very well.  
 
Q. You're there in the tiebreak, looking cool, but you know you have loads and loads of
match points in your head. Can you keep the thrill under wraps?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I think I did that pretty well today actually. I think that's because
the bonus points weren't there.  
 
Q. Seriously?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Yeah, I think it is. I think you'll find a lot of guys, when you're
playing someone like that, there's a lot of points up for grabs where there was bonus
points, there was 130 points right there if I won that match with the old system. With
this system it's like beating - not that it was - but it's like beating any other player
in the draw. Takes a little bit of pressure off. 
 
Q. Does that in any way diminish the feeling of the victory or not?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: No. But it would have been nice to be rewarded in some way when you've
beaten the No. 2 guy in the world. 
 
Q. Where does it stand in wins for you? Good Davis Cup successes. 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Davis Cup is still up there against Kafelnikov. This would come in
pretty close, second, with Corretja here last year actually. 
 
Q. What was it like, not quite a year ago, but before you played Agassi at Wimbledon,
nobody at home seemed to know you? 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: No, that's right. I don't think John Newcombe even knew me. 
 
Q. Australian people were asking me about it. I said, "How the hell would I know,
he's an Australian." Is it gratifying to become a personage in your homeland?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: It certainly is. Now I go home, people see what I've achieved in the
last year or so, it's nice to get that feeling. You walk in somewhere, someone says
"Hello," actually knows who you are after ten years of grinding. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Probably more a mental thing than anything else. Also I had about four
years where I didn't really play singles at all. I concentrated on my doubles. That was
probably a mistake by me. The last three years or so, I've had a coach with me, who's
actually not here at the moment, but he's helped me a lot in the last three years just to
focus on more things, the positive things in my game, which is my serve. 
 
Q. Obviously a massive step from winning a challenger at Wrexham to stepping out on
Arthur Ashe and beating a guy leading the race.
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I actually needed to go back to Wrexham. After Wimbledon, I lost all my
points. I was like 155 in the world. I needed to go and get some matches under my belt. I
won that tournament, then I came over to Washington and played pretty well in Washington,
actually had breakpoints in the third against Corretja in the third in the quarterfinals.
That could have been another stepping stone. 
 
Q. You wouldn't have had to qualify and wouldn't have had the matchplay to get here. 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: My ranking was still good enough to get into Washington, so I didn't
have to play qualifying here. 
 
Q. You wouldn't have had to qualify here. 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: That's right.  
 
Q. You wouldn't have had the matches. 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: That's right.  
 
Q. So Wrexham gave you enough points to get into Washington basically?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: No. My ranking, because of the six weeks, you have to enter six weeks
before, my ranking was still enough for Washington. 
 
Q. You're probably going to make a record amount of money this year. Are you
reassessing your lifestyle?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Not at all, no. I had a pretty decent season last year, as well. I think
I made more last year than I have this year. 
 
Q. The match points at 6-5, what did you say to yourself going into the tiebreaker? Did
you really have to concentrate on focusing? 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I had two match points at 6-5. He served a great serve on the first one.
I couldn't do anything about it. Then the second one, had a bit of a dispute after the
linesman didn't actually see it, but actually a fair way out (indicating). I went for the
second one. Coming into the tiebreaker, I knew I'd been serving well, hopefully my nerve
would keep up. It did. I played a pretty good tiebreaker actually. 
 
Q. How did you feel about your form in qualifying? 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I played average in the first match. I played a good second match
against Nargiso. That was the match where I knew I would get in the main draw. That was
the one where I focused on the most because I'd be a lucky loser anyway if I lost the last
round. The last round of quallies, going through the motions a little bit. 
 
Q. Did you think you were playing well enough to have some sort of a chance coming into
the match?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Yeah. I always liked the courts here. Hopefully they never slow it down. 
 
Q. Would you say the qualifying rounds were sort of like a training session for you,
preparing for this match?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Not really. I mean, it's always difficult to qualify here. I play a lot
better when I've been playing a lot of matches. The three matches in Washington, also the
Wrexham challenger, I had five matches there, also three in qualifying. I tend to play a
lot better when I've been playing a lot of matches. Qualifying certainly helped. 
 
Q. Without your coach here, how do you prepare for a match? I know all you guys are
very close. Do you talk amongst the guys about it?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I knew what I had to do. I mean, I watched Gustavo a lot. I saw him
playing against Henman. I knew basically what I needed to do. Also I've been talking to my
coach on the phone, as well. He gave me a few tips, as well. Not much different, although
he's not here.  
 
Q. Who is he?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Brent Larkham. 
 
Q. Is he in Canberra?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Back in Canberra, with his brother at the moment who had some shoulder
problems. He's back playing. 
 
Q. Even though Kuerten was the favorite, looked like he was very insecure. Did you have
that feeling yourself?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: When I play these guys, especially generally claycourters like Corretja,
they stand a long way back on my serve. It helps me a lot to get a lot of first serves in.
Also I like the style that they play. I mean, Gustavo has a pretty good first serve, but
his second serve lets me come in a little bit on it, whereas someone who is serving big on
both serves, it's a little bit more difficult to get into the point. I match up pretty
good against quite a few of these guys. 
 
Q. Could you feel that he was intimidated by you?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Intimidated?  
 
Q. Yes. He looked like. 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I hope he was (laughter). Yeah, he looked a little bit dejected when
he's not getting into every point, he's not playing every point. That's a positive for me,
I suppose.  
 
Q. Not many of us have actually been to Wrexham. 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Great place.  
 
Q. Good question: Where the hell is Wrexham?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: It's in North Wales, west of Manchester. 
 
Q. What is the centre court there like compared with the one here?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: It's two together. It's actually not a centre court. 
 
Q. For those of us trying to put a British slant on it, we thought you lived in
Middlesex. 
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: I actually live in Pinner, P-i-n-n-e-r. 
 
Q. Where do you practice when you're at home? Riverside, Northwood?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Sometimes at Bushey, also down at Queen's, as well.  
 
Q. Are they hard courts at Wrexham?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Yeah, they're hard courts, outdoor hard courts.  
 
Q. It didn't rain?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: No, it didn't actually. Had a couple of rainy mornings, but didn't
actually prevent us. 
 
Q. Who did you meet in the final?
 
 WAYNE ARTHURS: Svarc 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT