US OPEN
August 30, 2005
Wayne Arthurs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  How was it out there? 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Terrible.  
 
Q.  Terrible?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Uh-huh.  One of the worst matches I played for a long, long time I think.  
 
Q.  One of the worst?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, I think so.  Just nothing felt right.  Felt even a little uncoordinated with my movement.  I don't know what that was.  I don't know.  Very strange match.  
 
Q.  How did you feel coming into the match?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Felt all right.  Yeah, no problem.  I had a little bit of a slight back problem on the right lower side which has affected my movement to the backhand side a little bit.  I'm not blaming that on that.  Maybe just got to reassess a little bit, get a little bit more motivation back.  I sort of lost a little bit after Wimbledon, sort of Davis Cup time.  It was a big period I think for me, especially, I'm sure for Lleyton as well.  What I set my year around was playing well at Wimbledon, then having a good Davis Cup year.  Sort of both fell away there.  I lost a little bit of motivation coming into the hard court season.  Been in a bit of a rut since.  
 
Q.  Is it just because you've been out here so long?  Is that what makes it hard?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, I think it is a little bit  kind of to get up each week is more difficult than it was one, two years ago.  I may have to maybe shorten my year this year and try and get the motivation level back for the Aussie summer.  At this stage, it was a difficult match to be a part of.  
 
Q.  Does a match like this say to you that you've got to look at the big picture a little harder in terms of how much longer you want to be out here?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  It has a little bearing on it.  I mean, I'll know when I don't want to be out there any more.  I feel I have some good tennis left in me.  Obviously, I have days like this that you don't want to go out there any more.  I think I need that extended period at the end of this year to find my game again and find that real motivation that's going to keep me going into 2006.  
 
Q.  Is there a possibility that you just say you've had enough?  Are you thinking along those lines?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  This sort of match, yeah (laughter).  It makes you want to hang 'em up.  No, I've got some thinking to do over the next four or five months.  I'll see what happens.  
 
Q.  Do you still at this stage say that you need to set goals, need to be a certain ranking in the world?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, I think that's a little bit of a problem that happened here.  Not here, but leading up to this tournament.  I set myself pretty well to play well at Wimbledon and didn't get over the line there.  Then the Davis Cup was a bit of a downer for me.  After losing that, I found it very difficult to get up and go back to LA, the LA tournament, which was a week and a half after that.  Yeah, you've still got to set goals.  If you're not setting goals, you might as well hang 'em up.  You've got to be wanting to go out there each week and try your hardest, find that again.  
 
Q.  What tournaments later this year might you not play now?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  I might shorten the European indoor part of that of the season, I think three tournaments in Asia.  It depends a little bit on how well we do here in the doubles.  I think we're 8th on the race in the doubles.  If we have a pretty good US Open here, we're going to stay at least 8th or move higher.  If we're still in the mix by the end of the Asian swing, then obviously Paul and I, that's a goal for us, to get to the Masters.  
 
Q.  Will that be your prime motivation for the end of the year, doubles?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  I think so, a little bit, yeah. 
 
Q.  Do you split off doubles and singles?  Is your motivation better for doubles than it is for singles?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Not necessarily. 
 
Q.  It's just tennis as a whole?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Tennis as a whole, yeah.  
 
Q.  Have you thought about what is at the other end for you?  What would you do?  Are you interested in coaching or staying in the game?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, I think I've still got a role to play in Junior tennis maybe in the future.  
 
Q.  In Australia?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  In Australia, yeah.  I think I would like to get away from it just for a little bit after I retire to not sort of let it just carry on and sort of be a grudge, I mean, just a pain in the ass sort of thing so to speak (laughter).  I'd want to go away and I think clear my head from tennis for probably at least a year after I retire, whenever that is. 
 
Q.  Or just play golf?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  We can't all be a Scotty Draper, can we - unfortunately.  
 
Q.  You want to stay in Australia?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah.  I've moved out of London.  I'm back in Australia now already.  Australia will be my base.  
 
Q.  Is that in a sense half a step towards maybe hanging 'em up?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, maybe, uh-huh.  You want a date, don't you (laughter)?  
 
Q.  If you've got one.
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  I'm not going to tell you guys. 
 
Q.  (Question regarding Davis Cup.)
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  There's always going to be someone coming up.  There's always going to be somebody.  There is somebody on the horizon somewhere around the corner.  
 
Q.  Can you tell me his name?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  I can't pronounce them (laughter).  Pete Luczak showed he played pretty well here.  I don't know how his match went yesterday.  I think the first set he played pretty well.  There's got to be somebody out there.  It will happen.  
 
Q.  Is that a little bit of a motivation for you in terms of trying to help bring those new guys up?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, a little bit.  
 
Q.  Finding them, getting them ready?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, I think it is.  I think we've got a few good people out there who are trying to make the right moves.  Obviously there's a little bit of refining to do with Steve Wood and Craig Tiley now in those positions.  I think they'll do a bit of sorting out.  
 
Q.  Lleyton said the other day that he felt a bit like Tim Henman, where every major and every Davis Cup tie he's got a fire. 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Don't know what he's talking about (laughter).  Why would he feel like that?  
 
Q.  Do you sort of empathize a little bit with his situation?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Definitely, yeah.  I mean, it would be great -- five years ago we had 10, 11 guys in the top hundred.  Now we've got two.  One of them's nearly 40 years old (laughter).  Yeah, I'm sure it's very difficult to have that pressure every time he goes into a major or Davis Cup to you guys expecting him to win, I expect him to win.  It is a lot of pressure on him.  Probably Tim Henman is finding that out now that he's gone through a little bit of a flat patch at the moment.  It probably does weigh down on him after a while.  
 
Q.  When you did toss it in, will you toss it in altogether or will you consider just playing doubles?
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  No.  
 
Q.  Is it difficult when you still know you're in the top hundred to pack it up? 
 
WAYNE ARTHURS:  Yeah, I think my ranking would probably determine a little bit to when I do pack it in, not in main draws of week-in, week-out tournaments.  Time to move on, start being a journalist (smiling).  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT