ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2014
Albano Olivetti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. STRUFF/A. Olivetti
      6‑1, 6‑4, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   What do you feel?   What's the feeling that you have?   
    ALBANO OLIVETTI:   Well, I'm very angry, angry against myself.   No doubt about this.   
   
 Q.   Why are you angry?   Could you give us more information?   Why do you feel frustrated?   Is there something special in your match that you're angry against?   
    ALBANO OLIVETTI:   I have the impression that during this match nothing happened.   Sometimes I had the impression I was playing well, and then at the end of the match I had the impression that it's an awful match, a zero.  
    It's a tournament I've been dreaming of, and then a nonmatch, I'm very disappointed, very disappointed with the match.   
   
 Q.   I have the impression that during the first break points you had Love‑40 in one game, and this is when it turned around.   
    ALBANO OLIVETTI:   Yes, when it was 30‑40 I was almost there, and then the whole match turned around.   I don't know if I had won the break then the match would've been different.  
    But I didn't, so...  
    Then he won in three sets.   
   
 Q.   What about your thigh?   There was strapping on your thigh.   Physically is that okay?   
    ALBANO OLIVETTI:   Well, I don't know if the muscle was tense or if it was the hamstrings, but it's been like this for a week.  
    I was practicing and I did my best not to feel it too much during the match.   It didn't bother me today.   
   
 Q.   According to you, would you say there is an objective reason why you were so inhibited during the match?   
    ALBANO OLIVETTI:   It's difficult to answer.   Offhand I have no immediate answers.   I have the impression each time I was up on his serve game, when it was 15‑Love or 30‑Love‑ it happened several times‑ I couldn't really hit the right points and balls, and he made the difference that moment.   
   
 Q.   This is nothing connected to your match, but Karlovic has defeated Dimitrov, and you belong to the big servers brotherhood, if I can say that.   What would you say about him as player?   What does he represent?   
    ALBANO OLIVETTI:   Well, he's a player whom I've been watching and observing.   He's a bit taller than me and very complicated to break.   He serves so well.   You know, he's 2.08 meters and he can defeat the second world player and he had a final on clay not long ago, so there are lessons to be drawn.   
    I am trying to look at him as a source of inspiration.  
   
 Q.   I don't know if you watched the match; he won.   Did you think, Oh, well, maybe the conditions are good for such players as we are?  
    ALBANO OLIVETTI:   No, not really.   I didn't make any link between his match and my match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT