THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 25, 2014
Andy Svoboda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great playing, and capped off with that nice birdie on 17.   Tied for the lead going into Sunday.   
ANDY SVOBODA:   Yeah.   I played really well today, made six birdies, had one double, but I kept the ball in the fairway and hit the ball great and continued to roll my Callaway putter really good.  
   
 Q.   I gotta admit that your short game, other than 11, of course, was really tight.   You were put under pressure a couple of times there early going out, and I guess they're just about as valuable as the birdies are?  
ANDY SVOBODA:   Yeah, I had some great saves.   I think I got up‑and‑down three out of the first four holes for par, so that kept my momentum going and kept my round going positive.   And they were key.  
Then making a bunch of long putts for birdie helped me a lot.   
   
 Q.   Every time you've been in the last group now the last couple of weeks and you reflected on that yesterday.   What sort of experience are you going to take now into tomorrow?  
ANDY SVOBODA:   Hopefully I'll be a little more calmer than I was last week.   But it's good experience, and you know, you get to learn a lot about your game.   Just hopefully have a good one.  
   
 Q.   The save on 18 for Andy Svoboda gets him into 12‑under for the tournament.   How big was that to close your day with a par?  
ANDY SVOBODA:   It was huge.   I had a very difficult up‑and‑down.   I had to bump it into the hill and it had to come out perfectly, and luckily it did and I made about a six‑footer for par.   
So it was nice to close with that up‑and‑down rather than making bogey.   So really happy with my round.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, you and will both finished at 12 under through 54 holes.   What was the back and forth like out there today?  
ANDY SVOBODA:   Yeah, he made a hole‑in‑one on like the fifth hole.   That was amazing.   I hung in there.   I, you know, made six birdies today, so that's really good, and hopefully I'll make some more birdies tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You were in a similar position just last week in Vegas.   Didn't finish how you would have liked, but what can you draw on from that experience and use as a positive tomorrow?  
ANDY SVOBODA:   Yeah, definitely last week was a learning lesson, and hopefully this week I can be a little more comfortable on Sunday and execute my shots and continue to putt really well.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT