CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2011
Maria Kirilenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KIRILENKO/S. Stosur
  7-5, 1-6, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You defeated Samantha Stosur in Tokyo and also here in Beijing. What do you think is the key factor in your victory?
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Actually both victory was very tough. You know, both was three sets. Well, you know, when I saw the draw here and that I'm going to play against her again, I was a little bit, No way. (Smiling.)
 But, well, I mean, I think she was thinking the same way like me. Again we had a tough match, but I'm happy that I won again.

 Q. Your opponent has always been regarded as a good server. Did you make any special adjustments while returning her service? 
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Well, actually in general I think my return is very good. You know, it's one of my weapon, I think, so that's why I didn't really have too much problem. 
 But still, she was serving good. It was tough for me. When you feel good, when you return good, then you're just very confident. (Smiling.)

 Q. We noticed that you had two matches yesterday and one today. Do you feel tired or it is okay?
 MARIA KIRILENKO: No, you know, I get used to play a lot of the matches last couple weeks, so not tired.

 Q. The third set was very tough, but actually you were leading 5-2 in the third set. She broke back and then you broke again. Summarize a little bit on the last set. 
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Yeah, I think I was a little bit too passive on that moment, and that's why she start to attacking the ball. She started to come to the net. 
 So then on the 5-All, I decide, no more. You have to hit the ball again and be aggressive. So then I come back, and that's why I won. 

 Q. You won your first title here in Beijing in your career. Look back over the last couple years of your development. What do you think about the last couple years?
 MARIA KIRILENKO: To think how many years ago I won this title, was six years ago. Oh, my God. How old I was? 18. 
 Well, every time I come here I have a great memory. The people, I have so many fans here in China. Just they're so nice to me. Many people come to watch my matches, my practice.
 Yesterday after the doubles they even broke the -- not the court, but the fence of the court. So they all falled out on the court. It was the first time in my life that it's happened.
 Well, hopefully I could win another one. 

 Q. You and Samantha have a lot encounters on the court. Does past experience and lessons help you win today?
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Can you repeat the question? 

 Q. I want to know if your past encounters with Samantha helped you win today. Did you learn something as to how to defeat her and her weakness or something like that?
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Actually, I played against Samantha eight times in my life, so now we have an even score, 4-All, in all matches.
 Yeah, of course I know how she's playing. I knew how to play against her today, so nothing new. 

 Q. Three of the Grand Slam titleholders are out of this China Open. What do you think about this? 
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Well, I mean, it's tough. I think it's tough. When you win a Grand Slam, it's tough to play next tournaments. You want to still feel that you're a champion, and you have to play again and again. I think for her it's a bit difficult, especially in Tokyo when I beat her. Here maybe she really want to win, to beat me. 
 Still, she had a good results. She won a Grand Slam. I think it's the best desire what you can have in tennis, to win a Grand Slam. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT