PILOT PEN TENNIS AT YALE
August 27, 2010
Maria Kirilenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. PETROVA/M. Kirilenko
  2-6, 6-2, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Did you have a problem with your back and did that affect the match after the first set?   
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Yeah. I mean, I start to feel it in the first set, you know. But it was just a little bit, and then it went more and more and more.   
 Then in the second set, when I just pulled, you know, from the serve, when she was serving, I made a very fast movement and then I start to feel it even more. Then I couldn't even bend at all.   
 Then it went a little bit better when the physio came out. But still I decided to continue because no reason, you know, just even if you have a pain, you have to try.   
  
  Q. It's a pulled muscle and you think you'll be fine for next week?  
 MARIA KIRILENKO: I mean, I don't know. We'll check now with the physio. I wasn't in the physio room yet.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like the match was yours to lose? You had had such success in the first set, up in the second.  
 MARIA KIRILENKO: I was down 2-1 in the second.   
 First set, she was making a lot of mistakes, so I didn't do anything. Still I had a pain in the first set. But I didn't run. Like she was missing from first ball, from second ball. I'm like, Okay, is good for me.   
 But then when she start to play a little bit better, it get for me worse and worse. I couldn't move at all.   
  
  Q. Were you almost in tears at one time on the sideline with the back pain?   
 MARIA KIRILENKO: I mean, yes, of course, disappointing. I know I'm playing good right now. To get this from nothing, to get this injury during the match, it's always sad. So that's why I was little bit disappointed.   
  
  Q. This back, is it something that has bothered you in the past?   
 MARIA KIRILENKO: No. Just happen today.   
  
  Q. Do you think it happened when you were reaching for a shot in the first set?  
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Yeah. I did something, fast movement, then I start to feel it a little bit. I'm like, Oh, what's going on? If you could say that every changeover the stretching on my leg, like to stretch little bit, like back. But I'm not doctor.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT