PILOT PEN TENNIS AT YALE
August 26, 2010
Maria Kirilenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. KIRILENKO/D. Safina
  6-3, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Maria.   
  
  Q. Obviously you two are very familiar with each other. Talk about what you were able to do today to overcome her.   
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Well, I think I was playing very well today. You know, I was playing aggressive plus mixed in the game. Sometimes just, you know, keep the ball in the point, then when I had a chance to be aggressive... I think I played perfect today.   
 And Dinara, I think she was too passive. I remember when I played her in Australia, she was more aggressive. Now she's more like making kind of lobs. It's not really hurting you.   
 I mean, maybe is difficult for her, you know, to come back. She is trying to make long points. But also we had long points, very long.   
 In the end of the match, I start to feel very tired.   
  
  Q. Do you think her play had anything to do with her back or she just didn't seem aggressive?   
 MARIA KIRILENKO: I don't know. I don't have any idea. But maybe she changed her coach and they now have a different tactic. I don't know.   
  
  Q. Have you seen your draw in the Open? If so, what do you think about it?  
 MARIA KIRILENKO: No, I didn't see it. Do you know who I play?   
  
  Q. I didn't look. What was it today? What did you do special?   
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Yeah, I think everything was perfect, except my serve. My serve wasn't so good today. But I was making a lot of mistakes from the first serve, so I had a lot of, you know, second serves today.   
 It still was okay. She didn't really hurt me from my second serve. But I know I need to improve my first serve, as well.   
 To be honest, I think I just played well today, you know, not too many easy mistakes. I played very consistent.   
  
  Q. You got Barbora Strycova in the first round.   
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Okay. Good to know (smiling).   
  
  Q. Do you think your game is coming around? Is it where you want to be going into next week?  
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Yeah, I think it's perfect. Many matches to be prepared before the US Open. I am just happy that I'm in the semifinal here, just looking for my next match.   
  
  Q. Is it easier for you to play another Russian or is it easier to play a non-Russian? There was the match against the other Maria in Melbourne first round, all that.   
 MARIA KIRILENKO: I don't know. For me, I think it doesn't matter. I don't even really think against who I play, Russian or not Russian. So when I play against Russian, I even know the person better than not Russian, so I have more ideas how to play. For me doesn't matter.   
  
  Q. At the end, if you win, is it a more satisfying win? How do you feel at the end of a match against a Russian or a non-Russian?  
 MARIA KIRILENKO: I mean, I always happy when I winning, doesn't matter against whom. Against top 10 or top 100 player, I always happy to win.   
  
  Q. So many talented Russians on tour now. What is the emphasis in Russia growing up?   
 MARIA KIRILENKO: I think you said not right. Maybe not very talented, but very hard workers. We work a lot. That's why I think we have good results, you know. Because to have a talent, it's not enough. You have to be patient. You have to work a lot. You have to fight. Everything together. So I think that's why we have so many Russians.   
  
  Q. As far as women's tennis is concerned, there is that glamorous image: you, Caroline, Maria. There's a host of very beautiful young ladies who could be just at home on the tennis court as they could be on a catwalk. How important is that for the game?   
 MARIA KIRILENKO: I mean, I think that we all looks more sports, not the models. I mean, of course, it's combination to play good and look nice. I think it's good. For sure, the people comes not because how you look, but how you play, to enjoy your game, to see, to enjoy, to be on the court. Plus if you look good, maybe it's even better to watch (laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT