ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
July 29, 2008
Maria Kirilenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  M. KIRILENKO/A. Keothavong
6-1, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Maria Kirilenko. 

 Q. Can you talk to us about your game? 
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Yes, of course, that's why I'm here. I think the first set I played very good, you know, like not so many mistakes. When she went to the toilet, when she had a break, like I -- like with I was sitting, I'm thinking, C'mon, Maria. Second set needs to be the same, like very consistent. 
 Then she came, I was a little bit concentration, I start to make more mistakes. Then the game start to be like really tight. Of course, end of the second set I should have like finished more like faster, like more concentrate. Like she played quite good. I did a little bit mistakes. It was 5-All, 40-Love on her serve. I'm like, c'mon, it needs to come back again. 
 I was lucky in the end. I come back from 40-Love, won that game. I served with the wind. It was like advantage for me. I'm happy that I finished the second set. 

 Q. Your next game, you're facing Stephanie Dubois. She'll be benefitting from support from the fans. You have never faced her before. Did you watch her game yesterday? 
 MARIA KIRILENKO: No, I didn't watch because it was so late. I went to bed yesterday quite early because of my match today. Well, I didn't never played against her yet. 

 Q. Do you know her?
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Yeah, yeah, I know her, because I was practicing with her in French Open. I remember when I came first day I was practicing with her. She's very nice girl. We had fun a little bit on the court, like laughing. 
 Well, actually I don't know really well her game. But my coach, he was watching yesterday her match. He said that he knows some ideas that he gonna give to me. 

 Q. Could you give us a little hint?
 MARIA KIRILENKO: I don't know yet because my coach didn't tell me yet. I just finished my match today. It's next step tomorrow. 

 Q. What about the support from the Montréal fans? How will it feel to be the bad one on the court?
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Of course it's going to be tougher for me. I know the fans, they're really like supporting - how to say - the people from here. Even today they support me a lot. At the end of the second set, they came a lot of people and support me. It helps. 
 Just need to concentrate on my match and not on the fans. It's normal, supporting on each country. Not gonna think about it. 

 Q. Is it still something you can use as a source of motivation?
 MARIA KIRILENKO: You know, I'm sure if I'm going to play good tomorrow, the fans, they're gonna support me if I'm gonna play good. Don't you think so (laughter)? We'll see. 

 Q. Apparently there's a virus running around. Are you feeling sick at all?
 MARIA KIRILENKO: I'm feeling fine. I had like 10 days bad, really bad, in home when I came after Wimbledon. But now I feel good. I just had one week already practicing. I was in Slovenia. I was happy with the two matches I won there, in the quarterfinals. It was difficult. Now I feel like today, for example, I played like long rallies. I feel good. I feel that I'm like coming back my physical condition. Anyway, I need to work more still. 

 Q. Your game is at the level you want it right now?
 MARIA KIRILENKO: Yeah, yeah. I feel that I need more power now because I lose some kilos, five kilos. But now I'm eating like more and more, so I just need to be powerful. 

 Q. You still a very good ranking right now. You're 13 for this tournament. Is your ranking something you think about when you're on the court?
 MARIA KIRILENKO: You know, it just gives me more confidence when I know like, for example, here I'm a seeded player. When I go on court, it's giving me more confidence. It's my best ranking right now. Actually, my best ranking was 18 two weeks ago. Doesn't matter. 
 I'm just having fun on court. I like to play tennis. It's important thing. 

 Q. What happens when you're down 40-Love in a game? When you're playing the next point, are you focusing on going bigger or play it like it's any point?
 MARIA KIRILENKO: When I was up 5-4, I was serving, we had very long game, it was a little bit nervous game, like I did some couple mistakes, like we normally don't have to do. Then she was 40-Love up, I just lose. I'm already thinking I already lose this game. I was concentrating on my next game, on my serve. Then I did some winners and then she make like mistakes and then it's like turn around and won that game. Just was a little bit luck. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT