NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 25, 2012
Maria Kirilenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/M. Kirilenko
  7‑6, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   When you lose a tiebreak like that, is it draining?   How did you bounce back so quickly and take another lead?  
MARIA KIRILENKO:   Yeah, well, I was surprised I lost the tiebreak.   Last five, six tiebreak I won.   I didn't lost the tiebreak like the last four, five months.   
Yeah, it was really close.   Even I was serving for the set.   I did just not the right decision with my serve.   But it's okay.   
Yeah, after that, it was really difficult tiebreak, and I felt little bit physically down because we had some good rallies.   I saw that she, as well, got tired.   Yeah, suddenly I broke her and I was 5‑2 up.   Then I start to feel, I have a chance to win a set.   
After 5‑2, we had a long game on my serve, couple unlucky points, and again she came back to the game, you know.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel it starting to slip away after 5‑2 or did you still feel pretty confident?  
MARIA KIRILENKO:   No, I felt that I'm still 5‑3 up.   Even if she going to take her serve, I have another chance to serve for the match.   
Yeah, she just played couple lines, long lines.   The ball went so fast, I couldn't really think.   It was couple important points.   Then she start to play a little bit differently.   She didn't hit the ball so hard as she did in the first set.   She just tried to make a long rallies.   I was not too patient.   I had to be more patient and wait for the easy ball to finish.   
Sometimes I choose the wrong ball to hit a winner.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your entire week here.   You got to the finals.   You have to be excited going into New York.   
MARIA KIRILENKO:   Yeah, even I lost today, I still feel positive.   I played really well this week.   I played good match today.   Unfortunately, I was unlucky.   
But I have couple days to recover because I know that I'm playing Tuesday.   So two days, it's good for me, to have rest.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT