NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 23, 2012
Maria Kirilenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. KIRILENKO/O. Govortsova
  6‑1, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How difficult in your mind is it, given the status of Caroline, who hurt her knee, hopefully she's able to go tomorrow, but does that affect your preparation at all?  
MARIA KIRILENKO:   Not at all.   Why?   Yeah, I saw that she had a problem in her singles, then she won six games in a row with her injury (smiling).   Then you start to think, What's happen out there?   
Well, I'm really concentrate on my match.   Especially I'm happy that I won today and I played well.   I served well again.   So just have to think about my game first.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how you're hitting the ball?   Seems like you're in a nice rhythm.   Happy with where your game is right now?  
MARIA KIRILENKO:   Yeah, I felt much better than the first match.   Yeah, I felt better, like everything, forehand, backhand.   Moving was much better than the first match.   
Yeah, was a little bit tough that I didn't play two days in a row because my opponent withdrew.   But still, I was happy.  
   
 Q.   Quick match today.   You had a walk‑through in the second round.   Are you getting as much work as you like?   Is it important that Caroline be able to play tomorrow just for your sake?  
MARIA KIRILENKO:   I think everything is good right now.   Before US Open, I didn't use too much energy.   So the first match was quite easy.   Second one I didn't play, so I had couple days off.   But I was practicing really hard.   I didn't like lying on the couch, you know (smiling).   
Yeah, I'm trying to prepare well before US Open, as well.   
   
 Q.   You've won a lot of matches, making your way up the rankings.   Can you talk about where your game is and your career right now.   
MARIA KIRILENKO:   Where is my game?   You can see.   I don't know.   
Yeah, I had a lot of matches last couple months.   It's good.   I'm happy about it.   You know, it's good to have a feeling winning some matches, especially good matches against good players.   
Just, you know, enjoying the moment right now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT