NBA 2K LEAGUE DRAFT
March 5, 2019
Andrew Valle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Andrew Valle was selected by Pistons GT with the No. 4 overall pick in the 2019 NBA 2K League Draft. His gamer tag is MrStyIez_.   
 Q.  What's it like finally making it to 2K?  
ANDREW VALLE: It's a great feeling.  It's something I've been working on over the years.  It's great to have it finally come to fruition.   
 Q.  Where are you from, New York, the city?  
ANDREW VALLE: Yeah, Bronx, New York, like an hour from here.   
 Q.  You have an Italian last name or is it Hispanic?  
ANDREW VALLE: No, it's Spanish.   
 Q.  How long have you been playing?  
ANDREW VALLE: I've been playing video games all my life.  But specifically 2K, I've been playing since 2K11.  That's like 2011.   
 Q.  How did you get into the game?  
ANDREW VALLE: One of my close friends had the game and I would go over to his house, and I just liked the game and I bought it.   
 Q.  How old were you at that time?  
ANDREW VALLE: Like nine years ago, and I'm 21.  So like 12, 13.   
 Q.  Pistons traded Ramo this offseason.  That was their former face of the franchise.  Do you feel ready to take on that role for this team?  
ANDREW VALLE: Yeah, definitely.  I've got some big shoes to fill, but I'm excited.  I'm ready.   
 Q.  You started playing at your friend's home at 12, 13.  Did you realize right away that you were immediately good?  
ANDREW VALLE: Among my friends, I was always able to beat them at court games, things like that.  2K15 is when I took it a little more seriously.  I started playing more competitively.   
 Q.  Before you played your friends you don't realize how good you are because you have to understand you can beat other people or the best of the best?  
ANDREW VALLE: Yeah.  You know you're good, but you don't know you're good until you play the best.   
 Q.  What do you think that you'll be bringing to Detroit, the Pistons, as far as your style on the court and how you play?  
ANDREW VALLE: I'm someone who is very composed.  That's something that I think they'll like to have, or that I like to add to the court.  I'm also someone who is defensive-minded on the court.  I bring defense to the table.   
 Q.  We've talked to a number of guys who say they're defensive-minded.  Is that more important than being offensive-minded in 2K?  
ANDREW VALLE: For me as a point guard, it's especially important because not a lot of point guards can do it on both ends.  So it's going to be a great thing for the team.   
 Q.  How did you become able to do it on both ends?  
ANDREW VALLE: In 2K, there's a position called a lockdown.  It's similar to like a Kawhi in real life, like Jimmy Butler.  I played that position for fun just to experience it, get practice on it.  So that's where.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT