GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 25, 2021
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Brittany, what a great round today.  You started off on the back nine.  You had pars and birdies on that back nine.  When did the momentum start kicking in for you?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   It actually started on the first three holes.  I birdied the first three holes so I thought, okay, you can't shoot a low score if you don't start birdieing the first couple.
 And then, I don't know, it kind of went cold, just kind of clammed up a little bit.  Started playing too conservative.  But those first three holes I made a couple 20- almost 30-footers, so it wasn't like they were easy tap-in birdies.  They were just going in, which was awesome.
 Kept the momentum going throughout the day.  Had a silly three-putt and made bogey on one hole, but all in all it was a pretty good round to start the week.
 Q. I mean, stats definitely show it.  You had a lot of greens in regulation, too.  If you had to pick one part of your game, what worked really well today?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   You know, it was really a combination of everything, but obviously driving it, keeping it in the fairway, hitting some good drives down there so you have shorter irons into the green is helpful.
 The fairways are pretty generous, but it's probably more of a second-shot golf course.  You have to hit it in the right spot.  The greens are really fast and really beautiful this week, and makes them easy.  When you just get them started on the right line, they just roll right in?
 Q. Everyone seems to be hovering around minus 3, minus 2.  Do you think this course will be easier to shoot lower or just stay around that?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I kind of think it's going to -- I thought it would, kind of going into the week just seeing it one time, probably around 5-under every day was what it was going to take.
 Just seemed -- like I said, it's pretty generous off the tee so you don't have to worry too much there.  It's pretty scorable if you can hit the second shots and get the putter going.  I was thinking it would be a little bit more, but I'm kind of happy to be around the lead.
 Q. You're a risk taker, and this week's Aon Risk-Reward Challenge is 15, that par-5 with the dogleg I think I heard left.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Uh-huh.
 Q. How do you plan to approach that hole being the risk taker that you are?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, obviously being a Par-5 I love going for them in two and giving myself the best chance to make birdie or even eagle if possible.  There is some water so you got to be a little bit careful with your shots, but all in all it's just a great hole and it's going to be a fun hole to see how everybody plays it.
 If you don't hit a good tee shot you can always make birdie the old fashioned way.
 Q. We played Diamond a couple weeks ago and you got some practice there.  What are you looking forward to this year and have you set any goals since Diamond?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   You know, just ready to get back in the groove of things.  Obviously we have two events in Florida, which is awesome, and then a week or two off and we really get going with a lot of events in a row.
 So it'll be nice this year to not have all those multiple breaks that we had last year.  Felt like we had some good weeks and then we had some weeks off; we had some good weeks and then we had a week off.
 So this year just getting back in the rhythm of things is going to be awesome.  You know, goals are pretty much the same.  I would love to win the U.S. Open one of these days.  Just learning more about myself.  I want to be more consistent every week and try to be around the Top 10 more and not so, you know, have a good week, have a bad week kind of thing.  After 17 years you would think I would have figured this out by now, but I still can't seem to figure it out unfortunately.
 Q. One last question.  March is coming up and it's National Women's History month.  Outside of golf and outside of your family, do you have any women in your life who you looked up to growing up, maybe political figures, celebrities?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Oh, golly.  I feel like my life has always revolved around golf that my idols have always just been women out here.
 Getting to play with Laura Davies today, she was always my idol growing up, and was really fun to play with her today.  I loved how aggressive she always played and how she hit it so far.  I feel like that's my game in a nutshell, you know, trying to hit it as far as possible and being as aggressive as possible.
 So pretty cool that we have a whole month dedicated to women, and obviously a lot of great women to look up to out here.
 Q. Including yourself.  Thank you so much, Brittany, and good luck for the next week.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT