THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 16, 2013
Brittany Lang
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We would like to welcome Brittany Lang and Brittany Lincicome into the interview room.   Congratulations.   Largest victory of the day, 4 & 3, in the afternoon match.   Just take me through a little bit.   I'll start with you Brittany, since you didn't go off.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Which Brittany?   
THE MODERATOR:   Brittany to my left.   That's going to be tough.   Brittany Lincicome.   Can you just take me through, you didn't play in the morning, but got to come out in the afternoon.   What was the feeling like kind of heading in with the team down 3‑1 after the morning match, and how excited were you guys to kind of get some momentum in the middle of that round?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, obviously when I woke up this morning and saw that we weren't doing so well, I tried to get out here as early as I could, and get on the course and try to cheer on some of the girls.   
And when Meg told me we were playing together, because we originally were not playing together, I think we are were both pretty excited.   Our families were excited because we've grown up playing a lot of golf together, and obviously we lost the first hole today and we just kind of looked at each other and said two balls in the fairway, two balls on the green at all times, and we'll make them make the mistakes.   And then we had some momentum kind of going into 9 and 10, I made two birdies, which helped just kind of put us in the right direction and we just didn't let off the gas.   
THE MODERATOR:   Brittany Lang, I would like to ask you about that bunker shot that you holed.   It seemed to kind of help momentum as well.   You holed that, Michelle then holed a chip, it seemed like everything was kind of finally starting to go the way of the Americans at that point.   
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, we played great today.   Brittany played great.   I was fortunate to make that, because they were both close, Giulia and Anna were both close.   So for me to hole that out and put the pressure on them and have them not make it, that's, it's very fortunate.   It was a great shot.   Been working on those a lot, so that was fun to see that go in.   
THE MODERATOR:   We were just talking to Cristie and Michelle about the fact of going into Saturday down 5‑3, kind of what's the feeling of the team?   What's the conversations like and how do you guys kind of head into tomorrow knowing what's ahead of you?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I think obviously everyone is pretty disappointed with their play today, so obviously a lot of girls are going to be fired up to want to go out there and tee it up tomorrow and get some more points kind of going our way.   It would be nice if Brit and I get together out again, because I feel like we played pretty well.   But we're honestly not sure of who is going to play with who yet.   But I know we're all fired up and ready to go for tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for these two?   I guess, Brittany Lang, I'll ask, when you guys got done with the morning matches, kind of what did, did anybody say anything, like what kind of was the feeling after that when you headed into the afternoon and how important was it for you guys?   You got a split, but what was kind of the focus point talking?   
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, well Angela and I played good, it was a good match.   We were, I was extremely positive, because I was hitting it good, playing good, I was comfortable out there.   And Dottie came right up to me and said, hey, you're playing in the afternoon.   
And I was so excited, because I am, I'm hitting it good and I'm playing good.   And I didn't know if I was going to play or not.   So I was ‑‑ and then when I found out I was playing with Brittany I was super excited.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   It makes it easier for the fans, they can all cheer for Brittany and it makes it so much easier.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   You guys said you were surprised that you were playing this afternoon together.   What clicked?   What made it work?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I think just both of our personalities.   We just kind of feed off each other's energy and we played in 2009 together and did not get to play together in 2011.   And we were both pretty disappointed about that.   
So when we filled out our little survey like two months ago asking, who was your best person that you want to play with, I put, I think the only person I put was Brittany on the sheet.   
So we have been very clear to Meg that we really wanted to kind of play together again, because we felt like we did so good in 2009 and I just think we feed off of each other and if I did something good, when I did‑‑ or bad‑‑ she backed me up and vice versa.   We fed off each other's energy very, very well today.   And we're so laid back, easygoing, cracking jokes, singing country songs out there down the fairway.   It was really light out there today.   
   
 Q.   Brittany Lang, you were one of the players who had back to back matches.   Will you talk about the endurance and what the altitude does and what a long course like this does.   
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, it is tough, but your adrenaline's going, you're so excited to be out there.   And the morning, you're only hitting half the shots, alternate shot, so it's not that bad.   
But I was a little bit more jacked up in the afternoon, my adrenaline was going, I don't know why, maybe more fans or something.   But I don't think anybody really gets tired because of the excitement and crowds.   I didn't anyway.   I was very excited.   I was so thankful I got to play in the afternoon.   So I made sure that ‑‑ you make sure you eat plenty, drink plenty, you sit down for a minute, but I felt just fine.   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   The altitude was something because we were trying to sing a song going up 15 fairway and neither one of us could get words out.   
(Laughter.   
   
 Q.   For Brittany Lang, can you talk, what is the psychology in making a‑‑ it seems foursomes is kind of tricky in pairing people together, because it must be kind of hard to get in a rhythm when you're only hitting every other shot.   Can you just talk about what you think, what works in that kind of a pairing?   
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, you have to be paying attention to the shots.   Like if I wasn't hitting a wedge shot, still go up, see the yardage, kind of feel what you would hit, say, I would hit a full pitching wedge.   And when she hits it up there, she helps me read the putt.   
So you're not taking 10 minutes off, you're still kind of seeing your shots and getting in a rhythm.   But, again, the personalities.   I played with Angela Stanford and we always have fun together, we always play well together.   We didn't play well, we got beat.   They played really well.   But personalities, it's a big thing to make sure that you're happy on the course and having fun and you're clicking and you're getting a nice flow with alternate shot.   So personalities and making sure you're showing up for every shot.   
THE MODERATOR:   One question I was going to ask, since you mentioned the fans and the crowds this afternoon, you guys have both been through these events here in the U.S., but it seemed like there was a significant crowd out there today.   The chants were pretty loud when you got things going in the afternoon.   What was the atmosphere out there today?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   It was crazy.   From even hole one on I was doing as much as I could.   When I got to the green, I was throwing my arms up on every single green, just getting the crowd going.   Because I know, if I'm playing another match and I hear a big roar on another hole, that maybe somebody in that group, you know, one of our Americans did something really good.   
So it's not even about yourself there, it's more so for your team as well.   So you look at the fans and they make eye contact and they light up.   So that's a big part of us playing well this week is the fans backing us.   
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Thank you very much, ladies.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT