U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2013
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Inbee aside, that wasn't really a bad score today. 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, it was a little depressing.   I drove two of the par‑5s today, and three‑putted both of them.   So, that obviously hurts a little bit being a long hitter.   I obviously need to take advantage of the par‑5s and I didn't. 
The only silly mistake, I think, was going for number 4, which I knew better.   I've been driving the ball so well.   I think I missed one fairway every day, but hitting 13 fairways is pretty darn good at the U.S. Open. 
I felt really good about it and just tried to step up my confidence and made a horrible golf swing and a silly bogey.   So that would probably be the only mistake I made out there other than obviously three‑putting, but, oh, well.

Q.   Brittany Lang was just talking about the importance of this stretch over the next month and a half.   You have another major and then Solheim coming up.   Can you talk about what your goals are in the next five weeks or so? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, next week I'm actually going to go fishing, maybe take a day or two off.   I have a buddy that I told to take the week off so we could fish together and practice together.   It's nice to have somebody at home to practice with a, so that would be nice.   Obviously, we still have a long way to go for the season, and this is nothing but a confidence booster.   I felt like I hit the ball so well, and obviously, these greens are super tricky.   Even when you felt like you hit a great shot, you didn't get rewarded sometimes, so you have to look past that, but I feel like I did a lot of great things this week. 
Finishing where I did this week, I don't have to qualify next year, which is nice, so I've got one less thing to worry about next year.   But we have the British coming up, a lot of good events coming up.   I actually wish I could play next week.   I feel like I'm playing so well this week, that I kind of just want to keep going.

Q.   About the British, I know it's a few weeks off, but what are your thoughts about going back to St. Andrews? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Super excited.   That's where golf, you know, started.   And my dad has already said he wants to come with me that week, so we're going to go.   There is just so much history at that golf tournament.   The British Open‑‑ thank goodness I'm not on the European Tour, because if I had to play golf like that every week, I'd pull my hair out, I think because it's super challenging.   It kind of felt like here, when the fog rolled in and it's super windy and had you to hit different, low shots.   It kind of gave the British Open feeling, actually.   So maybe this is a good test to get ready for it. 
But just being at St. Andrews, there is nothing like it.   It's such a wonderful venue, and I can't wait to get there.

Q.   You live in a country that people expect we win everything, and yet you go out and you played really good golf today ask you're happy with the way you played.   But somebody would say to you, you didn't win; what is wrong with the Americans?
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, we get that question all the time.   Being an American, I want to do really well to represent us.   I felt like I had some really good chances out there and didn't capitalize on them.   Like I said, I hit almost every fairway every day and just couldn't get that second shot close enough.   I felt like I was putting really well too.   But just hasn't been consistent for me this year.   So I'm trying to just build on that and hopefully keep it going and get more consistent.

Q.   Do you think like the regular person out there that doesn't pay a lot of attention and doesn't realize how global your sport is, it's not just us guys? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Absolutely.   They don't realize how much our traveling‑‑ they think, oh, you're here in New York.   You're on vacation.   You get to go see the sights.   You get to go to the British.   I see my hotel room and I see the golf course, that's it.   Outside of that, I literally have not left my house one time this week to go to dinner.   I've either ordered takeout or I've made dinner.   It's just been a very low‑key, kind of relaxed setting this week, which is actually kind of nice for me. 
They don't realize that half of our tournaments are out of the country.   It's obviously, taxing on your body, and the jet lag sets in, and then tough play golf.

Q.   You talk about that, Inbee Park is from Korea.   She goes back and forth.   She's in a country where she doesn't really know the language when she first got here.   Can you talk about what she's doing being in a foreign country?   It's tough enough when you live here. 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, absolutely.   I could not imagine playing on the Korean Tour and having to learn Korean and adapt to their cultures.   Inbee and I have played junior golf together, so I've known her for a very long time.   Even back then she was a phenomenal player.   So it's great to see her stepping up and doing so well.   Obviously, going to win three in a row, and being a major, I didn't see 10‑under out there. 
Everybody asked me at the beginning of the week, what do you think the score is going to be?   And normally the USGA likes to keep it around even par, so I said even par.   When I first played it I thought, oh, my goodness, if I shot a couple over every day, I'd be really satisfied with my game. 
But she's a phenomenal athlete.   She's making the shots she needs to hit.   Not super long, but dread straight every single time and making 30 footers like we saw on 14 yesterday down the hill, that was incredible.

Q.   You said you played junior golf with her.   Did you ever see this out of her?   Obviously, growing up, there are a lot of great golfers in your era.   If she wins three in a row here, she'll be compared to Babe Zaharias?
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, that's incredible.   Back then I remember her being a phenomenal junior player.   She was always on the top of the leaderboard and one of those players you're always gunning for.   Paula creamer and I played together, so her and Paula were always up there and I was kind of chasing both of them.   But it's great to see that she can put her emotions in check, and she's out here every week doing what she does best.

Q.   Karrie was joking that the difference between Inbee and everybody else is everybody else has a pulse, and Inbee‑‑ can you talk about that calmness she has about her how that seems to carry her through? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, I remember watching Annika when I was younger playing, and she'd make a birdie, and she'd be like, okay, great, no big deal.   Her emotion never changed.   She never got high and she never got low, which you need to play good golf.   I'm the exact opposite.   I make a birdie and I'm grinning ear to ear, super excited. 
Maybe I should learn that from her.   She's very low‑key, and goes with the flow.   That's what you need out here.   She doesn't get rattled too easily.   She's not making doubles or triples out there so that helps.   But she's a very go‑with‑the‑flow kind of a gal, and that definitely helps in this game. 

Q.   Can you put in perspective what it's going to mean to the LPGA if she wins here, which it looks like?   She's going to be going for the grand slam at the British Open and what that means in terms of how people will be paying a lot of attention I think to the British? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, that's going to be incredible.   I don't know how she played this week.   I win a tournament and the next week I'm so frazzled doing so many media interviews.   My phone is vibrating in my pocket right now just people congratulating me after this week.   She handles that very, very well. 
She puts it behind her and goes into the week and says I'm on a mission, this is what I'm going to do.   It's great to see when we have an Annika Sorenstam or Lorena Ochoa that dominated the Tour.   Obviously, I wish it was an American player, but it's nice to see somebody has stepped up to plate and is doing that. 
When somebody sets their mind to something, it's incredible to see the hard work she's putting in is paying off.   It's great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT