SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 17, 2012
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Brittany Lincicome to the interview room.   Congratulations, a great 5‑under round today.   Take me through the day out there.   I know I got to see one hole on number 9, and that was a nice eagle you had there.   What else is working well for to you day.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   It kind of started out slow.   Felt like I was going through the motions on the first, four, five, six holes.   It was nice to get a birdie, then I got another birdie, and it was like okay, let's keep going.   And then eagled 9, obviously.   It was nice to see the putter working.   I don't feel like I putted it bad last week, but I wasn't hitting my irons close enough.   So today it was nice to have some putts inside of ten feet for birdie.   So those five‑footers were always fun.   
All around a great day, had a couple of hiccups I guess in there, but I wish I would have birdied the last hole.   I had a really good chance there.   Other than that, I felt like I did a lot of good things.   Just didn't think I knew where the driver was going, which doesn't make me feel comfortable when I was standing over the tee shot.   But I was putting it well and saving myself a bunch.   
THE MODERATOR:   Everybody's talking about the heat here.   It's not like we're not used to it.   Everywhere we've gone has been hot.   What kind of advantage was it to play early?   It's supposed to be a little cooler tomorrow, but to get out there and have the coolness at least before temperatures started rising up.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   You don't realize how hot it is.   Being from Florida, I don't really think about it.   I don't feel like I was even sweating that bad, because they say it's a dry heat.   But physician if it's a 100 degrees outside, it's still hot whether it's dry or not.   
I felt like on 18 I was absolutely starving, and I don't feel like I did as well.   I feel like if I had eaten more through the round my energy would have stayed up and maybe I would have made the putt on 18.   But it's so hot out there.   You don't notice you've gone 17 holes without eating anything all day, which is not good.   
So it's one of the things you have to be aware of out there.   I did well drinking; I had a lot to drink.   But I needed to eat a little bit more.   
THE MODERATOR:   Everybody was talking earlier in the week about 9 going back to a par‑5 and having that stretch of 8, 9, and 10.   You were able to take advantage of that change.   That stretch, how much can that change your round if you're able to take advantage of that hole?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   It's huge.   If you're going into those holes like I said, I started out slow and wasn't making a lot of birdies and just kind of going through the motions.   You get to those holes and it's like, okay, I have legit chances to make birdies and maybe even eagle on 9.   
If you don't go through those holes and you par all three of them, you're like I'm three strokes behind the field already.   So it's one of those where you're going into the holes with a little more pressure on you because you know you need to birdie at least one, if not two or three of those holes to keep up with the lead.   
So luckily a couple of them are short.   I can get to them, I can get to 9 and 10, actually.   So that's nice.   Hopefully just keep taking advantage of them over the next two days.  
   
 Q.   You kind of dropped your club.   You acted like you shanked it.   Can you talk about that?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, it was in the rough.   And yesterday or Wednesday in the Pro‑Am I hit it in the water left when I was trying to hit it almost on like number 10 tee box.   I'm aiming so far right of that green trying to get it up on the rough and get it into the green to get a birdie.   So when I hit it, it came out almost dead straight, you don't know if it's going to kick left or right.   Luckily it kicked straight for me.   It could have kicked left and been in the water easily, and my round could have done a 360, and I could not be sitting in here now.   
I got a lucky break there, which is golf.   It's a game of misses and I kind of lucked out there.  
   
 Q.   So it's kind of weird with an event starting on Friday.   How have you killed time this week?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I like tournaments that start on Friday.   It's one less day that I have to concentrate for.   Obviously if you've won a four‑day tournament, you've beaten the best players and you've gone through four days.   
But I feel like I would have done really good on the Symetra Tour.   I can't concentrate more than three days, I guess.   
But, yeah, actually I've done a lot of practicing this week this for me.   Before Toledo, I didn't pick up a golf club one day.   So going into Toledo I knew I wasn't going to play well because I hadn't practiced.   So this week I was like I'm going to focus and try.   We're halfway through the season and I haven't had a win yet.   Kind of low on the money list, and I'd like to bump it up before the end of the year.   
So I did some practicing.   Played nine holes on Tuesday, and didn't get in until Monday night.   I went to Nike, yep.   Spent $500 on myself.   I'm not going to lie.   No, all clothes.   I don't do shoes.   But I've been working out more this year, so I had to get workout clothes to look good.   So maybe it will motivate me to go.   I bought some tennis skirts, so when I play tennis next time I'm going to look the part anyway.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT