THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 23, 2011
Paula Creamer
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What a finish, Paula and Brittany. It was a really good finish, really good two holes. Were you expecting something like that? 
 PAULA CREAMER: Well, we're always trying to win our match out there, and just trying to get a halve. It was a crazy last couple of holes, but we just told ourselves even if we get a halve, that's all we're trying to do is get back. 
 We watched it go to 1, then all square, and to walk away with a win, we'll take it any day.

 Q. How difficult were the conditions today, Brittany? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: They were pretty difficult. A lot of holes that played into the wind are crazy long. Even being one of the longer hitters out there, we had some long shots into those greens. It was playing tough out there, so hopefully the wind will calm down this afternoon.

 Q. Do you know if you're going to play this afternoon? 
 PAULA CREAMER: I don't know. I haven't talked to the captain yet, but, hopefully. We'll see what happens. 
 Either way, we're pulling for USA. If we're out there, we're going to grind it out, if we're not, we're going to be pulling for them.

 Q. We're here with Paula and Brittany, a 1-up victory. Wow, what a match that was to watch and it had to be to play. Bang-bang right out of the gate, and then what? 
 PAULA CREAMER: I know, my goodness, we did. We started off really strong with a good par on the first hole. But we grinded it. 
 It was a great match. Karen and Melissa were hitting some good shots and we were just scrambling for our pars. We came out on top. The last holes made us all look crazy, but it was a very good match.

 Q. How much did you glean, Brittany, on the scoreboards out there? I know I saw Paula in your ear walking right close to you. What were you talking about between you and looking at the boards?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: She's very good at keeping me calm and kind of keeping me in the moment and not getting ahead of myself. We got down there for a bit, and she was just really good at pumping me back up when I needed it. 
 We saw the leaderboard, and every time we saw some red, it pumped us up a little bit more. But then there was a lot of blue. We just kind of fed off each other to play well out there today.

 Q. Was there a key moment, Paula? It seemed like maybe the first clutch putt that went in seemed to be the one that really got you both going. Is that accurate? 
 PAULA CREAMER: I agree. I think so. After 12, we got away with a halve there. And we were just thinking, okay, we've got this many left. 13, do something on 13, and got that par-3. I could hit a good iron. 
 But just, honestly, we're a good team with each other. We just kept saying, We're going to do this. We're going to do this even if it's a halve. 
 I guess that's the experience part of Solheim, a halve say big thing, and we came out with a point, which is even crazier. But that's match play.

 Q. Brittany, Paula, great win. Obviously couple holes to play and the points were in the balance, but you pulled it through. How are you feeling?
 PAULA CREAMER: Feeling really good. We definitely fed off each other's energy throughout those last couple holes and rallied back really well.

 Q. And you've played one, I think, you've played one four ball match before. This is the first foursome you played. Were you surprised to be paired together or was this something you expected?
 PAULA CREAMER: No, we've played so much together these last several weeks, it was bound to happen this week. We've played a lot of junior golf together. We've been in a lot of Solheim Cups together, so we know each other's game. 
 It was a good match. It's unfortunate this last hole made everybody look a little bit silly, but Karen and Melissa played great. We had to grind it out out there. And Brittany and I, like she said, we just tried as hard as we could. It's never over until it's over.

 Q. You're obviously good friends. Do you expect to play a few more games together? 
 PAULA CREAMER: You never know.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, we'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT