CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2011
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome the 2011 CN Canadian Women's Open champion, Brittany Lincicome, into the interview room. Congratulations on your victory. First time in your LPGA career that you've won twice on Tour in the same season. Talk to me a little about the victory and what it means to you. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I won in June of this year, and that's all I was talking about. It would really be great to win twice in one season because I haven't done that before. 
 To win this event, I felt good coming into the week, but not super great or anything. You just never know with golf. It was cool to finally check that off my list of things to do, I guess. Beginning of the year was Solheim Cup, and then I locked that up, and then Atlantic City and then now here. I've been very blessed this year, and hopefully it will keep going.
 THE MODERATOR: The conditions today weren't ideal.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Come on. 
 THE MODERATOR: I know due to the effects of hurricane Irene, but talk about how difficult it was out there today, and what it took to go out there and shoot a round like you shot? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, today was definitely one of those days that tested my patience for sure. I've been working with Vision54, with a sports psychologist. And that's kind of something we've been working on is kind of take one hole at a time, don't get ahead of yourself and don't think of the outcome. 
 I felt like I did that really well today. Any moment out on the golf course could have gone really bad. One bad hole would have set me off and I could have shot 100 today. So did really, really well trying to hit the fairways, trying to hit the greens, two-putt, par, and keep it going because I knew the scores weren't going to be low because of how crappy the weather was. It was nice to see myself growing and maturing, I guess, as a player.

 Q. How much attention were you paying to the leaderboard going into the final three holes? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's going to be really funny when you go and watch the roll that was out there with TV. I looked at my caddie, A.J., and I was like, "Did I win?" And she was giving me a thumb's up because I was like, oh, my gosh. I had no idea. I hadn't looked at one leaderboard the whole entire day. 
 There was one on 17 green, and I literally took my umbrella and put it in front of me and walked straightforward so I wouldn't see it because it just makes me nervous. 
 Then I hit like worst tee shot of the day on 18 into the tent where the kids are playing. Not really how you want to finish the hole, but obviously I parred it and I came out on top. 
 THE MODERATOR: Last Sunday the U.S. Solheim Cup team was announced. This week, Top 5 finishers are on the U.S. Solheim Cup team. How exciting is it to see how well you're all playing? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: That was really cool. I just saw that on the leaderboard when we did the interview. It was great. It was great to see my fellow Americans play. We obviously want everybody to do well, but particularly with Solheim coming up in a couple of weeks, it's nice to see everyone playing well, and hopefully we can keep it going for a few more weeks.

 Q. On 18, that drive, was it a pull or a hook? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it was kind of all of the above. It was obviously raining. The wind was right to left. My natural ball flight is a draw, so any time you get it working a little too much right to left, it's going to ride the wind. Then I tossed it up as well, so that obviously it went even higher and rode the wind more. 
 It wasn't that bad of a golf swing, just with the rain and everything my hand slipped a little bit. Guarding against hitting it right, apparently, I have no idea. But it worked out, I guess. 

 Q. That follow-up shot, what wedge did you use? What type of thought process as it flies to the hole? I was out there watching, and there were more bogeys than pars in the final group that's came through, so what was your -- take us through your thought process as you stepped up to that check? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, unfortunately, I only chip with my lob wedge. It's the only wedge I chip with ever, so I was just trying to fly it about halfway there, and the greens were pretty wet, so I decided it would kind of skip a little bit and then it was going to stop. 
 I hit it pretty good. I actually hit it a little thin which helped it roll out a little farther. I was trying to fly it 40 yards, and 40 yards of a lob wedge is not super easy. So it was great to get it up there close and not have too much pressure to tap it in.

 Q. I guess it's a big day for your caddie as well today. How much help was it having a Canadian caddie at the Canadian Open. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: That kind of goes hand in hand. She here if you want to talk to her as well. But it's great. A.J. started working -- our first week together was Match Play and we lost the first round. The next week was Atlantic City where we won. 
 So jokingly we had two weeks off before Portland last week, and I told her I was going to fire her and rehire her back for Portland. So technically Portland was our first week back together, and this week, second week we've won. So we'll just have to keep firing her and rehiring her. 
 It's great. A.J. being a past player, she played for ten years. There were a lot of shots like how would you hit this shot, what do think I should do on this shot? Especially 18 with the punch shot I was trying to get it back on the fairway and chip it up there and give myself a chance, and she talked me through it perfectly.

 Q. Is it a little sweeter because the weather was so lousy, you were able to tough it out? You can played it better than anybody else and you'll remember this because of the weather? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely. It just shows how much patience I had to have today. I'm growing as a golfer, I guess. If this would have happened a couple years ago, I'm not sure I would have handled it the same. 
 It's great to see how I handle the ball out there. I was very, very patient, singing a lot of songs, was very chatty. I'm having some fun. The weather was not great, but I was still having a good time. Definitely going to remember this win.

 Q. What were you singing? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Anything country, really. Today I don't know if you know, Jason Aldean, but I was singing a lot of country today.

 Q. Being from Florida, was hurricane Irene in the back of your head all week? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Not really. It's really funny being from Florida, I've been through one hurricane my whole life, and I come to Canada and I'm in the midst of Irene. 
 Obviously, we knew it was going to come through. We were hoping with the earlier tee times that Irene would come through later this afternoon, and we'd get nine or so holes in before the rain came. But, you know, not our luck when you play an outdoor sport. 
 There are days like this I wish I was a professional Bowler or something that was an indoor sport.

 Q. Obviously the par-3s on 17 and 18 were very important, but you also got up on 8 and 9 when the rain started. Talk about that for keeping the round going? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely, I think I only had one bogey today. At that point there's always a stretch in my game it seems where one or two holes kind of don't go my way. It's a very thin line on which way it's going to go. So it was nice to kind of start singing again, start putting a smile back on my face, just kind of turn it around. 
 I knew I wasn't going to need to shoot crazy under par today because of the weather conditions, but 8 and 9 were huge for keeping my composure and just pressing on and trying to hit the fairway and the green and two-putt par and keep moving.

 Q. It seemed part of your theme for keeping a balance. Is that something to do with a sports psychologist? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely. They know when I play my best, I'm very chatty. Whether it be with the girls in my group or whether it be the spectators and the crowd, the more I talk, the better I play. So singing just kind of takes my mind off that shot. 
 You only really need to focus 30 seconds over the shot that you're hitting, and after that you let your mind go wherever it wants to go, and my mind tends to sing. And I'm not a good singer, so I'm not singing for you.

 Q. Who is your sports psychologist? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: The Vision54. 

 Q. On 18 the way your ball originally landed if you had to play it there, would you have had to play it horizontally from there and after the drop you had a look at the green? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I definitely would have gone more sideways. Probably would have left myself somewhere around 80 to 100 yards to the green. But I got a decent drop and was trying to get it back on the fairway and have that 80-yard shot again. 
 I was trying to punch a 5-iron, but it was a little harder than I was expecting. Almost got it onto the green. If I had known that, I might have hit the 4-iron and really gotten it up on the green. It was really trying to play smart, get it back on the fairway, tip it up there and see if we can make the par. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT