LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 11, 2011
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Brittany Lincicome back into the interview room. Making this a habit.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I know. 
 MODERATOR: Congratulations your round again today and putting yourself right up there near the lead. Take me through your round. How happy are you to kind of I guess be able to shoot this low to put yourself right up there?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I'm happy to be done, especially the first couple holes. I was like 3-under through 4 and I was like, Okay, I'm done. I'll take 69.
 But, yeah, I mean, it's the fifth round -- what did we decide? Fifth round in -- five out of six rounds have been in the 60s, I guess, so that's pretty unbelievable. Not sure how to explain it. 
 I feel like par-3s in the past and chipping have always been my kind of weak points. The last couple weeks, you know, par-3s I'm attacking, the chips are going within a foot and tap-ins. It's all kind of coming full circle.
 I don't want it to end; I don't want to stop playing; I wish we had a tournament next week.
 MODERATOR: When you look at the scoring today, a lot low rounds. Juli Inkster was in here, and she said she thought it was tough out there today, so she was surprised at how low some people were going. What did you think of scoring today? And once you got out there, did you expect we might see a lot of low rounds? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I mean, I though it was pretty much equal to yesterday, just with the greens being a little softer with the rain that we got, I felt like you could attack more pins even. I mean, before you kind of had to land it short and let it release up. 
 Now you can fly it pin high and it was perfectly fine. So if anything, I thought it might have been a little bit easier. But scores are low; the golf course is not super difficult; it's fairly short; so, I mean, there are a lot holes you can really attack. 
 I'm envisioning shooting a 62 tomorrow, 61 or 62. Somebody is going to have to go really, really low if they want to come out on top.
 MODERATOR: Last week you said you were excited about the possibility of not being in the final group, but being in the next to the final group.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.
 MODERATOR: Looks like probably you're going to have that again.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Perfect.
 MODERATOR: Is that a situation you like going into the final round, not being in that final group? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I mean, it just kind of makes you a little less nervous, which is something I probably need to overcome one of those days.
 But, I mean, it's just a good place to be. It's always easier to come from behind than kind of lead if you led on Thursday and you led all the way through the four-day tournament.
 So just gonna kind of sneak up on 'em tomorrow and come from behind and see if we can pull it off again.
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. I mean, in recent months, is this maybe the best back-to-back tournaments you've had?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, absolutely. To shoot this many low rounds in the 60s is pretty unbelievable. I have no idea what it's because of. I don't know if it's in the water or what.
 But I want it to obviously keep going, so next week when I go home, definitely going to keep practicing the way I have. It's kind of exciting and fun to practice right now and to want to do better and finally prove to myself that I can compete and this is where I need to be. 
 In contention week in and week out is something that Lorena and Annika did every week. So it's something that I've been trying to do, just being more consistent, making the cut. I haven't missed a cut in a year and a half or so I guess now, so it's a pretty good stretch I got going on. (Laughter.)

 Q. Could it have something to do with your caddie? You're 26-under with her on your bag, not counting Sybase. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Wow. Yeah, I mean, A.J. is fantastic. It's nice to have somebody new, a new face out there to have new conversations with. We're still learning a lot about each other, I mean, being our second week on tour work together -- I mean official. Match Play doesn't really count; that was 15 holes. 
 But she's great. She knows exactly what I'm going through and she know's exactly what to stay. She's been in this situation before. She's won on tour before, I believe, and has been on tour for multiple years, so she knows exactly what I need to hear, what she needs to say. 

 Q. You and Paula were out there together, young American players. Pretty good following out there today. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.

 Q. Even though this is a Saturday, was it just a really good atmosphere today?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, absolutely. Not sure about Paula today. She didn't seem to be her happy, bubbly self. I don't know if something was bothering her. I tried talking to her but didn't get too much out of her, so hopefully she'll be happy again.
 It's nice to see her when she's happy. I played junior golf with Paula my whole life, so we're close friends. It's nice to see us both. It was fun playing together. It was like playing junior Solheim Cup or junior golf again today. It was great. A great crowd of people following us, and it was great. A good day.

 Q. I think your group and a number groups had breast cancer survivors walk them today. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. 

 Q. I don't know how much you got to talk, but I think her name was Beth that was with your group. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Uh-huh.

 Q. Know I know you talked to her at the end. I don't know, just walking between the holes or walking to the tee kind of chitchatting a little bit?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, not as much as I would have liked. Normally I would talk to her. I was kind of in my own little bubble of trying to keep doing what I was doing; I didn't want to change anything up. 
 I'm becoming more superstitious in old age. I'm not really sure what's up with that. But my grandmother had breast cancer and passed away, so it's definitely a charity that we try or I try to do as much as I possibly can for just to get rid of this horrible disease. I do multiple breast cancer outings throughout the year. 
 So it's just great to have these ladies out here this week, and all survivors. I mean, it's pretty amazing. 
 MODERATOR: Any more questions? Thank you very much, Brittany.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Thank you. 
 MODERATOR: Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT