SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 4, 2011
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Brittany Lincicome into the interview room. Congratulations on your round of 64 today, now 6-under for the tournament. What worked for you out there today? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Everything, really. I was hitting it well off the tee. Obviously this course is all about placing it on the fairway was my number one goal. Get it on the fairway, get it on the green and see if we can make in putts. 
 So drove it well, and hit most of the greens well and seemed to make everything. Nothing really went in yesterday, so we must have been saving them for today. 
 We'd kind of lineup and I'd ask my caddie, what do you think? My caddie would say, I think it's this, and it was like okay, and we'd play it there and they would go in. It was just my day pretty much.

 Q. How did you feel after yesterday, shooting 1-over, very tough conditions, not many rounds under par? Did you feel good if you came in today and shot a low round, you'd be right there in the middle? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, absolutely. With how windy it was yesterday 1-over really wasn't that bad of a score. It was like 3-under on the front nine, so that was disappointing to come in at over par. 
 But it got really windy on a couple of other holes. The par-3s are playing really with long. So a different wind today really helped. So I knew it was out there, but I just kind of needed to trust it. 
 I felt like I've been playing really well. I practiced really hard last week, and I've been doing all the right things to try to get ready, and they paid off today, I guess. 

 Q. We talked earlier in the year when you are playing a couple of Mini Tour events down in Florida. Obviously those courses are much longer than this one. How does that experience playing 7,000-plus yard courses deal with playing a 6100-yard course? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I actually played in the men's event last week. It was a team two-person best ball team. It was unbelievably awesome. I think they're really getting me ready. I've played long courses ever since I was little. My home course was right around 7000 yards and the guys never let me play it up. I always had to play it back. 
 It's really all I know. Anywhere we go we always play it back. So I feel like it helps, especially the longer irons, the longer woods and irons, the 3-woods into par threes at these men's events or hybrids are normally par-5s. I'm going for greens in par-5s with those long irons. 
 So it's not good on the short game work unless you miss the green, I guess. I think it really helps with the longer irons, which is good. I've been playing long yardages ever since I was little, so I don't really know anything different.

 Q. So given all that, are you trying to prove that this is a course where long hitters can win on a 6100-yard course? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I mean, just looking to win again or get back in the winner's area, even in the same zip code, it's been a while. It's nice to kind of be up at the top of the leaderboard. Nice to be back in the media room, and getting asked questions about my round, so everything's going in the right direction. 
 I feel like I'm working hard, playing well. Even if it was 5,000 yards, I would take that win right now.

 Q. It looked like you had a second earlier this year or you kind of slipped and what happened in between? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Who knows. It's golf. I may not have practiced as hard as I should have, or didn't work out. Who knows. I felt like especially the last couple of weeks I felt like I've been really close. And obviously Match Play didn't work out too well for me, but that's Match Play. It's kind of the luck of the draw really. So I didn't read too much into that. 
 But last week I practiced every day. I have a friend who plays a lot of Mini Tour events and we practiced every single day last week, trying to get ready for this week which really helped.

 Q. Since you won in '09, what's been your level of frustration or patience in getting it all turned around? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, just trying to be patient. My number one goal going into this year was Solheim Cup. Obviously a win would be fantastic. The win would help get into Solheim Cup. But just trying to stay patient, trying to finish top 20 on the money list, top 10 to get those double points in the majors, the high points, and really just trying to focus on that really. 
 But like I said, I feel like I'm really close. I've been hitting the ball really well. Trying to not draw it as much and hopefully trying to hit it a little bit straighter. And then just the putting has really come around, so hopefully it keeps up for tomorrow.

 Q. What kind of philosophy do you take into tomorrow if the conditions are kind of calm? You have to go out and make a lot of birdies, you can't sit back. Just a little on the philosophy you'll take to the course tomorrow? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: That's pretty much it. Trying to keep it on the fairway again, and it's going to be a birdie fest, pretty much, the same as it was today. The wind is pretty much the only thing that protects this golf course. The greens are pretty fast. They're undulated as well, so the greens are what saves this golf course. 
 Like the gentleman said, it's not very long, but you've got to hit it on the right spot on the greens and the par-3s are really long. You have to take your birdies where you can, and the tougher holes, the par-3s especially, are where you get your par and keep moving.

 Q. 6 under, there is a good chance of playing with Catriona tomorrow. Is there any kind of play into the Solheim Cup with that? It's a big motivator. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I try not to think about that too much. Just go out there and try to play my own game, and just see if we can get it home, you know. Not too familiar about shooting 64 and following it up with another 64 tomorrow. 
 So we'll see what we can do and hopefully we come out on top. Worse come to worse, it will be a learning experience, and I'll learn something new and take it into State Farm this week.

 Q. Seven birdies, were any spectacular? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Nothing crazy. I need to make an eagle tomorrow. That's my next goal. The par-5s are all reachable in two, a couple are longer than others, but they're definitely out there. So that is kind of the goal for tomorrow is make some birdies and try to make an eagle.

 Q. The last hole you banged it six or seven feet, was that roughly the distance? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Right, yeah, chipping is not my strongest point ever or now.

 Q. Did you reach any of the par-5s in two? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, the first one, for sure. I'm drawing a blank for the second one. If not, they were like right -- the other one was just front left, so within like five yards of the green on all of them, and one of them I was on in two, the first one, No. 3.

 Q. You mentioned before about being back in the media room and being back in contention. How much do you sort of relish the chance to play in the last group or next to last group tomorrow? From Catriona's standpoint, it's also been a while since she's been in that last group. Just a little about the two of you guys maybe getting a chance to play in that last group? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, we're both going to be probably equally as nervous trying to finish out the deal. But it will be fun. I haven't played with Catriona in a long time, and she's a very nice lady. So hopefully we'll go out, have some laughs and see who can make more birdies -- or eagles (laughing). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT