KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 1, 2011
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I want to talk to you about the course. Obviously you've won here before and you're playing well this week. Maybe you can talk a little bit about how it sets up nicely for your game, having a good feeling out here.  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I mean the golf course sets up perfectly. A lot of the holes are right-to-left, which I love to hit the drill. And being a longer hitter, having a shorter iron into the greens, especially being as firm as they are, is definitely an advantage.   
 Even shots a couple holes out there I was hitting like an 8-iron and I couldn't get the 8-iron to stop, and God only knows the girls behind me hitting 5-irons into that green. It just gets really complicated. So luckily being one of the longer hitters is definitely an advantage going into the weekend.  
  
  Q. And also talking kind of about memories on the golf course. Obviously 18 is probably one of the cooler things in your career.  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Uh-huh.  
  
  Q. Walking up the 18th hole this week, do you put it aside? Is it hard for you to do to not think about that?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's definitely there. I had even told my caddie when we got on the bridge that it makes me tear up walking by all those people. I mean they're screaming so loud and cheering your name, and just brings back so many emotions.   
 So I try to keep it together, but a couple of tears kind of fell just because it's such a great memory. It's something that, you know, I don't know 10 years from now if I'm playing this event if I'll still get that feeling or not, I'm not sure.   
 But it's very cool, a lot of good memories and a lot of stuff I can reflect on come tomorrow and Sunday when the tee box hopefully is moved up again on 18.   
 I mean that 4-iron I had into 18 today was scary. It's a scary shot with the green being surrounded by water. But I mean it's a great memory.   
  
  Q. I wasn't here in '09. May be a stupid question. Do you have the same caddie now?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I don't.  
  
  Q. No? A different caddie?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.  
  
  Q. All right. I also was talking to some of your coaches with Vision 54. Maybe you could talk about how that's helped your game.  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. That especially today, I felt, really helped, because the first couple holes I felt were fine and then in the middle of the round it kind of -- it could have gone either way. It felt like I could have shot 100 today if it wasn't for them keeping me just positive and reflecting on things that we've been working on for the past two years now.   
 Just staying in the moment, you know. I made a couple bogeys, but then I was making birdies. It was really up and down. So definitely held it together very well, I thought. And even par is not horrible here. So still have a chance and we'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. Did you start working with Vision 54 the week before you won here?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was kind of -- they talked to me a little bit this week, just like 30 minutes here and there. And then I actually went the week after, flew to Phoenix like right after this event.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about the difference between your game today and yesterday?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yesterday just felt more free. It felt like I knew where the ball was going. I could step up and hit it, and today I felt like I was guiding it a little bit, especially off the tee when it was going right and left.   
 Like normally my ball misses left. So I was guarding against hitting it left, so every tee shot that I missed went right, of course.   
 When I actually went aggressive at it and swung hard like I normally do, it went dead straight down the middle. So it's just crazy how the ball tricks you a little bit into thinking it's going to do something. So just need to go to the range, hit a few drives and then hopefully find the fairway tomorrow.  
  
  Q. We were talking that some of the past winners of the Kraft earlier this morning, and you're a past winner. What would it mean for your career to be able to repeat here?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It would be crazy. Definitely going to do a different jump into the lake this time, or the pond, I guess. But I mean it would just be so cool. Doesn't have to be back to back, but just to have another win under my belt. To be 25 years old, that would be a dream come true.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT