KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2011
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Brittany, thanks for coming in, great round, 6-under 66. You're currently tied for the lead with Stacy Lewis. Can you tell me a little bit about your round?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was very easy. It was one of those days where I really didn't have to think too hard and just everything kind of came naturally. My putting was amazing. I made everything.   
 Probably only had two scary par saves. One was about 10 feet on 1, slider, right-to-left breaker, which was my 10th hole, first hole. But other than that, it was really pretty easygoing and relaxing out there.   
 I played with Ai Miyazato and she's a darling to play with. She's so nice. So we had a great conversation, just talked about whatever and it was just a fun day.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. The course was supposed to get firmer and harder and tougher in the afternoon.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Awesome.   
  
  Q. And you and Stacy and a couple other players have posted pretty good scores. Was it just not as tough as we thought or were you making really good adjustments?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. I think the adjustments, Phoenix we played a couple weeks ago the greens were kind of the same where you had to land them 10 or 15 short and let them release up. They're really, really firm out there. I'm hoping they're going to put some water on them right when we get done, because I would hate for them to lose them like Oakmont did at the Open this year. They're -- especially No. 1, and there was one other green like turning brown even or purple, which can't be good.   
 I don't know anything about the greens, but being a course that I love and I love to play, I'd hate for them to lose the greens. But yeah, they were super firm. They were firm already when we got here Monday, Tuesday. I guess with the wind, which obviously they can't calculate if the wind is whatever. But just allowing the ball to release and knowing it's going to release, even with lob wedge or sand wedge. Even myself who normally can spin the ball pretty good, I was allowing for about five release with the wedges.  
  
  Q. How was the heat this afternoon to play in? Did it bother you at all?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Luckily I'm from Florida, so it wasn't too bad, but there was definitely times where I'm like, all right, I gotta find the shade. I had my umbrella, but it's just a pain to have to carry the umbrella and try to get the numbers and write in the yardage book and do all that. So I didn't carry it as much as I should've. I just tried to find the shade when I could.  
  
  Q. Stacy said you two are pretty good friends and stay together. Can you just talk about your relationship with her?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. Stacy's been a great friend for a little while now. More lately I guess we've been getting a little closer, rooming together. If we don't want our fathers or mothers to go to a tournament, we'll stay together.   
 But she's just a really nice girl. We're kind of the same age. Very low maintenance both of us. So it's very easygoing. I like to go to bed early and I take a nap every day, so she goes and works out while I nap and then I make her go to bed early, so it actually works out perfectly.   
 But yeah, we went to dinner last night. We had dinner with one of our sponsors, Pure Silk and then Rosie Jones was there. So it was nice to talk to her a little bit and then just be together as a group. And I had my family there and her dad was there. It was just a fun night. Maybe we should go to dinner tonight.  
  
  Q. So you're not rooming together this week?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: No. Her dad's out; my mom and dad are out.  
  
  Q. Clearly you know something about this golf course that other people haven't figured out. I think you have a reserved seat out there the way you've played the last couple of years. What is it about this course that fits your game so well?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Not really sure. It's long. Obviously that's a good thing for my game. Having shorter irons into the greens, especially the way how firm they are this year, playing with Ai, who doesn't hit it as far, she's landing it short, running it up in the middle of the green, there's no way she could attack some of the pins that I could. So the length is definitely helping me on this golf course.   
 And then my putting always seems to be really good here. So just need three more days of doing the same thing I did today, just trying to make sure I hit it in the fairways and just trying to make the birdies when I can.  
  
  Q. You've been really consistent this year. Can you talk a little bit about that consistency and how it played into today?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. It's something that I said I was going to work on in the off season. I don't understand how Annika and Lorena played as many years as they played and they were in the Top 10 every single week and I have no idea how to do that. So I said it was one of my goals in the off season was to be more consistent, which I've done and I have no idea how.   
 I think driving it straighter and keeping it in the fairways and then now putting. Putting and chipping were two things that I feel like I worked really hard in the off season to make better and it's definitely helping.  
  
  Q. Brittany, great bogey-free round.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.  
  
  Q. How many drivers did you hit out there and when did you back off and go down to a 3 or something else?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. I hit one hybrid, I remember, and then probably two or three three-woods, and then the other holes I just hit driver. So probably one hybrid and three three-woods.   
  
  Q. So you were sticking to your game plan not scaling back, because a couple of the girls said, yeah, no, we're going to dial back a little bit play for position more because it's so firm?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. I mean just trying to get it as close to the green as I possibly could just so I'd have a shorter iron into the green was kind of the strategy. But I had my book from the previous years, and I really just kind of go off of that and what I've done in the past years and just tried to follow that and stick to the same game plan.  
  
  Q. Anything different in course setup this year than you've had in previous years? Some people said the rough was a little deeper, denser?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's pretty thick.  
  
  Q. Do you agree with that?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. Absolutely. It's definitely not a place you want to be. Luckily I have a shorter iron into the green, so it's not really that big of a deal on my last hole, which was 9. I hit it in the rough off the tee and had to hit a 6-iron out of it. It wasn't easy. You have to be very strong and keep the club going, obviously.   
 But I would agree the course setup is the same as it's been in previous years, but yeah, the rough is definitely thicker. I don't want to find out, though.  
  
  Q. People don't come to a major and say they've had a fun day and relaxing day.  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.  
  
  Q. When was the last time that you've had a fun and relaxing day? Any particular tournament or any particular round that you can remember?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Kind of just seems when my sports psychologists at Vision 54 ladies are out, they always seem to put a smile on my face. I'm always constantly working on something and we've worked really hard, if I have a bad hole, I can't get upset. I have to be very neutral.   
 And I have pictures in my yardage book that make me smile of my dogs and of fishing. So I try to always stay very positive out there. I saw them in the crowd following me, so every time I saw them, I was like, okay, make sure you're doing what you're supposed to be doing.   
 It was just a fun day. This is definitely a major, but I don't really consider it as like a U.S. Open kind of stress, I guess, especially when I hear every time I walk up 18 and I see the water, it always puts a smile on my face. So there's just a lot of happy moments on this golf course that make me smile.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I have pictures of my dog and my grandmother and I and of a fish, of a grouper.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: No. That would have been a good one, though.  
  
  Q. So you didn't have any impression you were grinding like Oakmont or --  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No. No, no. I mean the first couple holes obviously I was really nervous, and I was nervous last night when I went to bed, just being a past champion here and having just a little added pressure I guess on myself, people wanting me to do good. My family is all here.   
 So the first couple I was a little bit nervous, but once I got it going, I made a couple of birdies and that kind of relaxed me a little bit. Then I think I got to like 4-under and then I parred like the next five holes, so I didn't think I was ever going to get another birdie out there. I was going to have to stay with the 4-under, which I would have been satisfied. Then I birdied a couple coming in. So that was nice.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Brittany.  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT