RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 18, 2011
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Brittany, welcome.  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Good round today.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Just start off with some thoughts about the round.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was a great round. It's a fun golf course out there. It's a little bit different for my game because normally I'm used to hitting wedges and then kind of spinning them back, and here you have to allow for them to kind of release five or even seven yards. So it's a little bit different, but I knew going into this week that the greens were going to be a little bit firm, so I felt like I handled it and managed it pretty well out there today.  
 THE MODERATOR: Obviously this is a unique event. I've kind of been asking everybody, who are you playing for and why?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I am playing for The First Tee of St. Pete. I'm on the board, and it's just a charity that I've been affiliated with for the last couple years now.   
 We have an annual golf tournament every year in December, and we do a couple of poker tournaments throughout the year. Just trying to raise money for the kids. It's a great cause. A lot of families can't afford for their children to play golf, so it just helps fund that and just keep getting kids involved with golf.   
 THE MODERATOR: Very cool. Questions.  
  
  Q. Did something get you fired up on the back nine or?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. I mean -- yeah. Just was -- I don't even know what happened. It just kind of one right after another, and it wasn't even like I was making 50-footers. They were all five, eight-footers, pretty naturally just kind of happening.   
 I had a great group today, a bunch of nice girls. I was talking to my standard bear girls all day today, which if you know me, the more I talk, the better I play. So that made me very relaxed, and just enjoyed it and took it all in. It's a unique event, like you said, and just tried to have some fun with it.  
  
  Q. What were the topics of conversation?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It doesn't really matter actually. As long as I'm talking, and I talked to the little girls. I asked them if they played golf. They were 11 and 14 years old, so obviously they enjoyed chitchatting as well, and we just talked golf really and about school, and the girls in my group really just whatever kind of came up, what did you do in the last two weeks in your off weeks, and they asked me the same question, and just really talked about whatever.   
  
  Q. Do you think this course is going to set up well for the long hitters? Is there a big advantage for you this week do you think?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think so, especially the par-5s. I mean they're not crazy long, but definitely being a longer hitter, I have a better chance of getting there in two. So that's always a positive.   
 And it got kind of windy there the last couple holes, so obviously having a wedge into those greens is going to be a lot easier than having the longer irons. So definitely this course in particular it's nice to have a shorter iron, because like I said, even my wedge is releasing five to seven yards, so just think of some of these girls that are hitting 7-irons, 8-irons when I'm hitting a wedge, I mean they have to allow for a lot of release. So definitely length is going to come into play this week for sure.  
  
  Q. How receptive were the greens and conditions in your thinking? Were they as good as everybody I'm hearing say they were?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I actually played a practice round the week before Thailand. I came out and worked with the Vision 54 ladies, and I played the course, so I kind of already knew the greens were going to be firm.   
 They're definitely firm, and I'm not sure, I don't know if it's a new course or why they're so firm. Maybe it's just desert golf and I don't remember, but they're pretty firm out there. But you knew that going in, and just kind of you gotta play for it and just allow it to release.  
  
  Q. You mentioned that the wind was picking up. Do you expect that the afternoon groups are going to have a little more difficulty than your earlier starters?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I would think so. I mean our first couple holes, first nine holes even, it didn't seem like it was blowing at all. First couple holes I remember writing in my yardage book "calm" for the wind direction. So I would imagine it's going to be a little more difficult out there, especially the hotter it gets, the greens dry out a little bit more. So hopefully scores aren't too low.  
  
  Q. Is it frustrating with the stop-and-start nature of the early schedule here? Is that why you played the men's event, just to get some rounds in?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. It's a little -- not frustrating is the wrong word. It's just kind of hard to get in the rhythm of things. You play two weeks and take two and a half months off then play two weeks, then two weeks off, then three. It's nice to have these three weeks in a row to kind of get ready and get prepared, especially for our first major of the year.   
 The men's event was just that exact same thing, just trying to get ready for Thailand before I went just so when I got there, it wasn't like, oh, gosh, so it doesn't take as long to get ready and get going as years past.   
 I've gone to Australia before and tried it that way, but I didn't feel like flying that far and I wanted to have another week at home. The men's event was just in Orlando, so it just seemed to fit.   
  
  Q. Does this tournament mentally have a different feel? You know, you're playing for charity, you're playing for something, obviously, and a championship, but is there any less pressure, any different feel knowing that you're not actually playing for the money yourself?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It is a different feel. It's not, I would say, as stressful as like a Solheim Cup where you're representing your country, but I'm definitely representing somebody else, so I'm obviously going to try and do my best and try to raise as much money as I possibly can for my charity.   
 We don't raise crazy amounts of money, but we do raise a little bit, so if I did win or in the Top 5, that's more money than we would ever think about raising, so it's definitely -- maybe a little more pressure even just because I want to do so well for them. But like I said, I just try to go out and have fun with it and see what happens. I try not to put too much pressure on myself.  
  
  Q. Not to go through the card or anything, but were there a couple tee shots up there that stick out in your mind today?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I did a lot of good things today. I drove it well, which obviously really helps. Obviously you don't want to get in the rocks in the desert, so I did very well at avoiding those at all costs. Just set myself up nice to hit the wedges and the short irons in there, obviously the par-5s.   
 I had no eagles today, which is depressing, so hopefully in the next two days we can get some of those. Need to birdie more on the 15 and 18 so we can raise some more money for charity.   
 I did a lot of great things today, I putted it well, made the putts when I needed to to save par. Only had one bogey today which was pretty good.  
  
  Q. I didn't see a lot of birdies and eagles on the last four holes up on the leaderboard. Are they tough today or tougher hole location?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, not even that. Just coming down the stretch I always seem to get nervous and I feel like I put a little bit more added pressure, I guess, on myself. So I really was just happy with the par. It's really random. I'm not sure why. I birdied 15. Need to eagle 15.   
  
  Q. Have you noticed during any of the practice rounds or even today the way the event is honoring the founders? And the particular holes at the end have photographs of the founders and the Walk of Fame and all that. How much have you taken that in?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I've taken it all in. I was really funny because on one of the holes we could see the founders coming up, or Hall-of-Famers even, coming up No. 16 or so, and Nancy and Betsy and is it Patty Sheehan? It was really cool. I like was staring at them.   
 Thank goodness the other two girls had to hit. They were laying up on the par-5, I believe, so I had time to kind of watch them hit their second shots or their approach shot into the green, and there was a million people following them. So that was really cool. If I wasn't playing, I would definitely be out there watching them play this morning, because that's really cool.  
  
  Q. Where were you and where were they?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think I was on -- they were on like 16 maybe. I was on like 11 or 12.   
 THE MODERATOR: Anything else? Good. All right. Thanks, Brittany.  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Thanks, guys.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT