CVS/PHARMACY LPGA CHALLENGE
October 15, 2010
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. There's obviously disappointment on your face right now. Tough to follow up an incredible round of 61. What were your thoughts going into today?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I knew today wasn't going to be easy. I've never been in this situation before. It's a good situation to be in and kind of try to figure it out.  
 Obviously I know now kind of what to plan for in the future. I knew today wasn't going to be easy, but I didn't think it was going to be that hard.   
 31 putts. I mean, that's seven more putts than I had yesterday.   
  
  Q. Yeah, it looked to us like your pace was really off. Anything you can pinpoint as to a reason why that was?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, I mean, I just felt a little nervous for some reason. I was very tentative. I flew the greens six times today. I mean, you can't be above these pins. The greens are hard.   
 Just going to go work on a few short putts. I mean, it's there. I was just really nervous today. I didn't really know how to kind of follow up what I did yesterday.   
 So just going to go out tomorrow, and obviously 61 is possible, and see if we can't put some of those together on the weekend.  
  
  Q. Looked to me like a little bit of your ball flight was more right to left than usual. I think you can attribute that to nerves; would that be right?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely. Yesterday I was hitting it pretty straight. I mean, I knew it was going to go right on a string.   
 And today, you're right, I was hooking it quite a bit. Even putts, I felt like I was hooking my putts. So maybe it was just a day of the right to left. Hopefully we can get to figured out for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. All the best for the weekend, and we appreciate you stopping by.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Thank you.  
  
  Q. After 11, you were still in pretty good shape. You had made birdies on 9 and 11.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I mean, even off the tee I really didn't know where it was going all day. There was nothing I could kind of fall back on. Normally if I'm driving it well I'm putting it bad; or if I'm putting it bad I'm driving it well.   
 But today it was just kind of all bad. I was drawing the ball a lot, like she said. Yesterday I was hitting it pretty straight. The right to left gets me in trouble, but it's my kind of go-to, fallback. I mean, the hook is my swing.   
 So just need to straighten it out for tomorrow and hopefully get a few more putts to drop. Like I said, I also flew six greens. I'm over the pin on most of these greens. A couple of them going for the par-5s in two, but even then, I mean, you can't be above these pins.   
  
  Q. You were pulling a lot of shots there.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. Yeah, I was. Absolutely.  
  
  Q. Did you know early that it was going to be this difficult? Did you feel out of sync?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Um, I mean, on the first hole I even felt a little off. Even that first tee shot felt a little off. But this driving range, I like to hit balls and then putt.   
 The driving range so far a way, so by the time you go to the tee you haven't hit balls in like 30 minutes. It's kind of a long time in between hitting my last shot and going to the first tee.   
 I really didn't think too much about it. Hit a good shot on the next hole. Lipped out on my second hole of the day.  
 Yeah, I mean, even the tee shot on 3, that was pretty far left. And you can hit it 100 yards up on that hill and let it kick left, so...   
  
  Q. We saw your approach on 14. Did you have a bad lie there? What happened?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: What's 14?   
  
  Q. I think your tee shot was in the sand.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, yeah. Yeah, I hit that awful. It was an uphill lie. I was trying to make sure I cleared the lip of the bunker, and I just forgot to hit the ball altogether.   
  
  Q. So it went in the hazard?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What happened next?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Hit it on the back of that green. Straight downhill putt and three-putted.   
 Just so unlike me to make a triple. I haven't made a triple in forever.  
  
  Q. The average golfer, that happens to them all the time. The natural reaction is, how could this be. How do you explain it?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I mean, it's the same. Just the nerves and trying to follow up what I did yesterday. I shouldn't have checked any massages on my phone. I should have just stayed in my own little world and not replied back to every single person.   
 Obviously I'm 25. This is a good problem to have moving forward. I mean, my first playoff was this year. I talked to Val Skinner yesterday, and I'm like, Can you possibly lead after four days, lead on Thursday and then win the tournament?   
 It's kind of rare, so it's nice to maybe be back in a position where I'm more comfortable and I can attack from here on out. Obviously I can birdie every hole out there. Did it yesterday. Just got to believe.   
  
  Q. Historically the low scores are going to come in the morning. So you figure playing in the afternoon it's going to be hard to play 61 again.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I definitely wasn't thinking 61. I was thinking 69, 7O. Even par was -- I mean, I knew today was going to be hard?   
  
  Q. Because?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Because of what I did yesterday and all the attention I got. I lead the U.S. Open when I was like 16. I mean, that was like the hardest to play the next day because of all the attention that I got. Just my head. I just should have known.  
  
  Q. What did you shoot the second round?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Like 76. I barely made the cut. I made the cut by like one. I was leading after the first day and then barely made the cut. (Laughing.)   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT