NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 10, 2010
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Brittany, what an incredible final round for you. You started the day three shots back. What ignited the fire from you early in this round?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Not sure. It's just a great golf course. You can make a lot of birdies out there. So just give yourself enough chances. I was rolling the putter really well until the last couple. Just got a little bit nervous out there.   
 But it was nice. You know, 65 on the final day, that's pretty cool.  
  
  Q. Obviously a very tight race. Were you aware of where you stood throughout the round?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I was not. I didn't look at one leaderboard until after I made the last little putt on 18, and then I saw the board.   
 So not sure if it's going to be enough, but I'm pretty happy with my day.   
  
  Q. Playing alongside and Paula Creamer today, we saw her give you some encouragement. How much did that help?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It helped a lot. I mean, she's been there before. She knew what I was going through. I'm not sure if she knew that I didn't know where I was standing, but she obviously did. She was a great friend out there today.  
  
  Q. It's time to wait and see. Congratulations on a great final round.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Thank you.   
  
  Q. I know you don't think about this, but when you come into a tournament, Paula Creamer is the big deal because she's never played here, and you walk off 18 and everybody is hollering your name. Is that satisfying to you?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, Paula has obviously won bigger events and has done so much more than I have. She deserves everything that comes here way.  
 For myself, I just tell myself I need to keep playing better golf and then the fans will start recognizing my name and know who I am and they'll flip and want to root for me. (Laughing.)  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT