BELL MICRO LPGA CLASSIC
May 16, 2010
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Brittany, welcome. Like you just said, so close. That last hole was kind of a roller coaster I assume for you. Walk us through that a little bit.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, didn't hit that tee shot very good. I was about ten yards farther than the first couple times that I played it. 
 Kind of felt like I needed to hit a little 7, but just with all the energy and being amped up a little bit my caddie kind of thought 8 would be have been perfect. I didn't really trust it. Just kind of hit it a little heavy.
 Knew the sand until the bunker was really, really fluffy, so thought I would kind of go down a little bit after it. So I tried to kind of pick it a little bit, and obviously caught it a little clean and again hit one of the best putts I've ever hit. 
 It was nice to kind of give myself -- be in that position and not kind of miss it and make a bogey and just kind of give it to her. It felt good to kind of at least make that birdie. Made me feel pretty good, though. 
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, that was weird, because I asked the rules official, I'm like, How many times has somebody ever played the same hole before? She was like, Please, let's not go there. 
 So we tried to get it done as quickly as we could, but I think either way is fine. I think it would have been 17 more challenging if we would have gone to 17. 17 is a pretty tough hole. And just knowing where the pin is in my book, I never made it to 17, but just knowing where that pin was, I know it was a tough pin to kind of get at. 
 So I think it would have been more challenging. I don't think we would've gone as many holes if we would've gone to 16 and then kept going back. 

 Q. What does it do when you see Se Ri made a pretty awfully good shot to get herself in birdie position. How much pressure does that put on you?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, especially with the roar. You know, I thought it was two feet away. I didn't think it was kind of ten feet. So I knew I was going to have to hit a good shot. I just unfortunately didn't trust it. 
 But, again, it's just nice being in this position. You know, I'll know next time I get here to kind of trust it or take the club that I feel like I needed to hit and try to get a win here, soon. (Laughter.)

 Q. Talk about the whole day. After three holes this morning you were actually in pretty good shape when you stopped or whatever. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I know. I felt like I was playing good. So nervous again this morning as well as this afternoon. So just kind of learning how to calm the nerves a little bit. It's not something that you can practice. You can't just go to the range and your hands just start shaking automatically. It's not a feeling you can recreate unless you're under the pressure. 
 So it's just something that I'm learning to deal with. But, yeah, I was definitely playing well. Hit 3-wood on 4 into the bunker and was gonna, you know, possibly make another birdie there to get it to 2 under. 
 So felt like I was hitting it well and playing well, and then the what, the three-hour or so rain delay. Played some UNO and Go Fish with my niece and nephew, which is always fun. 
 But, um, yeah, I drank way too much sweet tea. Maybe I was jacked up a little bit. Sweat tea in Alabama is pretty spot on.
 But, yeah, we knew the weather. We kept looking it up on our phones or on the computer, so we knew it was coming and we knew it was gonna be a long delay.

 Q. How old are your knees and nephew?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Taylor is eight and Austin is ten.

 Q. They showed you after the first playoff hole looking at your hands. Was that shaking?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: My hands were shaking so bad. It was so funny. I was like the putt before I won Kraft, and then even after I made the putt I was trembling. I don't know how to get rid of that. 
 But I was just trying to take myself to a happy place, sing my songs, and try not to look at my hands. (Laughter.)

 Q. (Question regarding the song.)
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: You know, we were gonna Google it earlier and I totally forgot. But I don't know who sings it or the title of it, but I've had this one song in my head the last two days. It seems to kind of calm me and relax me. It's a country song. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: No. I can't sing, I promise you that.

 Q. When left the tee on the third playoff hole, did you feel like you had an advantage being in the fairway and Se Ri being in the bunker knowing where that pin was?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, absolutely. I was just trying to get it up there close. Obviously we played it a couple times before, so I was like, All right, I know what not to do. 
 It's a tough pin to get at, so I kept hitting it out to the right. But, you know, that third time that I was gonna dominate it and it was gonna be my hole. 
 Obviously that didn't happen. It was still nice to make the putt and get a par and kind of save face. No regrets. No nothing to look back on. 

 Q. How long was the putt?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, gosh, I don't know. 30 feet. Did you see it? I don't know. 25, 30 feet maybe. It was breaking about a foot left to right. It's very downhill.
 MODERATOR: Anything else? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Thanks, guys. 
 MODERATOR: Thanks, Brittany. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT