PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 26, 2019
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All four rounds under par in your finale.  How do you feel about the week here?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was good.  The heat definitely got to me, especially playing so late in the afternoon so many days in a row.
All in all it was so fun.  I have so many good memories at this event.  It was just so much fun to go out there and play.
I tried to play like it's my last one, but obviously like I'm not retiring.  I'm just taking some time off.  It was kind of a weird feeling.  Maybe it'll hit me tomorrow when I'm like, Huh, I'm not teeing it up for a while, you know.  Probably eight months.  Gosh.  What am I going to do?  I have to pick up a hobby.
Yeah, it was so awesome out there.  It was nice.  Had a bunch of great groups all week.  All the fans and everybody was super supportive, so it was cool.
Q. What now?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Great question.  I'm going to two see my grandmother for a couple days.  Probably drive there tomorrow just because tee times were so late today.  But just go hang out with her for a couple days and then start getting the nursery ready.  Haven't started that yet.  I wanted to like wait because I had so much time, so I'll do that when I get back.
Q. Do you think you'll pay attention?  How much do you think you'll watch while you're out?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I'll definitely watch for sure, especially my buddies.  Obviously next week with the Open is a huge week.  Definitely going to watch those.
Solheim, I can't wait for Solheim.  Obviously going to miss it, but...
Q. And your target for return?  Plan?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think Diamond Resorts.  Finished probably too low to get in CME unless they do sponsor invites, but probably Diamond Resorts.
Q. Did this week make you think you could keep going for a while?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, yeah.  Everyone is giving me hugs, see you later.  I keep talking to Misty and I'm like, I wouldn't put it past myself to come back for like Grand Rapids.  She was like, You're going to be one of those people that everyone says bye to and then you come back?
But I have felt great.  Unless I just get super big here sitting home doing nothing then I wouldn't be able to play, but I wouldn't put the it past myself.  Who knows?  Maybe I'll enjoy being home doing nothing.
Q. Do some fishing?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT