BELL MICRO LPGA CLASSIC
May 15, 2010
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Brittany, great round today.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Thank you.
 MODERATOR: You back up your 66 yesterday with a 67 today. Obviously playing some good golf. 
 What did you do well today? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I did a lot good today. Started a out a little rough. I was a little nervous obviously; that's expected. 
 Hit a great tee shot on 1, and then a really bad second shot. So I thought I was calmed down enough, but apparently I wasn't. 
 So it took a couple holes to kind of get in a rhythm. Instead of playing my good golf on the front, I decided to play the good golf on the back today. Which I'll take it either way. Doesn't matter. 
 But, um, yeah, I was driving it well again, you know, keeping it in play. These greens are still firm, so you gotta -- and you have to hit pretty great shots out there to kind of get them close or make some long putts, which I did today.
 MODERATOR: You played final group in Mexico, right? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. 
 MODERATOR: Okay. You kind of mentioned yesterday you got a little nervous. Looking forward to tomorrow, what do you got to do a little bit differently to break through? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, Mexico was really weird. Like I don't know if it was something that I ate or what, but my stomach was just no knots. I didn't eat anything all day. 
 So hopefully this golf course really fits my eye really well, so just kind of keep doing the same things I'm doing and working on tempo. The only time that I hit a bad shot is when I get a little quick. So just kind of taking a lot of deep breaths and calm myself down and just think about tempo and keep doing what I'm doing. 
 It was nice to finally get an eagle today. (Laughing.) I had 8-iron into that green and didn't hit the greatest of second shots, but it was nice to finally get an eagle. 
 MODERATOR: How long was the putt? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, man, like 30, 40 feet. It was pretty long.
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Talk about the eagle and how much that meant. I mean, because you are long off the tee, that's something out here there are a couple holes that are accessible. What does it mean for your position?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I would say 90% of the Par-5s out here are reachable for me. So it was finally nice to kind of third round in get that eagle. It wasn't even an easy one. Had 8-iron in and still had a long putt. 
 So but it feels good. I mean, I need to use my strengths, which is obviously my long game, to my advantage and finally capitalized on it a little bit. I hit that tee shot like 400 yards, (laughing) so it was nice to finally get that first eagle. 
 Hopefully have a couple of those tomorrow. 
 MODERATOR: What was the distance in with the 8? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think it was about 155, somewhere around there. 
 MODERATOR: All right. 

 Q. Just kind of talk about your position now. You said in Mexico you felt weird and a little nervous today. Is that a concern tomorrow?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it's just nice to keep putting myself in this position. I'm only 24, so I have plenty of time to kind of figure it out. Obviously the sooner the better. (Laughing.)
 But, yeah, I really like this golf course. It really sets up great for my game. A lot of the holes are right to left, which I love to hit the draw. 
 Hopefully if I keep putting well, I mean, sky's the limit. 65 is out there, and that's kind of what I'm shooting for.

 Q. You may have just answered my question. Looking at the way the course is playing, do you think a 65 is good enough to win it tomorrow?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely. Um, with all those names at the top the leaderboard, nobody's gonna back down; nobody's gonna shoot a high number tomorrow just knowing the layout. 
 And a lot of the longer hitters are kind of at the top. Suzann Pettersen, obviously Se Ri Pak isn't far as well. Definitely need to shoot a low number tomorrow. 
 I shot 73, I think, in Mexico on the final day. Obviously that's not gonna get it done. 65 would be nice. (Laughing.)
 My nephew kind of predicted it. It was so cute. He's only ten years old, and the air conditioner temperature in the car on the drive here this morning was 67, so he swore that I was gonna shoot 67. 
 So just need him to kind of pick a number for me tomorrow. (Laughing.) 

 Q. Was there anything at all that you weren't pleased with your game? I know you mentioned the bad second shot on the first hole. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, the tee shot on the third hole was pretty awful as well. But just little things like that. In the beginning obviously just a little bit nervous. 
 The only shots that, I mean, were bad shots, they were still on the green, just not judging the wind or the firmness of the greens well enough, especially having a wedge in your hand and not being able to get it within five feet. 
 That's probably the worst shot, other than the first two holes of my day. 
 MODERATOR: We good? All right. Thanks.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT