BELL MICRO LPGA CLASSIC
May 14, 2010
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. So, what was it, 60...   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: 6, I think.   
  
  Q. 66 today. Great start on the front nine. Obviously not the finish you would hope for, but just tell us about how you got it going on the front nine.  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I played really good on that nine yesterday, so there something about that nine that I like. I made every putt I looked at. I think I about ten footers every hole, and I just rolled them in like they were nothing. Obviously that helps.   
 Was driving it really well until the last hole. I'm not exactly sure where that came from. Maybe just a little nervous knowing that I was near the top.   
 I don't know what happened, but that was the worst drive of the day. Hopefully get rid of that for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. That hole could have been worse though, couldn't it?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, especially -- that chip wasn't really that hard. For some reason, put a lot of spin on -- I thought it would kind of tumble out of that rough. But, you know, what would you say that was, seven feet for bogey, or six feet for bogey even.   
 So it was a nice save. But you're definitely right. Tried to keep my composure and calm down and try to make a good stroke on it.  
  
  Q. Is this a course you have to attack the par-5s?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, every hole seems to be one that you can attack. I feel like the layout of this golf course a lot of the holes are right to left, which work into my drills.   
 I've been driving it really well. Even if I miss the fairway, it's probably by a yard, and I would count that anyway, so...  
 You know, it's just a golf course that sets up for really well for my eye. And if I'm putting well, the sky is the limit.  
  
  Q. If you're gonna get nervous with a chance at the lead on the last hole, it is better to do it on the second day?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: You know, I don't know. I was second going into the final day in Mexico couple weeks ago. I was so nervous. I was like, would I have liked to have played bad on Friday or Sunday? I wasn't really sure.   
 But it's nice to kind of be in contention again and see that I'm shooting the scores and playing well again.  
  
  Q. Did you think the course played tougher today, or about the same?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was a little bit windier. Definitely hotter than yesterday. Kind of trying to wipe off the sweat and keep my hands dry. That might have been the case on that tee shot on the last hole, hands getting a little wet.   
 But I think it was a little bit windier today.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you built up some momentum heading into the weekend?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I do, absolutely. Trying to take all the positives out of the last two days and take them into the weekend. Obviously I think I've birdied almost every hole out here now, so know every hole I can birdie.   
 Obviously the par-5s, just hitting good drives off the tee and having mid-irons into a couple of them, trying to make some eagles out there.   
  
  Q. Is that your little brother?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, niece and nephew. Yeah. All say he's giving me the little thumbs up, which is so cute. This is their first event, so they're loving it.   
  
  Q. There's as only been I believe five or six tournaments this year on the LPGA tour. How tough is it now as a golfer not to be able to get into a routine, a rhythm? You're playing, you're off for three weeks, playing in Mexico and you're flying and you're off for a week. What does that do to a golfer after the kind of year you had last year?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it's a little difficult, but I enjoy being home. So a week on and a week off, for me personally it doesn't really affect me at all.   
 Unfortunately, I didn't do too much practicing last week, so it's nice to kind of see myself playing well with not practicing at all last week.   
 But you're definitely right. I mean, we have two weeks here in a row, so we're excited. Then we have two weeks off, I guess, and then we have a five-week stretch. So it's kind of picking up here slowly. I don't mind it one bit. It works.  
  
  Q. I talked to the new commissioner this morning, and he said Lorena, everyone is sad to see her go. It opens up opportunities for someone else to be No. 1. How much do you talk about that most your peers?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, any one of us can step up at any minute. Obviously Ai Miyazato is kind of killing it right now, or Jiyai Shin. Their short game, if I had their short game, wow, with my long game and their short game, it would be crazy.   
 But, yeah, I mean, he said it right. Anybody can step up. It's just a matter of who is willing to do it. Obviously being an American I would like to see the Americans do it. But it's nice for our fans to see somebody different win each week, or Ai just gonna go out and win every week. (Laughing.)  
 We'll just see what happens.  
  
  Q. With Lorena's retirement, which was kind of a surprise to me anyway...  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Uh-huh.  
  
  Q. It really as you said opens up the game of golf, and the game now needs another kind of like face.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yep.  
  
  Q. What you do I think? Do you that's what it needs, or needs a different face every week?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: You know, it could be either way. People obviously liked when Lorena was winning every week or when Annika was winning every week. I personally think it's fun to kind of see different players win each week just so somebody -- even a new fan will learn something about that player. So I like different players winning each week, or myself, of course.   
 But, yeah, either way it seems to work. We need a Tiger on our tour, and maybe be Ai or Jiyai or somebody can kind of take over that spot and be No. 1.  
  
  Q. Going back to Hamilton Farm?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, yeah. Wouldn't miss that week.   
  
  Q. Memories for you?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it's nice to kind of get into a rhythm this week and play there next week. Match play is a really fun event. I love match play. I like being more aggressive, going for the par-5s. So it's just a format that fits my game.   
  
  Q. After last year, did you feel any kind of extra special pressure coming in this year?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, no. I don't try to put any extra pressure on myself. You know, I played really well in Thailand and Singapore. Maybe didn't score the way I would have liked, but I was hitting the ball and putting really, really well.   
 We'll just keep this going and see how many times I can win.   
  
  Q. About your game, do you feel your game is the kind of game that the LPGA can use as someone to get the fans going because the fans like big hitters rather than chippers and putters?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, yeah, absolutely. You know, it's always fun, especially playing with our Pro-Am guys on Wednesdays. The first drive off the first tee when you hit it, you know, 280 and then they're like, Oh, my goodness.   
 The ones that are fun are the ones that try to outdrive me. I just beat it by 'em. It's good for their ego, I'm sure.   
 Yeah, our swings are still slow enough where the fans can relate to our swings better than the bed. We still hit it far, so it's a good combination.  
  
  Q. I wasn't able to go to the homerun derby last night.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: My body is hurting.  
  
  Q. Was there a winner last night?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I was the winner. Of course.   
  
  Q. Shocker.  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I know, right? There wasn't very many players. It was a lot of the Bell Micro people were there. It was really a lot of fun, but any glutes and legs are pretty sore today.  
  
  Q. Now, you threw out the first pitch up in Pittsburgh, I was told. Are you from Pittsburgh?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, no. We were juts kind of promoting Bands for Life, breast cancer, and the US Open. There was a lot of things all tied in in two days.  
  
  Q. So you're from Florida?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yep, born and raised in Florida. Yep. Nice stadium in Pittsburgh, though. Not very many people were there. They had the Penguins game that night, too.   
  
  Q. They're struggling a little bit.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: That's what I heard.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT