KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 1, 2010
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You started off really strong, huh?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. Started off, I was so nervous. I really don't feel like I'd ever been that nervous before. Just trying to take a lot of deep breaths and just trying to get myself through the first couple holes and hopefully calm down, which I really didn't calm down all day.   
  
  Q. Why, though?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Just defending, something about just the word defending champion just freaks me out for some reason. So it's definitely something that I need to work on, especially if I keep winning.   
 But it's a good feeling to have, just being out there. And I just had a good time today. Michelle and I had a really good time.  
  
  Q. Maybe they need to put more galleries up there like near 18 because you had to feel the love coming up.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I did. The first tee this morning I almost started crying just with everyone. I've never had that much applause hitting my first tee shot off No. 1 ever. It was a very cool feeling.  
  
  Q. What was good about today? What do you think that maybe you missed some opportunities about today?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. I drove it really well. The times that I was in the rough, I actually ended up with really good lies and I could get it out on the green. So that was definitely my strong point was keeping it in play.   
 This rough out here is so thick that if you get it in enough, it'll start draining on you and you'll hit bad shots. So definitely had a couple holes coming in where I just picked the wrong club and ended up short of the bunker and it was an impossible bunker shot, made bogey, made two like 20-footers on 16 and 17 coming in to save par, so that was good. So putting it good. Just a few mental errors, just wrong clubs or ended up in the wrong spot.  
  
  Q. Did you feel good about the day when you first started off? The sun's out, there's no wind. It had to really play on so many nerves out there.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It did because everyone, yesterday and the day before we're like it's going to be 60 and blowing 20. And you know, I was like, okay, it'll be okay. Friday last year was a miserable day.   
 So you know, I woke up this morning, I had my Under Armour pants and my shirt and all these layers on when I got here and I'm like, wow, I'm sweating. So definitely could have worn shorts today. But it was a nice surprise. What beautiful weather here in California.  
  
  Q. You remember how it was, Friday. Your scores can wreak havoc in the wind. And the wind can change here from hole to hole. So what's it going to take tomorrow?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: You know, the same things I did today, hopefully keep driving it well. If you're in the middle of the fairway and you have a wedge in your hand, you're going to make some birdies eventually or make a 30-footer to get it going. So keeping it in play and keeping it in the fairway is my goal for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. 5 is clubhouse leader.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Is that reachable, attainable?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, yeah. Absolutely. I had it going. Got it to 4 out there today. Just a few mental errors coming down the stretch. Got later in the day. I didn't eat anything out there all day, so probably wasn't on the top of my game. So going out early tomorrow. We're going to let it loose.   
  
  Q. Awesome. Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT