U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2009
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Seemed like you had it going for a while?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I did. The front 9 every day this week has really been a struggle for me this week. I finished 1 over I believe on the front today. I was like, all right, it's better than the last couple days and just started making birdies in a row and felt like I was going to do fantastic out there.   
 And one bad hole and I would have liked to have birdied either 17 or 18 coming in. Top 5 or fifth place is pretty fantastic.  
  
  Q. What happened on the 16th tee shot?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: You know, I was so nervous for some reason. It's just a really hard hole. For some reason, straightaway holes are harder for myself than crooked holes, I guess.  
 I just was really nervous and totally just quit on the swing. I had a great line to the green, you know, knocked it on, just trying to two-putt it, and I got a little aggressive with that first putt. Obviously three feet straight downhill is not what you want to save par.   
 That was really the first short putt I had missed all week, so I'm happy that it came towards the end of the round.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised the way things have turned out?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah. I mean, it's playing tough out there. The back 9 I thought the girls would tear it up more just because it's so short today. Every tee seems like it's moved up quite a bit.   
 But still, I mean, these greens are rolling, I don't know, at least 12, 13, 14. I'm not really sure, but they're pretty quick. You get above it, you're in trouble.  
  
  Q. Were they more receptive to shots?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: A little bit better just because of the rain last night, yes, but still completely fast.  
 Yeah, I mean, it's USGA; it's the U.S. Open. You knew they were going to be fast.  
  
  Q. Inch and a half of rain here. I thought the greens would be slowed down.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, they're still rolling them. They're still double-cutting them. They're already a little burnt out. They're still pretty fast.  
  
  Q. Were you disappointed in any way?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, I mean, I gave it a good run. It's amazing. I think, now that I'm getting older, to realize how mentally prepared and how mentally tough you have to be for this week.   
 I've never really noticed, I don't know, just maybe been younger and now I'm a year older I'm kind of realizing, but you like give up one second out there you're going to make some pretty big numbers. You have to -- every shot really counts and you have to really put a lot of thought into it.  
  
  Q. Do you know Candie Kung very well?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I do. Not very well, but I know her well enough. She went to the VISION54 school with me a couple months ago, so I got to know her there.  
  
  Q. Have you been working with VISION54 this week?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yep. Pia and Lynn have not been here, but two of their assistants who I've kind of bonded with.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible.)  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yes, sir. They're younger, more my age. I like working with them, so they they've been out every day.   
  
  Q. Are they still here?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yes, they are.  
  
  Q. After the tee shot at 16, you hit the second shot, and you're thinking maybe -- you had a good stretch there and then maybe you've got a chance here?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, absolutely. Just par and get out of there and try to birdie one of the next two was my thought, and just -- like I said, I was shaking so bad. I was so nervous coming down the stretch. I need to learn how to get rid of that.  
  
  Q. Why do you think you were so nervous?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I don't know. It's the Open. You want to finish strong. You want to do good. I added pressure on myself, probably.   
  
  Q. On18, did you misread that?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: A little bit. The cup is -- it clearly showed it broke hard right to left, but the cup was sitting kind of funky.   
 We had talked about it but didn't really think it was going to affect it too much, so I tried playing it a bowlout and it was inside the hole. It wasn't even close.  
  
  Q. Do you think that nerves are what really cost you?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: A little bit. I mean, I obviously tried to take some deep breaths and relax a little bit, but downhill, straight downhill putts. You couldn't be aggressive with it, anyway.   
  
  Q. You just hit the ball in the wrong position?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: You've just got to get it rolling and pray that it's on the right line.  
  
  Q. Where was VISION54 school?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Phoenix.  
  
  Q. When was that?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Right after -- the week after I won Kraft.   
  
  Q. Is that a good time to go back to school?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, apparently.   
  
  Q. With Candie, do you think she has what it takes?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Sure. I mean, anybody -- if you're playing well, anybody has a chance. That's what's so great about the Open. It doesn't seem to be the top players every year that win this event, so it's pretty fun to see who can step up and who can hold it all together coming into the last hole.   
 The tee box is up really far on 18 today. It's not as difficult.  
  
  Q. How much shorter do you think it was today?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was 57 yards shorter? 55 yards shorter? Give or take.   
  
  Q. The tee shot on 15, would you talk about that?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: 57 yards.   
 15, the short one, or 16?   
  
  Q. 15.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: 15?   
  
  Q. Was that a driver in your hands?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: 3-wood. Yeah, 3-wood. The USGA had to do it to me, because they knew, one of the longer hitters, they knew I couldn't lay up.   
 I was going to have to hit 5-iron off that tee. I had just hit 3-wood on the previous hole, so I felt pretty comfortable hitting it. It looked really good visually.   
 I knew if I missed it, I was obviously going to miss it left and have a lot more green to work with. When I got up there and looked at it, it was straight downhill rolling probably a 20 on the Stimp.   
 I couldn't have hit any better. That putt I had, it's straight uphill, so you have to hit it hard to get it to the top, but it's straight downhill after the hole so you couldn't go long. Obviously I didn't judge that very well.  
  
  Q. How much in the 18 holes was shorter do you think?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Shorter hole distance?   
 It was really just the back 9. Back 9, there was probably three or four tee boxes moved up considerably.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT