SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 15, 2009
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BRITTANY LINCICOME: 1 was four feet. I believe it was like a gap wedge. 
 11, I was on the green and 2-putted with a 5-iron. 
 16 was 17 feet and I made a long putt from off the green. I hit a pitching wedge. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for coming in. You have a two-shot lead after two rounds of the Sybase Classic. If you would just talk about the day. The scores were not quite as low today across the board but didn't seem to factor for you with no bogeys.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Thank goodness. Coming down the stretch I was putting too much pressure on myself because I've never had two full rounds, 36 holes, without making a bogey before, and I think that was the only thing on my mind on the back nine. I looked at my caddie at one point and I just said, "Can we just 3-putt one hole just to get it out of the way and I can be done with it and move forward?" 
 These greens are really tricky. We couldn't figure them out. When we played left-to-right, they played right-to-left and read the greens really wrong, come my back nine, which was the front nine, and couldn't figure out which way they were breaking. Speed was a little bit off. It was kind of all bad, but finished out okay and glad to be sitting here done.

 Q. Asking you about putting, is it harder to make putts here than it is maybe at Kingsmill or someplace like that?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think so. They are really tricky. They very subtle. They have some poa annua in them, which I am not really used to. I don't know if it hits different or breaks different, but we didn't have it figured out today. Yesterday I did, but hopefully it will come back tomorrow. I was hitting it well.

 Q. Have you had any difficulty putting a good round after a great round? Is that difficult for you? Was that difficult, period, like it is for most people?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I think everybody struggles with that. It's nice to just be under par. I really had no expectations today, just to keep it under par. I was hitting it good yesterday, when I went to the range this morning I felt like I was hitting it really well. I hit 17 greens today, which is pretty phenomenal. 
 Then the only one I missed, it was the one I said I made it from off the green. So hitting it well and hopefully just keep it going and keep shooting under par. 

 Q. How did the golf course play differently today from yesterday? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was really cold yesterday and raining, and my round, it was raining. I think it was pretty much the same, maybe a little bit drier. Yesterday seemed to be a little bit wetter. The balls are hitting the green and they are spinning a mile. 
 So you have to be really be careful if you hit a full shot in there with wedge. We are trying to hit wedges, grip down a little bit, and take some spin off of them, because they seem to be spinning pretty good. 

 Q. What happened on the par 5? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think it was 188 downwind, so tried to play about 180. 

 Q. Hybrid in your hand? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I want to say 5-iron. That was 11, hybrid, so 200 to pin. That was a hybrid, 200 pin into the wind. 

 Q. You come out today saying you left a lot of shot out there, or do you come in saying, it's pretty cool you're in the lead?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's a little bit of both. It would have been nice to get at least one more. My caddie, she was like: "Do you have something with No. 11? Do you like No. 11?" 
 I said, "No, not really. I would like to get it to 12 if possible." I thought I was going to make the one on the last hole but read it wrong again. Played it straight and it broke left-to-right. Hopefully we can figure it out tomorrow and hit it how I've been hitting it. I'm feeling really good about how I've been hitting right now.

 Q. If you look at the leaderboard, I think you're, what, 23, and Kim is, what, 20? Is this something that you guys are looking forward to, the young kids taking over?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely. It's fun to see young people out there playing good golf. I think it's exciting for the fans and I think it's exciting for tournament owners. I think it's exciting, especially when you're playing good golf, it doesn't really matter if you're 50 or you're 20. It's fun. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks a lot, Brittany. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT