SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 14, 2009
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Brittany, birdie on 1.  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Six feet.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: You're not going to tell us the clubs?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, gosh. I don't have my book.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: We can just do the putts for now.   
 4, birdie?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Same, six feet.  
 8 was about an inch, 8-iron -- no, grip 7, sorry.   
 9, 30 feet.  
 10, 15 feet.  
 16, 15 feet.   
 18, I chipped in, and it was 17 yards with a 60-degree lob wedge.  
  
  Q. What did you hit in there, second shot?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Grip 3-wood, and it went too far. It was 235 total downwind.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Brittany, a great round and obviously a nice way to finish off with that eagle to tie for the lead in the clubhouse at 8-under. You've had a pretty good year thus far and it has to feel good to be back at the top of the leaderboard. Tell us about your day.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: It is. It's actually funny because I think I said going into Kraft that I was not hitting the ball very well at all. Last week I could not make a putt to save my life. Even this week, like I played Tuesday off-site, and I didn't do anything right, as hard as I was trying. And then I played yesterday here, made a few birdies and just kind of went out today just trying to keep it in the fairway.   
 This golf course is really, really tight. It seems that we've played a lot of golf courses lately that have been more open, so just keeping it in play, keeping it in the fairway was what I was trying to do today, and I made a few bombs, so that helps.  
  
  Q. You're a major champion now. You won at Hamilton Farms, you won Charleston I think it was, right?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: And Orlando, Ginn Open.   
  
  Q. Is there a difference being a major champion when you walk out there, how you think? Has that done something for you?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: For me personally, no. Everyone says, now you get to say you're a major champion, and I really don't think of it any differently. I mean, it's a huge honor. It's something most girls would dream for. I definitely take it in, but I don't think of myself any differently or as a major champion. I think of me as the same.   
  
  Q. It looks like your year has been a little up and down. Can you explain how things went today in the sense of is there a reason why things went so well?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I have no idea. I like it. Putting has just been the key. If I'm putting well then obviously I'm playing well, like today I had 25 putts, which I haven't done that in forever. So it was nice when I added them up on the green. I was like, wow, 25 putts, that's really good. Just keeping it in play, like obviously I changed my swing kind of last year. I got a new coach at the beginning of this year, just kind of working on takeaway, trying to keep it in play, and obviously my length is a huge -- it's one of my strongest points, I think, is hitting it far. So if I can keep it in play and putt well, watch out.   
  
  Q. Just going back to the major championship thing for a second, that has to give you more confidence, though, when you go out on the course?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely. Even the last shot on 18, just to know that I can hit that shot under pressure the final hole of a major, it's definitely a huge confidence booster. As well as I was putting, and I hit it really well, I did a lot of things well that week, and it was early in my year, so hopefully I can keep it going and hopefully get two wins in one year.   
  
  Q. You won at Hamilton Farms in Jersey. Do you consider yourself a Jersey girl?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Possibly. It was funny because my off-site pro-am Tuesday was at Hamilton Farms, and I didn't realize until I read the directions on Tuesday morning on the way there, and my dad and I were like, wow, that's familiar, and we get there, and it was pretty funny. It was really cool to go back, and it brought back a lot of memories, so good vibes going into this week.   
  
  Q. How different a player are you than Hamilton Farms when you won there? Do you look at that as your coming-out party sort of, and now you're, again, a major champion?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I mean, I definitely learned a lot from then until now. Obviously everything I went through last year with not playing well and not really knowing for sure if I was going to be able to turn it back around or if this was what I was wanting to do. Good thing I stuck around.   
 I mean, I've just been hitting it really well, keeping it in play, not hitting it out of bounds or taking a drop, just really been hitting it straighter, which has really helped.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yep, straight and far, crazy.   
  
  Q. You have a lot of competition in this field. Since Annika has moved, do you feel comfortable?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I don't think I am Annika, but maybe just right below, maybe like a 23-year-old Annika coming out. But that would be really cool someday.  
  
  Q. You need more competition or --  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, just need to keep playing and keep winning. She has a lot of wins.   
  
  Q. What's the name of your coach?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Craig Shankland. He's out of LPGA International.  
  
  Q. What you talked about last year, was there a turning point for you, where you said I am going to turn this around, I can turn this around?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Not until really the beginning of this year -- well, the end when I started working again. There was definitely times where we talked about it with my parents and thought about maybe taking the whole year off after the middle of the year wasn't going well, I wasn't hitting it well and just kind of thought about it, and I was like, even if I could win that last tournament, that final tournament, it would make up for my whole year, and that didn't happen. I took about two weeks off and then started grinding again with a new coach and really was working out hard and kind of rededicated because the previous year I took two months off, too much time off and didn't work out as much, and a lot of bad things happened in a row. This off-season I worked really hard to turn it back around, and luckily here I am.   
  
  Q. Can you describe, what is a grip 7 or 9 or 8?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Say the club goes 150, I was trying to hit it 145.  
  
  Q. I mean, you are about as far from a Jersey girl as somebody could possibly be, am I right? You're from a small town?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I like driving here, that's about it.  
  
  Q. But having read things before and listened to you --  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I definitely like fishing and being on the water. I'm a Florida girl.  
  
  Q. You drive a truck?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Pickup?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, a Lincoln.  
  
  Q. You like driving in Jersey?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, you can speed, you don't have to use a blinker, there's no cops (laughter). Knock on wood.   
  
  Q. Do you consider yourself a streaky player at all?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Streaky?   
  
  Q. Yeah, when you start off a tournament with a round like this, do you tend to sustain it the rest of the week?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Kraft I did. Kraft was the first Thursday round that I shot under par, I think, in forever. Normally dad always told me you couldn't lose on Thursday but you could definitely shoot your way out of it. As long as I stay in contention, I'm okay. Streaky as of I'll have a win and then I'll go a month without playing well, yes.   
 I really would like to learn how to be like Annika, be like Lorena and be more consistent and be at the top of the leaderboard every week. That would be nice.   
  
  Q. Just so that I understand, the tinkering that you did with your swing, exactly when did you start that process? You started that with Craig?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I started with him the beginning of January, like a month, month and a half before Hawai'i, I guess. The same things that we worked on with my old coach. It's just takeaway and I always get laid off so trying to get more open and get it upright and not lay it off.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Brittany, thanks so much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT