KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 3, 2009
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Brittany, strokes behind the leaders, if you would, just talk about the day and how it went for you.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I felt like I was playing really, really good considering the fact that I had it to 7-under, and it felt likes I was doing good. I think last couple of holes, I think it was blowing harder my last three or four holes, and I was getting tired late in the round. Had a few bad swings here and will and the last couple of holes, four holes or so, was really the only time I felt like I played poorly and the other ones I felt like I kept it together pretty good considering.   
  
  Q. (Did last week help you)?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Last week Thursday afternoon, I kind of got the bad draw there, but it was actually not a good thing coming into today, because it was rolling about the same, so I thought I was getting a good boost for the week. But unfortunately it happened to where I felt into the wrong wave, this morning and yesterday afternoon, I wouldn't have had the wind. But considering the fact that I had to do it, I think I played pretty well.   
  
  Q. Did you think --  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I didn't think it was possible, especially the last two or three holes.   
  
  Q. Just curious, yesterday the music was country for you and your caddie, strong winds today, what sounds did that produce?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: Same country. Unfortunately I left my iPod in my purse this morning, so that may be why I didn't play as good as yesterday; or, it was the wind. But definitely have my iPod tomorrow.   
  
  Q. When you won in Orlando, do you think it helped you to focus more --  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: "You hit it perfectly"; my dad always says I play better in windy conditions because I have to focus that much more. And unfortunately, I am a blonde, so it's hard to focus. In conditions like this, I have to concentrate so much more, or if I hit it behind a tree, I have to concentrate so much more, if I hit a good shot. So I definitely think it helps actually. I seem to do pretty good.   
  
  Q. I looked on the 8th green and you had to step away from the ball a couple of times, because it might have been oscillating; did you have a lot of that out there today?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I did. A lot of it I had to back off of. I don't really -- they were not oscillating. That would have really scared me. But I had to back off a couple of them. It was pretty windy and you kind of had to commit to it and just hit it.   
  
  Q. You have a couple of close friends up there; what do you think of Cristie that she's playing well?  
 BRITTANY LINCICOME: I have no idea but I hope it's rubbing off on me. She has not told me her secret. I have not quite figured out what she's doing or doing differently. She has not changed coaches. I don't know what she's doing, actually -- oh, that's right. I definitely don't know then. Obviously keeping it in play and probably putting it well.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Brittany, thanks a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT