HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2007
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN:  We have the defending champion, Brittany Lincicome.  I know you got in late last night.  We want to thank you for coming in.  Quickly talk about what it's like to defend this tournament here at a new course. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Kind of interesting to hear.  Everyone keeps saying it.  It makes me smile every time I hear it. 
 Unfortunately like you said, it's at a different golf, but it's in fantastic shape and the greens are fantastic and they are already rolling at least a 10, if not faster, and today is, what, Tuesday.  So it's going to be a challenge for sure. 
 The course last year, you know, was not a birdie-fest but you could make a lot of birdies easily.  Here, per se, it's going to be -- pars are going to be good.  If you make a birdie, it's like a gift from God.  So definitely a more challenging golf course I think. 

 Q.  When the bracket came out about a half hour ago, do you look at where you're going to match up and who you're going to match up with and who you could play a round or two in the future; is that something you can allow yourself to do or do you focus on what's in front of you? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Honestly I only looked at who I'm playing on Thursday.  That's all the further I got on the bracket unfortunately.  I was in hurry and eating lunch and getting ready to go practice a little bit before I came here.  Normally I try to take it one match at a time anyway.  So as long as I get that first one done and maybe I can start looking towards the future but right now it's just my main focus is on that one match. 

 Q.  Do you still feel like you're sort of a youngster on Tour, or now that there's more girls who are teenagers, a couple years younger and now you've been doing so well this year, do you feel more like a veteran on Tour? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  A little bit.  It's actually when Morgan comes up and she's only 18 and Michelle is, what, 17; it's definitely exciting to be considered one of the Young Guns when they mention my name with theirs.  It's very flattering.  I still feel like I'm one of them.  You know, we played junior golf forever, so it feels like our own little tour when we get to play together.  So I definitely still feel young, so hopefully, I don't want to be old yet. 

 Q.  How old are you? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I will be 22 in September. 

 Q.  Off the course, how close are you with Morgan, Paula, all of those girls that the media seems to group you together with all of the time? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Unfortunately everyone is so busy, either with sponsor outings or dinners that everyone has to do that we don't get together as much as we would like.  We definitely talk about what we've done with Morgan last week; went and saw Harry Potter.  She's addicted to Harry Potter, so had to hear all about it.  Unfortunately we don't get to go to dinner or go to the movies and hang out as much as we did back in junior golf.  We had more time back then obviously than we do now.  Unfortunately not as much as we'd like to I guess.  We're going to dinner tonight for the Solheim dinner, though, so get to see everybody tonight. 

 Q.  How difficult is it to win six matches in four days?  And with the weather the way it looks like, it could be six matches in three days.  How difficult is that on your body physically and on you mentally, too, and does that make this more difficult than a normal stroke-play tournament? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Any time you have to play 36 holes or more than 18 holes in one day; it's just grueling on your body, on your feet.  It's definitely a lot harder.  So you just kind of try and take one hole at a time.  You definitely don't want to try to say, oh, let's get this match over in 12, 13 holes and get to the next match because you're trying to put too much pressure on yourself.  So take it one hole at a time and if you end up playing 36 or more in one day, you've got to go.  You've got to do it unfortunately. 

 Q.  Could you talk about your first round match with Carin Koch, kind of a Solheim Cup preview there maybe. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  It is.  That's what I was saying.  She's been on Solheim a bunch of times and she has that match play kind of experience.  So definitely going to be a good, fun match.  She's a friend of mine.  I've played practice rounds with her occasionally and I've gotten to know her a little bit in the last three years. 
 So it's going to be exciting.  I don't want to -- defending champion title is kind of stressful because everyone expects you to kind of do it again or come close.  So I don't want to put any added pressure on myself.  Just going to go out there and have fun with it -- different golf course, too, and birdie key holes and make my pars when I can. 

 Q.  Lorena was here before talking about how she wants to stay at No. 1 for quite a while.  From your perspective do you see her as someone who has the game to stay up there for a couple of years like Annika did? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I believe that 100%.  She put her mind to being No. 1 and she did it in a short amount of time.  Right when she started talking about doing it; it's for her country; it's for herself; it's for her family.  She's phenomenal and I believe she'll be there for a very, very long time, which is good.  It's good; it makes all of us step up all of our games and makes us want to do better.  It's good for her, good for her country, good for our tour and good for the other players.  It's a win/win. 

 Q.  Do you ever see yourself -- do you envision yourself overtaking her maybe in a few years? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  That would be nice.  Unfortunately my drive and dedication isn't where it needs to be where it needs to be just yet.  It's getting a lot better now that I have a new caddie this year.  He makes me want to practice and makes me want to be out there, and we figure out some games to do and we have fun with it.  I'm sure definitely one day I will want to be No. 1 and want to be winning majors, more tournaments each year and Solheim.  Goals will get higher and higher every year.  
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Defending champion, good luck. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT