MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 8, 2007
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Thanks for coming in and joining us today.  Currently two shots off the lead at 6-under.  Just talk about how you played today. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Today, it wasn't a great day.  I started out really slow.  I bogeyed the par 5,11, which my length I can't get there anyway but silly mistakes, you know.  And then I missed about, oh, a one-footer on 15 to make my birdie.  So I basically 3-putted; I was on the green in two.  So I just thought it was going to go downhill from there and then I birdied three in a row after that. 
 It felt like it was going to be one of those days where nothing goes my way and then ended up making a good putt on 16 and just kind of turning it around.  The 3-putt, I marked it, looked at it, read it, and still missed it. 
 PAM WARNER:  Let's go over your bogeys and birdies. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  On 11, we were in-between clubs for our third shot and just flew it over the green and didn't get up-and-down.  I hit 8-iron.  It's a long hole.  We hit 3-wood off the tee to keep it away from that bunker and I hit hybrid to lay up.  Should have hit the 9-iron. 
 16, I was 94 yards.  Hit sand wedge to about 20 feet and made a long putt. 
 17 was 15 feet.  It was 164 with a 7-iron. 
 Then 18 was 15 feet, 137 with a 9-iron. 
 3 was ten feet.  It was a 9-iron from 137. 
 Bogey on 5.  I hit a great tee shot and actually was right where I was trying to hit it, and I hit it too good, actually, and it went in the rough.  Basically just hit it to the front of the green and chipped it up, made a great putt and just read it wrong. 
 PAM WARNER:  How long would you say your putt was? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  It was probably seven feet.  Hit a good putt.  Didn't play enough break. 
 On 8, I was on the green in two.  I two putted from 30 feet -- hit 6-iron. 

 Q.  How long was the birdie putt? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Ended up being like a foot. 

 Q.  How long was the eagle putt on 15?  Was that a pretty long one? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  The other eagle, no.  It was 25 feet. 

 Q.  Because of the late tee time and obviously the heat out there as you played, how much of a factor was that? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I don't really like the late tee time regardless of the heat.  So just getting prepared for that and being as hot as it was, I think I applied sunscreen 20 times out there today. 
 I'm definitely more tired now than I've ever been in my life.  We were counting the holes down starting on the back, our front nine, and that wasn't a good idea because they didn't seem like they were ever going to end.  It definitely was a factor and I felt very tired and sluggish, even though I was eating every three holes and drinking plenty of water; it was just really hot. 

 Q.  Do you usually carry the umbrella? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  No. 

 Q.  Was that a first? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I felt like a girl out there.  (Laughing). 
 Actually the guy from the GOLF CHANNEL said it was going to rain or a possibility of rain because of how hot it was going to be.  We brought the umbrella and I knew since we had it, I knew Greg didn't want to carry it, I would just hold it over myself.  It actually worked.  I don't think I got a lot of sun. 

 Q.  You have to feel great about the position you're in. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Definitely.  I mean, just getting in contention the first two days is all we were trying to do.  You know, shoot a decent score, keep it around where all of the other girls were, and being two back, I mean, what more can you ask for.  Just keep playing the same way.  Obviously the silly mistake I made on 11 just keep those mistakes out of there and try to make some birdies. 

 Q.  Somebody made a distinction on both tours between match play and stroke play -- is one any different in winning in terms of degree of difficulty than the other, and did it feel -- I know it felt good because winning is good, did it feel different, I don't want to say validation, but the fact you made it 72 holes? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  The Match Play I think was a lot easier, like you said because in stroke play, every shot counts.  And I think that's why I love match play more is because I can go for the par 5s in two and I can be a lot more aggressive than I can in stroke play. 
 Not saying that that was easy, but it was easier than the stroke play by far. 

 Q.  I guess what I'm trying to say is did you get more confidence and feel-good stuff winning Ginn than you did the Match Play? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  No, it was definitely more of a satisfaction winning Ginn than the Match Play, especially trailing behind, I never thought I was going to be up there.  Just second or third place was kind of my goal. 
 When Lorena started messing up a little bit, I hung in there and going to 18 tee, that's a whole other ballgame or pressure.  In the Match Play I was 4-up going into the last couple of holes so all I had to do was make par and go from there.  Stroke play was definitely a lot harder and more satisfying. 

 Q.  How does it feel different than something like the Ginn?  Is it tangibly different feeling atmosphere-wise, pressure-wise? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Here? 

 Q.  Yes, given that Ginn was a tough course, a great field. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Right.  Last week's Ginn? 

 Q.  Yeah. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Last week's Ginn was just a different golf course.  It was a lot harder. 
 This week, just knowing the golf course, I think it makes me a little bit more comfortable.  I don't really go into a tournament thinking this is a major or a caliber of the tournament or anything.  They are all the same.  You have to hit the same ball, do the same swings, try to make as few of mistakes.  I try not to put added pressure on myself knowing that this is a major. 

 Q.  I'm trying to remember, you had kind of a fringe-like, decent chance at Kraft; is that about the only good go you've had so far? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  At the Open last year I think I came in six.  I was third or something going into the last round and I finished like sixth.  That was a hard golf course. 
 I've done fairly well.  The Kraft, I didn't think I ever had a chance.  I didn't look at the leaderboard; I had already hit my third shot into 18 so I didn't realize how close I was there.  Not saying I would have put it any closer, but I try not to -- I just try not to put any pressure on myself and just play the same way. 
 PAM WARNER:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT