SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 17, 2007
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Thank you for coming in and joining us.  Great round out there.  You're tied for the lead at 4-under par, just talk about how you played. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  It was a good day.  I got a really good start, and then wrong club off of 12 tee and kind of went downhill.  So I was a little nervous after that and had another bogey somewhere down the line and another birdie, and just figured it would be one of those days where it was just up-and-down, up-and-down and then made the turn and had some good things happen.  So, it was a good day. 
 PAM WARNER:  You had a couple eagles, do you want to at least go over those. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Yeah, No. 11, I hit 6-iron to probably seven feet, hit it really close.  And then the other one on No. 5, I actually chipped in just on left side of the green. 
 PAM WARNER:  How far away? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I can only do it in feet, so probably like 40 feet. 

 Q.  Let's start with the good one.  What happened on 12? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I hit a great drive.  It was straight downwind and I just had -- I think we had 170 or something to the front to get on the front so we just hit 6-iron.  And it released a little bit and had like a 7-footer.  I made like a long putt on 10 to get my first birdie. 

 Q.  How far was it? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Probably 30 feet -- I thought you said 11 I'm sorry. 
 12 we were going to hit 3-wood but then we decided to hit driver, and I literally hit it probably five yards off line and it went straight through the fairway.  The line we were trying to take it, we obviously were going to draw it off about five yards over, I was trying to draw it off and it went through the trees and I tried to get too greedy and punch it.  We were going to go across the lake to get on the other side and it caught the branch and went from there.  Karrie did it, though, so I watched her hit in the water, so I just kind of followed.  We were playing follow the leader. 
 PAM WARNER:  Let's try and go over the card.  14? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I don't even know what hole 14 is.  I didn't have any long putts.  They were all around 10 feet. 

 Q.  You seem to play very well in New Jersey. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I do. 

 Q.  Had you played here much at all before? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  No.  I mean, other than the LPGA was the first time that we had been here in the Match Play and now.  We went to a Mets game -- I think it was the Mets game, I that I that's what made me play good. 
 The golf course sets up to my game very well.  Last week I felt like I hit it very well, but just wasn't putting very well.  I think I am just kind carrying over into this week now, so hopefully we'll have a good week here.  Putting was phenomenal today. 

 Q.  You're at the top of the leaderboard and you see Lorena Ochoa up the at top, the No. 1 player and currently on a roll right now.  When you head out there tomorrow, if you're both still up there, are you going to be looking at her differently knowing how she plays?  She's very consistent and everything like that. 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I honestly don't look at the scoreboard.  That's why I didn't even know where I was until you just said that.  I get too nervous if I see that leaderboard, and I feel like I have to press a little bit and make birdies if I see the girls going lower and lower.  I try to do my own thing and obviously I try to make birdie -- I try to make birdie on every hole obviously, so I don't pay attention to what she's doing.  I know she's going to go low.  She always goes low, so I've just got to do my own thing. 

 Q.  Do you ever look? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I try not.  Every time I do, it seems I always either miss my next putt or something.  I seriously try not to look at it as hard as I can. 

 Q.  Not even on Sunday? 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  No.  Because the Kraft, I didn't even look at it until I had hit my third shot into the green and I didn't even realize that I was even close to the lead because I had actually looked at it on No. 12, and I was like, oh, you know, you just need to birdie out and I didn't realize that if I would have birdied 18 after I said I didn't look at a leaderboard until I already hit my third shot. 
 My win in Orlando luckily we were in the same group so I knew what was going on.  So it might be a good thing to look at the leaderboard I'm not sure. 

 Q.  How has life changed for you in the last, whatever it is, since August or whatever; are you going, "Wow, am I making a name for myself or what?" 
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Yeah, it's really exciting to do media interviews and everything that I've had to do.  It's definitely exciting. 
 Personally it has not changed.  I'm still the same girl, I shop at Wal-Mart or Target or whatever, dollar store, same stuff in that respect.  Between media and sponsor and stuff like that, it's really fun to see people coming in and hey, you know, knowing who I am and everything.  It's fun to walk down the street and somebody recognizes you. 
 PAM WARNER:  Thank you, Brittany. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT