GINN OPEN
April 15, 2007
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Brittany, congratulations on your second LPGA career win.  At one point actually after 8, you were six strokes back and came back to win.  So just talk about the whole day starting four strokes back and just plugging away with Lorena and Laura in that group.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  You know, I just tried to stay patient.  My caddie, Greg (Johnston), had already said that it was going to be:  Just take your par, stay patient and we did.  I didn't really get off to a good start and was kind of getting frustrated.  We just made sure that I worked on my swing and that I stayed patient and just made pars, and it worked out for me.   
  
  Q.  When you play in the wind, what's the one thing you try to burn into your brain about playing in the wind?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Don't swing hard.  Even professionals, being a professional, you always want to swing hard in the wind -- that's the one thing you tell amateurs, don't swing hard because it's into the wind; it doesn't go farther.  Just made sure I kept myself calm, made the same swing and kept good tempo.   
  
  Q.  Sorting through all that happened, hard to find a moment, but it seemed like that bogey putt you made after the penalty drop kept maybe the wheels from coming off because you would have been backpedaling at a time when they were comfortably ahead.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  That was huge.  That putt saved me and there were a couple more par putts coming in I had to make, especially the one on 17, the par 5.  That was a huge putt, also.  My putter definitely saved me this week, the whole week.   
  
  Q.  What are you going to do with all that money?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  That money is probably already being invested, and I will never see it.  (Laughing.)   
  
  Q.  When you are out there in those conditions what does -- the degree of difficulty?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  65.  It was so windy, that's probably the strongest wind I have ever played in in my life.  We thought Hawaii was pretty strong wind, but today definitely was a lot stronger.  Trying to keep the ball in the right line, and you think you hit a great shot, like on the par-3, 16, I thought I hit a great shot there and staring it down and it comes out like ten yards short.  I thought it was the perfect club, perfect shot and just the wind ate it up.  Strong wind.   
  
  Q.  If I'm not make mistaken, Laura was sort of one of your idols growing up, and then so you're playing with her; and Lorena is poised to take over No. 1 if she wins.  I just wonder your emotions, on winning with going up against those guys.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Both those girls, Lorena is just a total sweetheart.  And Laura is calling me Sign Girl now because when I was 12 I did the signs at the JcPenney Classic.  So she is now calling me Sign Girl.  So every time I see her, it's a joke now.   
 It's fun to have her there and seeing her play well.  She has not played wall in a while, so it was great to see her play good and be there with me.   
  
  Q.  What year was that and how old were you then?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I have no idea.  I'm 21.   
  
  Q.  How old were you then?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  12.  I did it for like four years.  It was the JcPenney Classic, the mixed team, her and John Daly.  I had to watch them play because they hit it far.   
  
  Q.  Did they win; do you remember?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I don't remember.   
  
  Q.  That's where you learned to hit it far.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Exactly.  Exactly.  Always had to pick them.   
  
  Q.  Was there a point where you thought they might stop play; were balls oscillating?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  They were definitely moving.  You noticed a couple of times we backed off of them you could tell the ball -- it obviously didn't move its position, but you could tell it was definitely wavering a little bit.  We backed off quite a few putts today, which was kind of annoying because you're getting up there, you're ready to go, you've got the line, whatever and then you have to back off.   
  
  Q.  Going back to the first question you were asked, when you were six down with ten to go, at any level did you think, "This is gone," particularly with the way Lorena was playing?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Oh, yeah, third place was going to be a great score, to come in third.  I can't even describe it.  You know, I just tried to stay patient and it paid off.   
  
  Q.  Does this mean more than the Match Play --   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I think it means more just because I had -- especially going all the way to the 18th hole and having to make good swings, good shots coming in; to be behind, Match Play, she had already played 18 holes in the morning; I think that's why she didn't play so well.  This win definitely means more because it means I had to work for it and make good shots and make a lot of good putts coming in.   
  
  Q.  How tapped are you physically right now after -- I can't remember when you were supposed to tee off, 9:30-ish and you finished at 6:15.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I definitely got up around 6:15 this morning, so definitely getting tired.  I have to go to a Pro-Am dinner after this.   
  
  Q.  How important has Greg been to you -- it's only been a short time, but have you noticed a difference, has it helped you having him with you?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Definitely.  I can't say anything bad because Dad is standing in the back.  (Laughter) I have to watch what I say here.   
 Greg, he just knows all the golf courses, except this one.  I had played here before and he didn't play here last year.  So I was like:  You don't want to hit it here, you don't want to hit it there.  He was laughing the whole time because I was telling him what to do.   
 But to pick the right club, to know the carry on the bunkers, to know where to hit it, where not to hit it, to be able to read the greens, and he's a phenomenal green reader.  He definitely helped me the last hole.  I wanted to hit pitching wedge and I wanted to hit 9-iron.  He saved me the tournament there.   
  
  Q.  How did that relationship come about?  We know that all of a sudden he was unemployed --   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Right.  It just kind of happened.  I mentioned to like Annika's caddie or something about Greg would be a great guy to have or whatever.  He was like, well, he's looking, he definitely is thinking about you, so just got the nerve up one day and asked him because he was unemployed.   
 So, I think he was looking for somebody young and coming up, so I fit well with him and he definitely fits well with me just because he knows a lot of information.  It's a good mix.   
  
  Q.  At what point did you think you had a chance to win?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  At least 15 or 16, through there, when she was having a couple problems and coming back to me.  I was trying to make birdies.  The wind was so strong and just pushed the ball so bad.  It was kind of funny.  You had to laugh about it.   
  
  Q.  You showed Laura the line on 17, and I know you're probably already at that point thinking about 18, but how stunning was that to you, that not only did she miss, but missed it bad?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Unfortunate.  I was rooting for her the whole day.  If anybody was going to win, I was hoping it was going to be her.  She has not been at the top in a while and it was just nice to see her play well and see a smile on her face.  After that happened it was just kind of -- I was crying inside for her.   
  
  Q.  There's a pretty solid list of up-and-coming Americans and usually the ones that are talked about are Paula and Pressel and Wie, and sometimes they remember to mention your name.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  They are going to have to now.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  That's kind of my point.  I know you sort of come in through -- you've been kind of a blue-collar kid, public school and the whole nine yards, I guess you probably belong in the discussion now.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I hope so.  It's fun to see my name up there.  We were driving in here and seeing all of the flags with girls' pictures on it and mine wasn't up there.  So it was just kind of --   
  
  Q.  Next year.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Maybe next year.  Kind of frustrating a little bit, because I work as hard as they do and I'm as friendly as they are and I try to do the right things that they do and I just don't get out there as well.   
 Obviously their agents are a little bit bigger than mine so I'm sure that's where they are marketable.  Hopefully after this week I'll see my name out there.  It's exciting.   
  
  Q.  Morgan, Michelle and Gulbis combined -- (inaudible.)   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Their agent is doing something right.  I have to go talk to my agent about that.  (Laughter).   
 They are going to have to now.  Obviously if I play well, they are going to have to write about me or put my picture up.  I'm not going to go to the press and be like, you didn't write about me today or put my picture up or whatever.  We just try to go out and play as good as I can possibly play and they will have to.   
  
  Q.  When we asked you yesterday about what could happen with conditions, we didn't know it would be this bad, but you talked a little bit and said par would be a sensational score.  Did you on any level believe 72 would win it?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  No.  Never a thought.  Last week, two weeks ago at the Kraft, Greg said, even par could win it tournament if you just stay patient.  Didn't believe it then, definitely didn't believe it today.  With the wind, honestly, you were out there; it was incredible.  I had never seen it blow so hard, ever.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Talking about young players just a couple of weeks ago, you and Morgan are the only two that are the automatic qualifiers to the ADT Championship.  What does that mean to you?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  That's actually huge because I talked to Kevin (ph) last year about getting a different room on the beach and he said you either have to win a major or win early.  So hopefully -- that's just exciting.  That was a really fun tournament, how beautiful it was out there, to stay on the beach and the dinners and stuff.  It was just really a lot of fun, so it's fun to be in.  I wanted to be in the suite like Pat Hurst had with like two beds and had its own like -- it was huge.  It was beautiful.   
  
  Q.  You get a room upgrade, you get your picture hung up; what's next?   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  You get to stay at Canyon Ranch.  Canyon Ranch gives a stay for two all-inclusive at one of their resorts.  You win that, as well.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  So who wants to go?  Life is great.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  What will you do now?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I have two weeks off which I am very excited for.  So obviously I'm going to take a couple of days off.  I was actually honestly talking to the head pro about coming up early next week to play here.  So be back here and just take a lot of lessons with my coach over there and get back to it.  There's always something we can work on.   
  
  Q.  Did you think that Laura and Lorena had a lot of pressure?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Maybe a little bit, because Lorena is such a great, steady player and she kind of got off her game a little bit.  I don't know if she just started thinking about being No. 1.  And Laura on 17, just rushed her a little bit, she has not been in contention for a while.  So that could very well be what happened.  I honestly don't know though.   
  
  Q.  Annika might be slipping you a little money later on today, too.   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  We're in cahoots together.  (Laughter).   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  What's your coach's name?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Matt Mitchell.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Congratulations, Brittany.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT