KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 1, 2007
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR:  Brittany, thank you for coming in.  You had a great day today.  You didn't have any bogeys at all.  You had one bogey, was that right?  Sorry.  No, you didn't have any bogeys.  You were 3-under for the day.  No?  Okay.  If you could go over, we got your birdies, if you could go over your bogey on 5.   
 We'll let you guys ask questions.  We'll get the score card later.   
  
  Q.  How confusing was it for you out there?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Right.  It was okay.  I just try to stay away from the bogeys.  Got in the rough a couple times.  And putting was a little off, too.  Just a couple bad shots here and there.   
  
  Q.  How pleased are you to finish second in your first major?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Very, very pleased.  Obviously, you know, one more birdie.  I had probably a 6-footer on 16.  10-footer on 17, and 10-footer on 18.  Had a lot of chances to make one more putt.  I didn't look at the score board.  I saw it on 13 or 14, saw I was at 5 or 6.  Thought I was completely out of it.   
 Then coming down to the stretch I saw it on 18, coming down the green.  I was right there.  I knew I was going to need to make it to at least get into the playoffs.  That's a bummer.  But I played really well all week.   
 I tried to keep it out of the thick rough.  And those greens are drying out and they're getting pretty hard.  So pretty good test today.   
  
  Q.  So you're usually not a score board watcher?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Right.  Normally I really try not to look.  Because then I get really nervous.  I tend to put more pressure on myself if I see the leader board, see what I need to be shooting.   
 I try not to look at it, try to make birdies when I can.   
  
  Q.  Can you describe 18?  You were 2-under on 18 coming in?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I was 2-under.  Yes.  I hit it in the rough, hit a really crappy tee shot there.  195 to the front.  That green, I hit a 6-iron yesterday.  If I hit more than a 6-iron I wasn't going to go for it.  So bad tee shot.  Third shot -- second or third shot, it wasn't that bad.  But kicked a little left.   
  
  Q.  How far out were you on your third?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  It was 95, about 90.   
  
  Q.  You said you had about a 10-foot putt for birdie?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Actually, that was one putt all week that had like a foot of break to it.  Every other putt, playing fairly straight, right edge, left edge.  That had a break to it.  So kind of a hard putt.  2-putt and got out of there.   
  
  Q.  At the time you kind of mentioned it, but did you know you needed that for possibly --   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I looked at the score board when I was walking up to the green because I knew I was going to at least 2-putt it, if nothing else.  Saw that Morgan was at 3, so I knew I needed to get it at 3.   
  
  Q.  You've been fielding, I guess, phone calls.  Is that people congratulating you saying that they thought you could have been in the playoff?  What are they saying?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Just friends congratulating me.  I was struggling every week, to try to play well, do your best.  Especially to be at a major golf course I've never been at before, this is the first year I got in, they're congratulating me.   
  
  Q.  First shot at a major?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  How does it feel to take second?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  It feels good.  Feels better after I get that check and I see how much I made.  I love money.  (Chuckling).   
 Kind of disappointing because I knew I was right there.  Knew I had a chance.  But it's kind of good because I came in second, something to improve on.  But overall I think I played pretty well.   
  
  Q.  How do you plan on spending it if you love money so much?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Either a financial advisor.  Save, somebody takes it, they invest it and I never see it.   
  
  Q.  Morgan has become the youngest winner ever to win a major.  How does this set up for the rest of the young guns on the LPGA Tour?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  It's great for our tour.  Having all these young girls come in here, play so well, it's great.  It's an exciting time for the tour.  I'm glad to be a part of it and be young also.  It's fun to see what it's worth going from here.   
  
  Q.  Last week you said that this was -- this is your first time here.  But this course has been set up longer than ever before, the longest in history, maybe one of the longest in LPGA history.  How well did that play to your game this whole week?   
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  That was huge.  My caddie had said, you know, the golf course is going to be fairly long but not too bad.  Then the par 3s will be shorter this week than last week.   
 We got here, we're playing, sorry to tell you, but they backed the tees up 20 yards on par 3s. I'm hitting 5-irons into the green laughing because he said they're going to be short 9-irons and I'm hitting 5.  It was fun to go to the tee and laugh a little bit.  But it definitely played into my game.   
 I was down with a wedge or 9-iron and all the other girls are hitting woods into the green.  Definitely played into my game, which is why I think I played so well.   
 MODERATOR:  Congratulations.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT