WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 24, 2006
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Brittany, a great round, 5 under par 67.  As the two people in here before, no bogeys today, all birdies.  You've had a great year.  You won the match play event.  You're playing really well.  Talk about your round today.
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  It was very, very good.  I got off to a good start, that always helps, and then got calmed down a little bit.  Iron shots weren't very good.  Driving was really, really good.  The second shots I need to work on a little bit for tomorrow.  But if I play four rounds like this, I'll be happy.  Got to be top 10 somewhere.
Q.  How did you shoot 67 without hitting your irons well?
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  That's a really good question.  I'm not sure, especially my last nine.  I flew the green like four times the last couple of holes, so I'm not really sure how I did it.  The par 5s I was really good on.  I birdied I think three out of the four.  That always helps.

They were good, but not good.  My wedges, I hit sand wedge into one green and pulled it.  Had like a 20 footer, didn't make birdie.  That was the par 5.
Q.  Everybody talks about that the fairways are somewhat wet.  Are the greens, is this throwing darts or more than that?  Does the ball roll after it hits?  Are you spinning it a lot?
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  You're not spinning it a lot, no.  You're getting some roll.  You're definitely not firing at the pins, especially this afternoon.  They will be getting some more roll than we had this morning.  The fairways are really, really wet.  I'm not really sure why they watered so much or what the thought was behind that.

The greens are pretty perfect.  You don't want a tournament where you can fire at all the pins because then you'll have 20, 25 under win the tournament.  You always want to see 5 under win, but they're definitely good.
Q.  If it stays like this, are we looking at 20, 25 under?  What do you see?
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Probably.  This golf course, for me anyway, sets up really, really good.  You definitely can go low.  If you're hitting the fairways, and the fairways are really big anyway, so if you can hit the fairway and get a couple of wedges in there, birdie the par 5s.  Most of the par 5s are reachable except one.  It's definitely going to be around 20, I would think, which is not fun because I never thought of myself as shooting 20 under for a four day tournament.  I have to get my mind frame in that.
Q.  What's the lowest you've shot before?
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  65.
Q.  For four rounds?
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I don't know.  I shot 9 under here last year.  I think that was pretty close.  I've got a tour caddie this week, so it's going to be good.
Q.  Does your mentality change being that you have to be more aggressive or you just play and whatever you score you score?
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I try not to think about it, first of all.  I know you need to make birdies to keep equal with the field and everything, but I try not to think about it.  If you try to shoot 20 under    in junior golf you never have to shoot 20 under in a four day tournament to win.  5 under would win those.  It's a different mindset to know you're capable of shooting 20 under in a four day tournament.  You just try to make birdies when they come.  And if you don't make it, go to the next hole and birdie that one.
Q.  What's the been the key to your season?  I know a lot of the young players have played well over the last few years and you've kind of made a name for yourself this year in particular.
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Last year I would drive the ball well, but I wouldn't putt good, or I would putt good and I wouldn't drive well.  This year it seems they're coming together.  Like if I'm putting well and hitting the tee shots good    like today, today I didn't miss hardly any fairways and was making the putts.  So everything is just kind of coming together.  I've been working really hard on my putting in the off season, and hopefully it's good to go from here on out.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us over your scorecard.  Start on No. 11, since you started on the back side.
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I made birdie.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Do you remember what you hit in and how far the putt was?
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I hit driving iron, my little hybrid club in that front bunker.  Where if I missed it, I was trying to get it in that bunker, because I would rather be in that bunker than have to hit that pitch shot, and just hit it up to seven feet and made it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  13, you made birdie again.  13 is the par 4, 380 yards.
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  That one I had 101 yards into the green and I hit gap wedge to 15 feet.  It was kind of a long one.
PAUL ROVNAK:  No. 2, another par 4.
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  No. 2, I was 96 yards out and hit sand wedge.  I don't even know what No. 2 was.  I was like 5 feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  5 feet?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yes.  That was a hard putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  No. 4, par 5.
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I was 210 and hit that hybrid driving iron again, actually flew the green, hit it over, and then chipped it down to about a foot and made it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  No. 9.
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  No. 9, I was 210 to the pin and actually hit 4 iron.  And I had like 35, 40 feet, and hit it to like two feet and made it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Any more questions for Brittany?
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  That's the hardest part of the interview.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you, Brittany.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT