U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2004
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RHONDA GLENN:  Brittany, thank you for being with us.  Tough day, today.  Why?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I hit the ball really good off the tee, second shots I couldn't get anything close, and my putting was off today.  Every time I thought I was going to make a putt I either lipped out or burnt the edge, so putting wasn't good.
RHONDA GLENN:  Do you think, was there any chance that maybe you got a little too excited yesterday with everything?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Maybe a little bit.  I tried to be as normal as possible, when I came here this morning, but maybe it got to me more than I thought.  I had a lot of people that called yesterday.  A lot of interviews and stuff yesterday.  Tomorrow is going to be better.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Maybe a little bit.  I tried not to let it, but it's a little overwhelming, the first time here, and shooting as good as I did yesterday.  That's all right.
Q.  What did you do last night?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I finally got home, after being here forever, and we ordered pizza.  And then I went to bed at 9.  I did nothing, absolutely nothing.
Q.  Did you watch yourself on TV at all?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I missed the interview.  I saw the highlights, but I missed the interview.
Q.  Just from a golf standpoint, did you feel not as comfortable today out there?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Today, I don't know, my attitude today wasn't as good as yesterday.  Yesterday I was smiling and all happy.  Today the first couple of holes I couldn't get anything started.  And then I made a bogey here and a bogey there and then I lost it after that.  I couldn't get back and be all happy and cheerful like I was yesterday.
Q.  Now you can go out and relax tomorrow?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Yes, I play better if I'm smiling and happy, I talk a lot.  Today I just walked by myself and hung out by myself, I don't know.  Maybe I was sick today and I didn't know it.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  No, I didn't play as good as I wanted to today.  I was hoping to be top three or at least after today.  But, you know, 1-over, I'm happy, I made the weekend, that's what I was trying to do.  Tomorrow I'm going to try and go out and make birdies, because I didn't make really any today.  Don't get me wrong, I'm really excited to be in the top.  I would have been a little more excited if I shot better.
Q.  A little nerves on the 10th tee, the first hole, something you've ever experienced?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  It was worse yesterday, because it was my first shot.  First practice round shot.  I don't know how I made contact with the ball, seriously.  No, that hole, I've hit it inside ten feet all three days in my practice round and yesterday.  I got up there today and pulled it a little bit, but it was still on the green.   They weren't as bad as I thought they were going to be.
Q.  If you'd been told before the tournament started that you were going to be 1-over and made the cut, would you have been satisfied?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I'd have been satisfied, definitely.  The first goal was to make the cut.  I figured if I made the cut I was pretty good.  I played okay.
Q.  Short putt you missed on 17, did that take a lot out of you mentally?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Yeah, yeah, that -- I knew it was coming, I have one putt where I miss, a foot, foot and a half.  I even marked it.  It's inevitable, I always do that.  I knew it was coming, I just didn't know when.  I got it out of the way, I just didn't know when.
Q.  Not teeing off until 3:00, how late did you sleep today?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  Got up like at 5:00.  My mom doesn't sleep, so we got up like at 6 and we went and got something to eat at 9 or 10, so it would digest, and I wasn't all full when I got here.  I got here 2 hours before.  And then I chipped and putted forever.  I don't like teeing off in the afternoon, I'd rather tee off at 7 or 6:00.  Just the waiting around just is not fun.
RHONDA GLENN:  Did you ever have lunch?
BRITTANY LINCICOME:  No, no.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  I don't remember missing a fairway.  Driver, I know if I get set up right, that it's going to go straight.  It makes the game a lot easier, I tell you.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  It was a little bit of both.  Consistency, like they weren't going at the flags, I was missing right or left.  Didn't know which way I was going to miss it.
Q.  On 12, was it adrenaline, where that went up the hill, or was that a misread on the distance?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  That was my dad.  That was the caddy's fault.  We were 90 yards out, which would be a normal gap wedge, gap wedge gets about 90 to a hundred.  But he said hit pitching wedge.  Pitching wedge goes 115, and I was only 90 yards out.
Q.  10 and 11 looked good, and that sort of started your --
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:  That didn't help me at all.  After that I was a little mad after that, I don't know why that bothered me so much.  Yesterday I bogeyed my second hole, I 3-putted, that would drive you more crazy rather than having a hard chip like I had.  I don't know why it bothered me, but I think that started it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT