DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 15, 2019
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Unique week for you guys.  How excited are you for this?  Looking forward to it?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Super excited.  We play the same format kind of week in and week out, normal stroke play with other LPGA girls.  So to kind of intermingle with some celebrities that we never get to see, except on TV, is pretty awesome.  And obviously, the parties they have is super unique.  To go to kind of a party that night and play golf the next day.  So all in all, it's just a fantastic week, and I hope the girls enjoy it.
Q. How do you approach this week?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's different for sure.  There's only 27 girls in the field, and it makes your chances of winning that much better.  But the talent on the LPGA these days is so strong that it's definitely going to take my A-game to get the win this week even though there's only 27 girls.
Q. How serious do you have to be with playing tongue in cheek with the celebrity who's really just out here to hack it around and have fun?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, for sure that will be challenging.  I've already secretly heard my pairing, and it will be interesting to see if I can focus and not just laugh the whole way around.  It's so fun.  It is the first event of the year.  Itis for official money, but at the end of the day, I'm just going to go out and have fun.  The fans that are going to be out there are awesome, and it's just going to be fun.
Q. The fact that it's all these champions out here for the LPGA, what a great showcase for all the best players?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it's the top of the top for sure.  Obviously, you had to have won to get in this event, which is very special to have a Tournament of Champions.  It's going to be tough for sure.
Q. How is the course looking?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I haven't played it yet.  I hear it's fantastic.  Every year we come back here, it's always so nice, and the grounds staff always does a great job of getting it ready for us.  It looks beautiful.
Q. How is your game?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I haven't really been playing much.  It will be interesting to see if it comes back.  The few times that I have played, it's been fine.  I played Monday in a Pro-Am, and I played great.  Hopefully, that sticks around.
Q. Every tournament you play in is a barometer, but is this even more special given the field?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, yeah, and it's my sponsor.  So it's a win-win really.  It's an official event, official money playing with LPGA, but then the celebrities and the parties.  It's just so much fun with it.
Q. What's the vibe like for these sorts of things?  It's just such a unique few days.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It is, yeah.
Q. Is it hard to stay focused?  I bet it's not for somebody like you.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It is a little bit because it's different, obviously, fans than normal LPGA golf fans.  It's just fun to kind of interact with them and show them kind of what we do.  Hopefully, we'll pick up some new fans during the week.
Q. We talked to some of those guys about how excited they are to play with you.  Who are you excited to see?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Everybody.  The guys that we just saw here on the tee.  Larry the Cable Guy is one of my favorites.  Colt Ford is awesome.  Lee Brice is great.  So just all of them.  You see them on TV, athletes or entertainers, and it's just cool to kind of be in their presence.
Q. The charity aspects of it, that's got to be special as well.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Very special.  Diamond Resorts is amazing at raising money and giving back.  It's cool to be on their team and to be a part of what they do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT