DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 23, 2021
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Brittany, what a great round today.  Eight birdies and the least amount of putts this week.  What worked for you the most today?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   You know, it was kind of everything.  When I needed to get a break I got the break; when I felt like I didn't hit it well, again, it like either kicked towards the hole or kicked back in the fairway.
 So it was one of those days that was super easy.  Hopefully I can ride that out one more day.
 Q. Do you think that the rain brought in the really good luck today, and were you at all expecting rain this week?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Absolutely not.  I didn't have the rain cover for the bag.  I didn't have a rain jacket.  I saw -- I took the umbrella out actually last night, because I was like, I'm make making my caddie carry it for two days and it's not raining.
 I saw Angela Stanford in the parking lot put her umbrella in the bag, and I was like, That's weird.  It's a 10% chance.  I was like, I better put it in there.  It's a little sun umbrella that weighs nothing.
 Thank you God I had it.
 Q. I just going to say, the golf course softened up, but then you had to fight the weather.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yep.
 Q. How did that balance out?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   You know, it was kind of tricky.  I thought on the range it was one of those misty rains.  It's not really a rain, it's most of a mist.
 But then it started raining like pretty hard, so keeping things dry, and for whatever reason I'm like super weird.  When I even get one drop of rain on my glove or the grip I like freak out.
 So with not having extra towels or didn't have the rain cover for the bag, it was challenging keeping everything dry.  Obviously my caddie did a great job getting me through and keeping everything dry.
 Q. We talked about your ball striking all week.  Stuck it pretty close today.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I did.  A lot of short putts; putter was working really well.  Obviously you can kind of make or break the momentum going with those little short putts, so it was nice to have some of those.
 I got up and down a few times and made a couple good par saves, which is helpful to keep the momentum going.
 Q. The top two Americans in the world are battling out at the top with Jess right behind.  When you see a board like that, what is your reaction?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I think it's fantastic.  Obviously being an American I'm obviously rooting for the Americans.  We have so much great talent on the tour right now, so it's anybody's game really any week, which is so fun watch.
 Obviously rooting for my American friends and hoping they do well.
 Q. Any insight on how Danielle Kang's game has risen in the last year or so?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I think she's playing a different golf course.  You know, it's out there.  You can do it.  It kind of can go south quickly as well if you're on the wrong side of the green and above some of these pins.  The greens are really fast.  The course is in such great shape this year.
 But, yeah, she's just super consistent.  Doesn't hit it super far but doesn't hit it short.  I saw her drive the green, or over the green on one of the holes yesterday, so hits it perfect, the distance off the tee, and doesn't get in too much trouble, which is nice.
 Q. When you think of the talent that's come through on the American side, is it surprising only two U.S. players have been No. 1?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, it is very surprising.  Even Gerina, I feel like she's such a great player.  She just needs -- Nelly -- that one breakthrough win and I feel like the flood gates are going to open for all of them.
 Yeah, we have a lot of great players.  Like I said, the tour just goes so deep nowadays that you can't just have a mediocre day.  You have to have four really good rounds in a row or you're not going to be able to win out here.
 Q. One question that I have is, is the game plan going to stay the same for tomorrow, or do you have a different game plan?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I'm going to pray that I keep getting the good bounces and the good breaks like I had today.  Like the second to last hole I was manage a divot and totally skanked it.  Like it didn't get more than ten yards off the fairway, but it rolled up to two feet.
 So hopefully we can keep those going tomorrow.  And the putter, I was on the putting green this morning just trying to look for something to make it better.  I found a little something.  Keeping it lower to the ground, and hopefully going to go with that and hopefully that works.
 Q. Final question:  There so many ways this week it seems to let loose and just kind of have fun.  Have you been able to enjoy any of the festivities this week?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   We're not allowed to go to the concerts unfortunately, but I can hear everything from my room.  I hear they're starting earlier tonight, which is nice, because the other night it didn't end until 11:00, so I didn't go to bed until way past my bedtime.
 But it's so fun.  I've played with Colt Ford a few days.  He is such a pleasure to play with.  It's so cool to hang out with somebody you never met before, celebrities, talk about their job is a little bit.  I'm asking how many songs he's going to play tonight and does he have a routine that he sticks to or does it change every day.
 It's just cool to pick their brains a little bit and not talk golf with everybody like we normally do.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT