CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 2018
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








(In progress.)
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I know.  I had it going at the start and then lost it terribly through the middle and then pulled it together nicely at the end.  I find it hard for myself just to keep going and not think about it.
I don't know if you saw, but a couple holes I was like trying not to look at the leaderboard because it just stresses me out.  I've talk to like Nancy Lopez, I've talked to top players, and they're like, You have to know.  You have to look at the leaderboard.  It literally stresses me out.
Then I try to do things I shouldn't.  I know I need to birdie every hole, so it's not like I'm not trying to birdie every hole any way.
Anyway, I kept it going.  Obviously would've been nice to get a birdie on 17, but oh, well.
Q. Is that what got to you during that middle round?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think the first day 59 was somewhere in the back of my mind even though I was trying not focus on it.
And then the last couple -- yesterday I was playing well; just had a few-shot lead and then totally -- inappropriate words probably there -- fell apart.
I just need to not look at the darn leaderboard.  I tend to like glance around at people and then I'm like, Crap.  I just looked at it.  Normally wherever it is I try not to even look in that vicinity.
Q. Is this something you've dealt with throughout your career?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, yeah, yeah.  Every time I'm like, Okay, I'm going to look it time, it always back fires.
Q. Did you ever work with any other coaches or anything on...
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No.  I worked with Vision 54 years ago, but I don't remember ever -- maybe this is a newer thing.  I don't remember talking about that back in the day.  Now that I'm getting older I'm starting to think more maybe.  I don't know.  It's weird.
My putting the last two days has been horrendous.  My husband was yelling at me last night, Pick a spot, hit it, you know, just think about the speed you want it to go in the hole, the angle you of where you want it to fall in.
Okay, I'll try.  I normally putt cross-handed when I'm like under the pressure and feel like my stoke isn't going to be good, and today I did more conventional.  So like the cross-handed like left me.  I did the short ones, like inside three feet cross-hand, and then all the other ones I did mostly conventional, which is weird.
Q. You still played great though.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: You know, to finish top 10, top 5, whatever it's going to be, going into the off season, obviously I made a few extra dollars because I'm not playing until January.  I feel pretty good about it.
It was just nice.  I just held it together.  I think more going into the off season now and knowing I held it together and didn't kind of bogey a few holes coming in will make me feel better this off-season.
Obviously going to do a lot of fishing and go see my grandmother next week who I haven't seen in a while, and it will be really special.
Basically sit around and eat a lot and do nothing, because it's probably like 35 there right now in West Virginia.
Q. Whereabouts?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Point Pleasant?
Q. Oh, yeah.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Middle of nowhere.  I don't know if we're going be able to watch the Tiger-Phil match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT