CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2018
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon everyone.  Welcome.  We're in the media center here at Wascana Country Club with eight-time LPGA winner, Brittany Lincicome.  Welcome back to Canada, Brittany.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Thank you.
THE MODERATOR: This event won in 2011.  What do you remember from that event?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I remember the weather wasn't super great, and it's blowing a little bit outside, which I'm loving.  The harder the better.
It's just so great to be back in Canada.  The fans here are so fantastic.  The volunteers, I mean, there are like 10 or 20 volunteers on every hole.  It's so great to see how much they support golf, and the LPGA specifically.
THE MODERATOR: Since that win you've had a couple more wins, including a major and back-to-back win in Bahamas.  What's been the highlight of your career the past couple years?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Man, obviously winning is awesome.  Winning a major.  I've never defended, so to do that in the Bahamas was pretty cool.  Playing on a Solheim Cup team was pretty amazing.
I mean, I've been blessed with so many wonderful memories, and it's hard to kind of just pick just one.  It's been a great ride is far.  I can't wait to see what the rest of the year and the next years have for me.
Q. Here at Wascana did you get a chance to get out on the course?  What are your first impressions of the course here?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I've played all 18 holes now.  It's great.  Some holes are pretty narrow, which is going to make it very challenging, and the rough is really, really thick, which is awesome.
These courses tend to be like some of best ones we get to play a year.  It's going to be hard for sure.  The greens are rolling probably a 14 right now I feel like.  Downhill, downwind they're really, really fast and running really pure, which is awesome.
The golf courses we get to play for this week, they pick some of best for us.  This one is definitely one of the best.
THE MODERATOR: What part of your game do you think you're going to have to work on this week?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Definitely keeping it in play is definitely going to help.  Obviously being a longer hitter I can take advantage of some of the holes; the par-5s, if I hit good shots down the middle I can get to the greens in two, which is nice.
Definitely keeping it out of the rough is going to be key.  Then once you get on the green the deal is not over.  You have to be very careful of what the wind is doing and if the putt is uphill or downhill.
I had a couple putts today where I blew by five feet, and I was like, Holy Cow.  I didn't feel like I hit them very hard.  It's going to be great to kind of tee it up tomorrow and see how everyone plays this golf course.
Q. Is there anything unique about playing in Saskatchewan?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, I've only been here two days, but so far it's been great.  Went to a sushi place yesterday which was awesome.  And then today we're going to the Chop House I guess with one of the sponsors, which is awesome.
Yeah, so far it's just cool to see how many fans and volunteers come out and support this event.  I wish we had this kind of support every week.  It would be awesome.
Q. What are your Canadian connections?  (Indiscernible.)
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, yeah, I'm not sure this area specifically, but, yeah, AJ and Grant Fuher is a good friend.  So, yes, it's so cool to have friends like that in Canada.  I mean, there are so many -- I'm sure I'll meet a lot of new friends this week.  I tend to flock people and become friends with a lot of people.
But, yeah, I miss AJ.  She's raising that little girl and doing great, which is good.
THE MODERATOR: You made history being the first woman in history to be able to play on the men's PGA Tour.  Are you still riding that high?  Did it change your impressive at all?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I am still riding the high.  I mean, just to play with the guys, be inside the ropes with the guys, just the whole experience.  I was so worried that people might have taken it the wrong way, but everybody backed me 100%.  It was so cool.
I mean, even today.  I saw Beatriz Recari, and she was like, That was so cool.  So just do see how everyone was so welcoming, that was awesome.
And the guys, I had guys coming up to me thanking that me for being there, wishing me good luck, which was really cool.  I think I learned more about myself with how to handle the nerves and the pressure.  Obviously the golf was the easy part that week.
It was just more handling all the media attention and fan attention and the big groups.  I had massive followings, which was great.  It's kind of more blocking that out and trying to focus on playing golf.  I think it'll help me this week, because it's obviously a big purse and a big event on our schedule, and we still have Evian coming up.
I think it'll just help me calm my nerves when I come into pressure situations, especially like on a Sunday if I'm in contention.  Just to kind of slow myself down a little bit and be able to handle those better.
Q. What are you doing to prepare yourself for the final major of the season at Evian?  We have the Asia Swing coming up.  What are you doing differently, if anything?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Nothing really.  I had the last two weeks off and I think I played golf maybe three times.  I kind of felt bad I wasn't practicing as much as I should have.
Q. Probably more fishing.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Way more fishing.  But it's great.  That's how I kind of -- I'm going to be able to play a long career and be out here a long time.  I have to have that balance of play golf a couple days, fish a couple days.
But, yeah, it's been great.  I feel like my game is pretty good.  I think I have six, seven more events.  Be nice to get another win.  I was so close in Toledo.  One more win before the end of the year would be pretty awesome.
THE MODERATOR: I think it was this event last year that it came out that Missy, your caddie, makes pizzas while you guys are traveling.  Are you planning to have any pizza nights this week?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: We did rent a house, so I guess there is no reason why we couldn't have pizza night.  That would be pretty delicious.  I'm going to have to try to help push the word to do that for us.
Q. When do you foresee a joined LPGA and PGA event?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Man, as much as I have been talking about it lately I feel like it should be already in the works.  That would be so much fun.  We used to have the J.C. Penney Classic way back in the day and it was in Florida so I used to do the standard bearing for it when I was younger.  I loved going to that event.  Of course they canceled it right when I turned pro.
I think it would be so much fun.  I mean, I don't foresee there being any negatives to it.  It would be fun to kind of showcase the best golf for both sides.
Yeah, I really hope that the PGA and the commissioner, hopefully they're already talking about it.  I know we literally talk about it -- especially fans on social media.  We talk about it all the time, how great it would be to have that event.
Hopefully it's already secretly in the works somewhere and we just haven't heard about it yet.
Q. Are you starting to think about the Olympics 2020?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it's still a little bit away.  My husband and I would like to start a family soon, so that might throw a little bit of a wrench in it.
Yeah, that would be so cool to make the Olympics before I retire maybe.  I mean, I try to not think that far ahead.  It's kind of like Solheim.  You just keep playing good and hopefully I'll end up on the team kind of a thing.
But, man, that would be really cool.  Definitely on my bucket list.
THE MODERATOR: All right, I think that that concludes it for Brittany.  Have a great week this week.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT