BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2018
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Brittany, beautiful round today of 71, which included five birdies and an eagle.  What was the big difference for you today, both in your game and emotionally in round two?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I felt a lot calmer today.  I think maybe because the spectators couldn't come out as much, so it was a little bit calmer feeling this morning.   
But my putter, obviously I was hitting it closer, which helped.  And then my putter, I made a lot of really good putts, so that was nice.  Nice to have a bunch of birdies today.   
 Q.  And a huge highlight with that hole-out at the 17th hole.  Take us through that shot.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, my gosh.  It was 110 yards, which a great little grip gap wedge.  Right when I hit it I thought I hit it a little short.  I thought it was going to spin back a little bit on me.   
Then when it landed I was like, okay, it's on top, and then it rolled back and I was like, Oh, my gosh.  I mean, the highlight of my week.  So cool.   
 Q.  It certainly gave me goosebumps watching that one.  What are you hoping to take from this event as you go forward?  Next event will be the RICOH Women's British Open.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I think just more learning how to calm my nerves and learning about myself.  This is obviously a much bigger stage or different stage than I'm used to.  With a major coming up, hopefully that first tee shot I won't be as nervous.  I've learned to kind of play through the nerves this week, which is great.  Just in the future I think that'll really help me.   
 Q.  You've talked about how much you enjoy playing with the men.  How much would you like to see a new event where the women and men play side by side or perhaps bring back a mixed team event?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Either one would be awesome.  I would love the mixed team event, to actually have a partner.  Yeah, I mean, I love being out here.  It was so much fun.   
So to have an event like that, maybe I can keep pushing in that direction and we'll get another one.   
 Q.  That said, any temptation to try this again in the future?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Never say never.  Obviously this was an awesome experience, and I can't thank Tom and Barbasol enough for giving me this opportunity.  I just feel super blessed.   
 Q.  It's finally over, but, man, did you have some fun this week?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I did.  Just being inside the ropes with the guys, hitting on the range, on the putting green, it's just a cool feeling.  I feel like I'm at home here.  The guys just made me feel so comfortable.   
It was a great week all in all.   
 Q.  With all the things that went on with the weather delays and everything else, the playoff last week, you had to be pretty tired being out there, didn't you?  I think everybody would've been.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Maybe a little bit.  We're so used to the rain delays on the LPGA.  I think all the guys probably knew that I brought the rain because that happens on our tour most weeks.   
All in all it was a great week.  I enjoyed every minute of it.   
 Q.  I heard you talking about the nerves.  They finally settling down a little bit, didn't they?  You played some great golf today.  Want to do this again?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Never say never, I guess.  Five birdies and an eagle today, couldn't have asked for a better day.  Obviously would've hoped for less bogeys, but to make five birdies and an eagle, that was cool.   
 Q.  Brittany, you ended with some fireworks.  Take us through the round:  Five birdies highlighted by the eagle at 17.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, you know it was nice to kind of hit it closer obviously today, and then I made a couple really nice putts for birdie, which was great.   
The eagle into 17 or -- 17?  17, you know, it was a great grip gap wedge and one of my favorites shots.  Once I saw it land on the top I was like, okay, I got half of it done.   
Then when it went in, that couldn't have ended my week any better.   
 Q.  What was it like just now walking off 18?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was cool just to be inside the ropes with the guys.  It's been a dream come true playing in this event.  Obviously can't thank Tom Murray and Barbasol and his family enough for giving me this invite.   
I just super honored to be here.   
 Q.  What do you feel like you learned this weekend?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: More like how to calm my nerves.  I was obviously a lot more nervous coming into this week than a normal LPGA event.   
So we have the British Open coming up in two weeks, and I feel like when I get there I should be able to kind of relax and calm down a little bit more than normal.  This week has taught me a lot.   
 Q.  You had those three birdies in a row.  What was working for you during that streak?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was funny.  Conrad and all of us were talking about we don't know if there's ever been an LPGA player playing in a men's event have three birdies in a row.   
Obviously I was trying to keep the streak going to maybe set a new record of some sort.  But that was pretty cool, you know, just to make any birdies out there; yesterday I only had one.  So to make five today and an eagle, that was pretty cool.  I think I ended pretty well.   
 Q.  Have you had a streak like that in any tournament recently?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, yeah.  Yeah, uh-huh.   
 Q.  Feel like you want to come back to this tournament if asked again?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Good question.  I mean, never say never, I guess.  Yeah, just taking it all in now and we'll see what the future has, I guess.   
 Q.  Talk about the fan support you had out there.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, my gosh.  Yeah, the fans were incredible.  It was so great feeding off their energy.  They were cheering for me every time I hit a shot, every time I got it in the fairway, got it on the green.  They were really behind me and I could really feel that out there.   
It made me feel way more comfortable.   
 Q.  How do you assess the week?  What did you m-- not necessarily learn from it, but did you meet your expectations?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I would've liked to have shot better yesterday.  Obviously today was a pretty nice day, so I guess ending with today's round it's a good way to kind of leave, I guess.   
An then holing out on 17 is pretty cool.  I can't wait to watch the replay later.   
 Q.  How much did the rain soften the greens for you?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I needed no rain.  I needed it to be firm and fast so I didn't have 4-irons in to every green.   
But, you know, it is what it is.  I love playing long golf courses.  Every time I'm home I always play it from the back, so the length really wasn't that much different from when I'm at home playing with the guys.   
But it was nice today.  We really could attack a lot of the pins; I flying them almost pin high almost all day.   
 Q.  How did you pass the time yesterday?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Well, we were out here from 1:30 to 6:00, so I was put here for a lot.  Then in the morning I just watched the men's Open, which was great.  I was trying to osmose some of their good shots and maybe that would help me with my round.   
Obviously didn't get to play, so maybe it would help for today.   
 Q.  Take any keepsakes, tees or balls from this weekend?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, I got my brother a ball marker, I always have to collect those for him everywhere I go.  But just the memories of being out here.  I'll remember this forever.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT