BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Brittany, there was so much hype leading into today's round.  What was it like for you when you finally got inside the ropes and were an able to tee off that first tee?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was great.  I was actually calmer than I thought I was going to be.  I thought I was going to be a nervous wreck.  After this first tee shot I was pretty happy that I found the fairway.   
Pretty happy with my game overall.  I had two bad holes, but I drove it well.  I did all the things I said I needed to do, but just my putter let me down today.   
 Q.  I was going to say, you hit the ball brilliantly at times.  Really the two big mistakes were on two par-3s.  Can you pinpoint anything that you think led to those mistakes?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Well, one, I hit it in the water and that doesn't help.  Then the other one I just -- probably one too many clubs.  Hit it short of there in case I do miss the green, because over that green was absolutely dead.   
But, yeah, I drove it well, which was great, which was what I needed to do.  Just a few putts here and there.   
 Q.  How about the interaction with the crowd and your two fellow competitors?  What was that like?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was great.  I could feel the energy of the crowd support me.  Every time I hit a good driver or good shot they would cheer for me, which was great.   
Conrad and Sam were so nice.  I mean, I couldn't have asked for a better pairing.  They were very welcoming and we were interacting, they were asking me questions, and it was great.   
 Q.  Looking back now at the round, the good and the bad, what is your strategy for tomorrow?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Well, if I can drive it like I did today and just make a few putts here and there, I think I'll be back in good shape.   
It's out there.  You know, I was, like I said, much calmer than I thought I was going to be.  I love playing with the guys.  It's so much fun being inside the ropes with them.  Hopefully I can get a good one tomorrow.   
 Q.  I know the score might not be what you wanted today, but really, two holes, get rid of those and a couple putts, how about it?  I mean, overall pretty good?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it was.  I was a lot calmer than I thought I was going to be, which was a relief.  After the first tee shot I was like, Okay, let's go.  We can do this.   
It was just so much fun being inside the ropes with the guys.  I love playing with the guys.  Literally two bad holes, and if I can do better on those two holes tomorrow be pretty good.   
 Q.  Did you learn anything from Sam and Conrad while you were out there today?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Their putting is amazing.  Conrad's flop shots are incredible.  I want to go to the driving range and see if he will come teach me that shot.   
 Q.  How about the galleries?  It was awesome to see how many people were out thereto support you today.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, yeah.  I could feel their energy.  Every shot I hit, that was a decent one anyway, they were cheering for me, which was great.  I was feeding off them.   
And Sam and Conrad were awesome to play with.  They were so welcoming and made me feel really comfortable.   
 Q.  How would you sum up this day?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: You know, overall I did what I wanted to do with having fun.  I think I nailed that part pretty well.   
Just two bad tee shots on par-3s and didn't hit as many putts as I would've liked.  But I drove it well, which was one of my goals.  I said if I could drive it well it would make the day a little easier.   
But, yeah, just two bad tee shots on par-3s.  Make a few more putts tomorrow and I'll have a better round.   
 Q.  The other day you talked about you nerves.  Did they start to settle down?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It took me three or four holes.  Even the first tee shot that I was really nervous about actually wasn't as bad as I thought it was going to be.   
Yeah, Sam and Conrad really made me feel at home and were asking my questions about LPGA and where I live.  That made me feel a lot more comfortable quickly.   
 Q.  Sam said you really didn't try anything different; you stayed within yourself and your game.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I did.  I knew they were going to outdrive me by a bunch today so I was trying not to over-swing.  I was trying to make a nice smooth swing.   
Like I said, I feel like I drove it really well.  Felt like I was hitting it pretty far and pretty straight most times.  Just a couple bad shots on the par-3s.   
 Q.  How hard is that, trying to swing out of your shoes?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's hard, because if I was at home I would being trying to swing like ten times harder trying to keep up with everybody.   
But here obviously I know if I do that I'm going to miss more fairways and hit more bad shots.  Tried to just kind of calm it down today.   
 Q.  The missed birdie on 17, do you feel like if that could have just gone in it would've given you some wind beneath your sails?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, a little bit for sure.  I had just seen Conrad hit that putt, too.  Randomly enough it went right to left, but I swear it has to be left to right to go towards the water.   
So played it left center and I hit it firm just hoping I could catch the hole, but it totally went right to left.  So just a bad read.  Yeah, I mean, putting let me down today, which was weird, because last week I putted so great.   
Greens were a little bit slower than we anticipated.  Had a hard time getting the ball to the hole.   
 Q.  The other day you talked about how chatty you are.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.   
 Q.  Sam said you really weren't out there.  Was that part of the nerves?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I don't feel like he was really talking to me.  Conrad and I, I feel like we had a lot of great conversations.  Yeah, I literally love talking to anybody.  It kind of relaxes me out there.  Maybe do more of that tomorrow.  With them.   
 Q.  How relaxed will you be going into tomorrow?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I heard there is some rain coming through which is a little bit of a depressing thing.  You know, definitely more comfortable.  Probably going to be more fans out tomorrow than there were this morning.   
But, yeah, I'll probably still be nervous.  Obviously nowhere near making the cut, but still just being inside the ropes with the guys a cool feeling, a different feeling.  I'm sure I'll be super nervous as well.   
 Q.  There are lots of young girls in your gallery.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.   
 Q.  How cool is that to see them?  One little girl the dad asked, Do you want to stop?  She said, No.  I want to follow Brittany.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, that's so cool.  Yeah, I need to go back over there and sign their autographs.  Any time I can influence a child, especially a girl, obviously I want to get them involved with the LPGA as much as possible.   
You know, just you never know, whether it's high school, college, your future, you can play golf until you're 100.  It's a wonderful game, and I try to get them all into the game.   
 Q.  How does this course compare to the ones you play on the LPGA Tour?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's great.  Obviously a little longer than normal, but the layout is great.  It's very generous off the tee, which is nice.   
Just the greens were a little bit slower than we anticipated, so tomorrow I'm going to be whacking it a lot harder.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: She's great.  She's an awesome player.  She's going to do great things for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT