MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 14, 2018
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  67, is that maybe the best round?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it was a little squirrely there for a minute.  This golf course is sneaky tight.  I don't get to hit very many drivers, but even the 3-woods and the hybrids off the tee, you have to keep it in play, and there are a few holes out there that I just pray I get through with a par, and we try to birdie the others.   
 Q.  We saw you hit a lot of, not a lot of, but a few chips around the greens where you seemed to use the same club every time.  Explain that for me.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: You know, every off-season I swear I'm going to learn how to chip and be a more rounded player.  Learn how to chip with the sand wedge, the pitching wedge, and the bump and runs, and it just never happens.  So I literally use my lob wedge everywhere, whether it's 30 yards or whatever.  I love that club.   
 Q.  Is this course a good set-up for you to prepare for next week?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely not.  I think I only get to hit three drivers out here, but you definitely have to keep it straight and in play.  So if anything, I'm working on consistency, and hitting my targets.  When I do miss a few greens, it's fun to try to get it up-and-down, because I'm sure that will happen a few times next week.   
 Q.  I know you wanted that last one, but how do you feel about the position you put yourself going into the final day?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I feel pretty good.  I hit it pretty well today.  Kept it in play for the most part, and made a couple putts, which is obviously the key to this golf course.  You keep it in the fairway, and there are sneaky holes out there, and you make the birdies when you can.   
 Q.  With the finish at 16, 17 sands, 18, what type of momentum, the whole package give you on Sunday?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, yeah, I feel like this golf course and I don't normally get along very well.  So I feel to be under par on all three rounds so far is a pretty good start for me.  So one more round under par would be really nice.   
 Q.  What is the mindset going into the final day when you're in contention like this?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Well, going to go back to my housing.  I'm sure Lizzie and I will make some type of dessert.  We've made dessert every night, and talk no golf.  We're going to watch "Mama Mia" tonight.  Got a lot of things planned for tonight.  Not going to think about tomorrow until I have to.  Just get a good night's rest.   
 Q.  Do you put a number in your head that you think you have to get to tomorrow?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I don't even know what I shot today.  So I don't really know where anybody is.  But going into the week, I thought four rounds of 68 would be nice.  It would get me somewhere around the Top 10.  Since I don't know what the leader is, I just need to birdie as many hole as possible tomorrow and go for it.   
 Q.  You're the leader, tied but...  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Maybe somebody will birdie coming in, and I'll feel a little bit more comfortable.   
 Q.  Do you prefer being in the top of the pack or how do you feel?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I feel better to be one or two back and kind of chasing, so the pressure is on somebody else and I can kind of fly under the radar a little bit.   
 Q.  I wanted to ask you about the Senior Women's Open.  What are your thoughts on that event?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think it's fantastic.  I didn't realize you had to qualify.  And I just saw Gail Graham and she was like, yeah, I didn't qualify.  I'm very impressed that we have that many women that tried to get in and some didn't make it.  So I think that's great for golf.  I can't wait to play in it some day.  I mean, JoAnne Carner shooting her age, I mean that's friggin' amazing.  And I heard Laura Davies has been killing it.   
She's been my idol my whole life, so that's pretty awesome.  But to finally have this event, it's a shame that it's taken so long to get it for us.  But to now have it and to see how many people are commenting on social media and really rooting for it, so I think it's great.   
 Q.  We're here with Brittany Lincicome.  A second ago you didn't even know you're tied for the lead.  So now that you know looking back on the round, does it feel even better?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It does.  This golf course and I haven't really gotten along in the past.  The 11 years that I've been here.  So it feels nice to finally be taking advantage and learning how to play it.  You know, you have to be a lot more, not aggressive off the tee.  I'm not hitting very many drivers.  Just kind of getting it in play and taking advantage of the wedges when you have them, and I'm making a few putts which obviously helps.   
 Q.  You broke your streak of 68, which is fine, with a 67.  It was due to a clutch putt on 18.  Tell us about the final hole.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's a tricky little hole.  I wanted to hit driver over the bunkers and try to bomb it down the bottom of the hill, and my caddie was like absolutely not.  We're hitting 3-wood.  You're going to have 4-iron or hybrid into the green.  We're going to make birdie that way.  She's always right, so it's a good thing I listen to her.   
 Q.  You're in at 10-under, Angela Stanford in at 10-under.  Still Brooke Henderson out on the course.  I know you and Angela are good friends.  What's it like seeing other friends out there succeeding along with you?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's great.  I think she's had a little bit of a rough start to the year.  It's nice to see it turning back around in her favor.  She's such a nice person, giving person, and has a heart of gold.  So you wish people like that do well, and maybe we'll get to play together tomorrow, that would be fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT