KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2018
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRITTANY LINCICOME: All in all, I felt like it was a pretty good day.  Missed like a three- or four-footer on the last to make bogey.  But all in all, I'm taking a lot of positives out of it.  I hit the ball really well and made a few putts here and there, so if I can just do that for three more days, I'll be right there.
Q. And just the course in general, how impressed were you with setup and everything?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, it's so beautiful.  I wish we wouldn't have gotten all that rain because it would have been cool to see it play more firm and fast, but again, being a long hitter, the longer the better for me.  I love it.  But the course is in great shape.  There's not very many divots out there and the greens are rolling pure and the rough is nice and thick.  Just the way they're treating us even in the clubhouse and dining and stuff, it's a wonderful week.  I wish we had way more of these events.
Q. We've seen a lot of young girls out there watching you guys.  How important is it to be accessible to them and have them experience a tournament like this?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I saw some of the LPGA girls out there, which is cool.  They all had matching shirts on.  Anything we can do to inspire, especially young girls, to get them involved with the game of golf, whether it's just future golf and entertaining and business, down the road, even if it's as small as that, I just want to get everybody involved in the game.  It teaches you so many more things than just golf.  There's so many life lessons that you can learn from golf.  And I think it's great.
Q. Are you looking forward to the Rockford pro-am?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I love the pro-am.  I really do look forward to that one every year.  Obviously we don't get to see the men very much, so to play three or four holes with them, it's really cool to kind of be in the same group and be a part of their game for just a small little bit.  I love that event.  It's cool of the fans to come out and support us, and I can't wait.
Q. And you're going right to the Barbasol after that event, so tell us a little bit about that week that's going to be pretty good for you.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it's a nice little one-day tune-up to get ready for the Barbasol, but yeah, super excited.  Obviously a little nervous, but if I hit the ball like I did today, it's going to be just fine.
Q. Under par for the first round of the tournament; if you keep doing that, that's going to put you in good shape, right?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely.  Any time you can shoot under par in a major, it's pretty awesome.  Obviously got the nerves kind of out of the way the first day, got a feel for how the golf course is going to be playing, and I just feel like I can take advantage of more and more each day.
I hit maybe one or two bad drives but got it up-and-down, made some five-, ten-footers to save par, which was great.  Had an amazing bunker shot and saved par, so the putter is obviously saving me, which is nice.  Yeah, just felt like -- I started hitting my drives a little bit right out there, and I just realized my club face was going too far right, so we just kind of squared it up, and hit like a 300-yard drive on 16, so it was great.
Q. Outside of the obvious power difference between men and women in general, what do you think is the biggest chasm between the two genders, and what do you hope you would learn?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I've really only ever thought of it as the length thing.  Playing with my group today, I was like, well, where Haru is hitting it, that's where I'm going to be at the Barbasol.  Like I had wedge into 16, pitching wedge, and she was hitting something with a head cover, and I was like, man, that's going to be me.  But maybe just like course management or the way they kind of work their way around the golf course.  I'm not even sure if any of them will really talk to me, but if they do, it's going to be great.
Q. You can always talk about fishing.  They all like to fish.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely.  I need like Boo Weekley or somebody to play with.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT