U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 2018
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What about that?  That's kind of big news.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I was kind of torn.  Obviously I can already hear people saying you are trying to compare yourself to the men.  That's not what it is.
Tom Murray came to me about this opportunity, and I really have actually always wanted to do it.  I love competing with the guys.  I feel like I step up my game when I play with them.  I play a little harder, try a little harder when I play against them.  I always thought it would be cool to try.
He came to me literally like a couple of weeks and he was like, What do you think?
I was like, I've actually never thought about it that intensively.  My agent came to me, we talked about it.  I said, If the Tours think it's okay and there is really no negative side to it, I guess the worse I could do is miss the cut.
Then Misty was like, Well, 70 other people are going to miss the cut, so it's not a big deal.
I think we'll go into it having fun and try not to put too much pressure on myself.  Obviously it's a whole different ball game.  I'm not trying to compete with the guys or prove anything.  I've always thought it would be cool to go try.
Q. Would you be more nervous?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I'm already nervous.  I feel like in a major, it's on me because it's what I do.  That, I feel like every time I walk by one of those guys they are going to look at me like, Why the heck are you here?  What are you doing here kind of a look.  Hopefully they are really nice.
The golf course sounds like it's pretty wide open.  It's going to be obviously pretty far, but that's nothing I don't think I can't handle.
Q. What do you think this kind of opportunity could do for the LPGA in terms of elevating exposure?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It will be cool.  I feel like it's opposite a pretty big event, so hopefully we get good exposure.  There's only positives.  If I play well, great.  If I don't play well, it's still going to be a cool week.  Hopefully a lot of people come out and follow and cheer for me because I'll need a little extra support that week.
Q. You would think playing so much golf with your husband, who is a long hitter, that they may put you at ease there?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Possibly.  I kind of hit my fairways, hit my greens and do my own game.  I wait for him to hit it out of play.  Maybe that will kind of be like the same thing.  It will be cool to kind of -- I don't know, I hope they welcome me.  I just want to go into it having fun and not take it too serious.
Q. If he hits one at full strength, and you hit one at full strength, what is the difference?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: He's probably 60 yards ahead of me.  It's far.  It's really far.  Maybe further.  In Florida, we don't get a lot of roll and it's humid.
Q. 60 yards closer to the hole?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No.  It could be this way or this way.  But it's fun.  I played in mini tour events getting ready for the season.  Those guys were very welcoming and I had a great time, so hopefully it's the same.
Q. Will you chat with Annika or Michelle Wie about their experiences and try to get any tips?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Possibly, yeah.  That may be a good idea.  I didn't know we were announcing it, so I'm completely blank right now of what the next step is.  It was cool that both tours, they talked about it.  They couldn't find any negatives to it.  Everyone seemed to be okay with it.  So it's pretty fun.
Q. Do any of the players out there know yet, any of the guys?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No.  Literally I just got a text from my agent.  We weren't going to announce it on Monday, so I don't think anybody knows.
Q. Tom Murray, is he the Barbasol executive?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: He's the head guy.  Such a wonderful guy.  I was the first girl they signed at Pure Silk ages ago now.  He's become family.  He was at our wedding.  Just awesome people.
Q. Pure Silk is part of the Barbasol family?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.  Girls, guys, all the same.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT