KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2018
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  They always say Saturday is moving day.  My goodness you were moving, particularly on that front nine.  What was the key to your round today?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: That's a good question.  I hit it pretty good and just my putter was really good today.  I made everything.   
Actually missed a pretty short eagle putt on 16, and then I had one bogey, so it was just -- I was just in the zone.  Maybe just getting up early and out in front of everybody was the help.   
 Q.  You have been playing well all season.  Did you have a goal in mind when you tee'd off this morning among the early starters?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No.  I just knew every birdie I made I got to sleep in a little bit longer.  I was just trying to shoot a good score.  Obviously I just squeaked in on the number; the only place to go is up.   
We were aggressive.  We went for a lot of pins today.  I think that paid off.  I think on this course you need to be aggressive.   
 Q.  Has this course always set up well for you?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It does.   
 Q.  Because a lot of people say it's not a bomber's course, and the rough is thick.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, doesn't set up really well.  I don't get to hit very many drivers, which is obviously my strength.  There are a lot of doglegs and you have to place the ball on this golf course.   
Then the greens are super tricky, the poana.  I mean, whoever invented po' is an evil person just because you just never know.  You've got to be confident with every stoke and hit everything pure.  If you do miss a three-footer, just brush it off and try not to get upset.   
It's a week of patience, my caddie told me.   
 Q.  Obviously the leaders still have a while to go before they tee off.  Any idea where you think you might stand by the end of today going into the final round?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I have no idea.  I know Kerr is leading, but I don't even know what she's at.  I don't really look at the leaderboard.  I am just going to go out tomorrow and be aggressive again.   
I get to sleep in again, which is nice.  Just be aggressive again.  These greens are receptive if you fly it pin high; they don't really roll out anywhere.   
Yeah, just going to be aggressive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT