BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2018
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not how you wanted to finish, but how was your round out there?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was great.  You know, I hit the ball really well, especially my irons today.  Like they were on a string every single time.  I was like, Missy, we're going to hole one out before the end of the day.   
The wind is a little bit tricky, which way it's coming out of.  Then the spin of the greens, sometimes they release and sometimes they spun back.  Couldn't quite figure that out.   
Felt like I hit it well.  Putter was good on the front nine.  Had an eagle, which is always good.  Did a lot of really good things, so I'm excited for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Tell us about the eagle.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, hit it just over the green, which is fine.  Pretty simple chip shot.  I just played it dead straight like my caddie told me to do.   
I always think I'm a horrible chipper and she's just like, You're a great chipper.  It's going to be fine.   
Then Korda made hers on top of mine, so it was like, Here we go.  Let's go.   
 Q.  How far was the chip about?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: 15 feet.   
 Q.  What did you hit in there?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Hybrid.  Yeah, I was trying to hit it left and kind of run it up pin high left and it kind of went over the middle of the green.   
 Q.  How are you feeling about your game as a whole?  You won already this year.  You seem to be really happy.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, and nice hitting it well, putting it well, which is great.  And shooting under par, which is always good.  I didn't check how many putts I had today, but the chip-in obviously is going to help that a little bit.   
Yeah, it's nice to be shooting scores under par.  I can't complain about that.  Obviously off to a way better start than last year, which is great.   
 Q.  Where is you confidence level?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Pretty high.  You know, there is no reason not to be on a high.  Obviously the back nine wasn't exactly what I envisioned, but just kind of got tight there a little bit.   
Tomorrow just need to be free, have a fun time, and let it go; can't lose.   
 Q.  We know what you're capable of.  You're a winner, major championship winner.  But have you in any way been determined to do even more, or when you do win, keep it going longer?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I mean, I would like to.  Obviously in the Bahamas, because last year I won in the Bahamas, but then I didn't do anything.  I don't even know if I had a top 10 last year after my win in the Bahamas.   
So obviously this year I said I wanted to be more consistent, but not 100% sure on how to be more consistent.  My caddie and I go into each tournament, and there are normally one or two clubs I hit more than others, and we kind of work on this on the driving range a little bit.   
So Thailand, Singapore I flew into Thailand late and only got play in the nine-hole pro-am.  I played really well.  I went to Singapore and I'm like, Wow, I'm not playing a practice round on Monday or Tuesday, but that was an 18-hole pro-am.  Golfers have all sorts of superstitions.   
So on the range we're working on -- I think Singapore was like sand wedge, gap wedge, or gap wedge, 8-iron.  Certain clubs that I hit more than others.   
So we just kind of work on those clubs that week, and yeah, try to dial those in.   
 Q.  What did you work on this week?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I don't remember actually working on anything this week.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  What about seeing Inbee at the top of the board?  She took a long break, and boom.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I mean, Inbee I feel like could take off a whole year or two and come back and win every week.  Her game is just so consistent.  She doesn't do anything flashy, but just -- I mean, putting is flashy, I guess.  But just like off the tee just not super far; it's right down the middle every time.  I don't know if she's ever missed a fairway.   
And the putter, she literally walks them in like (indiscernible.)  It's incredible.  Like you know it's going in when she hits it.  It's not the most orthodox looking strokes, but she can repeat it.   
 Q.  This event can get to be a birdiefest and a putting contest.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Uh-huh.  Hopefully it's not the birdiefest.   
 Q.  You prefer it not to be?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Correct.   
 Q.  But like a putting contest, Inbee always has to have some advantage in there.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely.  Absolutely.  If there was any Solheim partner for team competition that I would like, I would love for Inbee to be my partner.  I'll drive it down the middle; you can knock the putt in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT