OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 5, 2017
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How is it to play at the OMEGA Dubai Classic?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's pretty amazing.  I've never been to Dubai before and I always wanted come play in this event.  It just finally worked out in my schedule that I got to come.  I've seen so many amazing sights this week and just really taking it in all in.  It's incredible.
Q. Is it something special, because the tournament is at the end of the year?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Well, it's at the end of the year, so that's why a lot of players, especially from America, don't want to play because we just want to be done for the year.  But like I said, it's definitely an event that's been on my bucket list for a long time and just finally nice that it worked out.
Like I said, we're doing so many amazing things.  I feel like I should have been here before because it's so incredible.
Q. So after the first day, how is the atmosphere?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's awesome.  The golf course is great.  We finally played all 18 holes now.  Like I said, I've taken in a bunch of the sights:  The Burj Khalifa and I've gone to the mall and played with the penguins.  We've done so many cool things.  It's been incredible.
Q. Let's talk about your year.  What's the high and the low?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Well, I started out my year really well.  I won the first event on the season, and it didn't really go as well as I would have liked.
Obviously having a win early in the season, I was kind of hoping for another win or close finishes and that didn't happen.  But obviously here we're in Dubai and then I'll get another win here and it will be great.
Q. Let's talk about the Solheim Cup.  What has the Solheim Cup done for the women's golf for the profile?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, my gosh, both teams played some incredible golf and I think if you weren't a golf fan before, especially of women's golf, and you watched that event, there was so many birdies made; there were so many close matches; there were so many great matches, that it just helped women's golf.
I think it brought a lot more fans and viewers to watch it.  It was a great match between both teams, and obviously we're grateful to win.
Q. So time is running and we are at the end of 2017.  So what are your ambitions for 2018?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: You know, obviously get a win or two would be nice.  But yeah, just kind of little goals for myself, personal goals.  I would like to be more consistent.  I seem to kind of be on a roller coaster ride most times, and that's never fun.  So I would just like to be more consistent I think in 2018.
Q. And we are close to Christmas again, so what are you doing?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: My husband already bought our Christmas tree while I was gone, so hopefully when I get back we can decorate it to go.  Only have a couple weeks till Christmas, so I should probably do some shopping and get some presents under that tree.
It's just great.  It's going to be nice to be home.  Obviously been a long year, especially playing this week, and it will just be nice.  We bought a new house a couple of weeks ago, so it will be nice to just kind of be in our house and do nothing.
Q. What do you think about women's golf, a lot of new players are breaking through on the men's tour, but the ladies tour, your impression?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think it's fantastic.  The Solheim Cup was this year, and I think the matches between both teams really showed that we showcase the best in women's golf.  I think a lot of people that weren't maybe golf fans before watched that and they were like, wow, these girls are really good.
So you know, having events like that, and then obviously being over here on the LET, it just showcases the best golf in the world.  Even on the LPGA, it's a different player that can win every single week.  It's not the same person winning week-in and week-out because there's so many good players, and you have to shoot really low scores every day you tee it up to have a chance to win.
Q. What particular players do you look to see coming out?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Just what Lydia Ko has done, and obviously Michelle Wie is a little bit older now.  Everyone is getting younger and younger.  Angel Yin is coming out.  I'm 32 and I feel like I'm ancient now.  I've been on Tour for 13 years now and these girls coming out at 18, 19 years old, it's cool to see the game still growing.
Q. You're pretty relaxed whatever you shoot.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I try to keep a good balance.  Obviously I'm super competitive and I want to do good every time, but it's golf.  You're not going to play good every week.
It's cool to be able to go fishing and hang out at my home and then still be competitive and practice enough to still be good to play the game.  I try to keep a balance of things off the golf course and then obviously on the golf course.
Q. And Lexi, as well?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Lexi is freaking killing it.  It's cool to see her evolve.  She obviously hits it a long, long way.  She's kind of reeled it in and maybe knows not to hit driver on every hole.  She hits a lot of 3-woods now and keeps it in play and works out in ton, and that obviously helps her.
Q. What's your longest drive?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think it was in Hawai'i, like 360, maybe.
Q. What's average would you say?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's only probably 270, 275.
Q. Did you ever play with Angel Yin?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I have.  I'm actually playing with her tomorrow.  So we'll see who can hit it farther.
Q. Do you know her quite well?  She was on your team on the Solheim Cup.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, yeah, she's super entertaining.  Like we're going to have the best of time the next two days.
Q. Do you think it's a good idea to get a long drive competition to get interest going?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think if you did it outside of a tournament round, it would be really fun.  Like we've done it in Korea before on the runway at the airport and we've hit it like 500 yards.
Q. Who is the longest driver from America?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I don't know who it is.  I'm probably one of three.  Lexi is definitely up there.
Q. Troy Mullins?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, yeah, I do not want to hit against her.  Yeah, she's really good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT