CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 26, 2017
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You probably don't know this, but the entire press corps last night was inspired by your pizza party and everyone ended up getting pizza?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, that's exciting.  It wasn't as good as mine, I can promise you that.  Really funny, because Missy, actually we have a crust that we get from a very specific place, and here, it's a little bit different.  She ended up going to, I think, one of the dollar stores and getting the crust, and it was amazing.  It was so delicious.   
 Q.  Game changing.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.   
 Q.  Did you have the mascarpone?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, the mascarpone with sweet cream on it.  There were like six of us, so everyone was like, I want to try it, I want to try it.  I didn't get as much as I usually get, so that's probably better for my health.  I think there were like 12 of us probably.  Yeah, she made a bunch.   
 Q.  And Mo was there as well?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, Mo, and I'm trying to think of the other players.  Beth Allen, David and the caddies, Karrie Webb, yeah, Beth's parents.   
 Q.  Is it a weekly thing?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: We try to do it as much as we can when we have housing.  Which is quite a few weeks.  We have a waiting list.  There are people who want to get in on our pizza week because it's so delicious.  So we try to accommodate.  We?  I'm normally the cheese sledder, that's about all I'm allowed to do because I eat all the toppings as I go and we normally end up with nothing.   
 Q.  Did Mo steal some of your pizza?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, she's so tiny I could have probably eaten half of hers too.  But everyone gets their own pizza, and however you want it.  We had a Hawaiian pizza.  We had a lot of meat pizzas.   
 Q.  We were talking about Hawaiian pizza?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, yeah, hers was super colorful.  Peppers and mushrooms and spinach, and all these different colors, red peppers, jalapenos.  Really colorful.   
 Q.  How did the course play for you today?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: You know, my caddie kind of hinted that she looked like my swing was a little fatigued or maybe I was tired today because I was not driving it as well.  And we weren't doing as many things as we had been doing the last two days as well.   
So just tried to kind of shorten the swing a little bit.  She said it was getting a little long and I was kind of swaying a little bit instead of staying in my posture.  So hopefully one more night's rest.  We just need one more good round.   
 Q.  Too much pizza?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Maybe too much pizza, yeah.  Sleeping in all morning, you know.   
 Q.  Are you playing next week in Portland?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, we're going home.  Yep.   
 Q.  What is the best memory of a Canadian Open?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think they're all amazing.  Just the fans are always so welcoming.  The people in Canada are the nicest people you ever meet.  They're so welcoming and they cheer for everybody.  Obviously they cheer a little harder for Brooke.   
But they're just such wonderful people.  Every Canadian I've ever met.  I met somebody at the airport when I lost my bags and he let me cut him in line at Tim Hortons.   
 Q.  What about Hillsdale when you won there?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: That was incredible.  I had to go through a hurricane to win that week.  But, yeah, that was another wonderful memory.  Something I'll remember forever.  The trophy too is a really cool trophy.   
 Q.  Do you think maybe the tournament could go back there?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think so.  Absolutely.  That would be awesome.  I have really good memories there.   
 Q.  Why is that so?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I mean, every golf course we really play on this event is always topnotch.  It's always pristine, the fairways are great, the rough's great, the bunkers are great, everything about it.  Just the hospitality normally.  It doesn't matter what the golf course looks like, just the hospitality of taking care of the caddies, taking care of us players.  They got us Lululemon this week, the gifts they give us, everything about this event.   
It's unfortunate that Solheim was last week and I know Lexi didn't come and a couple girls didn't come, but it's definitely a spot on the schedule that nobody misses really.   
 Q.  Really?  It's not the same at other events on the LPGA?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, this one is very special.  This one in my opinion is almost a major just because the purse is really big, the fans are really great.  What they do for us and the tournament does for us is incredible.   
 Q.  Do you watch the scoreboard before you come and tee off?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I don't.   
 Q.  Brooke broke the course record this morning and she shot a 63?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: She did?  Oh, my goodness.  I didn't see that out there.  Good for her.  Especially a Canadian, that is very special.  But I normally don't do it.  There was a girl in the locker room this morning.  She said, Have a good day.  I said, yeah, you too.  She was like, I didn't make the cut.  And I was like, sorry.   
I kind of check for a few of my friends, but I don't check the cut until Friday after I'm done because I don't want to know going into it what I have to shoot or what I have to play.  I just go out and try to make as many birdies as possible.  I did see somebody was at 10-under, but that's all I know.   
 Q.  How do you see Canadian golfers coming up on the Tour?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: How do I see them doing?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Fantastic.  I'm not sure why there's not more Canadian golfers.  It seems golf is very huge here.  I feel like just get your kid involved with golf and they could be a superstar.   
 Q.  Is it more huge than in the U.S.?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: In Canada?  No, I don't think so.  Not yet anyway.  But maybe one day.  I mean, the way we get treated, I'd love to have multiple events in Canada because it's so great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT