SOLHEIM CUP
August 18, 2017
Brittany Lincicome
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Two birdies and an eagle (inaudible) close out a match.  Caroline played great.  How difficult was it for you mentally to finish it off?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: That's the hardest part really.  We were up by a lot, but obviously we don't want to keep going extra holes and get a half; we wanted the whole point.  When we both hit bad tee shots on this hole, we're like, oh, gosh, just get it on the green, give ourselves a chance, and hopefully close it out.
Q. Seems like this format fits you all.  You stayed aggressive.  When you got it in the fairway you were aggressive.  How important is that to have two attempts at birdies when you're playing?  It seemed like only against one person today?
BRITTANY LANG: Brittany and I, we always seem to ham and egg it pretty well.  She started off like a house on fire, and I picked up a little bit.  And then she came back.  We've always seem to do that.  But just to keep the pressure -- fairways and greens -- keep them thinking that you're going to make birdies, stuff like that.  And we did a great job (inaudible).
Q. This morning's results, did that help motivate you, get you fired up, maybe more relaxed when you came out this afternoon?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Well, I think it's good to be relaxed.  Either way, I'm playing with my buddy.  But it definitely helped.  It seemed like everyone was playing really, really well.  We just have to go out and do what we can for our team.  And, like she said, keep two balls in play the whole day is what we tried to do.
Q. How do you dovetail or ham and egg it, is what you called it out there, this afternoon?
BRITTANY LANG: Every time Brittany and I play together we do that so well.  Like I said, she played so good early.  I picked up a little bit in the middle.  She came on in the end.  We always do it so well.  It's so much fun.
Q. Heading out this afternoon, given the historic strength of Team USA in four-ball, what was the vibe, what was the reaction of the team and the level of confidence heading out, Brittany?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: We were excited we got to sleep in this morning.  But obviously with the team doing well this morning gave us a lot energy to come out this afternoon.  We just wanted to do good for our team, and I think we did pretty good.
Q. How did you like the look of the red board this afternoon?
BRITTANY LANG: It was beautiful.  Never seen anything prettier.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT