CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 20, 2020
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Brittany, 5-under 67 to finish the 2020 season.  When you look back on the year, how exciting was it to be able to get it this point and compete at this event and conclude the year?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, it's been such an up and down start, stop, start, stop kind of thing.  It was nice to finally get one really good round under my belt.  Unfortunately it was the last day of the last event.  Obviously I wish there was more events now.
 But it'll be nice.  Obviously Christmas is in a couple days.  It will be cool to hang out with Emery and experience a lot of firsts now that she's aware of what's happening.  She already opened a couple presents that she wasn't supposed to.  So it's going to be fun to drive around and let her see some lights.
 But all in all it was a great year.  It was nice for all the events to happen.  It was nice to play a half of a season.  All the sponsors could have said, Hey, we're going to take the year off.
 So we're really grateful that they did play in 2020 and glad that it's over though.
 Q. The front nine seems to play maybe a little tougher for some players.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Absolutely.
 Q. You made it look pretty easy today.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   It's not.
 Q. Take us through that start.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, the front nine, when I first got my tee time on the first day and I was off 10 I was like, Okay, that's such a relief, because you get a couple holes under your belt and you kind of figure out where the ball is going.
 The first tee shot is one of the most intimidating tee shots I think because it's tree-lined, there is trouble on both sides.  So when I hit it down the middle on 1 today I was pretty excited.
 But then when you get to 2 it's a hard drive, 3 is a hard drive.  You know, there are a lot of hard drives on that front nine, so it was nice to get through there with a few birdies.
 Q. Five weeks until Diamond.  You mentioned the holidays.  Any plans for an abbreviated off-season before we have, I guess, kind of a half and half off-season with one tournament in the middle?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, exactly.  It'll be nice to take a couple days off.  Excited to be in Diamond Resorts this year.  I wasn't sure there for a while.  It will great to tee it up there and have a few weeks off here with Christmas and Ne Year's and then kind of get back to it.
 Obviously I want to try to prepare as much as I can for that event.  I kind of take too much time normally off in the off, so this year since it's such a short thing I didn't have time to take all that you extra time off, so maybe I'll be fresher this year.
 Q. Any fishing plans?
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Always fishing plans.  Whether we have plans or not, if it's a nice day, we're going.
 Q. Last one I got for you.  You are an ambassador of Diamond Resorts.  Just for them to continue the partnership, obviously and extend it, how great is that?  Are there any celebrities you're looking to meet this year?  I saw some new names on the list.
 BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, for sure.  They are such a wonderful company.  I've been so blessed to be sponsored by them.  Mike flask and his team, they're such great, good-hearted people, and it's just an honor to be sponsored by them and to play in the event.  I'm so excited.
 It's really just kind of a great tune up for the year.  Obviously it's more of a laid-back, traditional event than your normal let's go grind it out and focus.  You're playing some celebrities, meeting people you don't normally get to meet, so that's really cool.
 I haven't seen the list yet, but always Larry the Cable Guy is one of my favorite.  Him and Michael Waltrip have this like duel, this thing that goes back and forth, and they're both kind of around the same handicap, so it's really fun and entertaining to watch Washington their betting and see how both of them are playing.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT