MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 20, 2017
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously that was a key hole there for you to put you back tied for first.  How great was today for you?  First off, just take us through 18.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, that was really fun.  When I saw they moved the green closer and made it more reachable, obviously I was super excited.  I just hit pitching wedge into the green, so it feels like cheating a little bit, but any time you can make an eagle is really exciting.
Q. How do you feel overall today?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Great.  I made a lot of good putts.  I hit it a lot closer today than I have been doing, and I made the putts, which was nice.  I think I had four birdies and an eagle, which is pretty spectacular.  This golf course and I normally don't get along, so I'm excited to be playing well, and there's a lot of really narrow holes out there, so if I can keep it in play and keep it in the fairway, I think I can do pretty good over the weekend.
Q. I know it's only round 1, but some learning lessons you're taking into round 2 after today?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I just drove the ball really well today.  If I can keep doing that for three more days, that's obviously key.  A lot of the holes out there are doglegs left to right, right to left.  You've really got to get it in like the right spot or you kind of get blocked out.  I did that really well today, so hopefully that keeps going.
Q. How much is Solheim Cup on your mind and how good is it to be playing well?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, we went to dinner with Wendy Ward this week and got some sushi, which was awesome.  But she just was telling us, we just want to get the team together, make sure everyone is interacting with each other so we can come together as a team when we get to Des Moines, and obviously I'm kind of right on the bubble, so I'm a little bit stressed, but it was nice to kind of have a good round.  Maybe Juli will see that I made some birdies today, and hopefully my clubs will do the talking and get me in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT