KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2017
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sum up your day.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was a great day.  I'm driving it really well, which is something I haven't been doing for awhile.  I had some wrist injuries, or problems, the last couple weeks and kind of got that taken care of last week.   
I kind of feel like my old self again.  I can hit a draw again, which is something that I haven't been able to do for probably five weeks now.  So it's coming together finally.  I feel normal again.   
 Q.  What was the specific injury?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Well, I think in Kingsmill, the ground was just a little bit firm, and just hitting the shots, like playing normal, it just started hurting.  And then it hasn't gotten better.  I've had it treated; I've had it worked on; we've done so many things and just wasn't getting better.   
So Monday of Arkansas, I had a cortisone shot in it, and it's finally like it's not hurting anymore and finally can not tape it and hit the shots like I used to be able to hit.   
 Q.  How were conditions today compared to yesterday?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Great.  Well, obviously it wasn't as windy today, which is nice.  I think other than that, it was pretty much the same.  You can attack a few more pins today than yesterday obviously with the wind being so swirly, but just driving it well; if you can keep it in the fairway, you can kind of attack most holes, which is nice.  So if I just keep driving it well for two more days, that would be great.   
 Q.  How much has your power benefitted here?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Most holes we can hit driver.  There's a few holes that I have to hit 3-wood just because kind of some bunkers are in some weird spots or maybe get too close to a green on some of the holes.  But for the most part, you know, I can hit driver on most of the holes.   
 Q.  And other things going on, getting close to six events, Solheim Cup finish --  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Trying not to think about it.  Just going to go out and play golf and hopefully that takes care of itself.  You know, I've never been in the position like I'm in.  Normally I'm high up on that list and you don't ever have to worry about it.   
It's kind of a weird feeling this year.  It's in the back of my mind most weeks.  I try to finish in the Top-20 every week.  Got to get some more points.  Hopefully the clubs will do the talking here soon and we'll get enough points and not have to worry about it anymore.  It's been a little stressful.   
 Q.  Because you've won majors, and because you've gotten in contention in a lot of them, how much will that help you this weekend?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's been a while -- I mean, Bahamas wasn't that long ago I guess, but it will definitely help.   
I have a great caddie who is really good at calming me down and kind of, if I'm feeling pressure or like the first tee shot, I'm always shaking and she's like, "You're being ridiculous."  She knows how to kind of talk me down and make me feel a little more comfortable out there which is nice.  So with her help, it should be fine.   
And I can reflect on past events, and obviously I've been here before.  I've been talking to you guys on days like this before.  So it's nothing new.  Just like I said, if I keep driving it the way I'm driving it and make a few putts here and there, it should be good.  Although, every time I hit it in the rough, I made birdie.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT