KIA CLASSIC
March 25, 2017
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Looking pretty good going into Sunday.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, really good.  I finally got some of those putts to drop.  They've kind of been lingering right on the edge the last couple days, so it was nice to finally -- I had been hit ting it well, irons well, and finally get some putts to drop.   
 Q.  I see you smiling a lot and chatting with the crowd a lot, and your caddie, having fun with them, poking at your caddie.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, yeah.   
 Q.  I guess you're enjoying the weekend here.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, that's kind of how I play.  When I am playing my best, I don't know what my score is, I don't know what's happening.  I am just kind of in my own little world with my caddie and we're just having a good time.   
I played with Ariya today and her caddie, Lester.  Really fun people.  It was just really light and easy out there today.   
 Q.  So we got a little bit of rain before the rounds started.  Gave it that last little push to make it even greener.  How do you like the course so far?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's great.  The conditions out there are fantastic.  It's very green.  Every thing is so pretty.  The flowers out here are amazing.   
It's just nice to be out there.  It's a fun walk.  It's a little bit hilly.  Other than that, it's great.   
 Q.  Two days golf.  Anything adjustments, changes come Sunday?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Nope.  Going to go home, go to dinner, go to bed early.  Same routine as every other day.   
 Q.  You mentioned you don't even know what you shot when you're playing really well.  Shot 5-under today.  What's your mindset going to be going into tomorrow possibly a few back on the leaderboard?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Probably the same:  you can make birdies out there.  I know it's possible, because I see the other girls doing it.  So if I can just do kind of what I did today -- I actually missed a two-footer for birdie and a couple par saves around four feet.  If I get a couple more of those to drop, I feel like I'll be right there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT