BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 15, 2017
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll welcome into the media center Brittany Lincicome.  Brittany, how are you doing right now?  Feeling good?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, feeling great.  I love being in the warm weather.  Being a Florida girl, the hotter the better.   
Phoenix is perfect for that.  It's warm outside, it's calm, so it's going to be a good week.   
THE MODERATOR: What do you like about this week in particular, the entire week and the focus on the founders?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's an amazing week.  I'm so glad to be a part of it.  I don't know if it was Mike Juan who thought of it back in the day when it first kind of came to, but I think it's a fantastic idea.   
What better way to give back than to put their name on the tournament and see some of the founders running around and being around them.  I think it's just a wonderful week and someplace all the players love to come.   
THE MODERATOR: Felt pretty good.  Started the season with a bang.  How have things felt since then?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, the only other events were Thailand and Singapore, which those are hard to judge off.  Those golf courses, for whatever reason, just don't seem to play very well over there.  I kind of know that going into it.  I finished 13th in Thailand and I was pretty ecstatic about that actually.   
I feel like my game is still good.  It's just the putter.  I feel like anybody can hit it good.  You just need to more Inbee-like and make more putts.  If I can keep doing that I think it'll ambiguous fantastic year.   
I'm excited to go into this week and see if the putter will keep going.   
THE MODERATOR: Great.  Hope so.  Questions?   
 Q.  To come out of the first event of the season with a victory, how does that set you up for the rest of the year?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I'm not really sure yet.  Normally you would say you can only go up, but I've already been up, so now where do I go?   
Hopefully we keep going up.  This next three-week stretch is three great golf courses that I like.  Hopefully my game just kind of sticks around.  After the Bahamas I wanted to keep playing.  I didn't want all those weeks off.  Just to kind of keep the momentum going.   
It's golf.  It's day-to-day.  You never know what you're going to get.  Hopefully it sticks around and I can just reflect back on what happened in the Bahamas and build confidence and keep it going all year.   
 Q.  Playing against Lexi in the playoff, was that harder as a player, playing with somebody you know so well from playing in the Solheim Cup and gained your respect quite a lot?  Harder going against her?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, because even when I went in the playoff with Stacy Lewis a couple years ago, you know, they're my friends.  Somebody obviously has to lose, and I hate that, but it's part of what we do.   
I always feel really bad if I'm winner; if I'm not, I'm really excited for them.  But if I'm the winner I feel really bad.   
It makes it very challenging when you're playing against a friend and obviously another American.  We want to see the Americans do well.  Somebody I guess has to win.  Definitely being a friend makes it a little bit more challenging for sure.   
 Q.  Talking about the Americans.  Solheim Cup coming up later this year.  You thinking about that?  Are you having player get-togethers already?  Things starting to occur?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: We haven't had anything yet.  Coming up soon I know we're getting together.  Juli mentioned it.  Obviously my goal coming into this year was to make the Solheim Cup team.  Obviously winning in the Bahamas really jumped me up the leaderboard and the ranking system there.   
Would like to just keep going a little bit further each week.  Normally I never would look, but this year I've looked.  I think it was Angela at one point.  I was like, Okay, I just need to pass Angela.  Then it was Korda.  Just need to keep passing the next person to make sure I make the team.  I've been a part of five already, and I would hate to miss being on another team.   
Especially playing for Juli again.  Solheim Cup is definitely at the top of my list.  Winning goes hand in hand with that.   
 Q.  You said about not looking.  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Do you still do that when you're playing tournaments, not look at leaderboards and just keep playing your game?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I don't look at the leaderboard.  Even in the Bahamas I had no clue where I was until I asked my caddie on the last hole.  I know she told me I had that eagle putt.   
You had got one job:  get to the hole.  That was my only goal, I guess.  I knew I was close.  With the weather and everything I just -- I know I need to make birdie.  There are holes you know you can birdie and there are holes you know you need to just make par on.   
I feel like it's the same strategy whether I look at the leaderboard or not.  The less stress I feel like I put on myself the better I perform.  I guess I'll just keep not looking.   
 Q.  After you won in the Bahamas, you went to the casino.  Win anything?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: You know, my husband and I were down probably $300, and we played for what felt like eight hours to get it back to break even.  I'm like, We just spent all this time wasting our lives to break even.  We were only betting like $10, $15.  We're cheap and conservative.   
Yeah, it's really fun to go play.  It's so convenient.  It's right there in the lobby of the hotel.  Easy access and fun to play.  But after I played for like five hours or whatever, I just wasted so much of my life to break even.   
 Q.  Is there a part of you that just gets adrenaline pumping as we get closer to ANA?  Is it safe to say this is your favorites time of year?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, this stretch in particular, you know, being in the desert, being in the warm weather.  The next three golf course seem to fit my game pretty well, which is nice.   
But, yeah, everything about Palm Springs.  When you drive into Mission Hills, the flowers, the palm trees, just seems to be a relaxed kind of town.  Just everything about it puts a smile on my faces.   
Yeah, it's a great golf course, too.  You can bomb it but you have to keep it in the fairway.  Rough is really thick and the greens are really fast.  Definitely have to keep it in the fairway and then you got to make the putts.   
Which is pretty much every week.   
 Q.  Lydia was in here a little bit earlier.  She's No. 1 for 73 consecutive weeks now and still a teenager.  When you look at her and think of all the pressures that come with No. 1 and expectations, how do you think she handles it all?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Better her than me, that's for sure.  You know, I remember when I first turned pro at 18 or 19 -- she was even younger.  She just seems to have no nerves.  I don't know if that's an age thing or if that's just going to be her her whole career.  She just kind of goes out there and is very kind of even keep and doesn't take it too seriously and seems to have a good time doing it.   
But to have that much pressure, her and Ariya going back and forth, I mean, I can't even imagine the pressure they have on themselves, and then obviously the media asking them or their families asking them all the time.   
To be so young and have that much pressure is incredible.  To see both of them, the way they handle it, is very impressive.   
 Q.  You say better her than me.  What does that mean?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Just to have all that pressure.  Just to come in here and talk to you guys once in a blue moon is already like, I must be playing well; I must be doing something good.   
So, yeah, just to have that other pressure of being No. 1 in the world I can't even imagine.  I would just like to be top 10.   
 Q.  Something you think about, being No. 1?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No.   
 Q.  It's not a desire?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Uh-uh.   
 Q.  Ever thought about it?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No.  Probably have to give up fishing.  I don't think I could do both.  That would be like really impressive.   
THE MODERATOR: Do you have any Arnold Palmer memories.   
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I don't.  I really wish I did.  I've seen all the tweets and I looked at Rickie Fowler's shoes that he's wearing this week.  It's so cool.  Just what he's done for the game is so impressive.  I wish I would've had more interaction and been closer with him.   
That's why we have Marilyn Smith and Shirley Spork and those wonderful ladies I guess, so I'll get to know them better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT