THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 16, 2016
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What happened on 18, on your second shot?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: On this one?  I chipped in.
Q. On 9, your final.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I had a super great lie in the rough, and I was just going to hit 3-wood, try to hit it in like the left bunker, if it caught a hill and got on the green, that would just be a bonus.  And I think like the tree -- there was a tree behind me, even though it was like probably eight miles away, was just kind of like in my head, and I just didn't fully like commit to it, and then so it went like -- I literally topped it.  If any amateur golfer was watching, they were like, oh, we do that all the time.  It probably makes them feel better, so that's why I hit it.
And so then I had to hit like a hybrid in, landed it literally like one yard too short, and it went -- it rolled out one yard.  Like my lob wedge has released today more than my hybrid did.  It was just kind of bad luck because I had a super long putt on No. 4, so I already kind of knew the greens would be slow, and I just wanted to kind of get it to the top of the hill, and I thought it would be fast once it got over it, and it wasn't fast.
But yeah, all in all, even taking bogey from what was happening and how I was playing out there, I just wanted to get out of there as quickly as possible and get done.
Q. You chipped in on 18?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I chipped in on 18, yeah.  I was kind of between clubs and I tried to hit a shorter one harder and just pulled it a little bit, so just went just a tiny bit over, and then chipped in.
Q. This course, it's long, the rough is wet.  How typical is it compared to every other year?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it's very difficult.  There's no flat lie anywhere, and then the greens are impossible.  Like there's elephants buried under every one of them I feel.  So you know, you finally get the ball in the fairway, and you're like, okay, I feel comfortable, but then the green isn't flat, so it's not only you have to get it in the fairway, but then you've got to get it on the green somewhere close to the hole.  It's kind of like tricky even once you do something good.
But I've been driving the ball really, really well, which has really helped.  Obviously hitting it on the fairway gives you a better chance of trying to conquer the green, so that's really helping, so I didn't have to hit out of the rough a bunch the last two days, which is definitely I think what my success has been.
Q. Angela was telling us she's been humming songs to keep her relaxed and patient.  Do you do something like that?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, I do, yeah, but it's probably along the same lines of what she's listening to because we both listen to country.
Q. What country are you listening to?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I have to look it -- maybe hers is better.  Mine is Florida Georgia Line, a song called holey.  It's like a love song but I always think it's kind of a religious song, because it's kind of religious-y sounding.  I kind of like it for both reasons.  And then my caddie will sing it because we listen to it right before we tee off, so it's like fresh in both our brains.
And then I played with Ha Na Jang today, and she's freaking hilarious.  She's so funny.  So it was just constantly like she was cheering for me all day, like telling me good job, so that makes it a lot more fun out there.
Q. So you enjoyed it?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it was great.  The fans are great, and just praying the rain stays away.  It's such a beautiful place for it to be yucky.  And then playing 10 and 11 in the rain today was not fun.
Q. Have you been having the chicken special every night?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yes.  I had it two nights in a row and it's phenomenal.
Q. Do you feel you're sort of understanding this course more every year, or is it still a mystery?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I've been here enough times, you would think.  It depends on how you're hitting it.  Like if you can -- like I said, if you hit the fairway, that's only one test for the hole.  You still have to get it on the green and get it in the right spot on the right tiers of all the hills and everything.  I putted really well.  Until a minute ago, I only had 25 putts today with two three-putts, which is incredible.  I got a new putter the week of Calgary when they lost my --
Q. What kind is it?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's an Odyssey.  I think it's like a 2-ball or a newer 2-ball or something.  They lost my bag in Calgary this year, so I just grabbed a new putter and was just putting around until my golf bag came, and then I decided to change.  Maybe it was for the better.
Q. How many putts did you have yesterday?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I didn't add it up yesterday.  I'm guessing around 30.
Q. So big difference today.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.  I made everything today.  Yeah, for sure.
Q. You hit the fairways, made the putts, simple game.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It is, it's simple.  I'm doing the shorter ones cross-handed still.  It used to only be the right-to-left ones, but now I do them on the left-to-right ones.  Like the five-footers for birdie, I make them almost every day.  Very strange.
Q. When did you start doing that?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Kind of basically all year, but I feel like it's been more now -- early in the year I couldn't do it two holes in a row, I could only do them on right-to-lefts.  Now I'm like branching out and doing them like more.
Q. Sort of in your head?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's all in my head.  This whole game is in my head.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT