KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 2016
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR: It's my pleasure to welcome in Brittany Lincicome.  71, even par today going into Sunday.  One shot back.
Just this whole week has been a grind.  I heard you earlier say you're pretty darned exhausted.  Attitude has been everything for you.  Take us through your day today and overall thoughts going into tomorrow.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Well, today I drove the ball well really well, which on this golf course is huge.  To hit it far and to hit it in the fairway, you can score if you can do that.  So that was nice.
Putter today was not as good as the last two days.  I think I made all my putts yesterday.  Just the lag putting today was so off.  On 18 I three-putted.  That kind of happened for most of the day, it felt like.
Keep driving it well, giving myself chances, which is fun, and shooting even par and still around the lead is pretty awesome.
MODERATOR: You enjoy the tough conditions of majors when it's maybe 5-under par, winning, not 20-under par.  Going into tomorrow, how much will it be a mental test in keeping that positive attitude, like you said?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I think that's been the key all week.  My caddie, going into the week, she said you can't react to any shot.  I remember trying to react to one shot early in the week and she was like, no, that's not happening.  And I was like, I can vent a little bit, and it was not happening.  It's been a good strategy.  Luckily I've been playing really well, so there hasn't been too many times where I felt like I needed to kind of let some steam out.
But playing this event or the U.S. Open, or the British Open, when 5-under par is leading it kind of mentally seems easier to do, to accomplish, than 20 something under par.
So I like it when it plays a little bit harder, but this golf course is definitely a pretty good test.
MODERATOR: I want to ask you about the grouping.  Everybody on the first tee saw you and Lydia and Tiff, talk about that grouping, and maybe setting records for laughs and smiles, even though it was a threesome.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: There was a lot of banter going back and fourth.  High 5'g and knuckles, and cheering.  The three of us today, it's like junior golf days, you never root against somebody, but every time you hit a shot or hit the fairway, it was great shot, good job.  We got up and down, good job.  Even tapping in, if you had to straddle somebody's line, somebody had a comment to make.  It just was one thing after another out there of laughter.  Felt like we took our rain gear off and then put it right back on the next hole, and we would joke about that.  It's just the silliest stuff out there.
But it's such a fun group to be paired with.  And obviously lightens the mood, because you're grinding on every shot and then you obviously can kind of let some steam out with your friends, so it's fun.
Q. First question is, five and a half hour round, pins are tucked, look like they're in the bunkers, and it's a wet, cold slog.  We were miserable watching.  How did you keep such a good attitude playing?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I don't really like playing in the rain.  So we got really lucky again today, even yesterday, when it did rain, I felt like I was putting, which wasn't as bad as trying to hit a very key tee shot.  So we got really, really lucky.  Some of those pins out there, when you go out to a hole and there was 2, 3, 4 groups on a hole.  Okay, they must have tucked the pin again.  So, yeah, it's definitely a grind.
When we finished yesterday I felt like I needed to go to bed right away, couldn't even have time for dinner, because it was to dark outside.
It's different than normal.  We're normally around five and a half hours, but to be five and a half or even pushing six, it's definitely no fun.
Q. Final group in the final round of a major, what kind of attitude will you try to take out there tomorrow?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Bummer, I was trying to be one group behind.  (Laughter.)
It's easier to come from behind than be the leader.  I feel like I'm in a great shop.  I'm assuming I'm play with Lydia, which will be something fun.  We'll find something to talk about tomorrow I'm sure.  Her mother packs her so many great snacks, I felt like I just ate out of her bag all day, which was awesome, because it was five and a half hours.
Hopefully I just keep driving the ball l have been doing all week.  My game feels really, really good.  It felt pretty good actually all year, just kind of a couple of days on the weekends hasn't gone my way.  So I feel like I'm playing well.  Hopefully tomorrow I can just shoot another good score.
Q. Brittany, you won two majors, you put yourself in this situation a lot of times before, how much more comfortable or confident are you feeling being back in it again?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Feel super confident.  Like I said I've been playing really well.  I feel like I've been playing well all year, just the scores haven't gone my way or the weekends haven't gone my way.  But to be back in contention, to be back in the media center talking to you guys, its become second nature.  But obviously I tee it up tomorrow, the nerves will kind of setback in, and I'll be super nervous again.
It's just one of those things.  Get through the first three or four holes, if I can keep it kind of together, and then after that it's kind of game on.  It's getting through the first couple of holes that will be stressful.
Q. You're obviously going to be doing your own thing tomorrow, trying to win your third major, can you put yourself in the shoes of Gerina, trying to win a tournament for the first time.  What was that like getting through that barrier for you?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I remember, and I remember -- I can't remember if it was Cristie Kerr or who was it, they said the second win after that is harder than the first.  Ariya just kind of proved that wrong, I guess, in May.
She's such a wonderful competitor, and obviously being an American, I root for her all the time.  Once she gets that first one it's going to be sky's the limit, I think, for Gerina.  She's a wonderful player and I think she'll win many, many times on the Tour.  It's getting through the hurdle and not putting too much pressure on her tomorrow, kind of relaxed game plan that I've been having.  Not take it too serious.  I think she puts a little too much preserve on herself.  And maybe just needs to smile a tiny bit more and she'll be fine.
Q. First question, what snacks did you eat out of Lydia's bag?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Her mom packs her all these fruits, which are so good.  She had mango today.  Her mom peeled the peaches.  She took the seeds out of the cherries, like took the pits out.  It's so good.  Did I say mango?
Q. What are the snacks that you had in your bag?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I had a peanut butter and jelly -- oh, and pistachios.  She didn't want any of those.  She had a peanut butter and jelly that had bananas in it.
Q. It's unusual to be finished on a Saturday at 3 something.  What will you do for the rest of the day?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think you know the answer to that.  Yesterday was such a quick turnaround.  I remember I got Chipotle, I was going back to my many room, I was so tired, I was just going to try and relax.  I put a load of laundry in at the hotel.  I got the text that said my tee time is at 9:35.  I'm like, oh, my gosh, I just put my laundry in at 8:30, I've got to be in bed by 9:00, how is that going to happen?  So I think it was a quick turnaround yesterday, definitely going to get some sleep tonight and need to catch up on Blacklist, I'm a little bit behind.  Going to relax at the hotel, maybe get an early dinner and definitely go to bed early.
Q. When the nerves are really cranking, what is it that you tell yourself to calm down?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: My caddie does a phenomenal job.  I literally, like, especially after I hit a bad shot or something.  Like what did you have for dinner?  What are you doing tomorrow?  We try talking about anything or anything, just to get my mind off what just happened.  Even on the first tee, she's telling me, you have to stand in there and hit a shot.  There's no other way around it.  And she's kind of direct and to the point about it, which is kind of how Missy operates.  She's right, you've got to stand there and hit a shot.  So that's what I do.
MODERATOR: I know throughout the week leaderboards have been stacked, very close together.  I probably have asked you this before, but are you a leaderboard watcher?  Tomorrow will you be taking a peek?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No.
MODERATOR: You let Missy do the work on the leaderboards.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I tried not looking.  I always look at the wrong times, like on the cut on Friday.
But, yeah, I'm trying to become more a leader board watcher.  I know I need to make birdie.  Everyone knows that.  The pins are going to be tucked you hit it in the middle of the green and the par-5s are the holes I can take advantage of and try to make birdie.  I don't feel like it's necessary to look at the leaderboard, some people tell you you need to, some people tell you you don't, it's kind of a mixed emotion.  We'll do it my way and try not to look at them.  But I can definitely feel myself glancing a couple of times.
MODERATOR: Thank you for coming in, good luck tomorrow.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT