KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 10, 2016
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So it's a hard golf course under normal circumstances, you throw in rain and this set up and it's got to be really, really difficult out there?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Very difficult.  I think I got lucky on the holes that it did rain on.  I wasn't hitting a big drive or a big second shot.  I was doing a lot of putting at those times, which was nice.  It was one of those days everything was kind of going my way.  I was making five to ten-footers to save par it felt like, every hole in the first couple of holes, anyway.  Hopefully we keep that momentum going.  The golf course is very challenging and I did pretty good today.
Q. Is this the kind of golf course that negates distance or is it something that you feel like your distance can still be an advantage?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think distance on this golf course is a huge advantage.  Just getting it down there further and having a shorter iron into the greens, a couple of the pins were tucked today, they're doing a good job of hiding some of the pins.  So having the shorter irons into the greens I think is definitely key.
But obviously finding the fairway I think is more important than the length, for sure.  If you're going to keep it in the fairway, you have a better chance than somebody that's going to hit it in the rough on every hole.
Q. How many par saves have you had on 36 holes?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Gosh, just today I felt like I had ten.  It's one of those things, hopefully it keeps going.  It's so up and down most times.  Hopefully I didn't use them all today, hopefully they keep coming.  Yeah, definitely my putter was helping today.
Q. A lot of things we're hearing from a lot of people is center of the green is the right play, do you agree?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, the greens are not super big, so if you hit it in the middle you're not too far away from the holes.  There's holes out there where you just get a par and move on to the next hole.  And there are definitely holes we're attacking and going at pins.  Not all the pins are obviously tucked and we can get at most of them.  Just play conservative when we have to and play aggressive when you need to.
Q. How many drivers do you think you hit?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think six.  I think somebody asked me this morning, and that's kind of how I came up with that number.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Today I hit it -- I started on 1, so I only hit I think one drive on that hole 9.  So when I got to the fifth hole, the par 5, it's that side, I snap hooked it way left, thought it was going out of bounds.  So a couple of holes I should have hit driver I hit 3-wood because I felt more comfortable with the 3-wood.
But when I made the turn I had to hit driver on a couple of the holes, and it was fine.  I'll hit driver, as long as it goes straight, and if not, 3-wood is plenty far enough.
Q. What was your first impression of this place?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: You know, I saw pictures on Twitter before we came.  And then when I got here I played the back nine, and I thought, oh, my gosh, the 10th tee shot is super narrow.  The back nine is great because it goes right-to-left, perfect for my game.  The other nine I feel a lot of holes go the opposite direction.  The second shot on the par 5, 11, I tried to cut a 4-iron around that tree, which didn't happen.
Q. When you were first walking the property did you say I love this place, it fits me perfect?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was a little bit of both.  I thought oh, my gosh, it's so pretty.  How many of these trees are out there?  It's in perfect condition.  The grass is so beautiful.  The trees are so beautiful.  But then you're hitting shots, and, gosh, where am I going to hit it kind of a thing?  So it's kind of a 50/50 emotion.  Yeah, I think it's one of the prettiest golf courses I think we've ever played.
Q. With conditions changing so much, how much of a fight was it to maintain your consistency?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was very challenging.  My caddie told me before she teed it up, and she's been very strict about getting negative out there, I'm not allowed to react to any shots, even like the slightest little bit of emotion or reaction that I have.  And she's like, no, I'm not having it.  She yells at me out there, which is good, because the cheerier, the happier I am, the more I chat out there, the better I play.  And that's definitely -- you let one hole out here get you down, and it snowballs very quickly.  So she's definitely kind of keeping me in check of our strategy, I guess.
Q. The way that some trees are into the fairway, do you mind that?  Is that fair?  Is that okay?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, it's very annoying, actually.  It's the only golf course where you can hit it in the fairway and still be penalized, which is crazy.  Even that 11th hole, it's a right-to-left draw lie, but you have to hit a draw around that tree.  It seems like a couple of the shots don't set up for what the hole requires, I guess.  But it is what it is.  And this is the golf course we're going to play, so we're going to hopefully miss it in the right spot.  I think missing it left amongst the fairways is the miss on this golf course.  I kind of jotted it in my yardage book, because you still have a shot up on to the green.  If you miss on the right, most trees are blocking you out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT