KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 19, 2016
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under, how much are you loving this Williamsburg experience?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I love it here every year whether I play good or not, but it was nice to get off to a good start today.  Finally got the putter rolling my way, which was nice, especially when I had the three to five-footers to save par.  Those were going in consistently.  The greens were faster this year than I've ever seen them in my life.  I think they were faster than any other stop on Tour this year, so that was obviously something I had to adjust to when I got out there because I couldn't be as aggressive as I wanted to be, so I figured it out early and had some birdies, which was fun.
Q. How did the course play?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was good.  You know, luckily we got to play lift, clean and place today because it's obviously pretty wet still from the rain we had a couple days ago.  But the course is in great shape.  It's greener than ever.  It's faster than ever.  You know, hopefully we'll keep the rain away, let it dry out a little bit so we can hit it a little bit further because we had a lot of long irons into greens today, so it would be nice to have a shorter iron on the weekend.
Q. How does this stack up with how you have been playing?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Above and beyond.  Good to talk to you guys, which hasn't happened I don't think at all this year, so it's nice.  Like I said, the putter hasn't really been working all year.  I've been driving it really well, hitting the irons pretty good I felt, and just today I think I had 27 or 28 putts, which obviously any time you have putts in the 20s is good.
Q. What was the week off like?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think I played golf one time, which is normal.  I don't know what happened.  I was really busy.  Missy, my caddie, was in Florida, and we hung out a bunch.
Q. You guys just chilled and hung out, nothing special?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah.
Q. The last few weeks how much has the stretch coming up weighed on you?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, I'm not thinking about it at all.
Q. You're not?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, I am, of course.  Obviously there's a lot of big events here coming up.  Every time I see where I am on the Money List right now, it's obviously very disappointing.  It's not normally where I am.  But I've been hitting the ball so well.  Just obviously the putting just needs to kind of come around.  I thought about changing putters there for a while, and of course you have like one good day, and you're like, okay, maybe it's not the putter.  Then it kind of goes back again.  So it's kind of a -- I don't know what the deal is.
Q. So this is the beginning of a huge stretch for us, 11 consecutive weeks.  There's a lot of -- UL International Crown, Olympic qualification.  Did you come in here this week knowing you needed to play well?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, I just came in wanting just to play well and shoot under par again.  It seems like something that should come so naturally for someone who does this for a living, but it just hasn't been happening lately.  When it does happen, maybe Sunday doesn't go my way or something.  This is -- obviously you can't win it on Thursday, but you can put yourself in contention, so hopefully it'll keep me there and around the lead.
Q. When was the last time you changed putters?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's been a long time.
Q. So you've had this one for a while?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: At least two years, yeah.
Q. What are you using now?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Odyssey, the Tank, the old Tank.
Q. And then you haven't changed anything else, just keeping it the same?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: The same, uh-huh.  Occasionally I try cross-handed.
Q. Do you, mid-round?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it works really well on the right to left putts.  I told Nicole Castrale in Alabama, I was like, did you notice that I did that one cross-handed.  She was like, no, thanks, like I needed a little tidbit.  So yeah, but it just -- right to left are better than left to rights.  If I'm not making anything, then I don't do it two holes in a row.  We're not mental at all out here.  (Laughing.)
Q. Talk about the course this morning.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: The course is great.  It's greener than I think we've ever seen it, and I really wish that rain wouldn't have come through because it would have made it that much more special, but hopefully it dries out by the weekend, and hopefully that rain on Saturday stays away, and the greens are rolling like the U.S. Open would roll.  It's crazy.  It's like they're rolling like a 14.  I don't know what they're rolling specifically, but there was a couple putts today where like Suzann hit like a normal putt, and it would go like five, six feet by, and we were like, oh, my gosh.
So yeah, if you didn't pay attention to that kind of right away, even my first putt of the day, I'm like, oh, boy.  It was downhill, so I was like, for the first hole, we're getting into it.  But yeah, the greens were awesome.
Q. Totally random question.  Have you ever played with Tiffany Joh?
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's been a long time.  I wish I could play with her more, though, because she's kind of like me and likes to have fun on the golf course.  I think her and I would be talking too much to actually play golf, would probably get in trouble.
Q. I watch her come up 18 this morning, and I don't think she hushed.
BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, she'll just send me a Snapchat, and the stuff she's done to me, I don't even know what to reply back.  It's so funny.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT