CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2015
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How do you feel about where you are on the leaderboard?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I would rather be coming from behind than in that first place spot anyway. So for me personally, I think it's going to be great.   
I thought I was going to go out today and kind of kill it, just the way I've been swinging the last couple of weeks. But that didn't happen. Golf is just day‑to‑day. You never know what's going to happen. Maybe tomorrow is my 62 round. It's going to be coming from behind, so maybe the cameras won't be focused on me as much and I can just go out there and enjoy a fun round of golf. I have a lot of family and friends here, being from Florida. It's been great to go out there and have some fun and show off in front of them.  
   
 Q. The bunkers out there, they sort of remind you of the British bunkers. How much trouble have you had or have you seen the other girls had?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I have had and have seen quite a bit of issues with them. If you get near the lip, you are basically going to chip it out sideways and try to get it up‑and‑down. It's definitely different. You hit it right on the nail, it's like being at the British. If you get it too close, I've had to chip out on the far side sideways. Can't go anywhere at the pin. I've seen other girls do it as well. It's definitely one of those if we are going for par‑5 in two, taking that risk and trying to carry it or knowing that it might be something I have to pitch is definitely uncomfortable.  
   
 Q. What would it mean to win this event?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME: To win this event would be an amazing accomplishment. I've worked so hard all year. I played so well at the beginning of the year and toward the end it's been a little bit boring, I guess you could call it.   
Obviously, to be at this event, being one of my sponsors would be mean the world to me, to be standing on the 18th hole, holding the trophy with Terry by my side, with the CME logo on my shirt, my hat would be kind of a dream come true. I've worked so hard to get in this event and feel like I'm playing so well, so anything is possible.  
   
 Q. Lydia, what do you think about what she's done?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I mean, Lydia is on a whole other level. It's like an Annika level. To be 18years old, I was trying to shoot somewhere close to even par when I was 18years old. Now I'm 30 and she still kicks my butt every year. To be so young and so talented and to be so humble and so sweet, she's really the whole package. She's just a great addition to have on the LPGA. It's amazing to even think about what she could do at such a young age. And she's already accomplished so much. She could be in the Hall of Fame the next couple of years if she keeps going the way she's going, which is incredible for somebody that's only 18. It's great to see somebody who is the whole package and that sweet person at heart to be playing so well.   
   
 Q. What has this Race done for the LPGA?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's incredible. When I met Terry a long time ago, we just started out doing the Pro‑Ams. For him now to having such an amazing event, having the Race to the CME Globe, everything that he has done for us, it's just incredible to see someone who loves the LPGA as much as all of us do.   
To have this event, it's like having another major. Everything about this event is top of the line. It's really great to have this event being our last tournament of the year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT