CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 2015
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Happy to be joined in the media center by Brittany Lincicome, 4‑under round today. What was working for you out there?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Everything, to be honest, especially the putter. I feel like the last week or so, I feel like I was averaging about 40 putts per round which obviously is not very good. Just did a better job of getting the ball in the hole in the fewest amount of strokes on the green.  
   
 Q. Last event of the season, does it feel like the season is coming down to an end?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yes, you can definitely tell with some of the players, we've been talking, like four more rounds, three more rounds. We're like counting them down, which is horrible.   
Being here in Florida, being one of my sponsors, I really, really want to do good, being the last event of the season. I had a good start to the year, kind of very boring middle and it would be nice to get one more good finish before it's done.  
   
 Q. Got the wedding coming up, how difficult is that for you to be preparing for all that with the season winding down?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I really wish I could blame it on that, but you hire a wedding planner and they do all the work for you and you just do nothing. I really feel like I've done nothing for my wedding. I can't even blame it on that.   
It's really exciting, after this week we're going to wind down and start getting the seating charts and the final details together, which will be fun. And obviously Thanksgiving coming up, it will be a good time to put the clubs away for a month or so and not feel guilty.  
   
 Q. If the storms do hit, it dumps a lot of water the next two days, will that be good for the course or bad for the course?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I don't know about the course, per se, but it will be good for me. Just being a longer hitter, obviously I can hit farther than most people out there. Actually, the first six holes today, we were picking up already a ton of mud. It's already wet early.   
The back nine, I didn't pick up actually at all any mud on the back. If it gets wetter, obviously they are going to have to move some tees up because it's going to play really long. I think the golf course can handle it.  
   
 Q. Does this tournament‑‑ it's not a major, but it does feel like it carries more weight than a regular tournament?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely. Just all the talk about the points leading up to it and the million dollars. It's incredible to have a chance to win that. Just everything they do, from the golf course to the dining room to everything, I mean, it's just top of the line here. Not even that it's one of my sponsors, it feels like it has a major feel to it for sure.  
   
 Q. You've won majors. For those players, for Lydia and Inbee, who are going for all those awards stacked up and then a million dollar prize potentially, is that comparable to a major, do you think?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely. I mean, I don't know how they are sleeping at night, to be honest with you. Just going out today, wanting to play good, not having a chance to be in the top 9 to have the mathematical chance to win, I still didn't sleep very well last night just because I was so excited to get out here today.   
It's a lot of pressure, especially Lydia, she is so young and she handles it so well. To have so many different prizes on the line, I don't think I would sleep. I would be so nervous.  
   
 Q. What about Lydia's year? Ten Tour wins now and still only 18years old. How would you assess what she's done?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME: She's in a whole other category that most players will never even come close to. I mean, to be so young, I keep saying it, she's just so young that she doesn't know what she's doing. She just goes out there, tees it up, hits it, finds it, hits it again. She doesn't think about it, which is kind of how we play being 30 now that we're old. Just trying to go out there and do the same. Just try not to overthink about it. Don't think about the money. Obviously we have bills to pay, just don't think about it. Just play like you are 18years old.   
She is killing it. She's on a whole other level that I was never even close to being on as a junior golfer and it's really cool to see. She's such a nice girl, too. She's kind of the whole package, which is really great.  
   
 Q. You know, Inbee was in here yesterday or two days ago and statistically she's so close, we asked her about that and Inbee said it's scary how similar Lydia's game is to hers. Do you see that?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME: I mean, they both hit it straight down the middle every time. I don't think I've ever seen either one of them hit it off line or hit a snap hook in a hazard like most of us do.   
Then putting, it's incredible, especially Inbee, she makes 30‑footers like they're 3‑footers. She walks them kind of like Kerr does. She knows it's going to go in. There's no question that it's not going to go in.   
I mean, I would love to putt half as good as she does or both of them, to be honest. It's just incredible to see how well they see the line and they putt the ball. That's what wins majors and tournaments is putting.  
THE MODERATOR: Thanks for your time. Good play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT