KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2015
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BRITTANY LINCICOME: This is a golf course that fits my game so well.  There's no reason why I can't shoot in the 60s each day, even though I know it's a major and it's going to play tougher. The pins were definitely harder today.  Was a little bit windier, so I didn't know if that was going to be a possibility.  Started out, had a couple bogeys early, which are never fun.  Finally had the first birdie to get things going and I think I had four or five in a row which was really fun. Then missed a couple coming in, which could have been an even better day.  I missed like a 5-footer on 17 and then parred 18.  But overall, it was really nice.Q. How long was the putt on 18?BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, I didn't even hit it close.  It was bad.  Hit the tree off the tee shot because I tried to get too greedy because the tee box was moved up like 30 yards.  My fault.Q. How did you find the greens today?BRITTANY LINCICOME: They were good.  They are obviously getting a little slipperier just because it's getting a little warmer.  It's over 90 already I guess, so that doesn't help.  Definitely got to pay attention when you're downhill.  They are moving pretty quick, but sidehill and uphill, still about the same.Q. Right in contention for second major in a row.BRITTANY LINCICOME: That's really nice.  I said that going in, because yesterday was so bad that I didn't want to shoot my way out of it and not have a chance for tomorrow.  Nice to get a good score today. I always like to be coming from behind.  I don't like leading after two or three rounds because it makes me more nervous, I have to do more interviews and there's nor attention, so if I'm coming from behind and chasing people, it seems to be more of my comfort zone.Q. How is the driver today?BRITTANY LINCICOME: Driver's been really good.  I got greedy on 18 and hit a bad one.  And No. 9, another reachable par 5, I hooked it into the bunker and had to lay up and made birdie so that helps. But definitely on the holes where I normally can -- par 5, hit it in the fairway, knock it on the green, 2-putt, really stress-free birdies wasn't happening today.  My wedges were really good, wedging them really close and having fairly good tap-ins.Q. Were you bummed out yesterday not having a good round going into the weekend?BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, there was no reason for it I felt.  I was with the same group, we were having a good time.  Maybe because Kerr was having a good round but Korda and I were not doing too good.  So I guess we weren't feeding off each other's energy; like come on, we can do this, we need $5 birdies, let's go. But neither one of us had it that day.  You kind of feed off your group when you're playing well; if they are making birdies, you are making birdies.  We just weren't making birdies yesterday.Q. Still, five birdies in a row today.BRITTANY LINCICOME: That was fun.Q. Got to make you feel good.BRITTANY LINCICOME: Absolutely.  I remember speaking to Annika when she shot 59 and listening to her not paying attention to all of the -- circle, circle, circle.  I was trying not to look at my scorecard and trying not to look at the standard bearer because you're trying not to think about, I birdied two in a row, I birdied three in a row; you want to keep it going.  But yeah, it's really fun.Q. What's the most birdies you ever had?BRITTANY LINCICOME: That's a good question.  I have no idea.Q. What's the LPGA record?BRITTANY LINCICOME: I did shoot 61 once in Danville forever ago.Q. You'll never forget that place.BRITTANY LINCICOME: No.Q. What was the longest putt in the five in a row?BRITTANY LINCICOME: They were all pretty close.  Maybe ten feet, 15 feet.Q. So it does suit your game.BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it really does.Q. You're kind of an exception out here in this age of gurus and entourages.  You do things your own way and your own style.  Can you talk about how you approach things?BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, it's all about having fun for me.  My caddie said on one of the holes, if there would have been a microphone on us today, the fans at home would get a huge laugh.  Because I'm trying to talk her into letting me go for a pin and she's telling me, no, you're absolutely not, I'm going to break the club if you hit it. Kind of one of those situations where we are just having fun out there and my fiancée is here, dad is here, so kind of look over to them and give them a wave every now and then.  Dad is cutting holes so he doesn't have to walk as much as he has to and sitting.  And things happening on the golf course, there's turkeys today that kept making the gobble, gobble, gobble sound and we were just dying.  We like to keep it nice and airy and not too serious, especially when I'm playing well, the more I talk and have a good time, the better I play.Q. If you were more of a ball beater and obsessed more about the game, do you think you would do worse and not better?BRITTANY LINCICOME: That's a good question.  I had talked to my caddie before I won the ANA and I said, if I actually dedicated -- because obviously I'm getting married at the end of the year, going to start a family eventually.  If I kind of put in a real good couple years before I maybe retire or backed away a little bit, do you think I could be better, could be No. 1. And then I won ANA and so I was like, maybe that doesn't work for me because I didn't do anything different the week before I won ANA.  I think it's just the way I play.  If I hit too many balls, I don't feel good.  It's more like the time, hitting ten balls is better than hitting like a hundred because my concentration, I'm like a social butterfly and I lose concentration.Q. When you see players, it's really prevalent on the PGA Tour but out here, players have somebody for everything and you don't really have that.BRITTANY LINCICOME: I don't.  You watch people out here take lessons, they are so technical in what they are doing. Lizette Salas was on the range today taking lessons and she said, "I feel like my wrist did something," and I had no idea what she was talking about. I feel like when I'm taking a practice swing on the golf course and somebody is watching me, they are like, oh, these probably working on something.  I'm literally just taking a practice swing just to take a practice swing because that's what you're supposed to do before you hit the ball.Q. When is the last lesson you had?BRITTANY LINCICOME: Oh, golly, it's been about five years.  I did take lessons right when I got on Tour from a gentleman or for eight years who was obviously a big help in getting me where I am today.Q. Who is that?BRITTANY LINCICOME: His name was Matt Mitchell.  He's in my area. He was a great coach but I haven't seen him in years.Q. Who was the lesson five years ago with?BRITTANY LINCICOME: Him.Q. And what's your caddie's name?BRITTANY LINCICOME: Missy Pederson.Q. Do you ever think that you left anything on the table by not working more diligently?BRITTANY LINCICOME: That's what I said about the ANA.  I feel like everyone has their way of doing it, like Juli Inkster or Lexi, they go out there and they need to hit balls for five hours at a time.  I would have retired a long time ago I think if I would have done it that way unfortunately.  It's just different for everybody. Laura Davies is like my idol.  She never goes to the range.  She never plays practice rounds.  I'm like, I'm going to take after her.  She had a good career.Q. What do you suppose your longest drive was today?BRITTANY LINCICOME: Today was 290.  I hit like 235 off nine, hit in the bunker.  Last week was like almost 300 every day though.Q. Have you always had that sort of lift a little bit before you take the driver back?BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, and that only started a couple years ago I think because I was hitting the ball left every time I put the club on the ground.  So the now mentally if I put it on the ground I'm going to hit it left.  Probably just me being silly but more mental, we go with it.Q. It's a hilly course?BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's very hilly.Q. So you walked almost four miles today.BRITTANY LINCICOME: Good, I don't have to work out later, so that's nice.  It is really hot.  I'm from Florida and you would think I would be used to the heat.  But still, I was trying to carry my umbrella as much as I could, wearing my sun sleeves, keep some of my skin protected.  But it's definitely hot and hilly out there.Q. Is having a trainer working out sort of the only thing you have in common with players as far as preparation?BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, because I don't work out either.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT