KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 2015
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY SCHULTZ: Good afternoon, everyone.  We would like to welcome Brittany Lincicome into the interview room, a great 3-under par round. You win the first major of the season, and come out and are now tied for the lead at the second one.  What is going on in your game so far this year that's been able to let you play such great golf?   BRITTANY LINCICOME: It's just the majors, they set up perfectly for my game.  I like it when a tournament, 6-, 7-, 8-under par wins.  Last week when 20-some under par wins, just mentally, I don't feel like I can do that I guess. The longer the golf course obviously fits my game a lot better.  The rough is thick; the greens are fast this week.  I think it's just a combination of everything that this course is kind of offering right now.   KELLY SCHULTZ: Is this a golf course, first time you've probably seen it this week, is it one that really suits your eye?  Is there something about it that you really enjoy?   BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, there's a lot of holes that go right-to-left.  There's only a couple that are -- there's always a couple when you get to them you're like, gosh, you really dread. But this one, a lot of holes go right-to-left which fits my draw.  And I don't feel like when I'm looking at the fairway, they don't seem super narrow to me.  I've been driving the ball so well all year, which really helps.  Any time you can get it in the fairway, and not have to worry about hitting it out of play, it just takes a lot of stress off of you.   KELLY SCHULTZ: We were talking to Cristie earlier about how well that whole group played.  What is that like when you go out and play with everyone and everybody seems to be playing that well, especially when you're at a major?   BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, the front nine, Korda and I were both 2-over par and we said when we made the turn -- we both birdied 9 and going to 10 and said:  Let's do a $5 birdie game to get us motivated to shoot better.  She birdied the last so we were tied unfortunately or I was going to be up $5. Just the small things.  We just kind of needed something to kind of motivate us to get back in it.  We weren't out of it by any means, but obviously being a major, you never know if you're going to birdie that many holes coming in.  If you're already over par, it's hard to get it back.  It was just fun.  Kerr and Korda, it was a great group all around.  We had a really good day.   KELLY SCHULTZ: You and Korda don't live too far away from each other in Florida.  Is that something you often do, have games like that?   BRITTANY LINCICOME: No, I don't feel like I ever see her unfortunately.  We don't get to play as many practice rounds together as we would like.  To have our pairing this week, it was nice to have somebody like that in your group.  Because if it would have been somebody I didn't really know, obviously you're not going to be like, hey, let's play a $5 birdie game in. We didn't let Kerr in because she was already making too many birdies.  She doesn't need any motivation (laughs).  She's going to walk it in and make her birdies.  It was a fun group.  We were having a good time and I didn't feel like it was a major out there today.  We were just having so much fun.   KELLY SCHULTZ: You've had a busy week, not only ringing the closing bell at NASDAQ, but you got to throw out the first pitch at the Mets game which ended up benefiting the San Francisco Giants as you witnessed a no-hitter.  What kind of day was that?   BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was pretty incredible.  That was the first time I had ever seen it.  We played the Pro-Am this morning, took a quick shower here, went to the NASDAQ, did the closing bell and went to the game.  So it was -- needless to say I missed my nap and I was very tired. Had a really great day.  We come out to a golf tournament, especially a major and it's golf, golf, golf.  That day, did a little bit of golf, but got to do some fun stuff as well.  Any time you get to go to a baseball game, it's like the highlight of my day.  I love going to games.   KELLY SCHULTZ: Maybe a little distraction is just what you needed this week.   BRITTANY LINCICOME: Exactly.   Q.  Given your length off the tee, how excited to you get when you see a major championship course with five par 5s?  BRITTANY LINCICOME: See my eyes light up (smiling) super excited. The first couple days, Monday, I had only played nine holes and I'm like, wow, am I missing something?  And then two of them are reachable -- actually all three of them were reachable today.  So the that makes it even more exciting.  You just kind of, all you focus on is getting it in play and then you kind of go from there. So any time the par 5s are reachable, your scorecard kind of goes from normally 72 to kind of 68 and, this week it might even go one lower.  But being a major obviously there's going to be a couple bogeys out there that are going to happen; it's inevitable.  A couple under par each day would probably be really good.   Q.  Are jockeys really small or what?  BRITTANY LINCICOME: I feel like his head was laying on my arm here, he was so short, bless his heart.  He walked by, and I was like, I recognize you but I don't, and somebody mentioned it and I'm like, oh, my gosh.  It was pretty cool.  I got my picture with him.  What an accomplishment for him, Victor, it's incredible.   Q.  He would be easy to recognize but he had to have the horse with him?  BRITTANY LINCICOME: I would have recognized the horse first probably.   KELLY SCHULTZ: He wins the Triple Crown; one major, second major -- could it possibly be a Triple Crown in your future?  Wouldn't be so bad.   BRITTANY LINCICOME: Nope (nodding).   Q.  Can you just talk about the setup and the way that they are balancing scoring holes with the tough holes?  BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I played it today and I thought everything was as perfect as it possibly could be.  The pins seemed to be in the best places, and when there was a pin that was tucked, obviously those were the holes we were kind of aiming more at the green. We played it as -- I told my caddie, we played it like Pinehurst at the U.S. Open where some pins you're going to be able to get at and others you have to shoot way away from; and keep it in the big part of the green and get your 2-putt and move on. That's how we played it all day.  Just take advantage of the par 5s and when you're in trouble, definitely take your medicine and kind of hit it towards the fat part of the green. Definitely stay below the pins because the greens are back to front and they get really fast.  Keep it below the pin.  And we did a good job today.  But the setup I thought was absolutely perfect.   Q.  Talk about 15 and 16 where you had eagle, birdie.  BRITTANY LINCICOME: The par 5, again I had a 4-iron and I hit it and I'm like, wow, it felt really good. It was going right up the middle of the green.  The putt, actually, if it wouldn't have hit the hole, I think it would have gone off the green.  Jeff asked if I had dented the cup at all, if I needed to replace the cup because it was going in with some speed. The next hole, my birdie putt was three, four feet and if I would have missed it I wouldn't even have cared because that hole I literally just tried to make par on every day and just keep moving, because I think that's one of the toughest par 3s that we've ever played just because it's so far and the green is so small.  I got really lucky there.   Q.  How are the green speeds?  BRITTANY LINCICOME: Green speeds are really good actually.  Back to front, like I was saying, if you get above it, you have to be really careful because they are really, really fast.  Uphill or sidehill you can be aggressive, which is nice, and take advantage of some of the holes.  But I think the speeds are perfect.   Q.  What do you think they were running at?  BRITTANY LINCICOME: That was a tricky question because downhill, they are 12, 13, 14, but sidehill, uphill, they are like ten, they are a little bit slower.  So definitely have to be aware of kind of -- luckily we bought the book that has the little markers and tells us which way it's breaking and stuff, so that helps.   Q.  At some point there were a couple players who were minus six on the scoreboard.  Did you follow -- I guess it was incorrect.  BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was incorrect, yeah.   Q.  Were you following?  BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, because Paula was in front of us and we had seen her bogey the par 5 -- and we're like, she still can't be 6-under and we got to the tee and it said minus two -- maybe it's a Sunday thing, I don't look at it.  But today I looked at it and felt totally fine but on Sunday I'll stop looking.  But we knew she wasn't 6-under.  That would be an incredible score, though.   KELLY SCHULTZ: It's been an incredible year on the golf course, and off the golf course you got engaged a few months ago and are now planning a wedding.  What's that been like balancing golf and exciting things happening I guess for you, especially wedding planning, I know personally, is very time consuming.   BRITTANY LINCICOME: Luckily I hired an amazing planner and I just basically have given everything to her.  I've shown her a few pictures of kind of what I'm kind of envisioning, not that I'm very good at envisioning anything, but just really letting her do absolutely everything.  When she sends me the e-mails wanting the money is when I kind of have mild heart attacks.  But outside of that, I've been totally stress free other than a couple heart attacks.   KELLY SCHULTZ: Having that aspect of your life, what has D brought to you and has that been a big factor in you playing such great golf of late.   BRITTANY LINCICOME: I think so.  You know, we're out here, what, 25, 30 weeks a year and it's a grind and it's hard and it's hard to find somebody.  If you don't find anybody in the off-season, you feel like you have to wait a whole 'nother year before you have a chance to look again.  Because you're home for a couple days, hey, what do you do; I'll be back in three weeks don't worry about it.  So it's really challenging. To have somebody in my life that I know is always going to be there for me and has my back on a good day or bad day balances everything out.  I go out and play, I had a bad day; I'm alive, my family is healthy, I'm getting married, it's not a big deal as it used to be I guess. So now I'm just a little bit calmer, kind of go into my day a little bit less stress in my life and it's just like a whole package now, it's great.   Q.  Get any fishing in on this trip?  BRITTANY LINCICOME: No.  I'm not even fishing when I'm home.  I don't know what I'm doing but I'm not fishing.  I am so busy but I don't know why.   Q.  The eagle on 15, could you give a little more detail, what club and how far was the approach?  BRITTANY LINCICOME: It was -- I think it was 203 to the pin.  I hit a 4-iron and it was like 30 feet probably and like I said if it wouldn't have hit the hole it probably would have gone by seven feet.  It was moving.   KELLY SCHULTZ: Thank you very much.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT