ANA INSPIRATION
April 3, 2015
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Nice finish with three birdies in the last six holes.  Feel good?  Obviously you're somewhere you feel comfortable.  BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I kind of went into today and my number in my head was just 2-under.  I hate when people talk about the scores but I don't want to know like even par, if that was me or the cut line, but I knew 5-under was leading so I was hoping that not too many under par was going to make the cut, so 2-under this morning, and then I had like a five-footer, 10-footer on the first hole, like a five-footer on the second hole and couldn't get anything to fall, and then just stayed patient.  My caddie is so great at keeping me patient out there and not letting me get ahead of myself and keeping my chatty and happy all day.  I felt like I smiled for most of the day, and I only had one bogey, I guess, which was so unnecessary, and then I got really fired up from there and made a couple good putts on the next couple holes, so that obviously really helped to get it back on track.  Going to go putt a little bit.  I don't know if I'm just overthinking it or not reading them properly or what, but could have been really low today.   Q.  So you think you left a few out there?  BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, for sure.  I missed like two five-footers and one 10-footer for sure that could have gone in.  But yeah, felt like I was hitting it really well.  I knew exactly where the ball was going all day, which obviously on this golf course the rough is so thick, if you hit it in the rough, you're pretty much dead, so that's nice at least driving it well, which is really fun.   Q.  In terms of the scores, everyone says it helps the long bombers.  Do you think that way because yesterday it was Morgan and Ai up at the top who are not necessarily the longest.  BRITTANY LINCICOME: They're accurate, though.  They hit it really straight, which obviously being a long hitter, if you don't hit it straight, you're going to be in the rough a lot, which here is not where you want to be.  I think length is definitely an advantage for sure.  I have a lot of wedges into the greens, which is really fun.  The par-5s, some of them I can get to in two, which is really fun, but definitely if you're not driving it well it doesn't matter how far you hit it.  If you can keep it in the fairway, that's the key for sure.   Q.  Your major championship here, obviously this is somewhere you have great memories.  Did you feel good coming into this week?  BRITTANY LINCICOME: I did, yeah.  Some of the golf courses that we've had so far just don't really fit my game, unfortunately, so it's kind of like Missy and I were waiting for Kraft and waiting for the next couple events to come.  Even Hawai'i is super windy so I kind of write that one off, as well.  Just kind of getting the practice and momentum and just trying to keep it together out there and not fall apart and keeping the nerves under control, just kind of getting ready for a golf course like this one that kind of fits my game a little bit better.  It's unfortunate that I have to wait so long into the year for something that kind of fit my game, but yeah, it's nice to be here, and obviously playing well, it's really fun.   Q.  You said you don't want to think about numbers and stuff like that, do you feel like you had the better break of the weather and conditions?  BRITTANY LINCICOME: Yeah, I normally get the bad breaks with the weather.  But no, definitely.  I could hear the wind blowing yesterday morning when I was still laying in bed, and I'm like, oh, my gosh, those poor girls are out there playing, and they kind of said, if it gets a little cooler then the wind really picks up, so I'm really hoping it stays 90, 95 all week so the wind kind of stays like this.  It's more fun, then the people see good shots and birdies, and it makes it more fun for everybody if the wind stays down.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT