PURE SILK BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
February 6, 2015
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So you had quite the break today.   I mean, you didn't start until pretty late in the afternoon.   What did you do all day? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Slept.   I woke up around 8:00 because my fiancee was going to play Albany.   When he left, I kind of messed around on my phone for a little bit.   Next thing I knew I fell asleep at 9:30 until 11:00.   Then I got up and ironed my clothes for the party tonight and kind of got everything ready that I needed and came out here really early because I was so bored and I was hungry.

Q.   Kind of came out with a peace of mind, pretty relaxed out here of course.   I know the ladies that played a pretty long morning and afternoon kind of had to deal with the wind all day.   You came out very strong this afternoon.   Obviously, just automatically turned up right away on top of the leaderboard.   What was the strategy coming in the wind was blowing pretty strong?
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   It was kind of just like hit it and laugh kind of mentality.   Like we weren't taking anything really seriously.   We knew it was going to be blowing really strong, and we're just thankful we didn't have to play all day.   We only had to play a couple holes, which was really nice, and they say tomorrow's going to be windy.   Hopefully not as windy as today.   But just I was going to go out today and I was either going to shoot 90 I told myself or I was going to shoot like 73.   So even par would have been great for the course. 
So I was just trying to take it easy out there and have a good time with it.   There was nothing we could do about it.   It's so ridiculous out there that it's not even normal.   It's kind of just you've got to laugh about it.   You can't get mad.

Q.   Yeah, I noticed a few people saying it was getting in their head with it, and other people were the same mentality.   Well, here‑goes‑nothing‑type of mentality with that. 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Right.

Q.   Now quick turnaround for obviously the morning and long day tomorrow.   What are you going to do to prepare? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   We're going to go to the Pro‑Am party tonight for Pure Silk or whatever the party is tonight, and get some food and get back out here for the 8 a.m. restart. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT