LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 19, 2014
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another really, really good week of golf. 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, yesterday obviously I left a few out there.   I played so good today, hit so many good shots, especially coming in.   A couple shots where I felt like it was going to be like right in the hole and came up short or something.   Maybe just wasn't my day.   But I think I shot 6‑under today, obviously was a pretty darned good day just to get myself in contention.   Can't be too sad.   I do like coming to Korea, though. 

Q.   Birdie on 18, knowing you have to get into a playoff. 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   From 14 on I could feel myself starting to get more and more nervous, which is I think something with time, just talking to my caddie, just getting over, the more we play. 
I made a comment, Inbee Park coming down the stretch is aggressive and hits everything firm.   Even if she knocks it by three feet, she makes it coming back like it's no big deal. 
And me, I felt like I was lagging.   I had a putt on 17 for 15 feet but lagged it and left it short.   Every putt is tentative, and I'm a very aggressive player normally.   So it's funny how the nerves are kind of messing with me.

Q.   Absolutely striped the drive there.   Was that just pure adrenaline?
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I think so, because the first time I played it, it was like two feet in the hazard.   I was over the bunker.   So to get it back into the fairway and then to make a birdie was actually a really good birdie. 
I'm sure somebody wanted to know, I only had 270 to the green.   If I would have hit 3‑wood to the green it would have gone over the bunker.   It's not an easy shot.   I was hitting my wedges so good‑‑ unfortunately that lay up was not the number I was looking for but still hit a good shot in there.

Q.   What number did you have in there? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   This time was 85 yards.   The time before was 75, which is like a bread and butter number. 

Q.   And just the putt? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   It was a very tricky putt.   It broke both ways.   Couldn't be aggressive with it, it was downhill. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT