LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 18, 2014
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, the scorecard looked a little crazy, 2‑2‑2‑2.   Did it feel like it was in bunches?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, I mean, it was‑‑ I thought I would get on a roll and then I would just kind of get set back.   And then I would get on a roll and it was just like one bad swing here or there, and just the last couple coming in, I got tired and lazy and didn't make good swings.   Maybe need to eat more tomorrow, not sure.   
Making birdies which is always good.   Just need to stop making the other.   At least I'm not super out of it, which is good.   
   
 Q.   Very stacked leaderboard.   It was changing all day.   Did you look at all?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I actually looked a couple times.   I don't know if that's something I'll be doing forever or if it's just kind of here or just because they are there.   But I definitely knew kind of where I was and how I was doing.   Didn't feel too much pressure like, okay, you need to make birdies or you need to stop making bogeys and stuff.   Just was kind of going along doing my own thing, and, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Playing in the final group, you're getting more used to it now but still a bit of a thrill?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I think it's getting better each time that I'm in this position.   It's funny with the fans, if you can get them on your side, it gives you that little boost of confidence that you need.   
Today with Beatriz and Karine, there was no Asian people, so it was like they were kind of rooting for whoever was doing good, and if you give them a little nod or wave, they loved it and they cheered for you even louder.   I think I need to get them on my side somehow tomorrow.   I'm sure there's tons of Korean players at the top of the leaderboard they will be rooting for.   But it does help to feed off of them and gives you that confidence that you need to make birdies.   
   
 Q.   The final stretch can be exciting and can create a little drama.   What do you think someone is going to need to do to really run away with it?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I'm assuming somebody is going to shoot 4‑ or 5‑under tomorrow.   I feel like I made a bunch of birdies today.   Just need to stop making the bogeys and concentrate maybe just a little extra harder on every shot and not just take everything for granted out there.   Just keep doing what I'm doing and hopefully tomorrow will be my 4‑under day.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT