LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 16, 2014
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your first Asian event, obviously you took a lot of time off between Alabama and here, what did you do, anything special? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   The first week, I played in Cristie Kerr's breast cancer charity event and that next week just kind of hung out with my boyfriend in New York.   He had some outings and we went into the city, kind of did the touristy thing and he had an outing in Washington.   So basically just did nothing, hung out and didn't pick up a golf club for over a week.
And then the last two weeks, I have not played more than nine holes every other day probably.   So walking 18 in the Pro‑Am was a little rough.   I had taken some spin classes, so at least I was doing a little bit of cardio.   Just pretty lazy and enjoying‑‑ I feel like as I get older, if I wanted to join a nine‑hole ladies league, that would be perfect.   18 holes is too many (laughing). 

Q.   How strategic was the break in taking off a little bit of time?   You were playing so well.   Were you contemplating to keep it going? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   You know, I was playing really well.   The only one I wish I would have played was last week, Malaysia, just because I've played there before and enjoyed going there, and the weather is nice and warm.   But it was nice to take some time off.   It was hard to get on the plane on Sunday to come here because I had taken almost three weeks off I guess.   But it was just more of I can only play so many in a row that just the way that it kind of fell, and Taiwan is my one in four, so I have to play Taiwan and I love coming to Korea, because the food is really good.   So it was just kind of a no‑brainer to come here and then play China next week and Taiwan. 

Q.   How many years have you played here? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I have no idea. 

Q.   Plenty enough that you're super comfortable with the course; was that a huge plus coming into this week, just knowing you would be comfortable? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, I've been here many, many times, so I know the golf course really, really well.   Obviously nobody can prepare for the wind that was today.   So just knowing the course is not enough.   You need to know the course and know how to play in the wind.   But I think today was more just staying calm and knowing that scores were not going to be super low and just try to be patient.   And tonight, Hee Young is taking me for Korean barbeque, so excited. 

Q.   The birdies on the back nine, followed up bogeys.   How big was that for a finishing stretch? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   It was good.   The bounce backs, my caddie always talks about those.   So now it's just kind of like a joke of trying to get it back after I've done something bad.   It's just good for your confidence.   I mean, I didn't mean to bogey those holes but then it was nice to get the birdies.   My boyfriend, before I teed off this morning, just said, go out in the 72 holes and see how many birdies you can make. 
I jokingly was like, well, what if I make doubles on all the other holes but I make like 50 birdies.   So it was just a matter of going out and trying to birdie as many holes as I could.   Obviously some of the holes were really, really tough.   No.2 I felt like could have been a par 5.   A couple of the holes into the wind were very, very challenging. 

Q.   Final stretch of the season, did you think about goals to finish out the season or anything that you wanted to concentrate on? 
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Not really.   Just playing, had a bunch of Top‑10s here recently which is good.   Just stay trying to get the Top‑10s because eventually the wins will come.   Praying the way I was playing before I took the break is still going to be the same way I'm going to play to finish out the next five.   Just building confidence. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT