THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2014
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Here with Brittany Lincicome.   Congratulations on a great round, 67 today.   Take me through your round.   What was really working well for you?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   It started out really shaky, so I wasn't sure what the day had in store for me.   And then had a couple birdies and kind of kept it together.   
Had a couple holes where I felt like I was falling apart again, but when you make a 5‑, 7‑footer for par and move to the next hole.  
Just tried to relax a little bit.   My caddie said I was a little quick on the first couple holes, so just tried to slow the tempo down towards the middle to the back of the round, and made a lot of like 10‑footers for birdies, which obviously helps, and kept it together nicely.  
   
 Q.   We've been seeing some great golf from you lately.   Of course, great opportunity at the Wegmen's LPGA Championship.   Came so close.   What's been the big difference?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   That's a great question.   If you find out though, let me know.   I'm not sure, but I feel like I've been playing really good all year.   It just hasn't come together.   Last couple weeks I guess it's come together finally.  
I used to be in contention all the time in 2011.   I said two wins that year.   It has just kind of gone downhill from there.   It's nice to kind of be back on the leaderboard and look up and see my name up there.   
Really just building the confidence again.   My confidence got really low, and must be coming back now.  
   
 Q.   So close to a major championship a couple weeks ago; now possibly another opportunity.   What would it mean for you to win here this week?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   It would be incredible.   Obviously be a little bit bummed because my family is not here, but my caddie and I, we would celebrate just the same.   Just to be able to hold the trophy on 18, that would be a dream come true.  
   
 Q.   You were in the running for the Rolex Annika Major Award.   A win here this week with some other players, depending on how they finish, you could walk away with that honor.   What does that mean, and what does it mean to be labeled the player that's performed the best in the majors all year?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   That's pretty awesome.   Obviously you've worked really hard all year.   To do good in any tournament is pretty incredible,   so to have the major title under that and have Annika's name associated with it, it's a pretty awesome feeling to have a chance to get that award come Sunday.  
Not going to jinx it yet.   Still have a couple more days to play good, and hopefully I'm there on Sunday.   
   
 Q.   Best of luck an Sunday.   Perfect start.   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   It was a great start.   It was a little bit shaky in the beginning and had a couple three good birdies in a row coming in.   Just feel pretty good.   I was putting really well, which helps.   It's a really narrow golf course, so kept it in play pretty well and made a lot of putts.  
   
 Q.   The birdies started flowing from the 12th onwards.   Os the back nine more scorable or you played better?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I think I just played better.   I just calmed down.   Obviously teeing off at 8:08 this morning was a little quick for the first couple holes.   Just got a little quick and just calmed myself down around the 12th hole or so and had a good finish.  
   
 Q.   The weather stayed dry and the wind isn't too breezy.   Do you think it might prove an advantage going out early on the first day?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I think so.   Obviously now it's going into the afternoon and still pretty calm.   I think today is going to be a really nice today.   Hopefully get three more days like this.  
   
 Q.   Very close to winning a major a few weeks ago.   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel momentum is on your side, that that performance helps you here?   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   I think so.   Definitely doesn't hurt.   Obviously built my confidence a couple weeks ago.   I've had two weeks off now prior to coming into this week, so anything could happen in those off weeks.   I practiced really hard, and it obviously paid off today.  
   
 Q.   Based on your scoring here today and coming to Evian 12 months ago, do you have a target or a total in mind?   What score do you think could win?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Going into today I was trying to shoot about 2‑under par each day.   I thought I would be really happy with that.   Shooting 4‑under today and seeing the scores, that's obviously not going to be good enough.   Have to rethink that strategy.   
I don't know normally think about scores.   I just go out and try to play the best I can that day and see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT