WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2014
Brittany Lincicome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's your emotions now after that?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Lots of tears, actually.   Just felt like I worked really hard and was playing really, really good, and just, you know, Inbee is so darn good that, you know, not taking anything away from her.   Just it was so close, and another step behind.   
But you know, I'm playing so well.   Maybe next week in Canada is my week.  
   
 Q.   You seem to find a way to smile, even right now.   Just talk about how you rebound from this day and go forward.   
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah.   I mean I think 38 years of being at this venue and all these fans around, you have to be smiling right now.   Obviously I'm disappointed with myself for not winning, but I'm planning on going to sign all the autographs I can because they've embraced us, and they're so welcoming of the LPGA and it's so great to be in Rochester.  
   
 Q.   I know it's so tough right now, but you really seemed to have fun this week between the pro am, between the Red Wings game.   Can you talk about how you embraced Rochester?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah, other than missing the bowling on Tuesday I feel like I did most things that I like to do when I come to this area.  
It was exciting.   I played the pro am on Monday.   I played the pro am on Wednesday.   It was nice to get to see the golf course one extra time, and obviously baseball is big in my world.   I love going to games.   So it's just great to come back, and the community around here is so great.   It's going to be a bummer to not come back here next year.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about 18, twice you were in similar spot I guess you would say.   Can you talk about what was going through your mind at that point?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Yeah.   I think it was just the nerves again, just not being in this position a lot.   My hands were shaking pretty bad trying to hit that first putt, which anytime you're up against the collar it's always going to be a tricky putt.   Either you're going to hit it short or you're going to bust it 20 feet by.   So I think long would have been better than where I was because it was still a downhill putt on the second try.   
And then the chip was, again, I was just trying to get it past the hole and it just ran out a little further than I anticipated.   It was nice to be in contention again, nice to kind of feel those nerves again.   Makes you feel human and alive when you feel that.   All in all it was a good week.  
   
 Q.   What can you learn?   What can you take from this?  
BRITTANY LINCICOME:   Oh, man, I'm playing so good.   I might take tomorrow off, though.   I've been to that golf course before.   I already have my yardage book set and ready to go.  
Just kind of taking the same things, if I keep driving it the way I'm driving it and doing the same things that I'm doing, it's kind of unstoppable.   If you're driving it straight, it takes so much stress off the rest of your game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT