U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1993
Alexander Volkov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What was going through your mind, Alexander, when he had the match point?
 
ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  Nothing, because I have so many opportunities.  I mean, I lost my serve in the third set.  I was totally-- drive him.  I was -- I mean, I was playing very well first two sets, then I lost two sets; then I have a break in the final set, then I lost again.  Then just nothing.  I think it helped him because as it was he had matchpoint then -- at that time nothing happened. 
 

Q. No nerves?
 
ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  It was too late for nerves. 
 

Q. Was it just kind of an odd match to be playing that long this late at night?
 
ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  Yeah, mine-- I serve so well in the last game just because it was no more nerves, just played it. 
 

Q. What do you think the difference was Alexander, I mean he came back on you?  How were you able to hold him off?
 
ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  I think it was my mistake tactical.  I played very good.  I made ball early in the first two sets.  I just move him around the court; then I just stopped.  I made couple of double faults and it was such a shame, mistake, and he just come back because he can run, I think, for 24 hours. He can-I don't know-I think he was a little better. 
 

Q. What do you remember about last year's match against Sampras here?
 
ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  It wasn't much -- it was just-- I don't know, we playing on one side.  I break him in the beginning, but then he just destroyed me because I stop moving at all.  I expect him too much at that time.  Maybe now I am more experienced and I can play much better, I hope. 
 

Q. He said on TV that he beat you 4 tank and tank last year.  He said you tanked?
 
ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  No, I didn't tank.  He played very well.  If he can remember the matches, just destroy me because if you serve bad against him you just can go away, just wait and see; then shake his hand, because he is very good on the serve and volley and very good from baseline and if you have nothing to do against him, I mean, no serve, no return, just forget it.  I played against him few times indoor supreme or green set, it is really difficult to beat him there. 
 

Q. Did you ever finish a match at this time so late?
 
ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  Like this one? 
 

Q. Yeah?
 
ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  I don't remember.  Maybe you can ask my wife. 
 

Q. Thank you.
 
ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  Good night.     
 

End of FastScripts....
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT