U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1992
Alexander Volkov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.   What was the key, Alexander, to winning this match? 
 
 ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  Well, it wasn't the key -- I just tried to
play my game, and I played against him so many times before. 
I beat him a few times in the early years, but then I lost three
times in a row, I think.  And Stuttgart indoor, it was so close.
 I think it was a little bit shaky at that time.  Today, I think--
I thought, if I am going to be shaky again, if I don't believe
in myself, then I will lose the game easy again.  And I tried
to play my game until -- I mean, each point, until last one.

 Q.   What was wrong with him?  I mean, was he -- he seemed
-- they brought, I think, a trainer out there, he wasn't bending
for anything?  Was it his back?  Was he having heat problems;
do you know?  

 ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  No.  I don't know what is wrong with him.
But I think he didn't expect from me so good game, and he wasn't
ready to play a game like that.  Because I told you like before,
I always lost against him one or two my service and that is it,
and the game is over.  But today, I keep my serve -- in the beginning,
it was a couple of break points for him, but he didn't take it.
 And then everything turn around.

 Q.   Do you think he was overconfident then, playing against
you; seeing the past record?

 ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  I don't know.

 Q.   Or did you just play that well?

 ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  I played well.  I just didn't -- I just can
say about myself.  I played well.

 Q.   He didn't break you even once.  Do you think that was
the key to not letting --

 ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  Today's I served extremely well.  I didn't
serve like that for a few months.  It was a really good serve.


 Q.   How would you compare this victory to your upset a couple
of years ago here of Stefan Edberg?

 ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  I think I played the same tennis like against
Edberg.  I think now for me it would be more difficult for me
to play next round against Edberg two years ago.

 Q.   So you have to be careful going into this next match
not to let-down?

 ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  Yeah, sure.

 Q.   I am wondering why he was so surprised by your serves
since you had played so frequently before?

 ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  He was surprised not me.  What do you mean?


 Q.   You played him so often, one would think that he would
not be surprised by your serve?

 ALEXANDER VOLKOV:  I didn't serve -- I mean, I am not just serve
well today.  I played very good from baseline.  I mean, I don't
make it too much on forced errors.  It was, maybe, the main reason.
 Very good serve and no mistakes from baseline.  It is always
difficult to beat somebody when you play like that.

 Q.   Thank you very much.    


 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT