CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 15, 2009
Harrison Frazar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. With Q-School looming, you came out looking very comfortable for a job next year. Just your thoughts on that?
 HARRISON FRAZAR: You mean just talking about just the last couple weeks? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: And this week? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: It's been a -- it's been a very long, very tough two and a half years for me. Physical issues, you know, psychological issues, doubting, you know, a lot of doubt, a lot of fear, a lot of anxiety. Trying to figure out where I belong in this giant rat race. 
 You know, I had a plan for this year after Q-School. Looked like I stuck to the plan. I deviated a little bit in the middle and didn't play very well. But really, I feel like I played better than the position that I ended up. However, given everything else that's happened and all things said and done, I'm happy with it. 
 So I'm going to take it as positive. I'm going to go home, spend a good solid month with my kids, and we'll start back getting ready for next year. 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about the plan? What was the plan?
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Well, you know, the one thing that I learned the last year and a half is that in this game worrying about your future and worrying about where you are and what you're going to do after, you know, thoughts ranging from time to quit, what in the world would I possibly do to I'm going to try to do two jobs at once. You know, all those things. You can't play this game against these guys out here and be competitive if your heart and your mind is not in it 100 percent. 
 So I told myself I was going to commit to golf. I was going to work on my short game and my putting, and those two things have been better. And you know, so I just wanted to try and stay in the present and stay where I was. 

 Q. I know probably the obviously answer but what kind of solace do you take from the fact that you look at this and see that you do have a full-time job next year?
 HARRISON FRAZAR: I take solace in the fact that it's familiar. I've done this -- you know, I think 10 or 11 years I've been in the Top 125, so it's not anything new. 

 Q. Right. 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Starting out next year will be a comfortable place for me. It's going to be great to be able to go home, rest my body and rest my mind, evaluate, establish another plan, and go back out, where the plan's going to be something that's consistent with what I've done the first couple of years of my career where I can try to figure out ways to get better really than just how do you make it through. Just find a way to get better. 

 Q. Perfect. That's all I need. Thanks for your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT