BUICK INVITATIONAL
February 5, 2009
Harrison Frazar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 3-under today, nice start to the tournament. Let's get some comments if we can.   
 HARRISON FRAZAR: It was a good start. You know, you always want to feel like you walk off a golf course with a good round, a good number. It played tougher than I've seen it in the past. The fairways are narrowed in and the greens are firm. You know, they're still a little bit bumpier here than there on the South. The greens are perfect over there.   
 But you know, who knows what's going to be in store when you go to that golf course. I'd rather have a few under my belt.  
  
  Q. A couple missed cuts coming into this week. Talk a little bit about the state of your game right now.   
 HARRISON FRAZAR: You know, I played really pretty well the first three rounds of the Sony. I started driving it crooked the last round, otherwise that could have been a good finish. And I missed the last two cuts by a shot. You know, I'm not playing horribly. It's not quite as sharp as I would like it to be. The wedge game is not quite as great as I would hope. I've got to get the ball in a few more fairways.  
  
  Q. When you come off a couple years like you've just had, which haven't been as good as previous years, and you miss a couple cuts by one shot, is there a tendency to go, geez, here I go again?  
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Yeah, it's easy to go that way. But you know, it's a long year. We're going to play -- I'll play 26 or 28 tournaments this year. You know, it's never fun to miss cuts, but you've got to look at it like I'm real close.   
 At the Hope I just got off to a bad start. It took me a little bit too long to kind of get going, but I played the last 36 holes 12- to 14-under, something like that. You've got to try to find the positives. So yeah, even though I'm not going to get paid this week, I'm really not playing that bad.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 HARRISON FRAZAR: It is, yeah. I was with Cleveland golf for the first nine or ten years of my career, and they had some budget cuts and they had to make some changes, and I was one of those changes. But after the Q-school I got a phone call asking if I wanted to come back home again.   
 I'm dealing with all the same guys, all familiar help, guys that are very willing to help me and spend some time with me. So it was an easy fit, and it felt good.   
  
  Q. That must make you feel good.   
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Yeah, you mean Q-school or getting asked back? Yeah, it's a bad time in the economy to try to go switch companies. Nobody is getting good deals right now. So it was not about money. It was about being someplace that you really wanted and being around guys that believe in you. So yeah, in that respect it feels really good.   
  
  Q. Nothing you can do about the weather that's coming in, but does that change your preparation over the next couple days?  
 HARRISON FRAZAR: No, I don't think so. It's cliché; everybody says I'm going to do the same thing I've done every day. You know, going to work on putting a little bit, try to get some real good speed, try to hit a few wedges on the range and then I'll be done. Bring some extra towels to the course.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT