BUICK OPEN
August 4, 2006
Harrison Frazar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:   Harrison Frazar, thanks for stopping in after an 8 under 64, round two here at the 2006 Buick Open.  Nine birdies today, Harrison.  A nice round, a nice long day, as well, finishing your first round.
HARRISON FRAZAR:  It was a long day.  But the guys, the powers at be were nice to push it back to 8:00 rather than 7:00, so we didn't have to wake up at 4:00.  Yes, that extra hour of sleep helped.  I think they needed that extra hour to get the golf course ready.  27 holes really isn't that bad.  When you start getting any more than that, and the temperature was nice this morning, so it just started warming up maybe the last couple of hours, but it really wasn't too bad.
Q.  Talk about the momentum you gained on that five hole streak from 10 to 14 that gave you your round today.
HARRISON FRAZAR:  I didn't even know that there was a streak happening, really.  I didn't even    we had about    10 is a relatively easy birdie opportunity.  I hit a good wedge and good putt.

No. 11 was surprising for me, it was the first really good par 3 shot I've hit this week.  Didn't hit a great putt, but it happened to go in.

The next hole, just a driver and little bitty wedge.  Then we had a 45 minute, maybe even    yeah, probably a 45 minute wait on the next tee.  There were four groups.  I don't know what happened, if there was a train wreck or everybody was going for it or what.  So we were all sitting around kind of shooting the breeze and talking and laughing and having a good time, so I didn't even notice that I was making a bunch of birdies until I made a par on 15, and then Craig brought it up to me.  I looked at the card and realized what he was talking about.

That's the only chance    when you don't know you're doing it is when things like that happen.
TODD BUDNICK:  This is the kind of course that allows it.
HARRISON FRAZAR:  When the wind turned a little bit today to where 11 and 12, 13, 14, all played downwind.  Then as soft as the greens are    14, I hit a driver and almost flew it pin high.

The par 5, I hit a horrible tee shot but still was able to hit a 4 iron up there 10 or 15 yards short of the green left.

If you can just get the ball    if you can get it going and get on any kind of run, this course will give it up to you.
TODD BUDNICK:  It's nice to see your golf game come around the last few of weeks, a couple of top 25s and a nice round today.
HARRISON FRAZAR:  Thank you.  It's been a long year, and we don't need to get into all the reasons again, but it's been a really long year and I'm happy to play golf again and focus on it and work on it the right way, to try to do the things day in and day out to put me in a position to shoot better numbers.
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll take some questions.
Q.  Did you get a chance to take a breath between finishing the first round and starting the second round?
HARRISON FRAZAR: Yes.
Q.  How was the course today after all the water that was on it last night?
HARRISON FRAZAR:  The first part, yes, I had a chance to sit down and grab a quick bite.  One of the officials told me this morning that they were going    when they saw what time my group finished, because we were the first group, that would give them an indicator of what the pace of play was like and they would establish the tee times based on where we finished.  So we were going to get time no matter what.  We were going to get a few minutes to take a breather.  We had about 40 minutes.

Also Rocco Mediate, his back was bothering him and with the idea of having to go 27 holes, he just didn't think he could do it.  So we played in a two some, Craig Barlow and I, and we were flying.  The last couple of groups only had ten minutes or so.

The second part of the golf course is wet.  Yesterday it was full.  They couldn't take any more.  They did a great job getting the golf course in as good a shape as possible.  The greens this morning were very soft, but fast and they were still rolling pretty well.  The fairways were soft, balls were plugging, but we were getting lift, clean and place, which I think was the right call.  That was about the only way we could have played.

But with the sun out today, the breeze helped dry it out, but I think if we get good weather, by Sunday it should be fine.
Q.  I think going into today you were minus 2 out here.  That's starting to get into borderline cut range.  Were you thinking in those terms, about having to make the cut, or does that put more or less pressure on yourself?
HARRISON FRAZAR:  Starting the day I was even because I only got to play 8 holes yesterday, or 8 and a half.  You know, the cut is always on your mind, but you try to focus on higher goals.  As many birdie opportunities that are out there on this golf course, if you're sitting at even par and worried whether or not you're going to get to three or four, you're probably not going to.  You just have to make as many birdies as possible and realize it's going to be 20 some odd under par is going to win this golf tournament, and you have got to get as close to 20 as possible if you want to have a good week.

My goal right now is I'd like to have a good week so I can get in the PGA.  I need to shoot a lot under par this week regardless.  I wasn't concerned about the cut.  I wasn't thinking about the cut, I was just trying to make as many birdies as possible.
Q.  What do you need to do this week to qualify for the PGA?  Is there a certain finish you need to get?
HARRISON FRAZAR:  I don't know what it is.  I just know I need to make some money.  They do it on PGA to PGA money list and I think top 70, but it usually fluctuates between exemptions and other things, but somewhere around 80, 81 get in typically.  And I think I'm mid 90s, but I'm only maybe 100,000 of being out of the mid 80s.  If I can manage a Ten 10, Top 5, something like that, I can have a chance to get in.  So that was the goal this week, was to try to put myself in a position to do something good.
Q.  You might have alluded to this and forgive me if this is ground you didn't want to go over, but you were off the whole month of June or so after a WD at St. Jude.  What was that about, if you want to talk about it.
HARRISON FRAZAR:  I'll give you a quick answer.  You can look at it if you would like.  There was just a lot of stuff going on at home, family things with my kids, and my wife was pregnant.  That comes first, period.  And it just got to the point where it was just way too hard for me to go on the road when things weren't real well at home.  I felt I needed to go home and take care of them for a while and then come back out and be a golfer.
Q.  (No microphone.)
HARRISON FRAZAR:  The baby is six weeks old now.  He's doing great.  The older kids are doing great.  My wife has recovered from the C section and from the birth and from all of her issues.  My family is doing as well as we've done in a long time.  I can go and play golf and focus on it and start trying to do all the things day to day that will actually build towards becoming a better player than Band Aid things just to get by because I couldn't maintain a focus long time.

Now I'm focusing on what I've got to do now to prepare not only for this week but next week and down the road to try to get better, and that's what I've been having a hard time doing.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT