FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 3, 2005
Harrison Frazar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Harrison, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center.  Bogey on that first hole but you bounced back beautifully, especially on the front nine, four birdies in a row, which was your second nine, for a 31.  Why don't you talk about the day a little bit.
HARRISON FRAZAR:  I've been actually playing okay but just not getting anything out of it.

So, you know, I've been working hard at the game and trying to get better and trying to stay positive and stay encouraged but on the first hole I hit it just right of the fairway, tried to hit a 3-wood over the water, lay up in front of the green and the ball just didn't come out of the rough and it ends up going in the water.  Long story short, I have to make about an 8-footer for bogey.  Immediately, kind of the positive thing was rocked.

Played a couple of just mediocre holes.  Finally hit a good shot on 14.  Hit a good tee shot on 14 and hit a good second shot in and just -- I think I -- I didn't birdie that hole did I, 14?  I think that was the one I just barely missed the hole.  And then the next hole I hit kind of a so-so 8-iron to about 15 feet and made that one.  That got a little momentum going and had a real good tee shot on the next hole and a wedge to about four feet on the next hole.  And those three shots right in a row were the three that got me going, because all three of them were right where I was looking and they were all hit solid.  Kind of made me realize to overlook the start; to realize that I was playing better than that start.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  What did you hit to 17?
HARRISON FRAZAR:  On 16 I hit it about four feet and 17 I hit driver off the tee and then I think I hit a sand wedge to about 15 feet, made that one.

2, I hit driver off the tee just barely in the right rough and hit a little pitching wedge to about 30 feet, and made that.

Almost birdied 4.  Should have, actually.

5, I hit 3-wood off the tee and hit a little pitching wedge to about 18 feet.

Next hole I hit driver off the tee, 9-iron to about six feet.

Next hole is driver off the tee and another 9-iron to about five feet.

8, I hit driver and then had 3-wood short and right of the green on the rough -- in the rough kind of between the green and the water and chipped it to about -- I hit a horrible chip to about 25, 30 feet and made it.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  You kind of alluded to it, but how much of this game is mental and dealing with the confidence and the emotions instead of just hitting the shots for you?
HARRISON FRAZAR:  The whole thing is mental.  I mean, if you're swinging well at it but you don't think -- you don't think you are, then you're not going to.  Does that make sense?  But if you're not swinging well but you feel like you're playing good, then you're going to overcome it.

I think a very large percentage of this game is believing that you can.  You know, obviously if you're hurt or if you've got -- you've got problems with your body or whatever, then sometimes you just can't do it.  I think Scott Hoch might have said it best a couple of years ago.  He said, "Golf isn't a reflection on how you feel about your game; it's a reflection of how you feel about yourself."  So if you're confident in what you're doing, you're going to play well, whether you're swinging well or not.
Q.  It's so hard to win on the PGA TOUR, a field of 144, one guy wins, golf is mostly about degrees of losing.  Can you talk about just how you deal with that?
HARRISON FRAZAR:  Yeah, you pretty much lose every week and it beats you down.  Constantly if you are not focused on kind of the big picture, if you're -- I think it's important for a golfer to remember that no matter how good you are, that's not going to last and no matter how bad you are, that's not going to last, either.

So you have to try to do what you're doing and kind of play games with yourself, I think, you know, to realize that a Top-10 this week, that's a win based off of what I had and what I was thinking and what I was feeling; I did well.  But, having said all of that, you can play all of those games and try to build yourself up and make yourself feel better, but ultimately it does come down to winning and if you don't win after a period of time, it begins to wear on you.  So you have to even be stronger.
Q.  First time winner, Geoff Ogilvy was a first-time winner last week?
HARRISON FRAZAR:  Right.
Q.  When a first-time winner breaks through, do you pay attention or does it register?
HARRISON FRAZAR:  It registers, but I've seen a whole lot of first-time winners in my seven and a half years out here, and none of them have been me.

Yeah, I mean, it gives me confidence to know that Geoff and I get along well, we've played a lot of golf together and we play a very similar game.  So know his temperament, his personality and the way that he plays the golf courses and to know that that's good enough to win, that's just a little bit more reassurance to me in my mind that if I just keep doing what I'm doing, my time will come.
Q.  Even a guy like Tiger says you need luck, you need things to happen for you to win out here that week.  When you look back on your self-analysis, what do you think has prevented you to get that; is it any one thing or is it just circumstances?
HARRISON FRAZAR:  No, I don't think that there's -- there have been times that I've played well enough to win golf tournaments and they haven't worked out for whatever reasons.  But, I would say that the times that I've played -- been playing well and felt like I was in control of my game and didn't make anything of it, you know, those just fall directly back to what we were talking about what I was saying about confidence.  The guys that have confidence in what they are doing in themselves and their golf game, they can take the weeks that they are playing average and build it into something good at the end and give themselves chances to win.  So they are getting a lot of chances.

You know, I would say that confidence and belief in myself to pull it through is probably what's prevented me from getting to the race more often, if that makes sense.

But I feel like once I've had my opportunities, I've done okay.  You know, I haven't -- just there have been a couple of times I've played very poorly but for the most part I feel like I've done okay in those situations and it just hasn't worked out.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you.  Appreciate your time.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT