WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2012
Harrison Frazar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   66 for a guy who's off to a great start this year.   Who would have thought when we were back in Memphis that you would be talking about having a career year this year? 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yeah, it's funny how things kind of change and turn around.   You know, I feel very relaxed, I feel very content on the golf course right now.   I'm not worried about too much, not worried about the future, which is nice.   I'm hitting the ball good.   I struck it really well the first two weeks in Hawai'i, not so great at the Hope, but I really hit the ball well today, too.   I made a few decent putts, but I missed a few opportunities, also, and that kind of goes with it.   But I feel like overall things have been real good.

Q.   Overseeding of the greens made it kind of tough to read them late in the round?
HARRISON FRAZAR:   No, I don't think it's the overseed.   I don't know if you guys can tell on TV or not, but there's a lot of ball marks.   And there's such a fine line between a good putt and a bad putt.   I did misread the putt on 17, but other than that, I felt like I had a pretty good feel for them.

Q.   Super Bowl prediction?   You could be a neutral party. 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yeah, I don't have a dog in the fight, but for some reason I think the Giants are going to do it.   I think they're playing with a lot of emotion and a lot of confidence right now.

Q.   You're an NFC guy. 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   I am.

Q.   Talk about your round. 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   We had a little bit of a delay starting out, so I felt good yesterday, and we kind of sat around all day.   Normally I don't like to sit around, so I was a little bit nervous about what that might entail starting.   But I hit good shots right off the beginning.   I made a couple of nice putts in the first few holes.   You know, I just kind of played relaxed golf, and I struck the ball nicely. 
I didn't putt great, but I happened to make a few.   A couple of them to be honest weren't great putts but happened to go in.   I hit some good ones that didn't go, too, so I guess that balances out.   But I was just real pleased with how I played.   I played nice and patient and hit good shots at the right times. 

Q.   How were the greens? 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   You know, the greens were a little bumpy.   The speed is nice.   I feel like the texture is nice.   But they're a little bumpy.   There's some ball marks on them.   From what I understand they had a hard time growing some grass in the winter, so that's to be‑‑ it's understandable.   But it's not meant to be perfect every week, and that's okay. 

Q.   Were there any frost issues?
HARRISON FRAZAR:   I don't think so.   I think the golf course held up fine from the frost. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT