SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 16, 2004
Harrison Frazar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH:  Thanks for coming by and spending a few minutes with us.  10-under par just one shot out of the lead after two rounds at this point.  Obviously pretty happy with where you stand. 

HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yeah, I am happy.  Really didn't know what to expect coming in here.  I'm trying really not to pay too much attention to it.  I didn't necessarily feel great coming into this week but golf-wise.  I felt very well physically and mentally rested, but my golf game was rusty and still hitting some bad shots.  But I think I'm just mentally fresh enough to kind of hang in there and play and find a way to score. 

But yesterday, I didn't hit it all that great.  I got a couple of good breaks.  Today I hit a lot better and made a few putts.  But I still hit a couple of bad shots.  Just kind of got away with them. 

JOHN BUSH:  Speaking of those putts, can you take us through your seven birdies, starting on No. 3?

HARRISON FRAZAR:   3 I had a fairway wood off the tee and then hit a wedge just barely off the right side of the green maybe only a foot off the green on the fringe and had a little downhiller from about 12 feet. 

No. 5, I hit a bad tee shot there.  I actually hit it left off the tee.  But I hit it far enough and it was past a tree and it got a decent lie and was able to hit an 8-iron up to about 20, 25 feet. 

6, I hit a very good drive down the middle of the fairway and had only about 125 to the hole and hit a wedge, I think.  Hit a pitching wedge in about six or eight feet just to the right.  Had a perfect uphill, easy putt.

9, I hit a good tee shot.  Had a 5-iron kind of on the backish-left of the green and had about a 40-footer or so and 2-putted.  Pretty ho-hum there.

15, I hit a 2-iron off the tee and pen was on the front left.  I hit kind of a punch 9-iron from about 136 or 137 to 20 feet. 

16, I hit a 4-wood off the tee, right side of the fairway.  Had a 6-iron from almost 180.  Hit it about three feet. 

Then 18, I hit 4-wood off the tee, barely through the fairway and had a real kind of a very awkward lie downhill in the rough.  Tried to hit a hot 4-wood out of there and scooted up the left side.  Actually I think I almost topped it.  I might have topped it.  If it wasn't for the loft, it would have been a top.  (Laughter.)  It went about  -- well, let's see.  I had 250 to the hole and I had 120 after that.  So I hit it 130 yards. 

JOHN BUSH:  Yeah, that was a top. 

HARRISON FRAZAR:   That was a top.  To be quite honest with you, I got about halfway through my downswing and I realized the shot was way above my skill level now.  (Laughter.)  So I kind of held onto it, and managed to get it somewhere down the left side with my top.  But I should have hit it in the fairway I guess.  Hit a good wedge out of there,  drew a good lie, got lucky and drew a good lie and hit a wedge to about four feet and made the putt. 

JOHN BUSH:  Nice birdie there. 

HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yeah, well done. 


Q.  Last time I talked to you, I think you were having some surgery of some sort?

HARRISON FRAZAR:   I had sinus surgery in the off-season.


Q.  Is that a minor thing?

HARRISON FRAZAR:   Very, very minor.  I had my nose broken twice.  In high school, those are other stories for other times.  The cartilage grew in funny ways and had it blocked.  Both sides were almost totally blocked.  So basically, I had an infection.  I had a sinus infection on both sides that no matter how much antibiotics I took, I could never get rid of. 

So they went in, drilled out all of the holes and made them bigger so I could drain and he scraped out all of the infected tissue.  Very easy simple.  It was only maybe two weeks before I could play golf again. 


Q.  Is that something that had bothered you for a while?

HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yeah, I'm guessing I had a constant infection in there for close to  -- somewhere between three and four years, I bet.  It was on seven to ten different antibiotic doses a year and never got better.


Q.  It wasn't a golf injury? 

HARRISON FRAZAR:   No.  And I wasn't by myself; put it that way. 


Q.  Traditionally, you start well, you played very well early in the season, is there any particular reason for that?

HARRISON FRAZAR:   Well, I think I'm rested and I'm in a good mood to be honest with you.  Toward the end of the year, I guess in the middle of the year I start to get frustrated and tired and don't want to really be out there, would rather be doing other things.  Golf has never to me within been the No. 1 focus in my life.  It's very important to me, don't get me wrong, but when it becomes a point where I don't want to be here and feel like I have to be, then I'm just not going to perform well.

But early in the year, I've taken off time and I'm in a good mood.  I hit bad shots, period.  I'm not the kind of golfer that can play and play a pretty round and hit the ball great all the time.  But if I'm in a good mood, I can handle those things a lot better and be a little bit more optimistic, where if I feel like I have to be there, then one bad shot kind of steamrolls into a whole bunch of others.


Q.  Has that feeling changed, especially with kids?

HARRISON FRAZAR:   No, not really.  I mean, I've always had other things I like to do.  They are with me this week.  It was brutal getting them over here on the plane, but once we're here, we've had a great time. 

Sure, it's hard to leave when you've got two kids at home and they want you at home, yeah.  But I've got to do it.  It's part of your job.  But there are other things that we enjoy doing, too.  We like going to the lake during the summer.  In the fall, I like going to college football games.  There's a lot of things in there that pull at me rather than golf. 

So if I'm honest with myself and true to myself and play when I want to play, I do pretty well.


Q.  Early in the interview, it sounded like maybe your approach, at least this week or this year, may be a little different that you're not really thinking about the score, you're thinking about your game; is that true? 

HARRISON FRAZAR:   I would actually say it's probably opposite of that. 

I've had so many good shots and so many bad shots and I've played some of my best tournaments hitting bad and some of my worst tournaments hitting good.  It just doesn't matter, to be honest with you.  I think I'm finally figuring it out.  If you're not paying attention to how you're scoring, what good does it do to hit perfect tee shots?  You've got to play the golf course and play smart, realize what you're doing well, what you're doing bad and just try to make the most of it as you go along. 

So I'm actually focusing less on how I'm hitting it and my golf swing.  That's one of the things that my support group, my teacher and my psychologist, everybody around me, what we've all decided this off-season is to spend more time on the scoring aspect of the game and the ball-striking.  And who cares, if you hit seven fairways and still manage to shoot even par or 1-under, that's not too bad, because you're going to have your good days.  But when you are focussed on your short game and all of the sudden you do start hitting it good, next thing you know, you're not even paying attention, but you shot a 7-under.


Q.  Does that make you more of a leaderboard watcher as the tournament progresses?

HARRISON FRAZAR:  I don't watch it much.  I'll look at it occasionally during the round, more than anything, to try to motivate myself a little bit.  If I'm not feeling like I'm getting anything in the hole or if I feel like the golf course is getting hard, I like to look up there and see that, you know, hey, so and so is playing well, this is doable out here, come on.  I kind of use it as that frame of reference for myself. 

At the same time if you're not playing well, you look at it and you see somebody 12-under and you're sitting at even par, you can beat yourself up over it if you don't look at it the right way.  You can think:  "I can't reach that."  But it depends on how you look at it I guess.  I trying to try to look at it in ways that are going to make me feel better. 

JOHN BUSH:  Thank you, Harrison. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT