BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 30, 2003
Harrison Frazar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Great way to finish up your round with the eagle on 18. 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yeah, it was.  I missed a birdie putt on 17.  Yeah, I had some motivation to try to hit it close and try to make a 3.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN: You were a co-leader through three rounds last week and have played well all week, and here you are at the top of the leaderboard.  You've had some success in the past, but what's really been your breakthrough these last few weeks? 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   You know, I don't know.  I think I've just got a lot of things right now, a lot of different pieces that are falling into place.  I'm happy with the products I'm playing.  I've got a great ball that I'm very happy with that matches me very well.  I feel like I'm a little bit smarter.  I think mentally I'm doing a lot better and understanding a little bit more about patience and putting myself in position.  I feel like I'm putting better. 
All of those things combined together equate into better play. 

Q.  You shoot 62 and you don't have the low round of the day.  What does that say about these courses and this tournament? 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   I don't know if it's so much the golf courses.  The golf courses are relatively easy, but playing out here is like playing in a dome because they are so good, the greens are perfect.  Unless the Santa Anas start blowing, guys are going to keep on going low. 
It doesn't surprise me that 62 isn't low.  I thought there would be somebody that would threaten with 59 this week, as far as guys are hitting it and as perfect as the courses are, I would not say that it's out of the realm of possibility this week.  I think guys are just getting better and better. 

Q.  There's been a lot of talk about that in terms of that we are just going to see those low scores on a more regular basis.  From what you just said, it sounds like you are one of those guys that thinks that that might be the case; that we are going to see guys on a more consistent basis shooting 61, 62, maybe even 59?
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Well, I don't know if 60s, 61s, 62s are going to happen on a more regular basis.  I think that just the fact that players are getting better, I think we are going to see a lot more. 
The average score, every one of us players has days where we want to try to get it in the hole and try to come up with a score.  I think typically you try to take your bad bays and make your bad days 69, 70.  The fact that we are all getting better and the equipment is getting better, our bad days, especially with weather like this, you try to get it in at 66, 67. 
I think the expectation level is better.  I think the comfort level is better, but still comes down to the fact that you've got to make putts.  I don't think that simply a golf ball or a driver is going to make people shoot 60 or 61.  But it will install some confidence and make it easier for them to shoot mid 60s. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You started on the front side with a birdie on No.  2? 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yeah, I birdied 2.  I hit 4-iron off the tee and hit a little 9-iron in to about 18 feet and made that. 
4, I hit an awful shot off the tee.  I hit it in the very front part that have right bunker.  Blasted out of there to 12 feet and obviously missed that putt.  Just really was a bad hole. 
5, I hit 3-wood off the tee and then a 5-iron just short of the green left in the bunker.  Blasted out and made about an 8-footer. 
6, I hit pitching wedge to about three or four inches and almost made it. 
Next hole, I hit 4-iron off the tee and a little wedge just barely off the left side of the green, just on the fringe, maybe about 15 feet.
No. 8, I hit a 3-wood off the tee.  I hit a 5-wood on the green to about 12 feet.  Made that. 
10, I hit a 3-wood off the tee and hit a choke, like a punch 8-iron into the green to about six feet and made that. 
11, I hit 3-wood off the tee right down the left center of the fairway and hit a 56-degree wedge to about four feet.  Made that. 
12, I hit a 52-degree wedge to and made that. 
Then I hit an awful tee shot right, but had enough of an opening that I could cut a 5-iron out of the rough and get it up just in front of the green.  Pitched it from there to about 12 feet. 
Then hit another bad short iron just right of the green.  Hit it in the bunker and blasted it to about six feet, eight feet and missed that on the low side. 
18, I hit driver.  I hit a good drive down the middle of the fairway, and then I had 179 I think to the hole, with a 6-iron.  I landed pin-high right just on the green and rolled down the hill about three feet. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT