GENUITY CHAMPIONSHIP
March 1, 2001
Harrison Frazar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Obviously any time you shoot 65 you will be happy.  I hit some good shots.  At the same time, I hit funky shots that I got away with - if you know what I mean.  I played a couple of good long putts, couple of good short putts, missed some makeable ones.  I got a few more out of it than I expected; but, all in all, a good day.  Weather was perfect, cannot beat that.  Nice to be in warm weather. 
  

Q.  Do you ever think:  I shot just a 65?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yeah.  Not today. Not on this golf course.  Like at The Hope two weeks ago, I shot a 63 the first day.  It was just, like you said, just a 63, it wasn't any -- it turned out to be for that week, Joe Durant, average was 64 and a half.  There are some days it is a lot easier than others.  Today I would not say it was easy.  There were just -- I made some good putts, like I said, when I needed them.  I did not hit the ball all that great.  I had some good shots when I had some opportunities, but for the most part played from tee to green slightly better than mediocre, but felt very comfortable on the greens. 
  

Q.  What is your mind set when you look up and see, getting to tee off, guys at 7, 10 under?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   They will all end up at the same spot.  Mike is a world-class player, knows how to win.  I do not mean this as a knock to him in any way, nobody can keep up with that pace especially on this golf course. It does not matter if the scores start out at 5-under or 6, leading, or 8-under or 10-under, the scores are going to be anywhere from 15 to 25 under par to win every week and you know you have to get there.  It is not like 37 or 38 under par is going to win.  I am sorry, I am not answering your question.  The mindset is, it does not matter, if you know what I mean.  
  

Q.  You felt like you really had to go low or be aggressive?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   No.  You got 72 holes.  Mike may have gotten a lot on the first 18, it was a great round.  But, it is -- it does not matter.  Everybody will have hot stretches and cold stretches, but you just, you have to play all 72 of them, try to spread it out over 2. 
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   I looked at it. Mike and I are friends.  I was happy for him and proud of him for play a good round.  Steve Flesch and I are good friends; he played good, too.  I looked at it more as an interested part, spectator, just to say, okay, yes, the course is yielding some birdies.  Hey, look, these guys played good.  There wasn't any real motivating -- I did not look and say, I have to shoot 5, 6, 7 under par to keep pace.  It was -- okay, it is there.  The golf course is out there. 
  

Q.  Do you shoot better on courses you like?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Do I, I am sorry? 
  

Q.  Do you shoot better on courses that you like?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   On courses I like? 
  

Q.  On courses that you like?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Sure.  Yeah.  It is -- I think it is an attitude thing, a frame of mind.  If you go out there and feel like the golf course sets up good for you, you are not pressing and pushing the whole time.  You know that you will have some chances so you try to make your golf swing and hit your shots, try to be patient on the greens, try to make some putts. 
  

Q.  What are some of your favorite courses?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   There are not many that I do not like.  But, some of the favorite ones, I love Colonial, Memorial.  I am trying to pick out a few.  I love Westchester.  I think Cog Hill in Chicago is a good golf course.  I like the golf course in New Orleans.  Houston I like, I think it is a good golf course.  I don't think we play anything -- I don't think we play a bad golf course out here.  Courses, whether good, bad, a lot of people sum it up by how they are conditioned.  They are manicured week in and week out, it is hard to complain about that. 
  

Q.  How much easier does this course play when there is no or very little breeze?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   The golf course is long.  You have some pretty tight landing areas in there.  I think they softened it up the last couple of years.  Four years ago, I did not particularly enjoy it very much.  But, now I see why everybody ranted and raved about it.  I think it is a great golf course.  You have, being in South Florida, I think it was designed to play tougher with variable winds.  If you do not get the wind conditions, it becomes easy to drive your ball.  When the wind blows, really, all it does is tighten up the fairway.  If the wind is not blowing, the fairways are fairly wide, the greens are good, you can make putts, if in the fairway hitting short or mid-iron, you get 10 to 20-footers, you will make some of those.  If you miss the fairways out here, it is not a lot of fun. 
  

Q.  What is the state of your game; how is your year going now?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   My game feels very good right now.  The year has gone fairly well. I have been very pleased.  I have had -- I played six tournaments on the West Coast, four cuts, two top tens, a 18th and 20th or 21st, something like that.  I feel good about it.  I never made more than two cuts on the West.  Never made more than 100,000.  When I left, the West Coast, I had about two, I don't know, 245, top third of the money list.  I was pleased.  I broke my hand last year.  About a third of the way through the year, continued to play.  And I ended up hurting myself more than just the break; but I had to take off the last seven or eight weeks of the year.  When everybody else's year was ending, mine was really just beginning.  The doctors cleared me to start practicing after the guys got back from Valderama.  I spent a lot of time in the off season working on my game, short game, on my swing, learning some more shots. 
 

Q.  Were you in a cast? 
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   No.  Soft cast. 
  

Q.  Were you unable to play for that period?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   I could not pick up a club.  I could not putt for seven or eight weeks. 
  

Q.  Were you going crazy?  What was that period like?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   I was going nuts, yes.  I love my wife and my child, but I do not like staying home very much.  (Laughter. ) Well, I do not mean that as a slam to anybody, that is what we do, we travel 35 weeks a year.  If you are not traveling, you do not feel like you are doing your job.  Self-esteem issues came into play and a lot of other things, you sit around and feel you are not working to provide for your family; you are not trying to better yourself, not doing anything.  A lot of guys like do play fifteen to 18 events, spend the rest of the time at home.  The guys doing that, usually have a lot more things going on, usually running a business, or doing a golf course design, something like that.  I am basically -- I am a husband, father and golfer.  My family travels with me, I can do the other two while I am on the road. 
  

Q.  How did you occupy yourself?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Sat on the couch a lot.  For about the first three or four weeks, gained a lot of weight, ate a lot.  Sat around and felt sorry for myself.  Then I guess after four or five weeks, said, this is enough, and time to get ready to go when they let me.  I figured, there wasn't anything I could do about it.  It was one of those things that you are dealt with, so you -- I did start working out a little bit, paying attention to the things I wanted to do to try to get better.  I actually started watching golf on TV, which is something I rarely ever do.  I watched the last couple of tournaments, to see what the best players in the world are doing. 
  

Q.  You are really torturing yourself then?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yes, yes.  I think all things happen for a reason.  That definitely, might turn out to be a blessing in disguise. 
  

Q.  What will you do for the next month leading up to Augusta?  What is the short term -- where are you playing?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Playing everywhere up until Augusta. 
  

Q.  Straight through?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yes.  I am not in Augusta.  So, I will try to keep playing golf and do the best I can.  I have a bunch of goals set for this year, one of the main ones, I want to make enough money to qualify for Augusta next year.  That is keeping me motivated.  The fact that I know it is coming up and I won't play, it is a little sore point.  It keeps me motivated. But I am trying to do it by playing good rounds every day, instead of trying to hit the home run every once in awhile, being lazy, I work a lot harder, a lot more focused, I think. 
  

Q.  Do you know how- -was it one of the little bones that takes forever?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   The capitate. There are five in your wrist.  It is a little bone in there, about the size of a quarter. 
  

Q.  Your right wrist?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yes.  I broke it hitting a shot.  I believe I did it at Memorial, on No. 14.  Fifteen, the par-5, I drove it on the upslope and tried to hit a 3-iron, hit it fat, stuck in the ground, my hand gave, it got swollen.  That is when I think I did it.  I kept playing all year long, taking a lot of Advil, putting ice on it.  Everybody told me it was tendonitis, so that is how we treated it.  I still had my strength, but it still hurt. 
  

Q.  When did you finally sit down, stop?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   After the Texas Open in San Antonio.  It got so bad playing, I almost had to pull out of the tournament on Saturday.  That is when I decided, I need to find a doctor and get every test I can think of done, to figure out what is going on.  They did an MRI, did not show up; x-ray did not show up.  Bone scan, never showed up.  CT scan, it showed up. That was the last test.  I was on my way to the airport, the doctor called and said, where are you. 
  

Q.  In the airport?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   To go to Callaway Gardens.  I said, I am in the car going to the airport.  He said turn around, you are not playing any more.  It was a bitter pill to swallow. 
  

Q.  Eight weeks?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Seven. 
  

Q.  Do you hold any hope for getting a late Masters invite, say, if you win this week?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Even if I win this week I won't get one. 
  

Q.  Can't go?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   As far as I understand, the only way is to get in or be in the top -- 
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   That will get me in? 
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   That is nice to know.  I did not know that.  I could win the golf tournament and still not be in the top three on the money list. I could win by 40 shots and I won't move up into the top fifty in world ranking, I mean, unless I    
 win TPC, there is no way to get in.  That is a new one. 
  

Q.  I wasn't sure if you were close enough to do it by winning...
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   No.  I wish I were. ? 
  

Q.  Allergies, you had a problem with in California?  Have they cleared up?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yes.  I have allergies everywhere.  I am allergic to this chair, so -- I just do the best I can to keep them you under wraps.  The sinus infection has gone away; which is nice.  I do not feel like I have all that pressure, headaches. 
  

Q.  7 birdies in 10 holes?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Well, no, it is -- 6 birdies and an eagle in the last twelve holes. 
  

Q.  Right.  Got something against pars?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   They are not a lot of fun. 
  

Q.  Kind of boring?
 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yes, they really are. 
 
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT