SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2012
Harrison Frazar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  HARRISON FRAZAR:   I made a few good putts and didn't miss any short ones, but I missed the money makers, the six‑ to 12‑footers.   So I'm disappointed but overall I was happy.

Q.   A couple of guys who played on Maui struggled, with the Monday finish and quick turnaround.   How are you feeling physically?
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Physically I feel fine.   I was a little bit tired on Wednesday after the late Pro‑Am, but the next day I got to sleep in until about 8:30, 9:00, and I felt fine.   So no problems for me on that front.

Q.   At what point in today's round did you realize there was this big logjam near the top and you were a part of it? 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   We looked up‑‑ let's see, I birdied 10 and Keegan‑‑ no, I'm sorry.   I birdied 9 and Keegan eagled 9 and we looked up and we tried to figure it out.   We think there was 11 people within one shot.   So my caddie and I laughed and we both said, "Game on, this should make for great TV." 
I guess it didn't take long for Johnson to kind of make a couple of birdies and got up there.   I guess he was at 12 by the time he got to 10‑‑ is that right? 
So, it didn't take long.   But when I saw that, when I saw that 10‑under, 11‑under was right up there towards the top.   I thought 13‑under would be a good number, and that's what I was trying to get to.   I just couldn't get putts to go in.

Q.   Kind of a strange week because of the dry conditions, the firm conditions.   It seemed like a lot of guys were having trouble holding the fairways a little bit. 
HARRISON FRAZAR:   Yeah, you're always having a hard time hitting fairways here because there's a lot of crosswinds, and you know, this was the Konas, the Kona winds that were blowing. 
So holes like No.18 are just awkward with that wind.   Once you get it up over the top and get it turning, it's hard to hold it.   You can't quite carry the bunker with 3‑wood and driver.   You can't turn quite enough. 
It's just there's a lot of different variables to make these fairways hard to hit.   That's part of its charm; it's all been that way and it always will. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT