WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2011
Harrison Frazar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So did it take you this long to get comfortable with the travel over or what? 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: I switched putters. Went to a belly putter. I used it before on and off, but I struggled yesterday, really struggled a lot. Probably missed eight or ten putts inside 15 feet yesterday so it was a no-brainer to make the choice.

 Q. So you travel regularly with a belly?
 HARRISON FRAZAR: For emergencies.

 Q. When is the last time you used it?
 HARRISON FRAZAR: At the Byron Nelson. 

 Q. The whole round? The whole tournament?
 HARRISON FRAZAR: The first two days and I switched again after barely making the cut at the Nelson, I went to the fat one, the fat grip. I've been using that the whole time through. But I've been struggling lately. 

 Q. So is this in the bag for the rest of the week now?
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Oh, yeah. I made a bunch of putts today.

 Q. Can you give us an idea? 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Made about a 25-footer on 10. Made about another 25-footer on 13. About a 30-footer on 15. 15-footer on 16. That might have been all the long ones. Maybe five or six from 16 feet. 

 Q. The ones you were missing yesterday?
 HARRISON FRAZAR: The ones I was missing. You know, that's the key to this whole game out here. You've got to make 6-footers. You've got to make your 6- and 8-footers, and if you do that, and you make 2 20-footers a day, you're going to play well. 

 Q. So obviously you were striking the ball well yesterday, didn't make any putts. 
 HARRISON FRAZAR: I didn't really strike it great yesterday. I think I shot 3-over yesterday. But I just kind of scrambled around. I chipped some close. I did make some 3-, 4-, 5-footers. 
 You get a dicey bunker shot, hit it to eight feet, miss. So I wasn't really hitting it well enough to score a good round but probably should have shot between 70 and 72 yesterday. I shot 75.

 Q. So today, were you hitting the ball --
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Today I hit the ball a lot better until the end. I hit a couple of drives to the right on the last two holes. But other than that, I feel like I played really well.

 Q. If you can put another number together like that tomorrow -- how do you feel going in?
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Well, I feel fine. I would agree with the first sentiment, I'm probably out of the tournament, but anything can happen. I feel like I'm playing well enough and putting well enough. If I can putt like I did today, hit a few more close, I can probably shoot it and a little bit lower, too. 

 Q. When is the first time you went to a belly putter, do you remember?
 HARRISON FRAZAR: It's been on and off for about four years. 

 Q. Are you playing next week?
 HARRISON FRAZAR: No. It's been a long way to come for one week but trying to make it work it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT