JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
September 29, 2011
Harrison Frazar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You're finished but all in all 2-under par, spinning your wheels at 12 and all of a sudden, you caught a little fire.   
 HARRISON FRAZAR: Actually I was 1-over after four or five. And then on 5, I was trying to hit a 7-iron right of the hole and I hit this kind of over-the-top pull, one-arm finish and hit a 7-iron to six feet and made birdie. I really had not hit a decent shot the first five holes.   
 But I started to drive it better and I started to hit the ball better and saw a few putts going in.   
 So, yeah, it's always fun to get on a birdie run. And making the eagle on 16 was nice. The birdie putt at 17 was a bonus.   
 18, I thought I actually made another birdie. I thought that wedge shot on the first cut, I thought it was perfect, came up a little short. Then kind of goosed a chip a little bit. You know, that's okay. That's part of it.   
  
  Q. Talk about the rough a little bit, a little different than what we have had in the past. You have to figure it out, the ball seems to be sitting down this week, with the moisture earlier in the year, it seems to be a little tougher to play out of.   
 HARRISON FRAZAR: It's a little thicker than we are used to. Here, you always used to be able to hit it anywhere and at worst case you would catch a flyer and now the ball is sitting down. So you're not sure how far it's going to come out. You know it's not going to come out high or with any spin, but you don't know how far it's going to fly. That seems to be where guys are having trouble.   
  
  Q. Walk us through that eagle, the Kodak Challenge hole.   
 HARRISON FRAZAR: I'm so far down, I don't even think I'm going to qualify to be honest with you. I'm not going to end up playing 18 holes I think that are Kodak Challenge holes. But if I do, I think I just moved from like 125th to 112.   
 But it's nice. It was a beautiful drive right down the pipe. I had 190-something yards after all of the altitude and heat calculations. Plus I was feeling good, hit a nice 7-iron to six feet.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT