NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
DeMarcus Cousins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. DeMarcus, your mid-range and long-range game have consistently improved throughout this year.  Is that something you consciously put an effort into?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: It's something that I work on.  I work on every part of my game.  Coach feels it's going to benefit the team, so I'm consistently working.
Q. You get to put up threes in transition maybe with Steph Curry tomorrow?  What do you think?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: We'll see what happens.
Q. You've stated several times that you wanted to remain in Sacramento and make it work there.  How has that resonated with the people around you, your teammates and the people in Sacramento?  Have you been approached about that?  There have been a lot of trade rumors and you made that statement.  Has there been any feedback to you?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: First of all, I can't control the trade [rumors] and I can't control if I'm traded or not, so I don't really see how that question goes hand in hand.  But I do want to be in Sacramento, and I know everybody in Sacramento knows that.  I don't really understand your question.
Q. What is your favorite part about being in the All-Star?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: I think being around the guys, and the whole vibe of the weekend.  I think it's a great event.  You just have fun.
Q. Do you think it's missing anything right now?  Like what you want to see more of?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: I think it's set up pretty good so far.
Q. Are there any players that aren't here that you feel deserve to be here?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: Damian Lillard deserves to be here.
Q. What do you think makes an All-Star?  Give me three things.  I know the fans voted, but personally you must feel --
DeMARCUS COUSINS: You have to be the best player on your team, you have to lead your team on a nightly basis and your performance.
Q. I know it's Valentine's Day on Sunday.  Do you have a Valentine's Day --
DeMARCUS COUSINS: Yeah.
Q. Give me three things, tell your male fans three things, how to be a good Valentine?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: I'll give you one thing:  Make her happy.
Q. DeMarcus, what's it been like to see Paul George return from injury to an All-Star level so fast?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: I'm happy for PG.  (Indiscernible) he came back an even better player, so it's great to see a guy come in and overcome that adversity.
Q. Are there things you take from this weekend being around everybody that you can take back to the regular season?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: The biggest thing is getting a break.  It's a long season (indiscernible).  It's good for everybody.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT