NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
DeMarcus Cousins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  No. 5 Selection, Sacramento Kings  
  
  Q. Opening thoughts?   
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: First off I just want to thank God for giving me this opportunity, and my family and my friends that's been there for me since the beginning. I'm truly blessed to just be here right now.   
  
  Q. You're a very physical player, so talk about how you have to really build your strength to be able to be physical every night, of course, an 82-game season in the NBA?  
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: Just going into the NBA, period, you have to work hard and you have to prove every aspect of your game. But I am a physical player and strength is something I do rely on.   
  
  Q. Since Chicago, for whatever reason, you've been a guy that's been the hunted and now you're going to be playing with your good friend, Tyreke; what will you do in Sacramento?  
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: Hopefully build some good chemistry and bring a championship back to the building for the Kings.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your Draft workouts and how it affected you, good or bad?   
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: A lot of my workouts were conditioning and skill and I believe it actually helped me out, I believe it helped me out a lot.   
  
  Q. I see you have the purple shirt on tonight. Did you know you were going to wind up here?  
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: Actually I did, I'm ready for the moment I guess you could say.  
  
  Q. How do you think you'll fit in as a center?   
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: I'm going to go in and try to earn my spot but hopefully it's something I can live up to.   
  
  Q. Kevin Johnson, the mayor, was a pretty good NBA player; do you plan on talking to him?   
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: Yeah, that would be a good thing, he was a player in the NBA and I can ask him for pointers.   
  
  Q. Some have said you could be the No. 2 pick in the Draft, so the first time you play against Philly and New Jersey, will you take that on to the court and try to prove that they should have taken you?   
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: If somebody is considered better than me, I'm going to try to go out and that's what I'm going to do.  
  
  Q. There's a wealth of -- there's a lot of depth in Sacramento; how are you looking forward to your game growing and competing and practicing with those guys?   
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: Just go in and try to earn my role. I'm going to go hard at whoever -- if I'm behind somebody, I'm going to go hard at them every day and try to earn my spot.   
  
  Q. There seems to be a lack of quality big men in the league. What is your skill set; what will that add to the League being you are such a ferocious player?   
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: I do have a lot of skill in my game which I want to show people.  
  
  Q. What do you think you can get done or what do you hope you can get done as a rookie?   
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: Help my team win some games, get to the playoffs, go for the Championship and my own personal goal is to win Rookie of the Year.   
  
  Q. Do you have a sense that you want to prove to people that they are wrong about your attitude and those sorts of things now that you have a place to go?  
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: I just want a team that I can be myself and hopefully go out and play some good ball and I believe that perception will be out the door.   
  
  Q. Mentally how do you prepare for a long season, 82 games?   
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: Just stay humble and just keep working and never stop working, look to the bigs and ask them for pointers on what I need to do and just stay healthy.   
  
  Q. It's a big day for Kentucky; can you talk about what it means for the program today?   
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: We have five players in the Draft this year, and hopefully all five of us can go in the first round. I believe that's never been done before. I mean, it's a big day and they are all behind us right now and they won't stop texting and Tweeting and calling me, so this will be a big day.   
  
  Q. You were out in Sacramento for a work-out; what's your impression of the city?  
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: First thing I like about the city is the weather. It was like I was in a movie, it was like perfect weather. It was a beautiful place and I loved the culture, so that's the place.  
  
  Q. Did you have any favorite college courses that you took?   
 DeMARCUS COUSINS: Sociology.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT