NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
June 1, 2019
DeMarcus Cousins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you talk about the adjustments and how do you feel personally after the first game after your injury?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: I feel fine.  The adjustments, we'll make those according to what we see fit.  We'll take it from there.   
 Q.  Did anything stick out to you about the speed of the game, the pace of the game?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: Not necessarily.  Obviously, I'm rusty coming fresh off of an injury, but I got a taste of the speed, which is good for me.  So hopefully it will go better for me in Game 2.   
 Q.  Are you surprised with the intensity of the quickness of the Toronto Raptors in the first game?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: No.   
 Q.  Not at all?  And this has been a team that a lot of people would say are underdogs but you guys all season long have said they have been on your radar.  Why is that?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: They're a good team.  A lot of talent, a lot of depth.  The stars, their game speaks for themselves.  There's nothing bad about this team at all.   
 Q.  What are the Warriors like on a road trip like this?  What's the chemistry like for the Warriors?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: For the most part, we had some guys go to the aquarium.  We're just regular guys.  There's nothing special to it.  Most guys went and got treatment done on their bodies.  We're preparing all week for the next game, so me too.   
 Q.  Have you explored Toronto a little bit?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: No.  I've been here plenty of times.   
 Q.  Good eats?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: No, I've been chill.  I haven't really got out of the hotel much.   
 Q.  Does it help being around guys who have been here before in The Finals and kind of getting their ear when it comes to the schedule?  Obviously, you guys are so regimented.  
 Them knowing what it takes in this Finals?   
DeMARCUS COUSINS: It does help, but I'm not really the type of guy that kind of gets caught up in the moment of The Finals.  I enjoy big games.  I enjoy big moments.  So I'm not fearful of them.  I'm not uncomfortable in those situation.  So I'm good.   
 Q.  Have you taken any time to think about your journey to get to this point?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: I'll think about it later.   
 Q.  Transition seems to be the deciding factor in the game.  Was it as simple as not making the shots on offense or not getting back on defense?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: A combination of everything.  Those 10 days or nine days or whatever we had off, it kind of knocked off our edge as a team.  I'm pretty sure it will be a better showing in Game 2.  There are a lot of simple mistakes that ended up biting us later on, so I believe we'll show the corrections in Game 2.   
 Q.  Can you tell us sort of what your regimen has been really to get back in game shape?  Can you kind of give us a breakdown of what you're doing, what you're eating, what you're watching again?  It seems like conditioning is going to be the biggest challenge for you right now?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: What I'm watching?   
 Q.  Well, in terms of what you're eating or just sort of your diet.  I'm wondering what your regimen is to really fast-track your conditioning so you can get back in game shape?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: Been on a low-carb diet and I work out every single day.  That's rehab in basketball.   
 Q.  When do you feel like you're going to be back at at least 90 to 100 percent?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: I can't answer that.  I don't know.   
 Q.  Being your first NBA Finals, is the atmosphere and surroundings different from other games you've experienced?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: It's a lot.  The energy was crazy in the building.  That alone kind of stands outs for me from a regular-season game.   
 Q.  Did the loudness stunt communication at all?  
DeMARCUS COUSINS: It does sometimes.  It's hard to hear out there sometimes.  Even on the sidelines in the huddle, it's kind of hard to hear.  But that's to be expected.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT