GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2018
DeMarcus Cousins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I think Bob said you would be reevaluated in four weeks, but how feeling at this stage of your recovery?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: You know, I'm feeling a lot better than I was seven months ago.  You know, it's been a grind.  It's been an adventure to say the least.  But I'm in a lot better place now.  Physically I'm coming along great.  As of right now, hasn't been any setbacks, and I feel a lot stronger.  I'm getting my feet back under me, and I'm starting to feel like an athlete again.
Q. I heard you've been in here a few times working out.  What kind of stuff can you do?  Are you mostly just shooting, or are you able to do some post moves, a little bit of explosion at all?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: Doing a little bit of everything.  Post moves, shooting.  I'm getting up and down the court.  I'm running full-court drills.  I've gotten some one-on-one, two-on-two sessions in, so I'm progressing well.  Everything is on track, and it's just a matter of time.
Q. Obviously the Warriors have been stressing patience and the big picture with your recovery, but internally are there any expectations, goals of when you hope you can come back?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: You know, as of right now, it's about getting healthy, and that's something we all agreed on.  That's the biggest priority for us right now.  Well, with my situation, which is getting healthy.  You know, when we feel we've got to that point, we'll sit down and we'll figure out when it's time to return.
Q. What has the last seven months been like, the ups and downs of it?  What's been the biggest high and the biggest low?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: I mean, it's been hard.  I would be lying if I told you anything differently.  It's been an absolute grind.  It's taken a lot of dedication, a lot of commitment, and it's been a grind.  It's been a real grind.  It's probably one of the hardest things physically and mentally I've been through in my career so far, and I've learned a lot through this process.  I've learned a lot about myself.  It's been a grind, man; that's the best way for me to put it.
You know, like I said, I've learned a lot about myself.  I've taken some positives out of this situation.  I learned from the negatives.  You know, I'm moving forward with my life.
Q. With you out at least the next few months, several young guys, Jordan, Kevon, Damian are going to be competing for that starting spot.  How can you balance your rehab with mentoring those young guys?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: They're my young guys anyway, so you're going to teach the game regardless.  You want what's best for your teammates, you want them to succeed, so anything I can do to help in any way, I'm going to do that.  You know, I've been in the gym working with Jordan and Damian so far, and those guys are full of potential.  They're like sponges.  They take in all the information they can.  They're a big part of this team.  They're carrying the load right now, so of course I'm going to give everything I can to help them.
Q. DeMarcus, you said you learned something about yourself through this process; can you explain what that was, and can you also talk about just if you try to look ahead a little bit to when you're on the court with all these guys, how excited you are and what you guys could be?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: I'm stubborn as hell.  I thought I knew that before, but I'm really starting to realize it now.  My drive has only increased.  I'm seriously like a madman right now.  I think you guys will see a new DeMarcus on the floor.  I can't wait to get to that point just to show all the work I have put in, into this injury.  I think you'll see it when the product is on the floor.  But when it comes to this team, I mean, it's basically there.  You can see it on paper.  On paper it looks great.  Of course we've got to go in and put the work in, but the potential is scary for this team, and it's on us to bring that potential out.
Q. DeMarcus, you were talking about what a grind this has been for you.  What was it mentally that helped you get through the toughest parts of that, like if you really hit a wall during this rehab?  What was the motivation or what were you telling yourself to get through?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: The haters.  That's all I need.  I feed off of it.  I love it.
Q. Throughout your career you've played against the Warriors, and it seems like they were the ones that you were chasing.  How does it feel today to put on a Warriors uniform?  Did you ever think that was possible?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: I never thought this situation would happen, but it's happened.  This is my team, and anybody that's followed me before this moment, you know how I fight for my team.  It's the same thing.  Step on them, you're stepping on me.
Q. You've obviously spent a lot of time not too far from here in Sacramento, but how is the actual acclimation process to the Bay Area?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: I'm trying to get used to this traffic, man.  This traffic is crazy.  8:00 in the morning, it's bumper to bumper.  I'm still trying to find the right times to travel.
Q. How has the conversation been like just obviously off the court with your teammates when you were signed?  How has that been beneficial?  And the benefits of you making that donation to your hometown for that basketball court?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: What was your first question?
Q. What was the conversation like with your teammates after you signed?  How did that benefit you in the off-season?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: I mean, I've spoken on it earlier in the summer, but it was all excitement, which was a surprise to me.  These guys are back to back champions, and it's obvious they don't -- they could be the type of guys that say we don't need any more help or another player.  They deserve that right.  But they welcomed me with open arms.  They were super excited.  Any player I think they appreciate that coming from their teammates.  It was a warm feeling for me, and I appreciate those guys for that.
But referring to the court, I'm big on helping my community.  I'm not really a guy that likes to talk about it or boast about it.  I love at myself more as a foot soldier.  I like to really be in the community and have some type of -- put some type of change in effect, too.  I mean, I don't even really like, honestly, to talk about it, but some of the money went to the court.  It went to some of the other things, the block party, as well.  The whole 250 didn't go to the court.  But it's just community work.  I'm just doing my part.
Q. You took your high school jersey out of retirement and Drake wore it in his video.  Can you talk about how that happened, and how did you guys connect with that?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: You know, Drake is a good friend of mine, and he reached out, and he asked -- he wanted to wear the jersey.  But we were actually out of town and my brother was still in the city, so my brother ended up driving it down to New Orleans, which is about two hours away, hour and a half away, and he dropped it off to Drake, and the rest is history.  It was pretty simple.
Q. You guys have obviously stressed patience with your rehab, but this schedule has got a ton of marquee games on it.  Is there a certain game where you're saying, I want to be back by then?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: Whenever I return is a special game for me, so I'll just be glad to be on the floor playing basketball again.
Q. DeMarcus, you obviously know a lot of these guys, but I'm curious to know have you been able to get a feel for what this locker room is going to be like, a lot of different personalities, Klay on one end, Draymond on the other.  What do you sense this locker room is going to be like now?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: I think it's going to be a lot of fun, actually.  Of course Draymond is going to be yelling.  We all know that.  But I actually just spoke to Klay today for the first time.  I think it's going to be a lot of fun and a locker room with a lot of laughter.
Q. The Warriors' culture is emphasized a lot and is a big part of why the team is successful.  What can you say is different about the Warriors' culture that you've experienced so far?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: It's pretty relaxed and laid back.  I mean, it's just a -- from the top to bottom, it's just a group of guys that are having fun, enjoying the game of basketball.  I don't even think they really approach it as a job.  It's just having fun playing basketball, and I think that's what separates them from the rest of the league.
Q. DeMarcus, there's a lot of interest in and speculation about how you're going to fit with the other All-Stars on this team, and I'm wondering, is that something -- can it start to sort itself out at least mentally before you return to the court, or does that just get fixed only when you're on the court?
DeMARCUS COUSINS: Well, that speculation and concern is for you guys.  That's not a concern of mine.  We all know how to play the game of basketball, so everything else will figure itself out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT