NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2009
Jordan Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Reaction, going to the Knicks.   
 JORDAN HILL: Definitely happy. Knicks is definitely a good fit for me because it's an up-tempo team and I can run the floor, so definitely it's a good fit for me.   
  
  Q. What was your reaction to the crowd response?   
 JORDAN HILL: I mean, that type of crowd, if they don't get who they want, they will give a couple of boos. But there was some that wanted me to go there, wanted me to come to the Knicks. I feel appreciated. But it's just how you feel. I'm just going out and trying to play basketball. I'm just happy I'm on the team.   
  
  Q. Coming into the Draft, there was a lot of talk that the Knicks were definitely targeting and you some others, did they gave you a strong indication that you were the guy they wanted?  
 JORDAN HILL: No, I really didn't hear nothing. Well, I heard the same thing but they didn't make no lockdown situation.   
 After the No. 2 pick, I felt it was just up in the air. Just hoping, you know, wait until my name was called and I was chosen.  
  
  Q. Your rise coming into the season has been pretty dramatic. How has it been for you just again this dramatic rise?   
 JORDAN HILL: It's been -- I went through a lot, it's tough, but I managed to have the right people behind me and the right supporting cast behind me. So I just tried to stay focused and keep my head on straight and go out there and go with what I want, go for what I want.   
  
  Q. Since you went to the University of Arizona, of course, Phoenix is nearby, Tucson, and you were close to the Phoenix Suns, what do you love about that system?  
 JORDAN HILL: Up tempo. When Lamar was up there, he was running the floor like no other, getting dunks after dunks after dunks. With a guard like Chris Duhon which is a pass-first guard, that's a good look for me, so just got to see how it is.   
  
  Q. Once Curry went to the Warriors, did you figure this might be it?  
 JORDAN HILL: Yeah, I would say either Curry or me. Once he got selected, I thought it could be me so I had to wait. I'm glad I waited just to make sure.   
  
  Q. You mentioned the fan reaction, you got a lot of fans calling you -- what are some of the more memorable stuff they said to you?  
 JORDAN HILL: I mean, like I said, it was fans that, you know, wanted somebody else. I did have fans that was like glad that I'm a Knick, glad that I'm with them. So I appreciate that. So I'm definitely a hard worker and I'm going to try my hardest to help the Knicks win games.   
  
  Q. Were you concerned about your basketball future when Coach Olson resigned suddenly before the start of the season? Did it worry you?   
 JORDAN HILL: Definitely not. I mean, it was not my decision for what Coach did. I'm glad I witnessed it in my college year because you can definitely do the same at the next level.   
 So I was there just to play basketball. I didn't really -- it didn't really matter to me what coaches I play under.   
  
  Q. Have you had a chance to talk to Coach D'Antoni about, has he mentioned comparing him to you, the conversation you all had?  
 JORDAN HILL: Yeah, he definitely compared me to Lamar, athleticism is the same. Lamar just worked hard and look where he's at now.   
 They see the same thing in me, so I know that D'Antoni is going to definitely get that out of me and develop me into the player I need to be.   
  
  Q. You may have really hit pay dirt here, even though you were not the first pick, you got the big media endorsement deals being in this town. Are you prepared to deal with all of us here? This is a small taste of what you'll get on a daily basis, sports talk radio and all that, are you prepared for the onslaught?  
 JORDAN HILL: Definitely, I have no problem talking, so just make sure I say the right thing is basically what I need to do.  
 I'm definitely ready for it.   
  
  Q. Obviously you're here now with the up-tempo system, but do you find this system the best fit for you?   
 JORDAN HILL: Well, it's definitely one of the best. Like I said, it was an up-tempo game and I run the floor like no other and I just love to run the floor and just try to get wide open for an easy dunk or whatever. So I definitely -- it is definitely a good fit for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT