LPGA Q-SERIES
November 1, 2019
Lauren Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I just was able to count, and only about 12 players today are under par.
LAUREN KIM: Oh.
Q. You are one of them.
LAUREN KIM: I did not know that.
Q. What was it like out there today, and why do you think it might have been challenging for some other people out there?
LAUREN KIM: Well, for me, for one, I had a horrible start, so I was just trying to get my head right after the first four holes or so. I was 3-over after that and finished 1-under, so pretty happy with the way I played overall.
But it was freezing this morning, so we were all bundled up; you can't swing as fast; the ball doesn't go as straight. So it just magnifies misses when it's that cold and you're trying to play to pins that aren't the easiest. The pins are not by any means easy today. Just kind of a lot of factor combined made it a little tougher.
But definitely, yeah, the cold this morning was a huge factor I think.
Q. You've had to deal with the changing of courses, the weather here. How has that kind of made you maybe more confident in your game, or what has that done to your mental game? Do you think it's kind of sharpened it?
LAUREN KIM: Yeah, I think you learn a lot of that playing on tour. The LPGA teaches you a lot about how to just regroup after every single week. So not to take anything for grant but also not to, you know, like expect too much of yourself every week.
So I think just the past couple years playing out there I've just learned kind of how to deal with different course conditions week to week. More of my struggle comes from the mental part of the game of golf rather than the conditions and the course.
So, yeah, I think just playing a year -- I mean, even at Symetra you learn a lot week to week. It's always different. There is always something that either happens that week or like the weather comes in or something.
You know, the joke on the LPGA is that we're always dealing with rain delays and stuff. You kind of just learn week to week how to deal with those kind of things.
Q. Tomorrow is the last day after a marathon as everyone kind of explains Q-Series. What has the last two weeks meant to you, and is there a sense of relief that you get to have a break a little bit after tomorrow?
LAUREN KIM: Yeah. It's a very stressful two weeks. I will say that. It is a marathon. And just trying to stay focused for eight rounds, and arguably the most important eight rounds of your year if end up having to come here at the end.
So, yeah, in a way it's a relief, but also a sense of accomplishment too. Nobody necessarily wants to end up here, but you kind of accept that it's just the way the year worked out and you're going to make the best of it.
So, yeah, I think it is a huge sense of relief, and some time off is always a good thing. It actually was kind of interesting, because a lot of the girls that finished the 90 to 100 spots have an extra two, three, four weeks of their off-season.
In my opinion, I think it was a benefit to be able to play until later in the year and kind of get more playing into the end of the year. So I kind of viewed it like that, as a positive thing. You get to compete, and that's always a good thing, too.
But it is the end of a stressful week, so it is a relief.
Q. And there are a number of college players out here as well. Some other Stanford graduates or soon-to-be graduates.
LAUREN KIM: Yeah.
Q. Have you been able to impart any wisdom as someone who has now been on the tour and made that transition?
LAUREN KIM: I think they -- well, to their own credit, they're amazing player. I mean, Andrea and Albane have led our team and have done really good things at Stanford. Andrea has the winningest record on the team, so, I mean, not to discredit them, but, yeah, there is a lot to learn just in terms of how to travel every week and how to take care of your own business every week, kind of manage yourself even out there.
Yeah, I don't know what their decisions will be after this week, but, yeah, I am excited for them; I think they both are incredible golfers. I got to play with Andrea the first two rounds last week. Just seeing her game compared to mine, compared to other girls, I mean, they're right there. It's a lot of learning in terms of how to go week to week and play that much golf.
They both have the games; clearly they're showing it. Yeah, I'm excited to see what they do. It's cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT