COUPE ROGERS
August 7, 2013
Filip Peliwo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. ISTOMIN/F. Peliwo
  6‑3, 3‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Even though you lost that match, do you take a lot of confidence out of that one? 
FILIP PELIWO:   Definitely.   I felt the whole third set that I was going to win it, that I should win it, that I'm playing better, that I'm controlling most of the points. 
Definitely will have to build on it.   Just missed a few little opportunities there to get myself a breakpoint.   That was it. 

Q.   Two weeks ago you were playing against 300, 400 ranked players in the world.   Now you're playing with players ranked 60.   How did you feel playing with these guys?
FILIP PELIWO:   Very good.   To be able to raise my game up like that, raise my results.   I don't feel like I'm playing that much different from what I was before.   I just feel I'm more consistent, a bit more solid with my footwork. 
To be able to keep up with these guys, have chances to beat them, it's a great feeling.   Definitely a lot of confidence, a lot of positives to take from these matches.   Something to build on for the weeks and the months to come. 

Q.   When you fell in the third set, did you hurt yourself?
FILIP PELIWO:   No.   My calf just cramped up for a few seconds there.   Just trying to release it. 

Q.   When do you feel as a player that you are competing at the same level with somebody that's so much higher ranked than you and you could just as easily win a match like that?   Does it happen during a rally?   When do you sense, Hey, I'm as good as this guy?
FILIP PELIWO:   I don't know really know the exact moment.   Just sort of steadily came on as the match went along.   I mean, after I won that second set, I was like, You got to keep going, you got to take this one.   I knew that I could win the third set if I just kept playing like that. 
I thought I should have won the first set.   Kind of gave it back to him a bit.   But, yeah, it was just a steady realization that this is a match I should win or I can win.   Definitely happy about that.   Disappointed about the loss, but happy about how I'm playing, so... 

Q.   How did you like your whole experience here?
FILIP PELIWO:   Amazing.   First of all, I was expecting to play quallies.   Just to be able to play main draw is amazing.   The fact that I got through to the second round, almost got through to the third one, would have played Djokovic, that's what I wanted.   Just to be able to get through that on my first try is an unbelievable feeling.   I didn't expect that at all. 
Definitely gives me a lot of ranking points as well for months to come.   Helps in more ways than one, that's for sure.

Q.   Both had to be cautious in the wind.   Maybe you were more aggressive than he was.   What was the whole thing about how you swing out and how careful did you have to be?
FILIP PELIWO:   In the first set I think we were both experimenting with it, trying to find our range.   There were a lot more mistakes from both of us in that one. 
It was really an unpredictable kind of wind.   Sometimes the ball would get caught in the wind, sometimes it wouldn't.   It was hard to react to it.   It was not the same kind of movement with the ball with the wind every time. 
Once we got used to it, it was fine.   Don't go for as much.   Sort of forgot about it as the match went on.

Q.   Anything especially tricky about his game?
FILIP PELIWO:   That's the thing, I didn't notice that he was doing anything unbelievable.   He's just really solid.   He didn't give me much.   He played the big points well in the third set.   It's not like he blew me off the court or anything.   I thought he was going to be a much bigger hitter.   That's kind of how I realized that, I mean, I can beat this guy. 
As I said, he was just making a lot of balls.   That's what these guys are doing.   That's what I realized.   They make their shots when they need to.

Q.   He didn't seem to have a weapon. 
FILIP PELIWO:   Yeah, exactly.   He didn't seem to have a massive weapon.   Like his serve was good.   Forehand was solid.   Forehand was solid.   Nothing that he can really totally hurt you with. 

Q.   From now on do you feel you can play with these guys all the time?
FILIP PELIWO:   Yeah, definitely.   Most definitely.   I feel like if I just keep working on the right things, keep in the right mental state, realize that I don't have to go out and try to hit winners every time against these guys, just play my game, not do something I'm not used to doing, definitely think I can keep up with these guys and beat these guys in the future. 
I just need a bit more experience playing these kind of tournaments and I'll be winning matches like that hopefully. 

Q.   Do you think the gods were with you yesterday when you made the reflex volley, then today the net cord on the breakpoint?
FILIP PELIWO:   I got lucky yesterday.   I just threw my hands up yesterday.   Just went in.   Today he got that let cord.   I could just as easily be angry with myself for not putting away the short ball. 

Q.   The wind, too. 
FILIP PELIWO:   It blew it into me.   Still you can find fault anywhere.   Just how it goes.   You can't dwell on that.   Just how the match goes sometimes.

Q.   Was that a volley or a regular groundstroke?
FILIP PELIWO:   It was a groundstroke.   I let the ball bounce.   I had it around here, and the wind put it into my body.   I just hit it in kind of.   He went for it through the middle.   Actually I had it right there basically, but hit the let cord, went over, so... 
Just how it goes.   You get lucky sometimes, and then you don't.

Q.   Any sense of the people who were watching getting free on that one end?   That stand is out in the park and anyone can walk in. 
FILIP PELIWO:   I didn't know that.   That's awesome.   Got a lot more people in that way.   The crowd was really good.   Once it filled up, they were really loud every point.   Definitely helped me get through it to a certain point.   Obviously I didn't win, but it made it a very enjoyable experience, that's for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT