AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 28, 2012
Filip Peliwo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. SAVILLE/F. Peliwo
  6‑3, 5‑7, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations for making the final.   Why do you think you weren't able to quite pull it out?
FILIP PELIWO:   Well, I think I just played‑‑ I played good tennis overall, but I didn't really do anything extraordinary.   I wasn't returning quite as well as I'd like to, and a couple of bad games on my serve cost me. 
I wasn't able to break enough, and that's basically it, couple bad points.   Didn't follow up with any big ones from my own end.

Q.   Did you adjust to the surroundings as quickly as you thought you might?   Other than the challenge?   You have to work on the challenge technique, maybe?
FILIP PELIWO:   Yeah, the first few games were obviously tough.   It's a much bigger court, and it's really easy to move way behind the baseline farther than you should be, but besides that, I think I handled it pretty well.
Besides the first three games I thought I was fine with the court.   And the stadium and people didn't bother me. 

Q.   Overall pleased with the outcome?   I mean, obviously you would have liked to have won, but getting this far... 
FILIP PELIWO:   Yeah, having won last week, beating Luke in the final there and carried it on this week, I think it's a pretty good result. 
It's definitely my best streak of my career, probably, but besides the loss here I'm very satisfied with my performance.

Q.   Where to from here and for the rest of the year?
FILIP PELIWO:   Well, I'm going back home to do a bit of training, maybe take a couple days off.   I'm going on to play some futures and challengers after that in North America.
Afterwards, I think I'll be going to play the clay court season in Europe, getting ready for the French Open.

Q.   Have they asked you or talked to you at all about maybe being a practice partner for Davis Cup because it's at home?
FILIP PELIWO:   Not yet, but Marty has watched all of my matches here and supported me.   I wouldn't be surprise if he did ask me.

Q.   Does it work in with the schedule you have in terms of being in the general area?
FILIP PELIWO:   It's cutting it kind of tight.   I don't know.   There's always ways around it.   I don't know.   We'll see what happens. 

Q.   Did you check the speed gun at all?
FILIP PELIWO:   A couple times.   When I was up in the game.   I didn't really pay attention to it when I was in tight moments, but yeah, I was a bit surprised with some of my speeds.

Q.   You didn't hit 200, but you came achingly close. 
FILIP PELIWO:   Close.   I'll get there soon, hopefully. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT