COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP: CLEMSON VS ALABAMA
January 7, 2017
Jonathan Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No microphone) have been very vocal about saying they want another shot at Alabama.  How does it make you feel?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Doesn't really matter to us.  It's the next game on our schedule.  We're not really worried about what happened last year.  It's all about this year and these teams.
Q. You've got a crazy fan base.  They're very involved.  They're very intuitive to what you guys are doing.  Do you have any crazy fan stories about Alabama about locking into what you're doing?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Not really very crazy, except sometimes fans will wait an hour outside of the games to autograph some pictures.  Other than that, nothing too crazy.
Q. Do they ever make you feel (no microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Not at all.  No one can put more pressure on us than we put on ourselves.  So that just a challenge that we always have to live up to.
Q. The sequels aren't always as good as the first time around.  We have movies like (no microphone), movies like Speed.  Why is the sequel between Alabama and Clemson going to be better?
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's hard to say.  It's one of those things you'll have to wait to find out.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: He's a very athletic quarterback.  He's a dual threat.  It's going to be a good challenge for us.  But I feel like we're better equipped this year to handle that and we're excited about the opportunity.
Q. More dangerous inside or outside the pocket?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Hard to say.  You would think outside the pocket because of his legs.  He's so active with the ball, it's kind of hard to tell.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's one of those things you don't worry about.  We're still writing our legacy.  We're going to be remembered by how we finish.  So we're focused on finishing strong.
Q. What do you want the legacy of this team's defense to be?
JONATHAN ALLEN: To be the best ever.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: It was definitely a hard decision, but thanks to the tools and information that was provided by Coach Saban, he definitely made it a lot easier.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, man, it's been good.  I mean, football's what I do and what I love.  So whenever I get an opportunity to just put everything else away and focus on football, it's always a good time for me.
Q. Jonathan, when you look at Clemson's offense, they've had a bunch of turnovers.  Are you guys chomping at the bit to try to capitalize?
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's always important when you can get turnovers as a defense.  Once again, that's a big point of emphasis for us.  But we've got to go out there and make them.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's definitely one of my better plays.  But, I mean, it's just another play in a long list of plays I've made.  So I'm not really focused on that play.  I mean, that was a long time ago.  I mean, it's definitely something I'll look back on later.  As of right now, I'm not really too worried about that.
Q. Pretty good (no microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Yeah, it was.
Q. At the line, when you're dealing with Clemson, what you've seen on tape, how worried are you that their line is going to impose power on you guys, versus how worried are you that they're going to go around you guys, trying to feed off your aggressiveness?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I'm not worried about them trying to overpower me or trying to go off, feed off their aggressiveness.  It's about what we do.  They call the plays, we like to think we take the action.  So depending on how we play is going to determine how the game goes up front.
Q. What do you do to defend that?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Play aggressive and physical.
Q. (No microphone).  Other than yourself, who is the most important person that got you here?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I'd definitely say my brother.  He's definitely been probably the biggest inspiration of my life.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Definitely motivates you more whenever you play that badly and get a chance to redeem yourself.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Definitely.  It's one of the things, we were happy that we won.  But still, at the end of the day, you were pretty upset with how you performed so it's definitely something we can improve on going into this game.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: It was very valuable.  We have film to look back on and to work on and to improve on.  So we're going to look at the film and see where we can make improvements.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I feel like it shaped me a lot.  It helped me become tough, helped me deal with adversity and challenges.  Everybody has their own adversity to deal with.  So it is kind of one of the things where it is what it is.
Q. How much would you trade all of this just to --
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, man, I would do a lot.  You can't put a price tag on something like that.
Q. Jonathan, what kind of pressure is it to bring home championships to Alabama year in and year out?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Like I said, we don't really -- no one puts more pressure on us than ourselves.  So, I mean, it is a lot of pressure, but we put more pressure on ourselves.  So it's something you've got to live up to the standard and got to compete for every year.
Q. What do you see when you see Deshaun Watson.  Differences between this year and last year?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Honestly, not too many differences.  I mean, the people around him have changed but he's still playing at the same level he was last year, in my opinion.
Q. Can you compare him to anyone you've seen?  Where does he rank on quarterbacks that you've faced?
JONATHAN ALLEN: He's definitely up there at the top.  Kind of hard to compare definitely at quarterbacks so I don't think I've played anybody in college that's similar to him.
Q. When you walked off the field last year, even though you won the national championship, did you walk off a little disappointed?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I was definitely a little disappointed or upset, but you'd have to look at the big scheme of things.  We won the game and that was the most important thing.  Even though I was disappointed, I was still happy with the end result.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just our aggressiveness.  I mean, whenever we get a turnover, we instantly turn into offensive players and look to score.  So that's kind of a narrative we like to have.
Q. Do you feel this is one of the greatest defenses in college football history?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I feel like it could be.  It depends on how we finish.  So, I mean, that's still up in the air.  I mean, I'll be better able to answer that question after Monday.
Q. Do you feel like the way you guys have played, you're up there in the upper echelon of defenses?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, like I said, we could be.  I mean, you get remembered by how you finish.  So if we don't finish strong, then no.
Q. What do you have to contain Deshaun?  (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: We just got to do our job.  We got a lot of mental errors and a lot of missed tackles last year.  We're looking to cut that down this year.
Q. All the turnovers that you guys have forced and have scored off of, how big has that been for you guys this year and how big will that be in Monday's game?
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's definitely been a big point of emphasis for us going into every game.  We feel like we can really change the game by getting turnovers and scoring on them.
So, I mean, we look to do the same against Clemson Monday.
Q. They always say when the stars come out, when the lights come on, this is the big games.  (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, I love when the stage is big.  But at the same time, if you're a competitor, you're going to compete no matter where you are, no matter who you're playing.  So that's not something we really focus on.  We just try to make things as normal as possible in games like this.
Q. You got a little play for Heisman trophy this year.  What's your feeling on your position contending and winning that trophy not only this year but in the future?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I feel like it was pretty cool.  It's definitely an offensive award, but I feel like it was pretty cool to get some recognition for it.
Q. Is it possible for someone like you to win that?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I think it's possible.  It's going to be hard, but it's definitely possible, I would say.
Q. What about the prospects of it's so unique in college sports to get something like this, a rematch.  I know that you look at it as another opponent.  But what do you think of the prospects of having the unique experience?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I think it's cool.  But like I said, I'm not really worried about what happened last year.  I'm worried about this year's Clemson team and what we've got to do to win.
Q. So how is this game different than last year?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, I wouldn't say there's too much differences in between.  I mean, it's a national championship game between us and Clemson.  I mean, it's very similar.
Q. What about in terms of their offense and how they play?  Because I know it's been a little bit different, like Deshaun hasn't run quite as much this season.  How might their team look different?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Like I say, they might throw the ball a little bit more, but, I mean, they're going to pull out all the stops in this game so it's kind of hard to tell.
Q. A lot of the college teams, the last month, have gone to these games, bowl games, they go around the city and do all kinds of crazy things.  This is a little different.  Do you feel like you're able to do any of that, or are you just kind of locked in, in your hotel and in your practice and that's the way it is?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, we're granted the opportunity to do it.  But for us, it's a business trip.  So, I mean, we're not really worried about doing anything else other than winning this football game.  So we're just all mentally locked in and just focused and just ready to play, to be honest.
Q. Deshaun, what has your brother meant to you (no microphone)?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, he was just my rock.  He was just my rock, you know.  Best way I can put it.
Q. How about your dad?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I'm sorry?
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, man.  You can never replace someone's dad.  So when I did get to live with him, it was pretty great.
Q. Have you tried actually to look up your mom to find out what she's doing?  People out there see big strong football players flying through the air and whatnot, but there's always people underneath them.  How hard has it been?
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's kind of been one of the things where I just focus on what I got to do to make my dream come true.  So, I mean, I've tried, but I'm focused on one thing, and that's one thing only.
Q. How much of a dream is it to play at the next level?
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's what we all work for.  It's the reason we all play football, to one day potentially become a pro.  So, I mean, that's always the end goal for us.
Q. Jonathan this year, you guys have been able to just rush four, helping your defense and helping fuel the secondary success.  (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: We definitely feel like so.  If we can get pressure with just four guys, it's definitely going to make things a lot easier for the back end.  So whenever we can do that, it's always a positive.
Q. How often are you doing that?  Would you say that's the majority of the time?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I wouldn't say the majority of the time.  We're a real aggressive defense so we like to get after the quarterback.  So it just depends on the game and the situation, to be honest.
Q. Has that just, scoring early and starting that, is that something that's fuelled you guys?  You've built an identity on that as a defense.  Is there a sense of pride in that?  I think you have like the 77th best offense in the country.
JONATHAN ALLEN: That definitely is something that he with pride ourselves on is being able to score on defense.  So it definitely helps out the team and changes momentum in our favor.  So whenever we can do that, it's always a positive.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's one of those things where you don't really put a number on it.  You just take advantage of the opportunities that you're given.  So if there's an opportunity, you try to take advantage of it.
But as a number, no, we really didn't put a number on it.  No.
Q. Is that something you game plan?
JONATHAN ALLEN: You can practice for it, but it's hard to game plan for situations like that.  You just got to be able to take advantage of them when the opportunity presents itself.
Q. Reuben said there's like a little friendly rivalry between guys that have (indiscernible) and guys that don't.  (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: We joke on each other sometimes, but not as much lately.  We kind of did it more in the regular season.  Right now, we're just all so locked in and focused, you know.
Q. The offensive coordinator yesterday set within three seconds, one of the ends is on the quarterback.  Is there like a time?  What's a good amount of time to get there?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Between two or three seconds.  Between two or three seconds is a good rush for a defensive lineman, in our opinion.
Q. Do you guys kind of chart that?  Do you track that?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Not too much, but we kind of tell our DBs to give us two or three seconds.  We know at least one of us will get there.
Q. Do they appreciate the opportunities you create?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, of course.  I mean, we appreciate the opportunities they give us.  There's been a lot of times we've been able to get coverage sacks based on what they do so it kind of goes back and forth, you know.
Q. A lot of people talk about, with Clemson, the fact that they're saying this is kind of revenge for them.  I think it was Minkah that said it's kind of revenge for you guys defensively, with the success that they had last year.  Is that something you guys have used as motivation?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Definitely.  We didn't really play -- we didn't play good on defense last year so we're looking for an opportunity to redeem ourselves.  With that being said, it's another game.  There's no revenge.  We don't believe in that.  This is the next game on the schedule so we're going to go out there and play and focus on this game.
Q. Sorry if you've already answered this one.  A guy like Deshaun Watson, what do you have to do to be successful against him?
JONATHAN ALLEN: You have to have everybody doing their job.  You can't miss tackles.  You can't have mental errors.  Everybody's got to run to the ball and it's got to be an 11-man effort.
Q. Eddie Jackson, the letter that he wrote last week and everything, what did that mean to you and what has he meant to you guys since he's gone down?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Eddie's still been one of our major leaders on the team this year and guys still look up to him and talk to him.  It's sad he can't be here with us, but we're definitely playing for him.
Q. And lastly, as a senior on this team, what has stuck with you that you're going to take with you once your time here is done in this program?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just hard work and dedication and the friends that I've made while going through this program.  Stuff like that, you can't replace.
Q. About Deshaun, what jumps out at you about last year, what he was able to do against you guys?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just how poised he was to be in that situation.  I mean, under pressure, he was still making pinpoint accurate throws.  So we're going to look to change that up front and see what happens.
Q. You touched on this before.  You talked about Clemson having the revenge factor.  Defensively, you guys almost feel that a little bit because (no microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Definitely.  Whenever you have a bad performance, you want the opportunity to redeem yourself.  So review it as a chance to redeem yourself.  So we view it as a chance to redeem ourselves and we're excited for it.
Q. Is there a tenet or two on defense that you want to keep Deshaun in the pocket or are there one or two sort of keys to stop him?  Other than pressuring him, are there a couple things you want to contain?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just play good defense.  We feel like we can stop anybody if we play good football.  So, I mean, that's our goal going into the game is just to stop Deshaun Watson.  Not contain him, but stop him.  So that's kind of what we're thinking of.
Q. What stands out to you about what Coach Saban wants out of his team?  Because, obviously, I assume you guys have really good players.  That always helps.  Is there anything he sort of preaches or wants to do?  What's the key to his success year after year with different players coming in and always having great defensive teams?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just effort, to be honest with you.  I mean, guys are human.  Guys are going to make mistakes.  But you can't coach effort and that's one of the biggest things he always harps on during practice about.
Q. You talked about wanting to come back this year.  To this point could it have gone any better for you, what you've done and what the team's done?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, not at all.  I mean, I couldn't have envisioned my senior year going this well.  So it's definitely a positive.  But I'm not really worried about that right now.  Just worried about trying to do what I can do to help this team out and win this next game.
Q. You lost a couple starters to injury.  In the defense, what's been so impressive to you about how you've kept the same level despite losing those guys?
JONATHAN ALLEN: We kind of preach the next man up.  So guys have always got to be ready, regardless of if you think you're going to play or not.  You never know when your opportunity's going to come.  When it comes, you have to take advantage of it.
Q. You watched the team against Ohio State.  Did anything jump out at you or surprise you?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Not surprising, but they're definitely a physical group and we knew they were all along.  So that's kind of what jumped off the screen was just how physical they were.  But we're a physical team too so we're enjoying, looking forward to the matchup.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, it's kind of thing -- it's a business trip.  We're not looking to have fun in Tampa.  We're looking to win a national championship.  So, I mean, until we do that, we're not going to have fun.  It's a businesslike setting and we're not worried about any external factors other than what's going to happen on that field Monday night.
Q. Throughout the season, has there been an offense that you have faced that's comparable to Clemson?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I feel like Texas A&M would be the closest offense we've played that's similar to Clemson.  But no team we play is like Clemson.
Q. Is there no comparison to Deshaun Watson?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Not really.  I mean, Deshaun Watson is such a special player.  There's not too many guys you can compare that are like him.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Jonah Williams is a professional.  Sometimes you forget he's a freshman by how poised and how calm he is.  I mean, I can't say enough nice words about the guy.  He's such a great player and such a better person off the field.
Q. What sets him apart?  What differentiates him?  What about his game makes him special?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just very balanced.  I mean, it's hard to find weaknesses in him.  He's an overall, well-rounded player.  Along with his poised composure, makes him a pretty good player.
Q. To get back to this game is one of the reasons you came back; is that correct?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, definitely.  I mean, whenever you play football, the goal is to win a championship.  So to have an opportunity to do that is a true blessing and we're going to do everything we can to try to take advantage of that opportunity.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, it will be a great season if we didn't win the game, but it wouldn't be a season I'd be happy about.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just the speed of the game.  The speed in which they play the game is pretty incredible.  So that's something that we've been trying to simulate in practice and be ready for, coming back into this game.
Q. Reuben is talking about your adrenaline.  He talked about when the game starts.
JONATHAN ALLEN: When the game starts, you always want to be aggressive and physical and play with a kind of pissed off mentality.  So that's kind of the attitude that not only me, but this defense has going into every game.
Q. Talk about the process, what it means to you.  Obviously, Coach Saban talks about it.  What's it mean to you?
JONATHAN ALLEN: The process is, I mean, it's what gives us our juice.  I mean, it's all about taking it one day at a time, one step at a time and just focusing on what you control.  By the time you look up, you'll be at the angle that you want.  So it's all about just taking it slow and just doing your job.
Q. Obviously, you've been on amazing teams.  What made this team special?  When did you know that?  Was it like a certain game, it was like we're together, we're family?
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's hard to say when I -- I mean, I always knew all along we could be special.  It just depending if it all came together, you know.  What makes this team so special is how close we are as a unit.  We're very unselfish across the board and we just want what's best for the team.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: To win every game.  To win.  I mean, you play to win.  So, I mean, we don't like to get caught up in emotion.  It's all about doing your job and doing it the right way.  That's what wore focused on.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: That's fine.  If they don't like it, they can stop it.  I mean, we're doing what's best for Alabama.
Q. You guys won the game last year.  They scored a lot of points.  You guys walked away with the trophy.  For the defense, is that something that kind of fired you guys up?  I mean, I know winning is ultimately what matters, but you don't normally see Alabama (no microphone).  Is that a source of motivation?
JONATHAN ALLEN: It definitely was a source of motivation.  Whenever you play bad, it always kind of eats at you.  For it to be the last game, it definitely kind of sticks out with you, reminds me of what could have happened.  So it's definitely a motivating factor for this defense.  We're excited for the opportunity to redeem ourselves.
Q. Is it the same offense?  I know they have some different people.  Obviously the defense does too.  But is their scheme the same?  Do you see a lot of the same things going on in terms of the offense you saw last year?
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's definitely similar, but it's not the same.  There are little tweaks and wrinkles here and there.  So it's definitely not the same offense.
Q. How is your defense?  I mean, I've seen it on the field.  (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I feel like we're faster.  Across the board, we might not be as big across the board as we were last year, but we're definitely faster and able to play from sideline to sideline better.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Last year, I mean, they beat us with speed.  So us being faster, you know, is definitely going to help us be able to run with them in a way, I guess you could say.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's definitely a fair comparison.  But the style of offense they run, I don't feel like is very comparable.  So it's kind of hard to say.
Q. Can you talk about the competition within each other in the defense?  Because I know that's a big motivating thing for you guys.
JONATHAN ALLEN: We always compete with each other, whether it be turnovers, scoring, sacks, tackles, everything.  We compete in everything we do.  It kind of just drives us, pushes us to be better.
Q. Is there anyone specifically that you compete with the most?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Me, I'd probably say the front guys.  You know, Dalvin, Tim and Ryan, we always compete with one another, see who can get more sacks.  So that's kind of what drives us up front.
Q. Minkah told me he used to compete with you the most but he's kind of moved away.  Did you scare him off?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Yeah, you know, me and Minkah used to compete.  He blitzes a lot and at the beginning of the season, I think he had more sacks than me and he would always joke around about it.
So, you know, it's always fun to compete with your teammates.
Q. Tell me impact Coach Saban has had on you (no microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, Coach Saban, I can't say enough nice words about the guy.  I mean, he's a tremendous inspiration.  I don't know.  It's weird.  I mean, I catch myself thinking like him and acting like him in a lot of ways, you know.  So it's one of those things where he just changed how I thought about things, the mentality that I have going into certain situations and everything.
Q. What about the fans?  How much do you credit them with your success and how important is it for you as a motivator?
JONATHAN ALLEN: You've definitely got to give our fans a lot of credit.  I mean, I feel like we have the best fan base in the nation.  So a lot of credit goes out to them and all the support they've been showing us throughout the years.
Q. Do you have special appreciation for the fans who travel?  It gets expensive following the Crimson Tide.
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, of course, I definitely do.  I mean, it's definitely expensive and hard to travel.  But they always make a way.  They deserve a lot of the credit.
Q. At Alabama, how do you handle being the target every single week, whether it's in the SEC or in the playoffs?
JONATHAN ALLEN: We don't even think about it like that.  We like to think of ourselves as the Hunter.  We're the ones that go out and get things done and make things happen.  So we don't even think about it like that.  You just got to have an aggressive mentality and you'll be fine.
Q. Do you find that Clemson, they're going to have that motivation because you guys took their title last year.  Do you have to be aware of that, that they'll have a little extra edge on Monday night?
JONATHAN ALLEN: No.  I mean, we're not really worried about that.  We're worried about what we control.  And we don't try to focus and play on emotion too much.  We try to just do our job and play good, fundamentally sound football.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: They probably are.  I'd probably get annoyed if I wasn't a part of it either.  I mean, I don't blame them.  But, I mean, hey, I mean, we put in the work for it so we deserve it.
Q. Is it easier when it's not like one athlete for ten years.  You guys come in every four years.
JONATHAN ALLEN: Definitely, as long as we have a Coach Saban, Alabama is always going to be in the talk for a national championship.
Q. Specifically among the defense, what has been the key to be as dominating as you guys have?
JONATHAN ALLEN: We just pride ourselves on being able to stop the runners.  It's attitude, it's mentality as a defensive front.
Q. When you take a look at the line, Clemson's a time that they (no microphone).  How does that change what you do as a defensive line?
JONATHAN ALLEN: You got to switch mentalities.  I mean, we love to pass rush so if we get a chance to pass rush, that's always a positive for us.
Q. What are the biggest challenges to try to defend Deshaun?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just doing your job.  I mean, he's such an athletic player.  You have to be very disciplined and not get caught up in trying to make plays but just doing your job.  If we do that, I feel like we'll have the success we need to have.
Q. I know they're fairly motivated to play you guys in a rematch because they lost.  How motivated are you to get another shot at Deshaun?
JONATHAN ALLEN: We're very motivated to play in the national championship game.  As a defense, we're excited to play against Deshaun, give us a chance for a little bit of closure and give us the ability to redeem ourselves from last year's performance.
Q. Are you surprised they got back for a rematch?
JONATHAN ALLEN: No, not at all.
Q. We hear a lot about the process from Coach Saban.  What does that mean?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just taking it day by day, not worrying about what you want but focusing on what you got to do to get what you want.  So we're just taking it slow and just doing what we've got to do.  And control what you can control.
Q. You look at the success he's had over his career in the biggest games, the SEC title game, the national championship games, how much more confidence does that give you, knowing he's still there for you guys?
JONATHAN ALLEN: It gives us a lot of confidence.  At the same time, we've got to go out there and execute.  I mean, the players got to play and the coach as got to coach.  So it's definitely on the players to make the plays that we need to make to win the game.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Yeah, I think so.
Q. Have you played another team that compares to Clemson?
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's kind of hard, you know.  Texas A&M at times, Tennessee at times, but not really.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, man, it would be a dream come true.  So, I mean, it's one of those things you never think about happening.  But if you have an opportunity to do so, it's a true blessing.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: A great sense of accomplishment to look back and say that we've done what no other class has been able to do is an honor within itself.
Q. What are some of the things you remember about facing Clemson last year?  What are the things that stick out in your head?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just their speed, the tempo in which they play the game is definitely one of the things that caught us off guard.  So going back into this game, it's something that we have to put a point of emphasis on and be ready for.
Q. Deshaun's ability to move, do you have to slow it down a bit so that you can break down his game?
JONATHAN ALLEN: We kind of had that mentality last year and it doesn't really work for us.  So we're not really worried about that.  We're just going to go out there and try to do what we do and just have a good game defensively.
Q. What's the impact of having seen Watson last year?  Do you expect to see different things?  (No microphone).  Do you feel like you have a better handle on him?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I definitely feel like we have an opportunity to -- by seeing him last year, we're not going to be caught off guard like we were last year.  We know what to expect coming into this game and we're going to be well prepared for it.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just his accuracy.  I mean, he's such an accurate quarterback, whether it's on the run or in the pocket.  So that's something you definitely have to be aware for and be ready for.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, he's definitely a very accurate quarterback.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: He's definitely developed his game.  Before, he was just a big guy who would eat up blocks, but definitely this year, he can pass rush.  He can do a lot of things for us and definitely gives us a little bit of versatility when we go in our heavier groups.
Q. When you look into the future for this team, do you see a guy that you can see kind of taking on a leadership role?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, definitely.  I mean, Da'Ron is definitely going to have to be a leader for this team next year.  I'm excited, I know he can handle it, and we'll see what he does.
Q. What about from maybe the standpoint -- I know you guys try a stay away from it, but one of the stories is talking about the way that Alabama's confidence has (no microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Not really.  I mean, everybody plays to win the game.  So whenever you go in the national championship that's a good thing.  Not really worried about what's good for college football, but we're just worried about what's good for Alabama.
Q. Last year, some of the underclassmen were talking about how they kind of pulled together, juniors especially, I think, and put away the draft distractions because I know the year before, when y'all plays Ohio State, I guess that was a little bit of an issue.
Did the juniors this year, that are a year under you, did you feel like they've done the same thing?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I definitely feel like they've done the same thing.  I mean, I can't tell the difference in their performance.  So it's definitely been, you know, all mentally locked in and mentally focused so that's definitely a positive going into this game.
Q. Who raised their hand among the juniors last year and said we've got to pull together, focus a little better?
JONATHAN ALLEN: It was kind of everybody.  I mean, we knew that we could have beat Ohio State and we should have, in our opinion, and we didn't.  So it was a group effort to say that something needs to be done.
Q. Supposedly, some of the juniors from last year's team actually kind of made an agreement with each other they weren't going to open their feedback outlook until after the game.  Is that right?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Um-hmm.
Q. Is that the case with you?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Yes.
Q. Jonathan, a rematch, what does that mean to you personally to have another shot?
JONATHAN ALLEN: We're not really worried about the rematch.  We're just worried about winning the national championship.  It's another game on our schedule and I know that sounds kind of boring, but it's the God's honest truth in how we feel.
Q. How do you stop Deshaun Watson?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Everybody has to do their job.  You have to have great tackling, great effort, no mental errors or mental mistakes.  Just play a good, fundamentally sound football game.
Q. How tired are you of answering that question?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Doesn't really bother me.  Doesn't really get to me.
Q. Do you guys have a chip on your shoulder from what they did last year, four touchdowns and a ton of yards against you guys?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, I wouldn't say there's a chip on our shoulder, but it's something that's sitting in the back of our minds and something we think about every now and then.  Helps fuel us and motivates us to be better.
Q. I talked to Wilson a little about the Ball Out Belt, the second year for the belt.  What does that do to motivate you on the sideline?
JONATHAN ALLEN: It definitely motivates us.  You always want to get the Ball Out Belt.  Going into every game, you want to cause as many turnovers as you possibly can.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's always been big for our secondary.  Whenever you can rush just four guys and drop seven, it definitely makes things a lot easier for guys on the back end.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Depends on the game.  Some games it gets pretty wild, and some games it's more conservative.  So it just depends.
Q. What did you do with the championship ring from last year?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Sitting at my house right now.
Q. What are you going to do with the championship ring if you've got two of them?  You can't wear them both at once, right?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I don't know.  I'm going to look at them.
Q. If you could give advice to your high school self, what would you say?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just trust the process.  Keep chopping that wood and there's light at the end of the tunnel.
Q. If you can change one thing about your high school experience, what would you change?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I don't think I would change anything.  I mean, I'm very happy with how everything turned out, to be honest.
Q. At any point, did you have to overcome doubts or uncertainties?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, of course, there's always doubts and uncertainty whatever you do.  We all have to face our own, you know, fears, I guess.  So it's definitely something that I have to overcome.
Q. What would you say was the biggest challenge, making the transition from high school to college?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just thinking if you could play with these guys.  Know you're coming to Alabama, one of the premiere college programs, and just having to understand if you're really up to the challenge.
Q. Was there a bit of intimidation the first time you stepped on campus, the first time you went to practice?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, of course.  There's always a lot of intimidation, especially at a program like this.  But it's just one of those things, you've got to get over that.
Q. Who was the starting left tackle when you joined the program as a freshman?
A. Kouandjio, Cyrus Kouandjio.
Q. And was that a lesson when you first came?  I mean, was he tough to deal with when you were a freshman?
JONATHAN ALLEN: You know, I really didn't get a chance to go up against him too much until towards the end of my freshman year.  But, I mean, he was definitely a beast and had to kind of put things in perspective for me.
Q. Talk about the offensive line of Clemson and what they've been able to do all season long and, obviously, in the trenches is the key.
JONATHAN ALLEN: They've definitely been able to move guys out the trenches and definitely been physical up front, but we pride ourselves to be a physical group.  So we're excited for the opportunity.
Q. Where does this Clemson team rank amongst other teams you've played this year.  This is an SEC caliber team.
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, without a doubt, we feel like it's an SEC caliber team.  You just look at the physicality they play with, it screams SEC football.  So I love it.  We love it.  We're excited for it.
Q. Deshaun Watson, tell us about his ability and the way he can make plays.
JONATHAN ALLEN: He's just always poised.  Never see him get too rattled, always makes a good play for his team.  So it's definitely going to be a challenge.  As a defense, we're excited for the opportunities.
Q. A lot of people were surprised in the spring when A'Shawn and Jarran went there the second round.  Was that something that surprised you as well?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, definitely surprised when I seen that.  I don't see them as second round players.
Q. When you saw that, did it make you maybe feel a little bit better about your decision to stick around for another year?
JONATHAN ALLEN: To be honest, I didn't -- that thought didn't even go through my head, to be honest with you.
Q. You're obviously thrilled with the decision to come back.
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, definitely.  Looking back, this definitely was the right decision and I'm glad I made it.
Q. Was it a hard or an easy decision?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, it was definitely a hard decision, but a decision you have to make.
Q. Who helped you make isn't it?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Family, Coach Saban.  I mean, honestly, everybody.
Q. How exciting is it to have you guys at Clemson again after the war you guys had last year?  Go at it again for the national championship.
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's definitely exciting, but we're not worried about last year's games.  Two different teams, different coaches, different everything.  So we're worried about this game and what these two teams have to do and what this team has to do to be successful.
Q. Is this a one-two matchup?  The best two in college football playing this game?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I believe so.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, definitely.  I mean, I didn't even watch the full game ever since the game last year.  So it's definitely one of those things that kind of sits on you, wears on you.  But it's all within perspective.  I mean, we won the game and that was the end goal.  But it's definitely something you think about from time to time.
Q. Where does the left tackle from Western Kentucky that had such a good year, where does he stack out with the other left tackles you saw this year?
JONATHAN ALLEN: To be honest, he was either one or two.
Q. Really?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Um-hmm.
Q. What made him difficult?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, he was a really balanced player.  He was physical but still had a lot of finesse to him.  So he was definitely well balanced all around left tackle.
Q. Did you see it coming, watching film, that he would be a challenge or did that surprise you on the field?
JONATHAN ALLEN: That surprised me on the field.  I didn't really see it too much on the film.  But to his credit, I mean, he really showed up and played well that game.
Q. Who's another left tackle that you played this year that you thought was very good?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Probably the tackle from Texas A&M.  He's definitely one that I've been battling with him for two or three years now and he's always put up a good fight.
Q. Tennessee?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I can't even pronounce his name.  It's hard.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just very physical, aggressive.  I mean, we dictate the tempo and the action as it happens in the game and I feel like you can see it from the players.
Q. Did you know coming in, did you have a pretty good feel for (no microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: No idea.  I had no idea.  I didn't know what to expect.  I didn't know anything.  But it all turned out well.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just his versatility.  I mean, he can run and throw, do it both accurately.  So it's one of the things you've got to be ready for, prepared for.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: You think about it, but it's two different teams, two different coaching staffs.  We're just focused on what we've got to do.  You think about it, but it's not one of our main areas that we think about.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just make more tackles.  We missed a lot of tackles, had a lot of mental errors.  Those are things we can't have if we want to be successful as a defense.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: It was a little bit of both.  I mean, he's a tremendous athlete so he's going to make those plays.  At the same time, we made a lot of mistakes that gave him a lot of opportunities that he had.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Definitely stretches out the field even more than last year but I feel like we're up to the challenge.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I think so.  Smaller, able to play the field better, faster, more aggressive.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Yeah, I think so.
Q. Jonathan, how much of a motivating factor was last year?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Not really worried about last year, to be honest.  We're focused on this year.  We didn't play as good as we wanted to last year, but two different teams, two different coaching staffs.  We're focused on what we have to do this year.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, not really.  We're just focused on taking advantage of opportunities that we're given.  So you practice it and if it happens, it happens.  If it don't, it don't.
Q. (No microphone).  Is there some good-natured jabbing going on here?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Definitely, always.  But probably more so in the regular season.  Not so much lately because we're just focused on what we've got to do to win this game.
Q. What would it mean to win two national championships?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, man.  It would mean a lot.  It would be a dream come true.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Maybe a couple clips here and there.  But, I mean, last year's over and done with.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just how bad we played on defense.
Q. How surprising is it to see that because of how dominant you've been the last two years?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, it happens.  It was definitely a wake-up call for us and shows we have more work to put in.
Q. (No microphone).  Are you like a big brother to him?  How far has he come the last couple years?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, Da'Shawn's come a long way.  That's my dawg right there, you know.  I'm excited to see what he does.  I'm excited for his future.
Q. How have you kind of brought him along?  You said that you're kind of guiding him the last couple years.
JONATHAN ALLEN: I try to teach him what I know, teach him from experience what I've been through and try to give him tricks and tips here and there.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I feel like Coach Pruitt is a little more aggressive than Coach Kirby.  I feel like you can definitely see that in the way the defense plays.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Yeah.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Not really.  We don't really care, to be honest with you.  It's about what we do, not really about anybody else.  That's kind of what we honestly and truly believe so we're just focused on doing what we can do and controlling what we can control and whatever happens, happens.
Q. Has that been a motivator at all?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Not really.  It doesn't really matter what anybody else outside of this program truly things about what's going to happen Monday night.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I think Jalen did a good job.  He did a really good job.  I mean, obviously, we have the success we have, but it gave us looks.  It gave us looks and it's helped us prepare for it a little better.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: It was definitely the change of pace that Jalen brought.  I mean, we haven't faced a quarterback like him in practice.  So when he came, it definitely switched things up a little bit and got us more mentally and physically prepared for it.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, Dobbs is probably the closest thing I can compare to Watson, but not really.
Q. Monday night's it for your in your career.  How much are you trying to soak up these last couple days?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, I'm definitely trying to soak it up.  It's been a great four years, and it sucks that it has to end so soon, but I'm ready for the next opportunity in my life.
Q. To go out as a senior class that has the most wins ever, how much pride do you and the other seniors take in that?
JONATHAN ALLEN: We take tremendous pride in that.  But at the same time, we're focused on one game at a time, and this is the next and last game on our schedule.  So this is the game we're all focused and all in for.
Q. Jonathan, any emotions, two days in advance of this game on Monday night?  How do you keep the energy pent up so you're at your best on Monday night?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, we're excited.  But at the same time, you've got to put things in perspective and realize that it's just another game on the schedule.  And we're going to try to make this as normal as possible and prepare the same way we would any other game.
Q. Talked about Deshaun Watson.  Everybody is focused on him to be one of the real keys for Alabama is going to get control of the Clemson running game.  This offensive line is huge up front.  How do you guys combat that?
JONATHAN ALLEN: To do what we've been doing all year, being physical at the point of attack, holding the line of scrimmage and letting our line backers go over top.
Q. They've done that better than anybody in the country, number one in run defense, number one in scoring defense, and trying to seal the deal on Monday night.  Good luck to you and the Tide, Jonathan.
JONATHAN ALLEN: Thank you, appreciate it.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: We really weren't worried about anything else other than the next play.  In that situation, that's all you can think about.  Just focus on the next play and what you know.  Whatever happens, happens.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just his versatility.  Like you said, to play all the positions and play them all well is very rare in a guy who's a sophomore.  So for him to do that, you've got to give credit to him.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Tried to block, but I wasn't fast enough so I kind of just watched him from the back as he ran for a touchdown.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just the opportunity to do all the things that not too many people say they can do or have done.  So I don't know what to think right now.  I'm kind of just trying to take it all in.
Q. Coming back the senior year, what are some of the advantages to prepare you for the process that's going to come (no microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just taking it day by day, to be honest with you.  Taking it one day at a time and just making things as normal as possible.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, I mean, it definitely is, but I've been grinding since I got here at Alabama.  So it's definitely going to be a challenge and hard, but I'm up to the task.
Q. Have you thought of being the number one pick in the draft?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Not really.  I don't really focus on that.  I focus on what I've got to do if I want to be that number one pick and that's playing good, fundamentally sound football right now.
Q. It's your last game in a Alabama uniform.  Have you thought about that at all, or is it more focusing --
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just focusing on one at a time.  I'll probably think about it afterwards.  But as of right new, I've got so much to worry about and go on and think about and prepare for, I don't have time to think about anything else.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: We feel like it's going to help us a lot.  It's up to us to actually go out there and do it.  We're excited for the opportunity and we'll see.
Q. Do you let yourself think about the draft order to see who's going to be -- you know you're going to be high.  Who is going to be the team to get you?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Not really.  There's so much uncertainty about what can happen.  I don't even pay attention to it.  I just focus on what I can control.
Q. Did you guys come into this game with any sort of chip on your shoulder from last year's game?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Not really.  Last year's game is over and done with.  We won the game and honestly, it's not going to do anything for this game here so we're just focused on controlling what we can control and playing the best football and playing the best defense we possibly can.
Q. How important is your defensive line getting pressure on Deshaun Watson?
JONATHAN ALLEN: We feel like it's always a point of emphasis going into any game, especially with a guy like Deshaun Watson across from you.  So going into this game, we're definitely going to try to put the most pressure on him that we possibly can.
Q. Jonathan, right now, Alabama is the gold standard in college football.  This is the expectation, to be here.  Is that why you came to Alabama?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Of course.  I came to Alabama to be a part of greatness and win national championships.
Q. When you watched the Ohio State/Clemson film and you look at the Clemson offensive line, anything they do differently than anybody else you've seen?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just a bully mentality.  Real physical at the point of attack.  But as a defensive player, we love that opportunity and we're going to be ready for it.
Q. You're going to be chasing 4 a whole long night.  When you get there, it's going to be happy?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, of course.  It's always fun to got a little pass rush in.
Q. What's going through your mind right now for Monday night?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Excited.  Can't wait for it to come.
Q. Good luck.  Thanks.
JONATHAN ALLEN: Thank you.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Don't really think about that too much.  Just focus, like I've been saying, on what I control and that's just playing good technique, having a good week of practice, just getting ready for this game like any other game.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I'll definitely do that.  But at the same time, it's two different teams so it's hard to go back and compare this game to, you know, the last game.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I'm a real laid back guy.  I'm a real laid back guy and just chill.  Don't do too much.  Just like to hang out.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I don't know.  That's a good question.  I can go on days and days about that.  But I don't know.  I don't know.  Kind of put me on the spot here.  I wasn't ready to answer that.
Q. I know you've been asked a lot about Deshaun.  How much do you remember last year's game and do you see much of it still now?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just how poised he was.  That was the biggest thing I took from last year's game.  I mean, he was just a tremendous athlete, you know, and kind of took me by surprise how accurate he was.  We knew he could throw the ball on the run.  But the level which he did it was pretty impressive so that's something we've got to be ready for going back into this game.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, without a doubt, yes.
Q. After the game, you guys were celebrating a national title, the defense, probably the nation's best.  Was there still a part of you that were motivated all season long from that game?
JONATHAN ALLEN: We're definitely, you know, pissed off a little bit about it.  But you got to take things in perspective.  We just won the national championship.  So, I mean, it was tough, but not too tough.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, yeah.
Q. Can you share?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, you got to prepare every game.  It doesn't matter how good you think you are.  If you don't prepare like you should or you need to, anybody can move the ball on you.  So that's kind of the biggest thing I learned and the defense has learned coming back into this season.
Q. Changing gears, we all talk about the process.  To you, what is the process?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just taking it day by day, focusing on what you can control.  Just keep chopping the wood and keep your nose down, just keep working.
Q. (No microphone).  If he could bottle that process up and sell it, how much do you think he would make?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, I mean, priceless, because it will give you anything you ever wanted if you just realize the process and understand it and know how to work it.
Q. Not just in fool?
JONATHAN ALLEN: In life.
Q. Biggest difference I've seen from this year's defense and last year's defense is the speed.  You guys are incredibly fast.  Talk to me about how you got faster, how you got quicker on defense over the year.
JONATHAN ALLEN: A lot of guys took it upon themselves to try to lose a little bit of weight, focus on things.  Just, like I said, just losing weight so you can play your position faster.
Q. Is this also something new with your defensive coordinator?  You changed coordinators.  Was there a different emphasis on that during the year?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, definitely, without a doubt.  He came in and recognized a problem that we could possibly face later on down the road and he tried to address it quickly.  It worked out for us.
Q. Talk about your pass rush.  The pass rush seems incredible this year.  Some of the best quarterbacks in the nation (no microphone).  Is this defense more blitz oriented or just you guys putting more pressure because of your quickness?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I feel like it's a little bit of both.  Compared to last year and this year, our pass rush skills have improved tremendously, and you got to give a lot of credit to Coach Pruitt.
Q. Jonathan, what do you remember about Jalen as your scout team quarterback last year?
JONATHAN ALLEN: It was different.  I wasn't expecting that.  I didn't know we had a midyear transfer coming in.  Just how calm he was and how poised.
Q. Is it possible to truly recreate number 4 in that orange jersey?  How close have you come?
JONATHAN ALLEN: He came pretty close.  You can't recreate Deshaun Watson.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Hey, man, it happens.  It's football.
Q. We hear so much today about the process.  Can you give me a dictionary definition of the process?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just focusing on what you can control and taking it day by day.
Q. Is that something you that you immediately buy into day one or does it take a little while to understand that, hey, this is happening?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Just depends.  It takes some people a lot longer to buy in.  Some people buy in from day one.  So just kind of depends.
Q. How easy is it to recognize when one of your teammates is not buying in?
JONATHAN ALLEN: You can kind of tell, especially if you've been here for more than a year so you can kind of understand when someone's not truly bought in or halfway bought in.  And, I mean, it's up to that person if they want to do it or not.
Q. On every team, different coaches have different sayings.  Some of them a little odd.  Are there any odd ones that stick out to you on this team that the coaches have?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Honestly, no.  We don't have any quirky or crazy sayings that we like to say.  Just trust the process, do your job, dominate your box, stuff like that.
Q. When you were a younger guy, was there a senior that told you something that stuck with you this whole time throughout your time in Alabama?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, man.  I mean, just the advice I got from so many seniors is kind of what stuck with me, A.J. McCarron, Pagan, Ed Stinson.  They all kind of preach the same thing and just trust in the process.
Q. Is there anything you've said to the younger guys at this time?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I haven't talked to them too much about next year yet.  When I do, it's definitely going to be a lot of the same things that I'm talking to you guys about.
Q. Jonathan, this may be one of the stranger questions you get, but I know you guys have watched Clemson on tape a lot.  There was a certain play during the Ohio State game last week that got a lot of play on social media where Christian Wilkins, one of their defensive players, maybe used his hands to -- people thought it was maybe inappropriately touching an Ohio State player during the game.  Your reaction to that?  Have you seen that film and your thoughts on it.
JONATHAN ALLEN: I said it's very odd.  It's weird.  I mean, that's not part of football in my opinion.  But, I mean, whatever they like to do.  It is whatever.
Q. There are some nasty things that probably happen on the bottom of the pile that you could speak to, right?  What's that like, being in a pileup like that and what kind of things can go on?
JONATHAN ALLEN: When you're in the bottom of a pile, everything's fair game.  There's no rules.  I mean, hey, it's football.
Q. That may be crossing the line.
JONATHAN ALLEN: Yeah, I mean, personally, as a man, that's not something I would do.  But, hey, to each their own, I guess.  I don't know.
Q. What would you do if they did that to you?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Well, I'd probably get a flag on that play.  I'm definitely not down with that.
Q. Is that going too far?  You talk about having fun.
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, yeah.  I mean, like I said, that's not something you do in football, in my opinion.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: To each their own.  If they want to talk about it, that's good.  I hope they're ready to play Monday, because we will be.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's definitely something I like to do just to get away from football and just relax and focus on my friends.  But, you know, it's something I like to do outside of football.
Q. Jonathan, a lot's been said this week about motivation.  People have assumed that Clemson's highly motivated because they fell short last year.  How do you guy, as a defense, stay -- what's your motivation every game when you go in?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Our motivation is going in there and suffocate the offense and dominate, make them quit.  Make them not want to play us anymore.  It doesn't matter who we're playing.
Q. Are you just as hungry this time going into this game as you were last year, or hungrier?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I'd probably say even more hungrier.
Q. Why is that?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, it's a lot easier to win a national championship than it is to repeat as a national champion.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: The things we've been seeing all year.  He's a very poised guy, doesn't let too many thing get to him, and he's handled the change well.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: Oh, yeah, without a doubt.  He'll be at his best come Monday.
Q. (No microphone).
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, people got to realize he's only an 18-year-old freshman, probably in the biggest role that anybody could ever be put in under Nick Saban.  So, I mean, he's always under a lot of scrutiny and a lot of challenges.  I think he's handled it perfectly and really well.
Q. Jonathan, if you were building a highlight reel of this year's defense, what would be the first play?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I'd probably say Reuben's hit against USC.
Q. Tim said your superman stand.  Where would you put that?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I'd probably put that up there somewhere, but you've definitely got to go with some intimidation factor right off the jump and it definitely doesn't get more intimidating than Reuben.
Q. You guys brought up USC.  That's a team that has changed quite a bit since you guys played the first game of the season.  There's been talk of how they finished the season and how hot they were under Sam Darnold, 'Bama didn't get the real USC when that matchup happened in early September.  Would you like to take a shot at them again with Sam Darnold at quarterback?
JONATHAN ALLEN: I mean, if it was on the schedule, I would definitely be up for the challenge.  We don't feel we were nowhere near as good as we are now, then as we are now.
So, I mean, it's September.  The team is still changing and growing.  That game's over and done with.
Q. Jonathan, as media, we ask a lot of times to talk about what we want to talk about.  What do you want to talk about?
JONATHAN ALLEN: What do I want to talk about?
Q. Yeah, anything.
JONATHAN ALLEN: The game.  I mean, I'm ready to play the game, to be honest with you.
Q. When you think about the decision O.J. Howard made last year to pass the NFL and stay for his senior year, what goes through your mind since you're also a senior now?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Definitely a hard decision.  It's one of the things you got to do.  Of course, they provide you with all the information you need to make an accurate and well informed decision.
Q. What goes into that decision?
JONATHAN ALLEN: Draft stock.  I mean, there's so much, I could be here days talking about it.
Q. We don't have that much time.
JONATHAN ALLEN: No worries.
Q. You think about how much O.J. has done this year.  He's a patient person.  Maybe not getting all the receptions, but blocking.  What does it say about him that he did come back and is still being patient.
JONATHAN ALLEN: He's a very unselfish player.  That would definitely be a hard -- that's hard to ask anybody to do, but O.J.'s done it with open arms and he's such a team player.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT