SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: FLORIDA VS ALABAMA
November 28, 2016
Jonathan Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Next up is Alabama's Jonathan Allen.  Before we take questions, Jonathan, can you give us your general thoughts on the Alabama team as you enter Saturday's game.   
JONATHAN ALLEN: Yeah, I feel like we're in a good position.  (Indiscernible).   
 Q.  John, thanks for coming on.  What has been the biggest benefit of you coming back to this season?  Where have you benefited most there?  
JONATHAN ALLEN: I'd say personally for me it's just showing that I can be an every down player.  (Indiscernible).  Being able to play the run.  That's probably the biggest difference.   
 Q.  What kind of just drives you?  What's your main motivation?  
JONATHAN ALLEN: It's just always.  (Indiscernible).  As opposed to looking at what I do right, I kind of focus at what I do wrong.  (Indiscernible).   
 Q.  Jonathan, this year's defense is again being talked about as maybe among the best in Alabama history.  Is that something that you guys feel like you're kind of competing against with some of the other great defenses in this program's history?  And what type of -- like leaving a legacy, what does that mean to you?  
JONATHAN ALLEN: Personally, we really don't focus on that, to be honest with you.  I know it sounds a little boring.  We just try to go with the mindset of control what we can control.  Throughout the whole week of practice, we try to eliminate the distractions and just go out there and play good football Monday through Thursday because we feel that's what makes us play good on Saturday.   
When we go out there Saturday, we just try to dominate.  Just do your job and just dominate the opposing offense.  That's the legacy.  That's all we can focus on because we feel our legacy is dependent on how we finish the season.  That's kind of what we're focused on right now, just finishing the season the right way.   
 Q.  And just as a follow-up, how do you think this defense compares to the one that you were on last year?  
JONATHAN ALLEN: I feel like we do a lot of things better.  We probably don't do some things as well, but it's so hard to compare.  We have different players, different coaches.  But this is definitely a special unit and probably one of my favorite defenses I've ever been a part of.   
 Q.  Jonathan, what has Jeremy meant to you in this one year that you've had a chance to work with him?  
JONATHAN ALLEN: Man, Coach Pruitt has meant a lot to me.  He's a guy I knew before he came back.  I mean, there was no dropoff between him and Coach Kirby.  He's done a heck of a job of rallying behind us and supporting us, and we're all behind him 100 percent.   
 Q.  You actually led into my next question.  When Kirby left and you guys found out that Jeremy was going to come back, what was the reaction of you guys given his history with the program?  
JONATHAN ALLEN: Excited.  Whenever you have a guy who's been here, they know how things run.  They know the expectations and standards that our defenses in the past have played within.  We knew there was going to be no dropoff when he came in.   
 Q.  Is there an offense that you've matched up against this season during the regular season that you think kind of compares similarly to the Florida one?  
JONATHAN ALLEN: I hate to say it, but I really couldn't answer that question wholeheartedly.  I haven't done the preparation at this moment in time that I needed to to answer that question properly.  We're going to break down film today, and we're really going to start on it today, but before this, I've been focusing on Auburn and teams in the past.  So I can't really say until I've watched a good bit of film on Florida.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT