WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2016
Kiradech Aphibarnat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You have been from Malaysia to Miami, back to Thailand, up to Bay Hill and now here for the.  Obviously this travel hasn't worn you out.  Good playing?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, it's been the best on the first two holes, 2-down after two.  And then strong comeback.  But you know this golf course is very tough.  Even par, you can't win the hole.  Just constantly patient with the game.
Q. You got married as well.  You are really content where everything is at in your world?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Yeah, it is.  After I get married, I didn't (inaudible).  I fly over and play, keep working, just try to do my best golf.  (Inaudible) then we can set up for a long time.
Q. What went right for you in terms of good shots and things like that?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Well, we both played really good golf today, because the wind on the golf course is so tough.  Sometimes we have to play the cut.  It's quite tough, but at the end who can keep the score.  You can't hold the wind at this course.
Q. You play Dustin Johnson tomorrow.  Have you played with him before?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: No.  I've watched him play a lot.  He's one of the best golfers in the world.  I have nothing to lose, coming from a little small country in Asia.  I win the first match in the World Golf Championship match play, I think it's a good way to start.  I just play my own game.
Q. Is it a fun format, knowing that you have three matches to play against -- you are one of the top players in the world, tomorrow you have got the No. 9 player in world.  Match play you never really know?
KIRADECH APHIBARNRAT: Match play anything can happen, especially this golf course.  You have to stay patient.  Even you hit a good shot on the first drive, it doesn't mean you are going to win.  They can bounce any way.
As an example, the last hole on 17, I hit a good shot from the tee off, but it bounced on the green and I had a chance to make par to win the match.
I look forward to playing with Justin.  It's going to be a good match.  I'm not a really long hitter in Asia, but I believe Justin will fly it miles.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT