WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 3, 2006
Hua Wei Lin
En Yu Lin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  You guys lost this game today and certainly placed an added emphasis on the rest of your games this weekend, talk about how this loss affects your team and the pressure that you guys have now heading into the games against Japan and China after losing to Korea today? 
 HUA-WEI LIN:  Well, we lost today.  Well, the influence of that, we can't lose another game to survive to the second round.  Tomorrow we are playing against Japan.  It will be a very difficult game for us.  But we have to challenge it and lead to the result that we want. 
 Q.  The question to the pitcher, Mr. Lin, were you worried about the pitching regulation, and did that new rule affect your pitching? 
 EN-YU LIN:  Well, I didn't think too much about the pitching regulation.  Well, the fourth inning was a very important inning for us and I was trying not to lose any points there. 
 Q.  How confident were you as the ninth inning kind of developed, the bottom of the ninth? 
 EN-YU LIN:  Well, we had runners when there were still no outs and I was hoping for some points.  I was very confident. 
 With the bonus round, you never know what can happen, and that's the result we had.  We did our best, I did my best, and we had a tough opponent.  Our opponent was very tough, very strong.  This is why we have this kind of result. 
 Q.  I think your pitchers did very well today, but as for your batters, you didn't have as many hits as you would wish to have.  Is that because Korean Major League pitchers were so good and did you have any strategize towards those Major League pitchers? 
 HUA-WEI LIN:  Well, we didn't have too many hits today, did we?  However, we did have chances to score.  We went as far as second base, and that was a big chance for us to score. 
 Yes, Major League pitchers, they are very good pitchers, high-level pitchers.  If we can somehow hit them, well, that's the challenge that's yet to be overcome. 
 Q.  What's your impressions towards the batting order of the Korean team, and could you comment on your own pitching that you have shown us today? 
 EN-YU LIN:  Well, today I thought that my opponents were so strong and I did my best.  I was very capable about the ball control because I know I couldn't pitch up; that would lead to long hits.  I always had that in my mind and they were very tough batters to face. 
 Q.  You reached your 65-pitch limit today, and that, as I understand the rules, means that you're not going to be able to pitch again this weekend, and depending on how things go this weekend, you won't be able to pitch again in the WBC, what are your feelings on the other side of that, and how are you going to help out your team over the next couple of days as they face these tough couple of games without actually being able to play? 
 EN-YU LIN:  Yes, in order for us to survive to go to the USA, we really want to do that, but I can't pitch for the next two games.  We never know who has the chance to go there.  But I still think our team has a chance. 
 Q.  If you feel you cannot lose tomorrow, are you going to use all of the pitchers you have tomorrow, and do you have any starting pitcher decided for tomorrow in please comment on that. 
 HUA-WEI LIN:  I know that Japan's offensive abilities are very high.  It's hard to keep them to know score.  So we have to give them all that we've got. 
 As for the starting pitcher tomorrow, I know I have a deadline to announce the starting pitcher.  I would like to announce it before the deadline. 
 Q.  Other than the starting pitcher today, what's your comment on the other pitchers today, as for the pitchers of your team today? 
 HUA-WEI LIN:  Ying-Chieh Lin, well, he could have had better ball control when he was at his best.  And we had third and fourth pitchers, the fourth pitcher, Po-Hsuan Keng, I think he did pretty good.  Well, I guess we had a good pitching performance at the end of the game. 
 Q.  When your starter was approaching 65 pitches, did you think about taking him out, thinking that he would be distracted by the pitch limit? 
 HUA-WEI LIN:  I know there's a pitching limit of 65 balls.  I always had that in my mind.  I didn't think about any bad influence by throwing 65 balls.  What I had in mind was that I should prepare the next pitcher.  A 65-ball regulation will influence our pitching staff, yes, of course it does.  But this rule applies for everybody, so it's there.  So I don't see any big problem about the fact that we have to use many pitchers. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT