SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: FLORIDA VS ALABAMA
December 19, 2020
Najee Harris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Alabama 52, Florida 46
 THE MODERATOR:   We are joined by Najee Harris.  We'll take questions.
 Q. Najee, you're the all-time leading rusher at Alabama.  What does that mean to you?
 NAJEE HARRIS:   I mean, it's an honor to be in that position.  But I can't thank the line enough for really making this happen for me.  I know my name is going to be on there.  But just for the O-line to come and make those holes, really I feel like they should be on the all-time leading rusher, somewhere up there, too.
 Q. Do you think you made a statement tonight that maybe you should deserve to be in the Heisman conversation?
 NAJEE HARRIS:   I ain't worried about that.  I feel like the two guys we got up there right now is good enough.
 Q. Your coaches always told me you were a great receiver.  Now you hold the single season record for runningbacks.  Is that one of the reasons you came back to show everybody you can catch the ball?
 NAJEE HARRIS:   No, man.  What?  I've been catching the ball since birth.  What are you talking about, man?  People don't expect it because of the runningback name.  The slogan is, Can he catch?  I've been catching the ball since I was in the fetus position.  C'mon now (laughter).
 Q. You have a lot of confidence in your receiving skills.  Have you ever sort of went to Sark and said, Throw me the ball?  Or he just saw your skills...
 NAJEE HARRIS:   Pass me the ball?  No.  We always had amazing receivers.  Look at who we got now.  No point in saying, Throw me the ball.  We have all these weapons on the edge.  When my position is called, being a passing play or position, I try to make the most of it.  I guess that showed up tonight.
 Q. Obviously this year is a little different than others.  To be wearing the hat has to be awesome.  But going through everything you've been through this year, how awesome is it to be wearing 'SEC Champs' on your hat?
 NAJEE HARRIS:   Like you said, a lot of stuff happened this year with the COVID, of course, all the injustice stuff.  A lot of distractions out there, a lot of stuff going on we should take seriously.
 Just to have these hats on, it's an honor.  At first we didn't know if we were going to play or not.  Just, like I said, to have these hats is an honor.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT