SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2010
Amanda Butler
Steffi Sorensen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Florida. Coach, if you could make an opening comment and then we'll take questions. 
 COACH BUTLER: We have to congratulate Auburn on a fantastic performance. They did a great job from the beginning of the game. I felt like they were more physical than us, dominated some statistical categories, rebounding, had some outstanding individual categories. Alli Smalley, Jordan Greenleaf, and Blanche Alverson all did a tremendous job. It's obviously a very disappointing loss for us, disappointing exit from the tournament. 
 We had much higher hopes than the way we performed today. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Coach, it seems like you did what you wanted with KeKe, getting her into foul trouble. How did Auburn adjust to her being out?
 COACH BUTLER: The guards did a great job of stepping up. Alli shot the ball really, really well. Blanche seemed to have such timely shots as well. It's just disappointing because they really only have two true shooters, and those guys got shots off. 
 We did do a good job of really going at KeKe, trying to neutralize her size. It was great to have Azania back on the floor again. We had too many turnovers in the first half, empty possessions, poor decisions in the second half, didn't play with enough toughness and fight. Auburn's never wavered. 

 Q. Auburn had a three-pointer every time your team tried to make a run. You had it close to four points. 
 COACH BUTLER: It did. It seemed like they had a lot of them, which is an indicator of us not doing our job on defense. Alli and Blanche didn't do things that we didn't expect for them to do. They did a great job of hitting open shots. 
 We didn't do a good job of getting out to them and making them adjust to our defense. They were open, and great shooters knock down open looks when they're not guarded. 

 Q. Question for Steffi. What did Alli do differently on defense in the second half? 
 STEFFI SORENSEN: Obviously she switched screens. I believe they played a post number four. I think. They put it on me. I just didn't -- I wasn't as aggressive. You know, I came out and I shot pretty well in the first half. I mean, I was looking for my shot. Just kind of covered it up. Looked inside. Either took a bad shot or we turned it over or forced something up. 
 Offensively the second half we didn't execute like we needed to. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT