SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2017
Amanda Butler
Ronni Williams
Delicia Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Texas A&M - 67, Florida - 48   
THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome Florida.   
Coach, if you would start out with an opening statement.   
COACH BUTLER: Obviously we're very disappointed with the outcome.  Have to give Texas A&M a lot of credit for the way they adjusted to the things we were doing defensively in the first half.   
But we were trying our best to make the day about us.  Things didn't go the way exactly we thought they would.  But I'm really proud of our team's fight.  All the different ways they fought all season long, the way that Ronni led and the way Ronni fought till the very end I think is a great example to all of our younger players and all the ones that get the privilege of wearing a Gator uniform next season.   
Our record did not demonstrate the success we experienced this season.  In a way, that's hard to know unless you were in our locker room.  But I'm very proud of them.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.   
 Q.  Ronni, I don't want to ask this question, but can you reflect on your amazing career, everything you've done for this program.  
RONNI WILLIAMS: I've been blessed to work with this great group of girls, this great group of coaches.  I've been nothing but blessed.  I've been blessed for the opportunity and blessed to be here.  I wouldn't change anything.   
 Q.  Delicia, I know how much you look up to Ronni.  What did you learn from her this year and everything she's meant to you specifically?  
DELICIA WASHINGTON: Look up to Ronni Williams a lot.  I'm going to miss her.  I wouldn't be the person I am now without Ronni.  She's my sister.  She always have a place in my heart.  There is nobody that will ever take her spot.  Ronni is that teammate I always wanted to play with no matter what, no matter that she's not here anymore.  I'll still look up to her.   
RONNI WILLIAMS: I love you.   
DELICIA WASHINGTON: I love you, too.   
THE MODERATOR: Ladies, you can go back to the locker room.   
Questions for coach.   
 Q.  Coach, the team was great in the second quarter.  Talk about what Texas A&M did or Florida wasn't able to do in that third quarter.  
COACH BUTLER: Well, we played great defense.  We got a lot of energy from our defense.  Did a better job of rebounding and pursuing the basketball.  Didn't do a great job of that in the first quarter.  Evened it out in the second quarter.  That battle was pretty much even through the rest of the game.   
Hillsman is a great talent in this league.  She's a difficult matchup, in particular when you have shooters like Williams and Cooper.  You have to give them credit for making plays.   
We tried a lot of different ways to try to guard them.  They made the plays that made the difference.   
 Q.  Ronni, what does Hillsman do that makes it so difficult inside?  
RONNI WILLIAMS: She's a big player.  She's a big post player.  So we just, you know, messed up a couple times with what we were supposed to do as a team.   
But next year we'll be better at it.  I believe in 'em.  I have faith in 'em.  We'll have something for that next year.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT