FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 8, 2001
Brent Schwarzrock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRENT SCHWARZROCK:   To start with, I just hit my driver consistently.  Pretty, I guess, above average than I normally do. I hit a lot of fairways.  I had a lot of good yardages to the pin, and my caddy was seeing putts that I wasn't seeing, and I just went with him a couple times early yesterday and just kept letting him read them for me.  Just made some putts and just kept the ball kind of under control.  Didn't hit anything  -- the last shot I hit today, I tried to hit a low 6-iron.  I kind of came out of that, but other than that, I hit it pretty solid.  Just basically hitting everything good. 

BRENT SCHWARZROCK:   14, I hit a good 4-iron there.  I don't remember what the yardage was, but I hit it about six feet and had a fast right-to-left putt,  or little putt, and made it. The next hole, I hit a 3-wood.  I pulled it a little bit in the rough.  It was one of the fairways I missed and got a little break.  I had 103 there and hit it about, I don't know, six feet.  And that was a dead straight putt and went right up the middle and made that one.  I got up-and-down on 12.  I kind of missed the green long and hit a chip about a foot.  The next hole, I kind of spun it off the green.  I was on the apron there.  I just putted up the hill and hit that one about a foot.  I made a good putt.  I hit a bad 4-wood on 15  -- or, no, 16, the par  5.  I hit a real good drive up the hill, and I don't know what happened.  I lost my grip a little bit and I hit it fast, and I kind of skied it right into the trap and made a good putt for par from, I guess, about eight feet to keep me going a little bit.  Then 1, I hit a good pitching wedge about  -- a tap-in.  I hit it six inches from the hole.  I got up-and-down on 3 from the left, up top on the cart path.  I pulled it trying to cut it around that pine tree there in the middle of the fairway, and I just didn't cut it.  I had a good up-and-down there.  I had to lob it down over the little swale there and left it about ten, 12 feet and made that one, too.  I 3-putted the next hole from ten feet, straight down the hill.  I hit it a little too firm, and that was one of the putts that kind of jumped left when I hit it, like the last putt I hit today, No.  9, my last hole.   Then the next hole, I made a good birdie there.  I hit a driver, kind of right  -- you have to keep that drive left, and I had to kind of punch a 3-iron underneath the tree there that hangs over, and I hit it left and it bounced right and rolled up on the front edge.  I almost made that putt.  I left it short, right in the middle.  I made a good birdie there.   The next hole, I thought I made that putt.  That thing looked good for a long time.  It just didn't go in.  Then the putt on 6 was, I don't know, 25 feet.  7, I made a good double-breaking putt, for birdie.  Broke right, came back left.  I guess I was about 20 feet.  8, I hit a good shot in there.  I got it about 20 feet and just rimmed the edge on that one.  Then I made a bad putt on 9.  It was about five feet.  That was my lost my last hole here.  About five feet.  I just pulled it. 


Q.  Being able to back what you did at the Kemper two weeks ago with your first two days here, how much of that is confidence-wise, does it change your mindset going into tomorrow?

BRENT SCHWARZROCK:   Yeah, that helps, obviously.  Hanging around that week, it was a long week.  Similar conditions, you know.  Sloppy the first day, at least.  And it does, it helped a lot of things, my patience, just hanging around and not getting ahead of myself and just staying patient.  That's all I've done here.  I mean, I just, you know, one shot at a time, fairway, green, if I get a good look at the putt, try to make it, if not, roll it up there. 


Q.  Kemper was your best finish of the year, and now you have followed that up with this.  Did you do something different?  You've been working on things to change a particular part of your game? 

BRENT SCHWARZROCK:   No.  Not really.  You know, I work with a couple guys at Sea Island where I live, Mike Taylor and Jack Lumpkin.  Mike sat with me out on the range for a couple hours before I went to Kemper and my dad and Henry, my caddy.  Really, I've just worked on my short game.  So if I to say one thing that's better, it's my short game.  They showed me some shots they thought I might need to know or try, and it's helped. 


Q.  Considering how this tournament traditionally has low scores to try and win, how good is it to stay in this position, considering what Bob Estes has started off with?

BRENT SCHWARZROCK:   I was telling the guys earlier that, you know, he's obviously in a groove, playing good. What is he, 15 (-under)?  Yeah, he's pretty strong.  What did he shoot today? 


Q.  66. 

BRENT SCHWARZROCK:   Did he?  I just told the other guys to let him do his thing, and hopefully me and a couple other guys do our thing and will be around on Sunday afternoon the last nine holes or so.  It's hard to come back after a low  -- real low round like he shot yesterday, which is  -- obviously, he must be hitting real good, putting good and everything to come back with that score today.  That's great. 


Q.  I would guess you haven't been in a position similar to that, with your best finish coming two weeks ago.  Now, all of the sudden, you're playing late tomorrow.  Sunday, you've got a chance here.  Even though the number is 15, you're still in contention and got a shot to win this.  Does that change in any way, the way you will play the weekend? 

BRENT SCHWARZROCK:   No.  I'll just kind of take what it gives me, you know, the par 5's.  I sort of have a feel of where to be defensive and where to be aggressive out there.  There's a few holes you've got to kind of back up a little and say, you know, got to hit it over here.  But the par 5's on the front, you can get home there.  The one on the back, you can also reach  -- I can reach.  Just, like I said, it depends on how everything is going, how you are feeling, depending on how aggressive, or sort of your mentality for the day.  If you start off and hit a 3-iron a foot, you're like:  "Wow, I'm going to strain this 6-iron, too," instead of playing 20 feet or ten feet right or left.


Q.  Have you ever been this high on a leaderboard going into Saturday?

BRENT SCHWARZROCK:   No.  Well, Friday  -- I was leading in L.A. earlier in the year.  I didn't play very good Friday.  So just one day.  Now I've got two days.


Q.  On the Money List, 123, I think it says, that's right around keeping your card, not keeping your card.  How big is it  -- obviously, it's always good to get a nice paycheck, but is that something that you really have to stress this weekend?

BRENT SCHWARZROCK:   Not really.  I've got 19 more tournaments.  Obviously, you'd like to  -- you know, I had a good week Kemper two weeks ago.  You know, I'd sure like to follow it up with another good week, but I don't  -- that's one thing I've sort of learned is you just don't press.  That's when things  -- I feel good about, at this point in time in the year.  Last year, I was just kind of learning how everything works, and I played good the last, I don't know, four or five events, and I think I only made like 100,000 or something.  Now, this year, I've played ten and made 200,000 almost.  I feel like it's easier for me to kind of just go out and say, I've got  -- kind of halfway already and I've got 20 tournaments left.  So it definitely helps. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT