PAC-12 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2017
Kelly Graves
Sabrina Ionescu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Coach, an opening statement, and then we'll take questions.   
KELLY GRAVES: Well, first of all, I want to congratulate Adia and her staff and team on a really good season.  I think Adia, she did an awesome job with that group.  Obviously gave us everything we could handle tonight.   
But I think on the whole, it's a program that is going to go places.  So I congratulate them, but really proud of our team tonight.  I thought our players showed a lot of poise.  We've struggled offensively the last couple of weeks, and tonight struggling again.  But middle of that second half and through the middle of the third quarter and through the fourth quarter I just thought offensively we were really good.  The kids executed and we made the plays that we needed to down the stretch at both ends of the floor.  These two in particular did an awesome job.   
I mean, freshmen for us scored 61 of our 70 points, and that's incredible in any setting, let alone this setting on this stage.  So, anyway, really proud of the team.   
 Q.  Sabrina, you guys were down 7 middle of the third quarter.  It kind of had that feel of recent Oregon tournament games.  Obviously, you didn't know about those.  But what was it that calmed you guys down and got you to play your best ball down the stretch and pull it out?  
SABRINA IONESCU: We just had to stay together and keep fighting.  While doing that, we knew that we'd get on a run and we'd get going.  So I think that's what we did.  We just stayed together.  We pressured them, and we slowed it down offensively and got it into Ruthy.  She was a beast down there, and I think that helped us in the long run.   
 Q.  Kelly, just wanted to ask, obviously you haven't been here since 2008, but to get the program's first win since 2008 in the Pac-12 Tournament, what's that do for you guys?  
KELLY GRAVES: Well, it's a big win.  Have you guys ever lost here?   
SABRINA IONESCU: No.   
KELLY GRAVES: So I think for most of the team this is a new experience, anyway, which I think is all the more remarkable that they played so well under pressure and down the stretch.  Yeah, I mean we needed this just for our own psyches.  The last couple weeks struggled a little bit.  And this was a really big win, and the way we did it will help. (Audio interruption) she's not the tallest kid, she's not the quickest kid, she's not the most athletic, she just knows how to play and she competes.  You've got to do it by committee, and they have a lot of other really good ones.   
But, you know, I just think right now we're running on a little -- we'll run on adrenaline until we get things rolling.  But at this point we'll have a game plan for them.  But the reality is you've just got to Lace them up and be ballers, right?  That's what we always talk about.  Just got to be ballers and just play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT