TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2008
Carlos Franco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Carlos Franco into the interview room after a 3-under par, 69. Carlos, some challenging conditions out there. If we could just get your comments on the day, please.  
 CARLOS FRANCO: Wow, this is tough to talking, because I can't believe I shoot 3-under today. You know, the day's condition is too -- really, really difficult. Every shot is difficult.   
 JOHN BUSH: Eagle on the par-5, fifth hole. Take us through that.  
 CARLOS FRANCO: Yeah, I had a great two shot, especially my second shot. I hit a 3-wood 250 to the hole and I chip in, you know, maybe 15, 20 feet to the hole.   
 JOHN BUSH: And then I think you came back par-3 6 hole with quite a long birdie putt.  
 CARLOS FRANCO: Yeah, that's right. I tried to make on the green left side because the wind is hard left-right, and I no like to miss right side because the water play there and I miss too much left.   
 I tried to make two-putt and well, what come to long putt in?   
 JOHN BUSH: 70 feet. Does that sound about right?  
 CARLOS FRANCO: Maybe more.  
 JOHN BUSH: Okay.   
 CARLOS FRANCO: I make a birdie I think No. 4 hole, No. 3?   
 JOHN BUSH: No. 3.  
 CARLOS FRANCO: Yeah, I shoot there 6-iron. It's 200 yards a little downwind, and maybe four feet for birdie. That's my easy birdie there.   
 JOHN BUSH: Okay. Questions.  
  
  Q. When you're under par and you're in the lead like you were in the weather is like this, do you play any different? Do you try to avoid just making a big mistake, or do you still play aggressively?  
 CARLOS FRANCO: No, I talk every hole my caddie. He told me too, and he say me, Carlos, focus every shot only. Try to make on the fairway and try to make on the green, because everybody is same situation. You can't miss the shot, because when you miss the shot easy to make bogey or double. I play my game only.  
  
  Q. Is this compared to like British Open style conditions, or how would you compare this?  
 CARLOS FRANCO: Yeah, that one I like to say before, but you start. Yeah, exactly same sometime. I can't believe that my first shot, no practice, I tried to close my eyes and I hit it on the fairway.   
 My second shot I have 130 to the hole and I hit a 7-iron short on the bunker. I had a great two shot and I make bogey. I start bogey and good comeback. I'm happy.  
  
  Q. What's the toughest part about it? Is the cold or the wind?  
 CARLOS FRANCO: Now, it's both. It's cold and your hand, you kept feel it good on your grip because the windy no stop and then rain and stop and rain and stop.   
 You know, that's very difficult to focus for your swing because you lose the feeling on the shot.   
  
  Q. That's the thing, there's not a lot of guys out there on the driving range now. Does it affect how many shots you can take before you start your round, and how does that change the beginning of your round?  
 CARLOS FRANCO: It was mental shot only, my friend, when I come today. I played -- I hit a couple shots yesterday, especially my wedge. But I no practice today and straight go into the putting green and (shivering) try to warm a little bit, but I can't because too cool today.   
  
  Q. Will you talk a little bit about that 17th hole. When you were putting it an absolute downpour. Talk a little bit about how that was affecting things.   
 CARLOS FRANCO: Yeah, exactly. That's what I was about talking before. My caddie told me to be careful because the ball moving on the green. Every shot you have to check, every shot you have to control mental because, you know, I can't hit a full swing. Every time I tried low shot and more short swing because I can't think the higher. Because hit it higher, ball dead.  
  
  Q. If the conditions continue like this, what score do you think will win?  
 CARLOS FRANCO: Oh, my God, that's a difficult question, my friend. Maybe no much lower than 10-under, because I'm -- you know, I missed three shots today. I missed three driver shot, and it's lucky I make a two-putt. Easy to make bogey, my friend, because every hole play longer and longer and longer, you know, especially No. 17 hole.   
 I had a great driver, but left side, no? But I hit a 3-iron short and it's -- every shot is difficult. I think 70, and even maybe chance to win.  
  
  Q. So being in the lead, do you hope it gets better or do you hope to kind of stays like that?  
 CARLOS FRANCO: I hope better days, my friend, to everybody, no? I like to low score for the guys to win the tournament, because that's good for golf.   
 JOHN BUSH: Carlos, thanks for coming by, and stay warm this afternoon.  
 CARLOS FRANCO: Exactly. Go to sleep now.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT