THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 15, 2003
Carlos Franco
Brett Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  You played well last week at Doral and you're playing well again, especially today.  Maybe just talk about your day so far today. 
CARLOS FRANCO:   I'm playing better, playing more confident, too.  I'm making more putts these last three weeks, Tucson, Doral and here.  Over the last two years, I've lost my putting and I feel like it's coming back again.

Q.  Do you feel comfortable in Florida versus the West Coast?
CARLOS FRANCO:   I think so.  Exactly.  This is a big difference, too, for me because I play here, the weather is good, same like my country.  And the West Coast always gives me trouble, it's different, and the courses are different or something.  I don't know what happens. 

Q.  You have three or four holes left?
CARLOS FRANCO:   Three more holes.  I need to play 16, 17 and 18.  Hope to play good and have a good one tomorrow and focus on the next day. 


Q.  Your day went well; what do you have left on 18?
BRETT QUIGLEY:   I have about a 25-footer for birdie.  I just played nice today.  Just nothing going early and then I made birdie on the par  5 and that got me going.  I birdied 7, 8, 9 and 10 to really get it going. 
Obviously, it's out there.  The scores are low.  Guys are shooting good scores and that's good for me because it keeps me aggressive.  I felt like I was playing well.

Q.  Is it the type of course where you feel like you can compete, a course where you can make a lot of birdies?
BRETT QUIGLEY:   I really didn't think this would be a good golf course for me because it takes the driver out of my hands.  But I've been hitting well off the tee and I've putted well, so that's a pretty good combination.  If you're getting it in play and make something putts, it obviously helps out.

Q.  You live in Jupiter?
BRETT QUIGLEY:   Yeah, 15 minutes away.

Q.  How much have you seen of the course before?
BRETT QUIGLEY:   I played it twice before this week.  I came out a couple of weeks ago and didn't really know what to expect as far as where we would be hitting it and how it would play.  I thought if we didn't have much wind, the scores would be pretty low.

Q.  Plus you're sleeping in your own bed; does that make a difference?
BRETT QUIGLEY:   Sure, can go to my favorite restaurant.  I get to sleep in my own bed and I have a lot of friends here this week.  It's a good week. 







End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT