FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 7, 2003
Carlos Franco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOHN BUSH:  We would like to welcome Carlos Franco in the interview room, 68 today, 9-under par for the tournament.  Congratulations on a good start.  Can we get your thoughts on your round.
CARLOS FRANCO: I don't see my score today.  I play golf today.  I just play well today and yesterday.  It's very solid because the course is not to easy, you need to make plenty fairways and plenty green to make under par.

Q.  How are the conditions out there today?
CARLOS FRANCO: Conditions are 100% good because very warm, not much windy.  It makes the fairway condition excellent and the green is a little difficult because there is not many grass and too fast now.
JOHN BUSH: Can you take us through your birdies and bogeys starting with the 12th hole which was your third, the card is over here if you need it.
CARLOS FRANCO: I don't remember my birdies.  No. 12 hole, I hit a big driver, I think so, over 330 yards.   I had a 3-iron.  I have a chance for eagle maybe 12 feet, I two putt. 
Birdie No. 13.  I tried a 4-iron, I think so 3, felt for birdie, I make it.  Where is my next birdie?  I don't remember.
JOHN BUSH:  No. 16.
CARLOS FRANCO: Par-4.  Sorry.  Start at No. 10.  This is tough for me.  I had a big driver to right in the middle of the fairway, 252, left 115 on the pin.  It is very close, almost 2 feet, birdie.  I make a nice par on No. 8.  I need to talk about this one because I missed my driver -- I hit my driver in on the fairway and tried a wedge right in the middle of the divot.  I tried a shot, impossible shot.  I chipped it maybe 15 feet for par.  This is a wonderful hole for me. 
No. 1 hole made birdie.  Missed driver left side on the rough.  A good second shot.  I missed right side again, right side of bunker.  36 yard chip.  I past maybe 20 feet and make it. 
My next birdie is No.  7.  No.  7 I hit a 3-wood, a long 3-wood again.  114 on the pin.  I had 60 left.  Maybe make five feet for birdie and make it. 
My bogey is No. 8.  I missed my drive right side on the rough.  I can see the ball.  I tried to hit it on the fairway.  I tried to make it on the fairway and missed too much left and hit it on the car path.  I'm lucky not making it in the water.  My fourth shot I passed the green again left side and chip it maybe for four or five feet and made a nice bogey. 

Q.  Are you happy to be at 9-under or still mad with about the bad break at No. 8?
CARLOS FRANCO: I'm very happy, because long time I no see the first two rounds 9-under.  (Laughter).  Especially here in Florida, many friends here.  Well, this course is very tough for everybody.  It's coming windy, guarantee no make too many on the par, I'm very lucky first two rounds not too windy.  I made a good 9-under.  I had more opportunity to make more birdies.  I finished happy.

Q.  Long time no see us?
CARLOS FRANCO: Long time no see this seat.

Q.  What's been going on with your game?
CARLOS FRANCO: Well, my game is very similar the last three or two years, you know, because only my putter no work before.  Now it works a little bit right there.  My instructor, Mariano Bartolome, he worked hard for me the last year and start again this year.  He gave me a little more focus on my line and my stroking.  I think I come back again.

Q.  How excited are you to be in the position to go into the weekend and have a chance to win a tournament, how do you think you will play?
CARLOS FRANCO: You know, depending today and tomorrow, I don't know if it is windy or no windy.  I need to play golf only.  I need to check my confidence and my focus on my game and try a couple of birdie and make it 3 or 4 under tomorrow.  It's a very good chance for a win.

Q.  How tough have the last two years been for you?
CARLOS FRANCO: Here it's tough.  No. 1 tough, it's windy only, you know.  The fairway condition is excellent.

Q.  I mean, in terms of you had two really good years and two struggling years?
CARLOS FRANCO: I told you my putter no work last two years.  Absolutely hundred percent, 1.9 almost.  This is the stat.  Everybody at 1.4, 1.5, you know, it's a big difference.  Today I think I make it 25 putts, 26 putts.  Yesterday, 25, 24.  I love it.  No chance of over par now.  

Q.  Have you changed putters?
CARLOS FRANCO: Many, many, yes, my friend.  I need to change my head, not my putter. (Laughter.)

Q.  How about the spectators here, do you get many Spanish people following?
CARLOS FRANCO: Yes, I have many friends here.  Many Paraguayan people to.  I am very happy coming here because I have my house in Doral Glen Park.  I have many friends here.  I'm very happy to come here.  Always play here and happy to come here, my house, my home.

Q.  Do you still have your regular warm-up routine?
CARLOS FRANCO: Yes.

Q.  5 bags of balls or sit 5 balls?
CARLOS FRANCO: No, no, now I change a little bit.  I go to range a little bit.  I try a couple of shots, 20 balls, 25 and start to play, you know.

Q.  What exactly were you doing with the putting?   Was it just a matter of seeing the line?
CARLOS FRANCO: I remember 1995 and 1999 and 2000 I started hitting, make it.  After 2000, I don't know what happened.  I stayed there.  I can't see my line almost 3 year.  I talk to everybody.  Everybody say Carlos, keep your head down and hit it.  I can hit it.  You know easy, everybody teach me.  I say I can't, you know.  Now I think my head, a little more work, and take the focus on the line and stroke good, looking for the speed okay. 

Q.  You sold your house here two years ago, you sold your house in Doral Glen?
CARLOS FRANCO: I think 3 years ago.

Q.  Do you have U.S. base now?
CARLOS FRANCO: No, I have many hotel.  Many room in the hotel.
JOHN BUSH:  Anything else?   Carlos thanks for coming by good luck this weekend.  



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT