THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 9, 2000
Carlos Franco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CARLOS FRANCO: I don't know. Golf course condition is excellent today; not windy.
Excellent. Greens are excellent. Pin position not too difficult. Many player under par. I
played good. I miss only one fairway, No. 9 hole, par 5, but I hit 13 fairway very easy.
My putt is excellent today. I got a big concentration. This is Miami, almost my hometown,
Paraguay and Miami only one hour different. Same weather, of course more easy for me. Big
difference from California. Every time play very bad in California, but come to Miami, my
golf changed.

Q. What happened to your arm?

CARLOS FRANCO: Tendinitis.

Q. What type of treatment? 

Q. Did you almost pull out and not play this week?

Q. How close is she?

Q. She is in Paraguay?

Q. How long have you lived in Miami?

CARLOS FRANCO: No, I come only one week. My wife now in Paraguay. She come two week,
after she said poppy, vamonos (let's go), let's go.

Q. Is it just the arm, shoulder?

CARLOS FRANCO: It is here. (Indicating wrist) Doctor checked here, here, and --

Q. Goes all the way up?

Q. How long has this been going on?

Q. It is on a shot did you hurt yourself on?

Q. Isn't the treatment for that usually rest?

CARLOS FRANCO: My first day I played in California, Tuesday practice round, only nine
holes, but very pain. Wednesday play again, rain everyday, you know, play a half round, it
is no good, weather more pain.

Q. When your wife gives birth, how long will you go to Paraguay for?

Q. Do you plan on playing the American Tour all year or what is your agenda?

CARLOS FRANCO: Si, senor, there is more money.

Q. Talk about last year and everything, all the good things that happened.

Q. Have you gotten spoiled out here?

CARLOS FRANCO: See you next week.

Q. What was your first PGA TOUR event?

CARLOS FRANCO: 1994 Memorial, my first day is 80, first time 80, then next day even
par, I remember.

Q. Given your background just what did you think that first day when you showed up to
see a PGA TOUR event, everything that everybody gets, courtesy cars and free food and the
phone calls?

CARLOS FRANCO: My first three months I need to pay rental car, I need to pay, you know,
I looking for cheap hotel, room cheap, but after it change. I play Pro-Am, every week play
Pro-Am. First time it is difficult.

Q. Can you get some idea what it was like to play in Japan to be in such a foreign
culture?

CARLOS FRANCO: Japan is very expensive. You take one taxi, you don't have car, you
don't have food, nothing, you need to pay everything. It is difficult, the language is
difficult, time, golf course conditions very, very different. Good golf course, but very
difficult conditions. It is almost up-and-down. Many time it rains and cold, mucho frio
(very cold).

Q. Were you alone? Take any family or friends with you?

CARLOS FRANCO: Single only. Everyone month stay in Japan come home two weeks. Very
difficult, with the different time. I take a big experience for me and come here to
America. Come here stay in America one or two hour difference, I think it is more easy for
me. I am very lucky, save Qualifying School 1998 for one shot, very lucky, last position,
it is okay but inside okay.

Q. When did you get a deal with Callaway, how did you get there?

CARLOS FRANCO: Callaway is my sponsor two year in Japan and last year in here in
America. This year No. 4.

Q. How did they find out about you?

CARLOS FRANCO: Casio World in Japan. Look at me and, hey, this guy is a good player,
Ian Moore (phonetic) you know him? Callaway staff. He said this guy is good, need to speak
to him. That is at Casio World Open. I see Mr. Mike Gelosky (phonetic) from Callaway
saying Carlos, I need to talk. Okay. I say, I need big money. He says I only have a
little. (laughs).

Q. Did they ask about your whole life story? Did they know much about you?

CARLOS FRANCO: It is not important. No important.

Q. How is golf doing in Paraguay now, more courses?

CARLOS FRANCO: Three more course now coming.

Q. How many total?

CARLOS FRANCO: Already have five. My golf course is coming soon. Maybe eight months
more. My co-manager is here Mr. Danny Goodman.

Q. Franco Country Club?

CARLOS FRANCO: Carlos.

Q. Carlos?

CARLOS FRANCO: Yes.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT