RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2008
Carlos Franco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Carlos Franco, thanks for spending a few minutes with us here at the RBC Canadian Open media center. 68 today, four birdies, one bogey. Just talk a little bit about your round and what you see going into the weekend.   
 CARLOS FRANCO: Well, a little tired because yesterday is too long day, and come back to play 26 holes and sleep too late last night.   
 But I had a good shot, many good shots yesterday after the waiting, too much play, ten holes. I can't believe we played ten holes yesterday.   
 But my confidence come back I hope this week again, but yesterday and today, coming back again, my game, and I shoot 7-under par easy today because I had many chances to make more birdies, many opportunities to make birdies more.   
 Well, I'm happy, first two days, 7-under par. The golf course is not really easy, too.   
  
  Q. Through your two rounds you missed almost half the fairways, yet you hit almost every green. Does that mean the rough isn't too challenging for you?   
 CARLOS FRANCO: Well, yeah. I have a little lucky, too. No really bad lies because I don't miss too much right and don't miss too much left. I'm focused because I had good irons, good safe irons. That is working good right now in my game because my irons weren't working because the greens are too small, you know, except No. 17 green. That's a bigger green, I think.   
 I'm happy. I just might have missed a little bit right side, but rough is not really heavy.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about the course right now. Are you able to fire at the pins because the greens are still pretty soft? Are you taking some of the little more conservative route on some of these greens because it is a tough approach?  
 CARLOS FRANCO: Yeah, I think so. The golf course is a little more easy because after the rain, you know, the ball -- when you miss, the ball stays there. You mark the ball, clean the ball in the fairway, you have more chance to make it on the green.  
 Yeah, absolutely, when the greens are soft, the golf course is more easy.   
  
  Q. You talked about confidence. Has that been a problem for you the last couple years?   
 CARLOS FRANCO: Absolutely, my friend.  
  
  Q. Can you talk -- your story is one that a lot of people followed, especially when you started winning. A lot of people were very interested in it. But then the last couple years you've missed more cuts than you've made. Can you talk about what's gone on in your game or what you see as the reason behind it?  
 CARLOS FRANCO: You know, when you come here to play on the PGA TOUR, you have to play good -- number one importance, the putting. You have to make it. When you don't make many putters, guarantee you've lost your game because your mental comes down.   
 Because I won four times, doesn't matter I won four times. I won five times in Japan, I won many tournaments. It doesn't matter. When you come here you have to play good everything. Putting is number one, but check how many guys compete -- the competition, the level is too high now because the guys play so good. The guys making more putters.   
 But my game no coming because my putt no come. When you putt coming, your game come. This week I make more putts, but the last four years, nothing. I make many three-putts. I make two bogeys yesterday and today because I make two three-putts. That's what I tell you, my friend. When your putter is good, your game is better. When your putter is bad, I guarantee your game is lost. You've lost your game.   
  
  Q. You talked about your putting just now. I was just wondering from your round, the holes you played last night and today, how much of a difference is there in the roll of the greens right now? Did you find it significant?  
 CARLOS FRANCO: Yeah, it's a little more stiff today. When you play -- when you start the first tee, always the green condition much better. You have a chance to make more putter because after the rain the green condition, maybe too much soft. The spikes, shoes, spike marks, too many on your line. Guarantee in the afternoon not many happy guys because the green condition maybe not 100 percent, you know? But bad day for it yesterday. Yesterday too soft, my friend.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Carlos, thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT