WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 27, 1999
Carlos Franco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  Number 1 hole, I hit a driver.  Made it center fairway.  Second shot is a 9-iron.  Hit it maybe eight feet for birdie, one-putt.  No. 6, hit a driver, middle of the fairway. Second shot is 7-iron, maybe five feet; birdie.  Par 3, 12, I hit 7-iron maybe seven feet for birdie. 
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  I hit a 5-iron left side bunker.  My chip is too long.  It's maybe 15 feet for putt for par, and missed.  A nice bogey.  No. 17, I hit it in the fairway.  Second shot is 9-iron.  That's almost five feet for birdie. 
 

Q.  Your thoughts about the round?  Obviously, you had to be very, very pleased with your position now and you're having a great year; so, you've got the confidence to keep going?
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  I remember this course.  I played if in 1996, first time.  First time was 7 position.  I like this green.  I like this course.  It's very tough.  Nice course.  Nice fairway.  But this year, I win twice, tournament here in America.  I think my confidence is more better. Every week, more better.  I try now -- but this year, no more chance for winning more major tournament, but I like this week.  This week very important. $1 million for prize winner.  My head is solid; very, very confident.  My swing is best swing maybe this year.  My irons, not many misses.  Driving yesterday and today also good, but I had many lucky rough -- couple times, good lie, save.  But my head is big, big confidence now.  I think it's big, big chance this week. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  This week, hit a little bit of practice.  And last week, I play -- I had sick -- my hand, I broke a little bit in my hand.  I hit a couple balls today and yesterday.  But sometime, I had a two-week holiday and never play.  I go back home and I go fishing, stay family, together.  But come for tournament, I need to practice, Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday, and  tournament days, I never practice. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about Paul and his game, how he's playing right now?
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  He played very good today. Paul, very well played today.  Sometimes I'm talking to him.  He's great guy.  He's good guy.  I would say he hit it not too long.  Sometime in the fairway, but this time, big difference, sometimes I pass 30 yards, 25 yards, 40 yards.  Big difference.  He hit good putt and his stroke on the greens is excellent. 
 

Q.  Could you tell us a little bit about your background?
 
CARLOS FRANCO:   (Through the interpreter): Regardless of what's happened in his life, he maintains the same standard and the same relationships at home with his family, both from the time when they weren't as economically well off as they are now.  And for him, the important thing is to keep the family together and to continue to provide economic assistance and to help his family.  But the strength of the family and what's the most -- that hasn't changed at all.  He's still as humble today as he was many years ago. 
 

Q.  In the past couple of years, was there anything to suggest that a big year was coming like this?
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  I don't know.  I play in Japan five years.  But I win six times -- I think it was six times or five times.  I don't remember.  I don't know.  I say I come to America, I need to play in America.  I never say I win, win. This is unbelievable this year, first time twice winner.  Now, I say, incredible. 
 

Q.  Did you and Paul talk a lot?
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  Yeah, a little bit. 
 

Q.  Isn't it hard to understand him?
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  But I understand him -- he speak to me only in English for golf.  It's no problem. 
 

Q.  Doesn't  he have a funny accent, though?
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  No, it's okay. 
 

Q.  Is Doc still on the bag?
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  Yes, he's my caddy, but he never speak to me. 
 

Q.  What language do you two speak?
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  I understand English, but I speak not so well. 
 

Q.  You used to speak Japanese with him?
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  Sometimes speak Japanese. 
 

Q.  Still?
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  Yes.  It's no problem. (Speaking Japanese.)  (Laughter.) 
 

Q.  How popular is golf in Paraguay?  I guess  there's only three courses in the whole country. Could you talk about that?
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  Now is more popular.  Is No. 1 sport is soccer, easy.  But now it's No. 2 is golf. I think maybe three courses more coming now, soon. And mine, I design one. 
 

Q.  Is that because of your popularity?
 
CARLOS FRANCO:  Yes, I think so.  Carlos Franco win tournament. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT