ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 19, 2007
Carlos Franco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You've got to love playing golf in this city.  Already a two-time winner here and a nice 68 today.   
 CARLOS FRANCO:  Yeah, I played solid, very good today, and I'm very happy because long time haven't seen the same score in the first round.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of the changes to the golf course?  You haven't played here since 2005, and you of course won at English Turn, but what do you think of the changes to this golf course?   
 CARLOS FRANCO:  I think right now it's better condition and more better, a couple hole changes nice, and condition is unbelievable shape.  I think many guys make under par here this week.   
  
  Q.  We're hoping to see more of you out here, just your third start or fourth start of the year.  Are we going to see more of you in 2007?   
 CARLOS FRANCO:  Well I'm looking for one week of luck.  I need to play good, my putter, because my game okay.  I hope the next three days play the same game and a chance to win.   
  
  Q.  How did you feel out there today coming back?  This is a tournament you've won twice, and looking pretty comfortable.   
 CARLOS FRANCO:  Yeah, after one year I come back again, and my second house (sic) here.  I'm happy now, play well, start good and make a couple pars.  I had a couple drivers on the fairway.  That's important on this course.   
  
  Q.  You've never won at this course obviously.  What do you think of this course?  They made some changes, obviously no trouble with it today.   
 CARLOS FRANCO:  Well, no win because only one time play, 2005, no?  This year the course condition much better, no?  I like a little more short, and fairway in better condition and green, too, and I think so, the guys play so good and make many low scores this week.   
  
  Q.  So you gave one back on 18.  Anything in particular happen on that one?   
 CARLOS FRANCO:  No, no, I never check the score because I check my game only.  I'm lucky that my first shot I missed the last hole, No. 9 hole, 18 for me, that the ball position inside the hole and very tricky shot because I'm looking to the water, I'm looking to the green.  I tried to make on the green, but well, I make a bogey.  I'm very happy today.   
  
  Q.  What is it about New Orleans that you just have so much success here?   
 CARLOS FRANCO:  I don't know, my friend.  This country like me very much.  I like, too, no?  I hope play well the next two days and make good score and a chance to win, too.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT