BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2004
Carlos Franco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can you talk about your round?
CARLOS FRANCO:   Yeah, I played very solid from the back nine.  I missed a couple putts and I had many chances for  birdies.  I'll make more today.  Yeah, played easy yesterday, easy today because the conditions were excellent, and the course was not much rough to it.  Jim Furyk played so good, every shot is in the middle of the fairway, every hole birdie chance and you can miss, too.
Q.  It seems obvious to us this is a carryover from last week; do you feel that, as well?
CARLOS FRANCO:   Yeah, I feel good, too, again today, this weekend.  Because after you win, always the next week, it is more easy because when you win a tournament you gain more confidence and more strength.
Q.  Is it easier to play when you're feeding off somebody else in the group that's playing well?
CARLOS FRANCO:   Yeah, I'm happy my team today is good.  Kenny Perry is a good player.  And Jim Furyk, the defending champion always give me good help, too, because I need good concentration because this guy plays so good.
Q.  You had a dramatic reaction to the putt on No. 7, did you think that was going in?
CARLOS FRANCO:   Yeah, I tried to make it because I had a good stroke there and lucky third shot because I missed my driver.  I missed my second shot and good recovery for my third shot.  I tried to make it and I think it's going in.

When I see it's not in, you know     but I'm happy with 67 67, 10 under par through two rounds with a chance to win.
Q.  Talk about how you get ready for a round.
CARLOS FRANCO:   Now I'm going to see my family now, and I go to eat Paraguayan food to come in strong tomorrow.
Q.  Any kind of superstitions for you?
CARLOS FRANCO:   Doesn't matter, my friend.  This is a golf game.  When you play good, always you need luck for a win.

You know, when you play good, I say that you need luck for the win.  I've played many weekends, too, and no win.  I'm last week, twice     my game is good there because maybe I like the course and the golf course likes me.  To win a tournament, you need to play good and have some luck and that's important.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT