NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 15, 2017
Jonathon Simmons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pop was pretty upset about what happened yesterday with Kawhi.  Do you guys as a group kind of feel the same way?
JONATHON SIMMONS: Yeah, but trying to channel our focus to Game 2 and pound away from there.  Just come out and finish the game.
Q. Pop said most likely Kawhi won't play, which means, I guess, you'll start.  Is that something you like knowing with a day in advance or --
JONATHON SIMMONS: It doesn't matter.  Game I started in the Rockets series, I didn't know till 30 minutes before game time maybe.  So it doesn't matter, though.  We're professionals.  We're just here to do our job.  It's what we get paid to do.
Q. Because you guys have been here before just recently in Game 6, is it almost you have to go back to that style of basketball and try to play against the Rockets in tomorrow's game?
JONATHON SIMMONS: I'm not sure yet.  We haven't talked about that.  I mean, we're going to do it the Spurs way and figure out how we need to win and steal a game on the road.
Q. Jonathon, can you talk about your confidence level and your growth this season to what you did in Game 6 and being very confident?
JONATHON SIMMONS: Just believing in my game and obviously having confidence and the belief from teammates and coaches is just what's happening.  You know, put my work in, and the confidence will show itself.
Q. You guys were able to overcome the loss of Tony and Kawhi both in Game 6 at Houston.  Is it a whole different kind of emotional burden to look at an entire series that you might have to survive?
JONATHON SIMMONS: No, I wouldn't say emotional burden.  But just have to tweak some things.  Again, we're professionals.  This is what we have to do.  We have to be prepared for stuff like this.  That's why they tell everybody to stay ready.
Q. How much difference is it, though, that this is Golden State and not Houston?
JONATHON SIMMONS: It's a lot of difference because it's a lot more guys, better guys that we have to cover.  They play better as a team together than the Rockets did.  So we just have to watch the film and see what we can get better for Game 2.
Q. Was there a period that you didn't play in the season, would you ever go to Pop and express to him, Hey, I'm ready?
JONATHON SIMMONS: Never.  Never went to Pop and said a word.  Just continued to show my work and to be patient and show that I was ready.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT