AMERICAN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 13, 2015
Frank Haith
Shaquille Harrison
James Woodard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









MODERATOR:   On the season, Tulsa is 17 and 0 and leading at the half, and this was their fourth consecutive win in conference tournament play after going 3-0 in Conference USA last year and then winning this game.   Joining us from the Tulsa Golden Hurricane are Head Coach Frank Haith and junior guards James Woodard and Shaquille Harrison.
COACH HAITH:   Obviously it was a tough win for us.   I thought our guys, we got off to a great start first 10 minutes of the game, and I thought we took our foot off the pedal a little bit and we turned the ball over, allowed Houston confidence.   And having been idled yesterday, some teams when that happens, you really struggle to get your flow going.   But I thought we got it going and then we did not -- we let up and Houston did a good job getting back in the game but these two guys helped us finish there at the end.
MODERATOR:   Questions from the floor?

Q.   For James and for Shaq, with this being such an important game for y'all's post season hopes, how were you all able to weather the runs that Houston went on?
SHAQUILLE HARRISON:   I felt like we had to come together as a team, we talked about in the huddles when they went on little runs, and kind of got to tighten up on little things like getting in the passing lane, boxing out.   I felt like we came together and finally got that done.
JAMES WOODARD:   Like Shaquille said, we just came together as a team and we tried to control the controllables like boxing out, getting the shooters, and that's what we did, we just tightened up on defense and finished the game out.

Q.   What was happening whenever Houston went on that run at the end of the first half?
COACH HAITH:   I felt like we turned the ball over, I think we had eight turnovers in the first half and they were blazing the ball right back at us and they were scoring in transition.   We weren't able to set our defense because of those live ball turnovers.   I think that was the difference.   Then we took some ill-advised shots.   I thought we took some quick shots, we needed to play inside out and I thought we did a better job of that in the second half.   After we started the game, they started the game in the zone, we made some shots and I think scoring became easy the start of the game and we relaxed, but I give Houston credit, they turned up their defense, they got tighter on their defensive end and forced some turnovers.

Q.   Were Houston's 3-pointers, was that taking advantage of y'all's zone or were those just tough shots they were putting up?
COACH HAITH:   They didn't make the 3s, believe it or not, against our zone.   They made it against our man,   a lot of it in the first half, and then Baker made a couple there in the second half against our man, and we had a couple broken plays.   He made one in transition, but I thought our zone was really good, I thought our zone really helped us win the game, and obviously I thought our pressure, three-quarter pressure helped us win the game.
MODERATOR:   Thank you, gentlemen.   Good luck.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT