PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE MEDIA DAY
July 26, 2013
Brandin Cooks
Mike Riley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Up next the Oregon State Beavers, Coach Mike Riley, wide receiver Brandin Cooks and defensive back Rashaad Reynolds. 
COACH RILEY:   Very, very proud, pleased to be back for another year, our 13th year representing Oregon State, the Oregon State Beavers and very proud to be up here with our two great captains and players and will help lead this team into the 2013 season. 
As everybody is, we're looking forward to getting started, I think our team has had a good off‑season and hopefully we take a lot of what we learned a year ago about playing hard and playing within the confines of each ballgame and taking advantage of getting ready for each game and giving it our best shot to win that game and just continue in that mode. 
We have lost some real good players from a year ago, so we're looking for the guys that have been playing to step up and do more and we're looking for new people to come in and see if we can replace those great players, Jordan Poyer, Markus Wheaton, Micah Hatfield.   I can go on.   But we are excited about the year and looking forward to getting started. 

Q.   Brandin, without having Marcus on the other side, how do you think your role will change and what do you expect in terms of defenses covering you without the balance on the other side? 
BRANDIN COOKS:   We had a lot of guys working this off season like Richard Mel lane knee, and mow leak Gilmore so I feel that the void that Marcus left, one of those guys will step up and be play makers and take that pressure off and they won't be able to do the double coverage, things like that. 

Q.   The guidelines put in place regarding contact and recovery periods, how much input do you have into that and how much difference do you think it will make in preparing the team? 
COACH RILEY:   It think the new practice guidelines are a real good idea.   I'm proud that our conference took the lead in that and our coaches were all very, very involved in input regarding that.   I appreciate the league being inclusive with that.   This is kind of a message from our coaches, I think, out there that we're looking at every way possible to maintain our ability to get ready for a ballgame and look at avenues that might be better for the players regarding safety and the number of hits they actually take. 
I think everybody is aware of that anyway as we go but to have some guidelines with it and to bring it up once again for discussion, always a good idea.   Keep exploring and looking at ways to grow just like we do in our jobs that we can keep looking at things that might help. 

Q.   We have a fan question for you, Coach, from a Facebook fan and he asks what is Oregon State's biggest weakness and more importantly its biggest advantage as of right now? 
COACH RILEY:   Well, I think that one of the things that I mentioned earlier, just the replacement of people, you know, every team has to form their new identity and there is going to be people that lead, new people come in, who is going to step up, all that kind of stuff.   I think that's it.   But specifically I think that we've got to, as we go through, find those replacements, for sure, and kind of nail that down in the fall camp and really look at the interior of our defense.   We lost our middle line backer, two defensive tackles, our defense played really well up front last year.
So in order to continue with that, we're going to have to find some people to do it.   I think probably our strengths are these guys, two of the best guys, great leaders, good players and good examples for our team, right here, so the leadership formation of this team looks good.   That's a big factor, a strength.   We have a lot of guys that have played in the games that are back and that's always a good thing. 

Q.   Mike, the big talk this week around the country is the five big conferences are talking about trying to get maybe a new tier of conferences and getting more autonomy within the NCAA, having more power.   As a coach in this league for a long time how would you like to see that happen where you guys have more say in how you're running the program? 
COACH RILEY:   Well, I think we're going to see a lot of this expiration as we go forward.   This is not going to be through for a while.   I think I'm not concerned too much of where that is going because I think we know where we're going to head.   I think we have great leadership within our league that will be a big factor in how that goes forward and input from the people in the coaching business that have a good say in what's going on. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Coach.   Gentlemen, thank you for your time.   






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT