U.S. SENIOR OPEN
July 1, 2017
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kenny, just watched some of your highlights with me.  You and Kirk have turned this U.S. Senior Open into a showdown.  You've separated yourselves from the field.  Why is this?  What is it about both of your games that's allowed you to do this?
KENNY PERRY: We're both playing good, I guess.  Kirk is a down the middle, he's a very controlled.  He doesn't get flustered.  He's pretty easygoing.  He's a tough man to beat.  He's going to be a tough guy to beat tomorrow because he doesn't usually make too many mistakes.
Y'all saw his chipping ability today.  If he misses the green, he chips it in or gets it pretty close.
I've got my work cut out tomorrow.  I've got to hit it a little better.  I've got to keep making bombs and, like I did on 16, flip the score a little bit on him.  It felt a little bit like match play out there.
It's going to be fun.  It's going to be a battle.  We don't need Brandt Jobe to shoot 62 again.  I mean, I saw that score.  That's an amazing score out there.
We played with a pretty hard south wind today.  It was 15 to 20 miles an hour.  The golf course played beautifully.  It's a tough golf course.  It's a tough test.  You've got to really be spot on with your irons and your putting.
I just grinded it out today.  I didn't feel like I had a lot going on out there, but I make a couple -- I kind of got more in the flow on the back nine.  I didn't play the front nine as well.  Hopefully, I can kind of maybe catch fire a little earlier in the round tomorrow and play nicely all day.
Q. I don't know if anyone at home noticed, but I did.  On No. 1, just because we talked about it yesterday, you said you were a little tense, a little tight.  You were looser today.  You were playing to the crowd, playing toward the camera.  In your mind, are you trying to concentrate on this, to play loose out there?
KENNY PERRY: I think everybody who plays golf at home, when you're home with your buddies and freewheeling it, golf is easy.  It's fun to play.  Somehow, you've got to get your mindset on that and play golf like that as a kid.
If I could somehow get back in those and not think about what I'm doing, being a U.S. Open and the pressure and trying to get relaxed and trying to swing at it like I know I can swing at it, good things are going to happen.
Q. Good things are already happening, Kenny.  Look forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT