THE RYDER CUP
September 21, 2008
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did you ever allow yourself to believe you would have a singles match like this?  
 KENNY PERRY: Not really. I mean, I figured this was going to define my career, but you know what, it made my career. You know, I made seven birdies -- I birdied four holes in a row right out of the gate, 2, 3, 4 and 5, and my putter was magical. I mean, I had great touch, great feel, had great confidence and had a great calm about me today.   
 The fans here are awesome. It's a week I'll never forget. It's the greatest experience of my life, and I'm just fortunate enough to put it all together today.   
  
  Q. Talk about the Kentucky people getting a point for America.   
 KENNY PERRY: Very emotional. My dad, my wife, my three kids came out on the green to give me big hugs. I couldn't hold back the tears. Magical day for me. It's the greatest day of my life. The people here in Kentucky are great, and to come out and make seven or eight birdies today and have the putting touch of Tiger Woods and Jack Nicklaus just was phenomenal. I mean, I had such a calm about me, and I was just so determined.   
 You know, Henrik is a great guy, and he's a good friend. You know, I just told him, I said, "We're going to have a good day. Let's battle hard." He looked at me on the sixth hole, and he said, "You're going to make it tough on me today, aren't you?" I said, "Well, this is my last hurrah. This was kind of the swan song of my career." What a way to go out.  
  
  Q. How was your shoulder, because you had some trouble on the back nine?  
 KENNY PERRY: I hurt it in the ninth fairway. I was practice swinging with a sand wedge, and I pulled, pinched, something, I had all this shooting like lightning bolts running down my arm, and I thought, oh, my goodness, what have I done. I started eating Advil like candy, and they kind of kicked in about the 12th hole, and it loosened up a little bit, and I was able to finish, thank goodness.   
  
  Q. You were gracious enough to talk to us late last night. I don't think I've ever seen you as mentally and physically drained as you were coming off that 18th green. Now 24 hours later I can't imagine you being more happy.   
 KENNY PERRY: It's the greatest day of my life. My dad, my wife, my three kids ran up on the green, magical day. I made seven birdies. I birdied four holes right out of the gate, 2, 3, 4 and 5, and I had the putting touch of Tiger Woods or Jack Nicklaus. I was in a zone. I had such a calm and coolness about me, and the fans here are just unbelievable.   
 You know, I keep telling everybody, this is kind of my swan song, and what a way to go out.  
  
  Q. Every time Henrik would make a birdie you would answer him on the back nine; the key to the match?  
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, I hurt my shoulder in the ninth fairway, and I had the guys come look at me, and I knew I was in trouble. I duck-hooked a 3-wood out of bounds on 10, and then I hit an incredible 6-iron the next hole. I started eating Advil like candy, and I just had to get rid of the pain somehow. You know what, he hit a couple beautiful shots, but I was able to make birdies on 11 and 13 and 15. You know what, we were just kind of counter-punching each other out there. Tremendous match. I probably shot 7-under.   
  
  Q. We talked after your victory at the Buick, and you said, "Sometimes it's not a good thing when you get what you wish for." This week did not have to turn out this way, and yet it was just perfect.   
 KENNY PERRY: Perfect for Kenny Perry. It would only be the ultimate if we can win this thing today. But you know what, I'll never forget this as long as I live.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT