THE RYDER CUP
September 18, 2008
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you just talk about playing in the anchor match tomorrow?   
 KENNY PERRY: I'm excited about it. I didn't think I would be in the anchor match to tell you the truth, but I'm worried about my partner, Tabitha, they sent her to the hospital, and you know, I just wish her well and hope she gets to feeling better so Jimmy can relax and get that off his head and we can go out there and play.   
 Great partner. He's a great friend, great match-play player, tough competitor, great guy to have as your partner. So I'm looking forward to it. We are going to have a great match. We're going to have all of Kentucky pulling for me out there, and it's going to be very rowdy, exciting. So, what a dream, you know.   
 The crowd will pick us up tomorrow morning. It will be definitely home-field advantage for us. Everybody says, "We are going to yell loud for you tomorrow, we can't wait." Everybody's really looking forward to it.   
  
  Q. As it's finally here, pairings are here, and you just have to go out there tomorrow.   
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, hard to believe. I can't believe it's already here. I couldn't get these practice rounds over fast enough. I just wanted to make sure to get them here and to get it to where I'm ready to go and play and get after them.   
 I've prepared the best I know how to prepare and I'm ready. That's just the bottom line. It may not go my way tomorrow, but then it might. I'd like to be the first guy to knock Sergio out. He's got a perfect record in foursomes, so that would be kind of cool.  
  
  Q. You're in the anchor match and playing what looks like their toughest team.   
 KENNY PERRY: That's an honor.  
  
  Q. Did you expect that as the local player you might have to face that team? Did that come across your mind?   
 KENNY PERRY: No, I didn't know how Paul was going to putt us out, first, last, middle. I wasn't even for sure who I was going to play with to tell you the truth. Now I saw the pairings, I was excited about it.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT