BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2008
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about your day. Leader in the clubhouse, 4-under par. I think Camilo is at 5, but obviously in good position heading into round 2. 
 KENNY PERRY: Well, that's just a start, a long way to go, 72 holes. Nobody misses the cut. I made seven birdies, and I made three bogeys. Two of my bogeys where I over clubbed. I hit two irons over the green early in the round thinking the wind and cool weather would slow the ball down a little bit. It actually didn't. I don't know if I was hitting jumpers out of the soggy fairways or what, but it could have been better. It was a very good round. It was a very relaxing and very fun round of golf. 

 Q. Anything make it tougher than usual today? 
 KENNY PERRY: It was easy. Phil and Anthony and I, we were talking a lot about the Ryder Cup. We were very relaxed. We were having a good time out there. Great pairing for me. I played with Phil last week and played good with him the first two rounds last week. You know what, when you're very relaxed and having fun and we're all hitting it well, so we're all looking forward to two weeks from this week. 

 Q. Dare I ask who was doing most of the talking? 
 KENNY PERRY: Actually Phil and I talked a lot. It was probably the most we've ever talked, being on the golf course together. We had a good time. He's got a pancake for a marker I was aggravating him about. It's a big silver coin or whatever, kind of interesting.

 Q. Where did it come from?
 KENNY PERRY: He didn't know. He said it's a silver dollar, I guess, or a silver something, he's not even sure. We were just having a good time out there. We all hit it well, and things worked out for us. 

 Q. Is it an intense as it might be when you've got one guy who's pretty much just got to stay alive over the next two events to win this thing? Everyone is playing for second it seems like. 
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, Steve Sands said that I still had an outside chance, but I've got to do the magic to win -- I've got to win this week and the following week to win. That's hard to do out here. Guys are good. You've got to think about it, I've only won 12 times my whole career. It's hard for me to get one win, much less two in a row. I'm just enjoying playing golf. I'm just trying to get ready for the Ryder Cup, and if this FedEx comes in there, that's just a bonus. 

 Q. Can you talk about being relaxed today? At what point did it feel like you were getting into a groove? 
 KENNY PERRY: Well, I was just hitting all my irons at the flag. I was in a good groove right off the start, right off the 10th tee. I drilled it right down the middle and my swing felt good. I felt comfortable over the ball. It was just easy. It was a fun day. 

 Q. Did having an unexpected day off yesterday help relax you somewhat?
 KENNY PERRY: Well, I don't know. I'm not looking forward to 36 tomorrow, I'll tell you that right now. This is a big golf course and the zoysia fairways will definitely slow your walking down, make your feet heavy at the end of the day. I didn't really want that. I played beautifully in the Pro-Am on Wednesday and I was ready to go. So it was kind of a bummer for me to have to sit out yesterday and just goof off. I went to a movie, went and saw "Traitor," good movie, enjoyed it. 

 Q. Speaking of the 36 tomorrow, does it become more of a physical battle then, and who's in the best shape might be the one that comes out the best?
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, it's definitely a young man's game tomorrow. You know, I have not done a lot of greatness on 36 holes, but you never know. If I can stay mentally into it, if I can hit the ball as well as I'm hitting it, I look forward to playing tomorrow. It'll be a fun day. 

 Q. How did you feel about the galleries here in St. Louis?
 KENNY PERRY: They're great. They love Phil. He's got a lot of support here. We had a huge group following us, so that was a lot of fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT