THE BARCLAYS
August 21, 2008
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KENNY PERRY: The rough here is terrible. I hit a couple balls ten, 15 yards off the main and it was fine over there. I actually hit a club on there and get it on the green. I need to get a little bit more precise and hit my irons a little bit better and give me another day looking at the green surfaces together and trying to figure out the reads. Hopefully do it again tomorrow.  
  
  Q. When you see that number up there, 62, what is the first thing you think about?   
 KENNY PERRY: Well, it never ceases to amaze me, the PGA TOUR. There are tournaments where I'll shoot 6-or-7-under and that's as good as I can play and the winner is 21-under and I'm thinking, how did they do that? Did they quit after 15 or what?   
 It's funny how some courses fit a guy's eye and rip it down the gut all day, and some guys are struggling and are marginal and struggling here and there and hitting rough and scraping around it trying to make pars.   
 But I had a nice, boring round today. I hit a lot of greens and just kept putting at them and got a couple in, and I'd like to take a lot of those. Hopefully I can do that the next three days.   
 I love it up here, Baltusrol was a great golf course, fans are great, have a lot of support, and they are all pulling for Phil, but that's okay. He's a superstar. And I enjoyed playing with him. He's got some creative shots out there. It's fun to watch. It's fun to be inside the ropes with him.   
 But yeah, you know, home this time of year, it's a hundred degrees, humidity is 100%, here you have a nice day, Chamber of Commerce day, 80 degrees, beautiful.   
  
  Q. (No mic.)   
 KENNY PERRY: These days, the points standings, there's going to be so much moving around with the points.   
  
  Q. Starting tomorrow on the front nine, can that help you score better possibly tomorrow? You started on the back nine today; does that help scoring better? Hunter got started pretty early.   
 KENNY PERRY: Shoot, I don't know. I'm just going to play it one hole, one shot at a time. That first hole is a shorter hole, and ten, the par 3, is a tough one right out of the gate.   
 You have a little reverse psychology there. If you can play the tough holes early and have the front nine coming in like I did you can actually shoot a super round. There's two ways to look at it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT