SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2016
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Even par today, but got to talk about No. 5 the albatross.  Take me through that.  
KENNY PERRY: It's been my hole, I guess.  I made eagle on it yesterday and made double eagle on it today.   
I had 208 to the front, 227 to the hole.  Straight down wind.  Hit the prettiest 5-iron, landed on the front of the green, and it just broke right in there like a putt.   
So that's the first one I ever made.  So it was pretty neat to make your first albatross at the Senior PGA.  So it was pretty cool.   
 Q.  When you were in the fairway thinking about the shot, what were you trying to do with it?  
KENNY PERRY: I was just trying to hit the green.  We had a pretty hard, pretty violent straight down right-to-left wind.  Pin was front left.  I knew I had to kind of skirt that right bunker, with the cross wind and all, to try to get it to feed down to the hole.  It just came out just like I saw it.  Hit it very solid.  It was a pretty golf shot.   
 Q.  The crowd's reaction.  Tell me about that.  How that maybe motivated you to keep things together for the rest of the round?  
KENNY PERRY: Pretty much that saved the round.  I had made three double bogeys on the previous nine holes and I was out of it.  And that actually energized me a little bit to -- at least to fight on the next few holes.   
So, I couldn't see it go in, but when I saw the crowd jump up and down, I knew it went in.   
 Q.  What does that do for momentum heading into the weekend?  
KENNY PERRY: Well, I don't know.  It gives me another two days.  The weather got pretty wicked out there the last three holes.  I think we're going to fight weather a little bit the next few days.   
So, somehow I've got to turn this around and be positive and figure out a way to play like I did the first day.  I didn't miss many shots the first day, shot a good round of golf.  So I need to do that again tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT