THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 1, 2008
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN vT ALEXANDER: We'd like to thank Kenny Perry for joining us and congratulations on the 2008 Memorial Tournament champion for the third time. 
 KENNY PERRY: Thank you very much.
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER: I know this was a long time coming this year. You played terrific and you deserved it and you played great today on a tough golf course. Congratulations.
 KENNY PERRY: Thank you very much. Yeah, it was probably the most -- probably one of the greatest rounds I ever remember in a long time playing in tough conditions. 
 I shot 9-under on the front nine, and it could have been 6-under. I mean, I had it close on every hole. I just kept hitting it close. My iron shots were precise. My yardages were perfect. And to shoot 3-under on a tough nine in those conditions, I knew that I just need to figure out somehow, that back nine's tough. 
 12, 14, those are tough little holes. And I made two incredible up-and-downs on 12 and 14 to save the round and I hit the prettiest 5-wood in my life on 15 to about 15 feet. And got fooled a little bit on 17, on yardage. I think the wind switched in my face and in mid-flight and kind of knocked the ball down in the front bunker to make bogey. 
 But then I hit a beautiful little 5-wood off 18, a pretty little 8-iron in there 20 feet left of the hole and so I could 2-putt. Didn't even look at the leaderboard. I didn't know if I was one up up two up or three up, I didn't know how I stood. I was very focused and very patient as to make pars. That was my goal, to make as many pars as I could, and if I made some birdies, try to hang on to them. 
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER: Questions, please? 

 Q. You mentioned outside a discussion you had with Jack and Barbara at the President's Cup where you thanked them for Muirfield. Which one of your years was that? Who all was there? Was it a formal dinner?
 KENNY PERRY: It was Saturday night and usually that's the night everybody gets around the round table. And everybody just kind of spills their heart, thanking Jack for the week. We were just all -- just it was just a big love.

 Q. South Africa though?
 KENNY PERRY: The team I was on, no, we were over -- that was the first one we tied. The next one we won. It was when Chris Di Marco made the putt on the last hole. What year was that? 

 Q. Two years later. 2005. 
 KENNY PERRY: 2005. Okay. It was that year. So that's when we all gathered around and that was my first comment, all the hard work you put in the week and I thanked him for Muirfield. But anyway, that's -- this place is special to me. When you win your first event, it just has too many good memories, too many good vibes and too many great rounds here, so tickled for me just to get out there and stay ahead of them and get back in that winners circle.

 Q. Where does this round rank, maybe not score-wise but just given all the circumstances?
 KENNY PERRY: Top-5 easily. 

 Q. Goal for the Ryder Cup, Azinger's comment, everything?
 KENNY PERRY: Everything I put on -- all the pressure I put on myself to try to make the Ryder Cup. It may be the No. 1 round, because it may take, this may solidify my spot. I don't know. But when Azinger said in the paper that the guys on his team are going to have to win tournaments, that really changed my thinking. And I knew I had to win golf tournaments. 
 And to get it done and to kind of get your back against the wall and to actually do it, this may be the greatest round. I don't know. I still look back at the Sunday round I shot here in 1991 to win my first event. So that was pretty huge to play under a different kind of pressure, not knowing, not being there, not been there. I've been here enough times to understand my body, what I'm experiencing, what I'm feeling out there. But I had an unbelievable calmness out there today, just very relaxed and very focused. 
 You know, I was going to the tee box, everybody was going, Go big blue, Kentucky, Ryder Cup, Ryder Cup. And all this. But I just kind of kept my visor -- I kind of kept it down like this. And I kept looking at the ground and I didn't want to look. I didn't want to make eye contact with nobody because I knew each hole has potential disaster here. And I was not -- I didn't feel comfortable until I made that last putt on the last hole.

 Q. Did you cross paths at all with Azinger since you read what you read in the paper this week?
 KENNY PERRY: No. I have not seen him. 

 Q. Haven't talked to him or anything?
 KENNY PERRY: No, I have not. 

 Q. You also mentioned one other thing I wanted to follow-up on. You mentioned outside what happened at the PGA at Valhalla and what it did for you. 
 KENNY PERRY: Tough loss.

 Q. How much has that driven your career since then?
 KENNY PERRY: Well, big. I've always said that you can either go one way or another. You can either -- it can bother you so much that you can get in your head and your psyche and make you fail or it can make you stronger. And I just -- I was not going to let that beat me. I was determined to get out there and win golf tournaments and forget about that day. And now I hope I get back there. I feel like that place owes me a little something. I feel like I can be a big part of that team and I can actually score points. 
 And I'm just playing great golf. I've had an unbelievable month. I had mostly downs, I mean, from 81 on Sunday at TPC to hitting a tree, which there is no way you can hit that tree. I could stand there with a million balls and you can never hit that tree and it goes back into the water to lose the tournament. And then to come here and play perfect golf on Sunday and come from the back of the pack and win the tournament. I always wanted to win one that way. Not be in the lead group, kind of put the round in, post the number and see if the guys can catch you. So it's kind of a first for me. 

 Q. You talked about the two incredible up-and-downs. Can you walk us through those on 12 and 14?
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah. 12 is just such a tough hole, so intimidating. And it was about 196 yards down left-to-right wind and I hit a 7-iron. I was playing middle, right over that middle of that left front bunker, the left side of it that was kind of my aiming point, and it kind of drew a little bit and then it carried way too far and it went into the back side and not just in, it went all the way through the bunker on to the back, so I'm way above the ball, ball's way below my feet. And I'm shooting this way, I'm trying to shoot with the fringe because the green's kind of a long ways, I'm here in the bunker shooting with it and just trying to feather it down to the hole. Probably hit one of the best bunker shots of my life because when you're that far above it, it's so easy to quit on it. And I said, Just don't quit on it. I said, Make sure you release the club. Follow through with it. If it goes in the water, it goes in the water, I said, but we got to try to execute this shot. And I nipped it perfectly, landed right in the short fringe, took a couple hops, and then just fed down there about 8 feet past. And huge putt. I make that putt, that's one of the putts I can look back and say that won the tournament for me. 
 And then on 14, I had 139 downwind. I hit a little pitching wedge. I didn't even hit it hard. And it carried all the way over the green. That's the shot everybody sees where Tiger dumps his first one and he chips the next one in. I'm thinking, oh, don't dump this one. And thank goodness I got there. I had a good lie. The ball was sitting up probably an inch in the stuff, it wasn't nestled down, so it was kind of up so I had the ability to slide the blade in underneath it, could see it down there two feet past, and made a nice little 2-footer for par. So definitely two crucial holes. 
 And then the 5-wood on 15 was just sweet. That was just -- that was money. That was butter. 
 (Laughter.)
 You know, and I hit it in there and 15 feet right of the hole I'm thinking we're going to make this eagle here, we're going to walk away with it. And just missed it. And then hit a nice 7-iron on the next hole. Hit a good 5-wood off the tee. A pretty 7-iron came up short in the front bunker, which, I can't believe it came up where it did. I guess the wind kind of swirled around. 
 Then I hit a beautiful 5-wood after the 18th hole knowing I needed to make four and I needed to hit that fairway and then I hit an 8-iron in there 20 feet right of the hole where you have to hit it. And 2-putted to win the golf tournament. 

 Q. After what happened -- you mentioned the TPC and after the tree in Atlanta, are you questioning -- were you questioning at any point that maybe you weren't going to win?
 KENNY PERRY: I think those thoughts always get in your head. It definitely made me appreciate my nine other wins. I always look back and say, How did I do it? What's the magic here? What's the formula to win? And to get so close and to fall on your face that bad, I mean, just that was very disappointing. But you know what? I knew I was playing great. I'm hitting the ball awesome, I'm hitting my driver terrific, my irons are on the money, and I've got great touch with the putter right now. So I come to this place and the magic always happens for me here. For whatever reason. I just love this place. This is by far the best place for me. If I retire, I need to build a house right on this golf course. 
 (Laughter.)
 JACK NICKLAUS: We can work on that.
 (Laughter.)
Q. You're in a stretch of a schedule where you historically have played some of your best golf. Was there any part of you that was kind of worried that it was getting away, I mean, what happened in Atlanta, the fluke there?
 KENNY PERRY: I think you always think that. But I got great tournaments coming up. Hartford. Buick, I won the Buick up in Flint, Michigan. Just courses that when I go there I got a lot of confidence. And my time's running out though, it's getting close to September here, you need to make it happen and you need to make it happen fast, and to be able to get the win here is huge.

 Q. Jay Haas got redemption at Oak Hill. He had the bad Ryder Cup experience and then just won the Senior PGA. Is it Valhalla specifically that you want redemption at or do you just want to be on this Cup team because it's in Kentucky in general?
 KENNY PERRY: That's it, just because it's in front of my home folks. It's just going to be a tremendous feeling for me to be able to celebrate with them, represent my country, and then to get to play his course, he designed it again, and I love his courses, I always do well on his courses, so I always feel very comfortable. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: You'll like the changes too.
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, I haven't played it since you changed it. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: You'll like them. 
 KENNY PERRY: All right. But anyway, yeah, it was just to make the team and play at home. That's just a home game. That's what I wanted. Kentucky is starved for golf. We don't have a TOUR event there. I thought that the '96 and 2000 PGA were run outstanding. The galleries were great. The people were great. I thought that, and I asked the players what did they think and they thought that the tournament was excellent, how it was run. So... 

 Q. Now that you've won, do you feel relieved or can you describe it?
 KENNY PERRY: Definitely. Well, I mean, I don't want to let my guard down. I still want to get out there and push hard and keep playing well. Now there's other goals. Can I be a multiple winner again like I was in 2003, 2005 and work my way now up to FedExCup points, try to get upper echelon again where I was back in the mid 2000s where I was a Top-30 world player. And that would be neat to kind of get back there again. 

 Q. Can you talk about, you went through this period without sports psychologists and swing coaches and I know you kind of are an old-school guy to do it yourself. Obviously it works. Why? Why does it work for you?
 KENNY PERRY: Just a lot of belief in myself. My faith. I just -- you know, God's my psychologist. I just got too much faith and I just believe too much. And if it didn't go my way, my career's been great in my opinion. It's nothing like his or these upper echelon guys, but to come from where I came from, small town, about 8,000 people, from a nine-hole golf course, and to make it as far as I have has just been a dream come true. It's just been a dream ride. 
 And, you know, I don't need a psychologist. I believe enough in myself. My dad taught me a lot and I thank my dad a lot. He gave me a lot of inner strength and a lot of confidence that I believed in. So... 

 Q. There was not a lot of movement on the board today because the course was playing so tough. You've won three times here over a span of 17 years. With the way the course was this week, was this the toughest?
 KENNY PERRY: Toughest I've ever seen it. Best conditioned, just toughest with the swirling winds out there kind of and it was just -- and the greens were so fast. I mean, you really had to play course management. You really had to pay attention to where you were making that ball land on the greens and it was fun actually. I enjoyed it. I mean, it's such a challenge out there to be able to execute that golf shot and to make it end up -- you're aiming 50 feet right of the hole and then it hits the green and curls around, goes up a slope, and there it is right by the hole. That's pretty neat. 

 Q. What was it like for you to have your family here today?
 KENNY PERRY: That was a first for me. Sandy stayed home, raised the kids while I was out tromping around trying to make a living for them, and this was actually the first tournament where they all were here to get to watch me win. It's neat for them to see what I do, what I've done for 22 years out here on the TOUR. All the heartaches and how hard it is and traveling alone, eating alone. I did Subway last night after I got off the course.
 (Laughter.)
 It's 8:30 at night. I got off the course at 8:30 and so I went to Subway by myself. So... 
 (Laughter.)
 It's just interesting. You can't go eat -- you don't want to eat at 10 o'clock. Sandy drove up today. She was home this week. But my sister drove up. My son and his gang has been here all week. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: We had dinner in the clubhouse for all all the players after the round. Did you miss that? You opted for Subway? 
 KENNY PERRY: I did. I didn't see the memo. I missed the memo. 
 (Laughter.)
 I would have definitely been there for that.

 Q. Wonder if you could just talk briefly about 17. When you missed your par putt and Jerry's standing there three feet from the hole, are you thinking all of a sudden that it's going to be a one-shot lead going to the 18th and how did that --
 KENNY PERRY: Well, I still knew I was going to have a one-shot lead. That to me was a lot. That felt good to me. I knew it was going to make the situation a little more dicey and I flinched. I couldn't believe he missed it and I know he can't believe he missed it because I played with him yesterday and today and he jammed every one of those putts right in the back of the hole. He hadn't missed a putt in two rounds. And it shocked me and I know as much as it shocked him, but golf's a crazy game and funny things happen and then he drilled that drive on the last hole right down the middle and it went in the rough on him. 
 And I hit a beautiful 5-wood. That shot tickled me. To know that situation with a left-to-right wind and I could take my 5-wood down the right side and draw it into the wind and hit it just dead middle of the fairway, that was exciting for me. I really enjoyed that golf shot. 

 Q. Are there enough Ryder Cup tickets for the whole town of Franklin?
 KENNY PERRY: They better give me a lot, because I know a lot's coming. That's all I got to say. I even bought them. I got in a lottery and we won. We put about 20 names in and we have already gotten about 10 tickets.

 Q. How long does it take to drive from Franklin?
 KENNY PERRY: 2 hours. It's 120 miles.

 Q. You're talking about Memorial. This is sort of where it all started coming back together for you last year, the knee surgery and whatnot, and you had been just sort of making cuts and doing nothing. And the light went on. 
 KENNY PERRY: It's good to set goals, I guess. I just kind of got in the doldrums, I reckon. I don't know. My knee, I had surgery and I really came back too fast and I really got in some bad swing habits and couldn't get off my right leg and I kept flipping my hands. I kept hitting pull looks, all of 2006. And it just bled right into 2007. And I think I just now got over it, to tell you the truth. My knee is now to a point that it feels strong, it's solid, it doesn't hurt now, and I'm actually getting off my right side like I used to and I'm starting to hit a draw that starts right and comes back. My draws were starting down the middle and were hooking and I was dead. 
 So I'm actually seeing the golf ball come out of that. When I pick it up, it's in the right part of my eye when I see it now. And so I don't know. I just think I've got a lot more left in me. I really do. I think I can play great until I turn 50. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: Then you'll think you'll play great after that too. Go enjoy that. 
 (Laughter.)
 KENNY PERRY: I look forward to it. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: Yes. Take your time. 

 Q. More meaningful to join Tiger as three-time winner here or to join him at Valhalla in September?
 KENNY PERRY: Valhalla. By far. Yeah. I mean, I just -- that is just going to be a neat experience for me. To be able to -- and in front of everybody -- to celebrate with them and hopefully I can have the nerves and the calmness like I had today to go out there and hit, execute golf shots. And that will be the ultimate high. 

 Q. What did you take out of the 2004 team, your first one?
 KENNY PERRY: Not a lot. We got beat so bad. We got down and we didn't -- I only played two matches. I played the singles and I played one -- Stewart Cink and I played the better ball and that's all I got to play. So I didn't even play the second day. So it was kind of tough sitting on the sidelines watching. Phil and Tiger were having a tough time teaming up. And Hal, I guess Hal just struggled pairing up the guys, I don't know. And they just got on top of us and it was just -- it was kind of a downer week. 
 But it was still fun to hang out with the wives and the families. We still get in those team rooms, and to hang out, you can't put a price on that. That is just so much fun to get to know insides and outs of a Tiger Woods or any of those guys, Phil Mickelson. I can beat them all in ping pong. They're terrible in ping pong. 
 (Laughter.) 
 JACK NICKLAUS: They have gotten better now.
 KENNY PERRY: They have? They still can't beat me. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: Montreal, they played for hours every day. They still can't beat you.
 KENNY PERRY: Well, we want you to be the captain. You're awesome. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: Well, you got somebody else. 
 (Laughter.) 
 And that's okay. I had a great run at it. These are points for Ryder Cup points. You're fifth on the list.
 KENNY PERRY: Oh, sweet. 
 (Applause.)
 JACK NICKLAUS: That's great. Is this the Ryder Cup? Because we were told he was going to be eighth. He's fifth on the money. 
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER: I just pulled that off.
 JACK NICKLAUS: That's not the Money List? That's the Ryder Cup list. 
 KENNY PERRY: Great. Great. That's even better. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: You're there.
 KENNY PERRY: Closer. Closer to my goal, buddy. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: You're going to get there. There won't be any problem. You're one spot ahead of Boo Weekley. 
 (Laughter.) 
 KENNY PERRY: He's going to be a character on that team. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: Yes, he will. Yes, he will.
 KENNY PERRY: He'll keep us all loose. 

 Q. Mr. Nicklaus talked about Arnold Palmer, talking to him very early in his career about what you do for sponsors and that kind of thing and it sounded almost like there was some mentoring going on there. Perhaps J.B. Holmes is on that Ryder Cup team and obviously you're from the same area, do you communicate with him to, have you helped him out at all when he's first come out on the TOUR?
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah. Andy is a big buddy with his wife, Sarah, and we have always tried to be open there with anything they needed, if they wanted, it was a phone call away, whatever they needed to know anything about the tournament, travel, where to stay, whatever, I always played a lot of practice rounds with J.B. I've just always wanted to be there for him. He doesn't really call me a lot. He's pretty talented. He likes to do things his own way. But I'm there for him if he needs me. I'm happy to help out in any way I can. And I hope he makes that team. I think he'll be -- it would be neat if me and him could partner up and make some points. That would be awesome. 

 Q. You talk about the success that you had on this course, do you feel in a way that you kind of stole one here and what do you say to a Mathew Goggin who led this tournament all the way and just wasn't able to close the deal. What do you say to a guy like that?
 KENNY PERRY: I made with Mathew yesterday and I told him after the round, I said, you got the look of a winner. I said, you played beautiful today. On Saturday he didn't miss a shot. And I talked to him just briefly before his round, I told him, I said, just keep doing what you're doing; I said, you're going to win a golf tournament. And I was just trying to pump him up because we're all brothers out here. Even though we're playing against each other I don't want to see anybody fail. And it's, you know what, we're all -- he needs to get his foot in the door. He hadn't won a tournament. I know he's won a couple Nationwides or maybe something on the Australian or European Tour, I'm not sure, I know he hasn't won a PGA TOUR event, but he's going to get there. He's very talented, and I'll talk to him again when I see him and try to pump him up a little bit. Everybody -- I don't know how many second places this man's had and how many defeats he's had. I know he's had a lot. And you just you're going to have, that ball's not going to go your way a certain day and it's not going to be your day. But I don't think I stole one. I think I played great today. I think I really my golf game shined today. And I actually won a tournament. I didn't steal it, I won it. 

 Q. You've had stretches like this before. Where do you put this one and do you think that this is something that you can continue because obviously you have been on a pretty good high?
 KENNY PERRY: Well, I hope so. It's going to be tough for me showing up in Memphis next week. This is my sixth week in a row I've been home one day in six weeks. So I'm going to go home Tuesday I'll show up in Memphis on Wednesday, so I'll get another day at home. But that's just, I'm a streaky player I've done this throughout my whole career when I won back to clear at Colonial and Memorial back to back weeks. And then 2005 I won a couple times. And early like in '95, I led, let's see, I won the Hope, but I had the lead going into Riviera and on the last day and Corey beat me. And I had the lead the next week too and then I lost to Peter Jacobsen at Pebble Beach. 
 So it was another stretch to where I had, I was in the last group for three and four weeks in a row. It just, that's just the way I play for some reason. And dad's always told me, ride that train when it's hot, keep chasing it. Don't go home. And I've always taken his advice to heart. And I'm going to keep playing until I'm just mentally frazzled and then I'll go home for couple weeks. 

 Q. Are you going to at least watch the U.S. Open? And laugh?
 KENNY PERRY: No, I'll probably regret I'm not there. Now that the way I'm playing. And as good as I'm playing, I don't have many U.S. Opens left in me. But I'm not going to 36 hole qualify. I just, to me, that just is too much now. I just don't like it. I was not in the tournament, if I'm not qualified and I think that if I'm I'll stay up I'll be qualified for all the Majors next year. So to me that's going to be a bonus. I'll get to now pick my schedule to where I can play all the Majors. And try to win one. That's now that will be my last goal. My only goal, I tell everybody, was to make the Ryder Cup team. Well if that's come true now I need to reshift it to win a Major. So that's kind of what I'll do. Now I'll get to play in the Masters next year, that's going to be awesome. So a lot of doors will get to open again for me.

 Q. Do you remember the last time you even tried to 36 hole qualify?
 KENNY PERRY: Probably five years ago. Four five years ago. That's just too hard. It messes up that week to me to 36 hole on Monday and and then try to play Memphis, to try to go and get ready for a golf tournament, I just, to me it's not worth it anymore. If I was younger, you know, 25 years old or something, I just -- I'm just a little older. It just don't work now like it used to.

 Q. Something's working out there. 
 (Laughter.)

 Q. I wonder if you could, some of the birdies you had early, six in particular, because a lot of guys were having trouble with the wind?
 KENNY PERRY: Terrific golf shot. I had 187 to the hole perfect 6-iron into the wind. And thank goodness it carried to the very back of the green and it didn't jump forward into the rough. It hit and it died into that and then it just trickled all the way back to about six inches of the hole. Had a chance of going in. But it was a golf shot, when I hit it it just felt so sweet when it left my hands. So that was huge. 
 And then I missed little birdies on 7 and 8. And then to make that putt on 9 was key. I hit a beautiful 9-iron about 12 feet past the hole, right and a little long and it -- here's a putt, I'm not far away, but I'm probably playing four feet of break. And I just kind of killed it out there and then it just snapped and then it just went right into the middle of the hole. That was, that really loosened me up. It got me ready for the back nine. 

 Q. Just lastly I'm just trying to picture the age of the kids when you won here in '91. They must have all been?
 KENNY PERRY: '84, '85 and '88 is when they were born. So. 

 Q. Yeah. What's it mean to look back not just see them here but see how big they are?
 KENNY PERRY: Awesome. 

 Q. Make you feel older?
 KENNY PERRY: Leslie just got engaged, my oldest, and so Sandy's planning a wedding here pretty soon. And so it was nice to have them here. 

 Q. You'll be a grandpa next year?
 KENNY PERRY: I'm looking forward to grand kids. So. 
 (Laughter.)

 Q. Talk to him about that. 
 KENNY PERRY: They better get busy. 
 (Laughter.) 
 Look at her, she turned red.
 JACK NICKLAUS: Be careful what you wish for. 
 (Laughter.) 
 JACK NICKLAUS: We were 50, Barb and I were 50 and we didn't have any grand kids. I think we were 55 and we had eight or something. 
 KENNY PERRY: Awesome. I hope to have that. I'm looking forward to it.

 Q. Jack, what did you see from your time in the booth? 
 JACK NICKLAUS: What I saw today was basically what I said out here at the ceremony, I saw a lot of guys struggling, putting the ball where they shouldn't put it. And I saw time after time -- and Mike Weir did it several times and he got out of it several times. Mike had some phenomenal recoveries today. 
 But Kenny was the only one that never looked like he put himself in a position to get really in trouble. He played smart, he played, he looked like a guy who knew what he was doing and knew the golf course enough that he knew where the traps were on the golf course, not the sand traps but the -- you know what I mean -- and whatever the right word is. 
 And he played that way. And he, not only did he know it, he was able to do it. It's one key -- it's one thing knowing how to play the golf course, the other is to be able to do it when you know it. And that's what he did. He did it beautifully. He was right there. Yesterday, you missed so many putts yesterday. You had.
 KENNY PERRY: That putt on 18 was huge. When I made the putt on the last hole to get to 5-under.
 JACK NICKLAUS: You had so many putts you left short and low. 
 KENNY PERRY: Yes. Didn't have the speed yesterday. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: Yeah. 
 KENNY PERRY: And a little bit of rain just kind of threw me just a little bit it just slowed them down just enough. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: But it didn't change. He didn't panic, he kept right on playing and played his game and that's what you have to do. And he did a great job of it. 

 Q. Can you explain, mean this is clearly close to a U.S. Open setup the way it is, you won here three times, you win on difficult golf courses, why is it you have never had that success in a U.S. Open?
 KENNY PERRY: I wish I could answer that. I don't know. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: Well, he's not going play, for one. 
 (Laughter.) 

 Q. Previous U.S. Opens. 
 KENNY PERRY: I had success if I'm not playing, that will make me feel a lot better, my mind will be better, any way. I finished -- my best finish is third to Jim Furyk at there in Chicago, what was that, Olympia Fields. And as good as I drive the golf ball I would always thought a U.S. Open would fit me perfectly, but for some reason I never, I never been able to dial in the right formula. I just never had played well going into the tournament and I just, I would miss fairways and then my short game is not as good as most of these guys out here. 
 But my putter's getting a lot better. I'm putting fast greens great right now. And so I don't know. I wish I could play better in a U.S. Open. I've done okay in the PGA. I made a lot of cuts in PGAs. I like the PGA Championship for whatever reason. Seems like so I do okay in those. But I don't know. I wish could I do better at the U.S. Open. That's kind of days pointing. 

 Q. Five years ago when you won here I think you drove your truck to Indy and picked up a car and hauled it down?
 KENNY PERRY: Picked up my race car, yeah. Sure did.

 Q. How did you get here this year?
 KENNY PERRY: In my truck. 

 Q. Okay. So you're driving home?
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, I got to go to Finley Country Club, Finley, Ohio, tomorrow to do a pro-am if you want to come see me. 
 (Laughter.)
 I got a Taylor Made outing in Finley tomorrow. I don't know how far that is from here. 

 Q. An hour and a half?
 KENNY PERRY: An hour and a half. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: 90 miles. 

 Q. Do you mind if we don't show up tomorrow? We got Open qualifying tomorrow. 
 KENNY PERRY: Oh, thank goodness I don't have to do that. 
 JACK NICKLAUS: I think they're trying to wrap you up here for a reason. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT