THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 31, 2008
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You've got to feel good about going into tomorrow making birdie on 18.   
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, I hung in there. That's all -- the round was a big struggle. And somehow maybe the mo will come back like I did the first day and get on a rhythm and get on a roll and run them down.  
  
  Q. Talk about the play in the group.   
 KENNY PERRY: Mathew played great. He struck the ball beautifully. He's going to be a hard man to catch tomorrow. So I needed to get a putt on that last hole to just get me within striking distance. I missed a gimmie on 16 for birdie and hit it close on 17. But it was just a tough golf course. The wind was swirling. It was hard to pick your clubs, it was hard to hit fairways and chopping out of that rough is just not a lot of fun out there. 2-over was a tough round, but it was okay. I fought hard all day.   
  
  Q. On the U.S. Open thing, your thoughts. I know that must not have been the decision that was necessarily easily made to not play there?   
 KENNY PERRY: It was easy for me. I don't play Torrey Pines well at all. Never have, never will. I only played there three times in 23 years. So that kind of tells you what I think. It's a terrific golf course, I went there this year and played it, but I don't putt well on poa annua greens and seaside golf course there, beautiful though, love the weather. Love looking at the ocean, but I just can't play them all and that was one I just chose to always skip, but it was easy for me to make that decision.  
  
  Q. The 36-hole qualifier Monday?  
 KENNY PERRY: I'll never do another one of those.   
  
  Q. Gas you already more than you already are now?  
 KENNY PERRY: Exactly. I'm too old for that.   
  
  Q. K.J. came from five back last year to do it. Everybody at five in this?  
 KENNY PERRY: Very much so. Yeah, the guys at 3-under are in this golf tournament. If Mathew has an off day tomorrow, it brings the whole field in. It's definitely his tournament to win. If he shoots 75, then the door's wide open for everybody.   
  
  Q. You had a pretty unbelievable final round was it last year here?  
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Do you draw upon that?  
 KENNY PERRY: Totally different conditions. Totally different golf course. The greens stay the way they are, it's hard to even shoot a 69.   
  
  Q. What's in your head number-wise that you think you need tomorrow?  
 KENNY PERRY: I'm not even going to -- I don't think number-wise I'm just going to -- I'm struggling on each hole out there. I'm just going to try to get it on the fairway and get it on the green and make pars. I said I would be happy having 18 pars, and couldn't do it. It was just too much wind, too much struggle. And I'm tired. It was just a long day. I teed off at 12:30, finish at 8:30, I mean, come on.   
  
  Q. You're chasing a guy that would you hope for no wind tomorrow to have a chance to shoot a lower number?  
 KENNY PERRY: I don't know. I don't know. I'm not hitting it well enough for the high winds. I think that if I was really dialed in with the game, no wind would give me a shot with the putter. Putter let me down today. So who know, I don't know. If you can shoot a low round in gusty winds, yeah, you pass the world.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT