SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2016
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No microphone.)
KENNY PERRY: We were all feeding off each another.  Rocco shot 29 on the front nine and drug us all along in there.  He hit it close and made a lot of putts.  It kind of set the tone for the whole group.
The whole group played nice until the last couple holes, I don't know if we got tired or what, but they're hard holes, 16, 17 and 18 are tough holes.
I bogeyed 17 and I think Colin bogeyed 16 and 17.  So, but Rocco parred them all.  So he had an amazing round.
Q. He tied your course record, are you all right with that?
KENNY PERRY: Oh, yeah.  Records don't last long.  They're always going to be broken.
Q. You had said earlier in the week that you were looking for some confidence.  What does a day like today maybe do for you?
KENNY PERRY: Well, it's just a good start.  It's a long tournament, we still got a lot of holes to go, and I don't tee off until 2 o'clock tomorrow, so just need to get some rest and do a little practicing and hopefully get my mind right and the rhythm of my golf swing will be the same it was today and keep making birdies.  I just think there's going to be a lot of good scores out there.
Q. A lot of guys that went out in the morning put up good scores.  Do you think you guys got the better half of the draw, maybe?
KENNY PERRY: Probably so.  I think it was kind of calm out there until about the last six or seven holes.  Then the wind kind of picked up to about 10 miles an hour.
I think it was, we probably only had four or five mile an hour wind most of the day.  So, that's pretty disturbing when, if you got like a 2 o'clock tee time, and you look up at the board and somebody's shot 62 and it's blowing about 15, you're thinking, oh, my goodness, how did they do that.  So, yeah, we probably got a little bit better end that have draw.
Q. Take us there you that crazy 9th hole.  The one you had to chip over the road.
KENNY PERRY: Yeah, I blocked a 5-wood and it hit the cart path where all the people were standing and then it hit the other cart path and then it went across the road.
And I thought it was out of bounds and then they told me it was in bounds.
So then I had about a 70 yard shot back to the flag which wasn't really too bad.  And I was able to make par.
Q. And then you were, they announced yesterday that it's coming back here for through 2024 every other year.  What do you think of this place kind of being the quote unquote home course of the Senior PGA Championship?
KENNY PERRY: They have done a great job with this whole area.  They're trying to revitalize this area.  They have done a great job.  I think as you continue to pump money into this area and make it better, it's only going to get better and better over time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT