AT&T CLASSIC
May 17, 2008
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Kenny Perry, thanks for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the AT&T Classic. Good round today, 3 under par 69. I heard you comment down there a few minutes ago, said you were just kind of struggling with energy yesterday and that you felt really good today. You got a good meal, good rest. Just a few comments on the day.
 KENNY PERRY: Good day. Hit the ball beautifully today, and I got off to a great start. I birdied the third and eagled the 4th. I had the mindset I was going to shoot a low round; that was just kind of what was in my head today. I felt very comfortable out there. I wasn't nervous. My swing felt great. Got off to a good start. 
 I just hit two poor shots; pulled a 7-iron left on 9 and pushed a 7-iron to the right on 16 which cost me two bogeys. All in all, I was pleased with 3 under. I was glad somebody didn't run away with it. So that was good to see that I'm only one back going into tomorrow's round.
 THE MODERATOR: Into tomorrow's round for the second straight week you're playing in the final group. Is there something about this time of year that you --
 KENNY PERRY: I just enjoy summertime golf period. That's just when I always seem to play my best golf, when it's hot and humid. I look forward to that kind of golf. So I'm looking forward to the next few weeks.

 Q. Being a Kentucky guy, can you appreciate a horse race and do you expect one tomorrow?
 KENNY PERRY: Very much so. I mean there's 20 guys that probably can win. I mean, you look at Ryuji and some of the guys who shot 6, 7 under today, it's going to a definitely be a horse race. I mean probably somebody is going to shoot a low round and come out of the pact. And it's going to be up to us up in the back to figure out a way to stay ahead of them.

 Q. Does it change the way you play?
 KENNY PERRY: Definitely. If you see guys running by you don't -- you got to play aggressive. And, you know, that's why I like the way I played today. I played aggressive, really felt good with my iron shots. If it becomes a birdie-fest tomorrow hopefully I'm in there with them.

 Q. There's been a lot of talk about the 20-somethings. They've won nine tournaments this year. And now you got a 20-something leading in the tournament. But you and David are there; the 40-somethings. Isn't it about time one of the 40-somethings --
 KENNY PERRY: We've been pretty hard on them the last few years. I mean, you know, they're in the mid-2000s that is all you heard about were guys our age. I'm glad to see the younger generation starting to play what they're capable of playing. I look forward to the challenge. 
 I'm going to enjoy playing with Charles tomorrow. You know, I like playing with those kids. And just seems funny that now I am the guy, the old guy out there. Where has the time gone. It's hard for me to believe I've been out there 22 years now, and I'm still hanging with them. So it's going to a good day. I'm looking forward to it.

 Q. Experience though could play a big factor in something like tomorrow where it could be a shootout. You know, how to react and that type of thing don't you think?
 KENNY PERRY: Well, I mean, I thought experience would help me last week and it didn't. And, you know, if you are playing good golf, you're going to play good golf. Doesn't matter if you got experience or not. 
 I just hope, you know, I have the same feelings I had in me today, that I can take that with me tomorrow and be very relaxed and be very confident over the ball and know I'm going to hit quality golf shots.

 Q. Does it change your approach going into tomorrow, knowing it's going be threesomes off two tees at earlier times?
 KENNY PERRY: Well not really. I don't think so. 
 You know, I always play one way. I don't really change my approach too much on how I'm playing a golf course. But, you know, like I said earlier, if it starts becoming a shootout then you got to get a lot more aggressive and start firing more at the flag. So I'll wait and see how it plays out through the first six, seven holes and see how everybody is standing.

 Q. If you wouldn't mind just running us through your birdies and giving us some clubs?
 KENNY PERRY: 3, I hit a 3-iron and a sand wedge to about 10 feet. 4, I hit a driver and a 3-wood and about 20 feet and made Eagle. 12, I hit a 3-iron and an 8-iron to about a foot and a half, 2 foot I guess. And 18 I hit a driver, 5-wood in the back bunker, splashed it down to about 2 feet and made it.
 THE MODERATOR: Kenny, thanks for coming in. Appreciate it and best of luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT