THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2008
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Will you go out thinking the same thing tomorrow, I'm just going to go out, play hard, see what happens?  
 KENNY PERRY: A lot of survival out there. There's a lot of difficult holes, a lot of tough situations you find yourself into. I just hope my putter hangs in there like it did today. I made a lot of key four- to eight-foot par putts.   
 I was disappointed in my driver. I didn't drive it as well today. I seemed to keep missing everything in the semi-rough over there to the right, just barely off, maybe two, three, four feet off to the right. But you've got to hit the fairway where you can get a little spin on the golf ball where you can kind of control it around the holes.   
 But all in all, I was ecstatic with my score. I struggled, played smart. Just like there on 18, I laid it up to a number I was comfortable with and was able to get aggressive with a shot and get it in there within ten feet and survive it and make par.  
 I don't know if this wind is going to continue to stay there tomorrow, but it's very difficult out there, and the greens are just very firm. It's going to take a lot of patience.  
  
  Q. When you're not hitting it as crisp as you want, then you've got to be able to make that four to ten intermediate putt to kind of keep the round going?  
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, you get a lot of those. You're always -- if you can get it on the green, it's going to be 20 to 40 feet away from the hole. I had a lot of those today. But then I had a couple real good shots that didn't turn out, either. I landed them up there where I thought was a good spot, but they took a first big bounce and the next thing you know they're over a swale and I've got a 20-footer up and over a swale coming back.   
 You know what, you just don't know what to expect out there. You've just got to keep your head up and keep pushing, and hopefully, you know, you'll keep it under the hole a few times and make a few of them and make those birdies draw a little interest out there.  
  
  Q. The golf course itself must have been a little bit more difficult today because the conditions were a little less difficult?   
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, they firmed it up from yesterday. I think yesterday the greens held a little bit more, were a little bit slower. Today they were very slick, glassy looking, very firm. I was just touching those putts and that ball was rolling out. They had to be around 14-plus on the Stimpmeter. They were really fast.  
  
  Q. Will you go out with the same kind of game plan tomorrow?  
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, there's no other game plan, survival. That's all it is. You've got to somehow get it in the fairway to have a chance to try to attack some of these pins.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT