THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2008
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just talk about the afternoon. People probably thought when Anthony Kim was at 4-under that that was going to have the lead with the conditions the way they were. You've got to be pretty proud of that round.   
 KENNY PERRY: Very proud of the round. It was the kind of day where you could shoot a big number in a hurry. I was very patient, drove the ball good again today. The secret to my round, I putted great. I made a lot of nice four- to eight-footers for par all day today.   
 You know, you're at the mercy of the wind. It was hard to ever feel comfortable on any tee shot. Thank goodness wherever they did end up, I was able to maneuver them, get them on the green and make pars. That was my goal today, just to make 18 pars. I was able to sneak in three birdies and one bogey. The only bogey made was a good shot. I had 243 on 8 with a 5-iron, landed on the front of the green, rolled all the way over into the back bunker and I didn't get up-and-down. It was a good golf shot, though. All in all, I was pleased with the round.  
  
  Q. How challenging were the conditions when you got to 17 today?  
 KENNY PERRY: Very tough. I've probably played here 18, 20 tournaments, I don't know how many. That was probably the hardest conditions in all my years I can ever remember hitting that golf shot today.  
  
  Q. Why, just in terms of the strength of the wind?  
 KENNY PERRY: Exactly. You never felt quite comfortable with where it was at because it was swirling all day today. Thank goodness I hit a beautiful shot. They said it lipped out. It either hit the hole or whatever and went about eight feet past. Water was long, and when I saw the shot in the air, I thought, well, this is either going to be birdie or 8 (laughter).  
  
  Q. Did you hit a 9-iron?  
 KENNY PERRY: I hit a little 9-iron, sure did. I knocked it in under the wind. The wind was left to right and in, so it was probably the best shot of the day for me.  
  
  Q. Are the greens softer than yesterday?  
 KENNY PERRY: I don't think so. I think the wind has dried them out, and they're treacherous out there.  
  
  Q. There's a lot of good scores, and yet with the wind the way it is, it seems like it's almost harder than yesterday, and yet --  
 KENNY PERRY: The scores are better?   
  
  Q. Yeah, it seems like it.   
 KENNY PERRY: The greens could have been, but I didn't think so. To me they were very difficult. I couldn't get the ball to stay around the hole. It was releasing a lot and away.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT