FBR OPEN
January 31, 2008
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Kenny, nice round on a tough day.  It was cold in the morning when you went.   
 KENNY PERRY:  It was frigid.  I've got my Hot Hands working, I've got the Under Armour going.  I played in my full rain gear on top of it, but it's actually quite nice out there right now.  But I was playing too good, I didn't want to get out of it, so I got kind of warm at the end of the day.   
 Yeah, it was a good start.  I bogeyed two of my last three holes, kind of a bad way to end the day.  But all in all, it was a good day.  I made lots of birdies and had a good shot at really going low.   
  
  Q.  You actually took a lot of time off during the winter.   
 KENNY PERRY:  Yeah, I took pretty much -- let's see, my last tournament was the tournament before the TOUR Championship.  I guess that would be BMW, Chicago, and I played the Shark Shootout, played it, it was my only off-season event and pretty much didn't do much with golf, just kind of got away from it, kind of got refreshed.   
 I knew this year was going to be a hard year for me trying to recharge and get ready and trying to make that Ryder Cup team, so I knew I was going to play a lot.  I knew I was going to put myself out here and play week after week after week, so I kind of took that as a good downtime to get my batteries recharged and hopefully come out here refocused and ready to go.   
  
  Q.  Some players say it's way too early to be thinking of the Ryder Cup taking place at Valhalla in Louisville in your home state of Kentucky.  Is that always on the back of your mind a little bit?   
 KENNY PERRY:  Well, it has been this year.  I played a practice round with Zinger here, and I was brown-nosing pretty hard and trying to get my plug in because I know he gets four captain's picks.  But anyway, I hope I earn my way on the team, I don't have to be picked.   
 But off to a good start, third at the Hope, and hopefully can carry it over to here and get after it.   
  
  Q.  Winning at the FBR Open would certainly put you on Paul Azinger's mind.  Thanks for joining us.   
 KENNY PERRY:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT