BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 20, 2008
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH:  Kenny Perry in the interview room, 3-under 69, Kenny, just give us some comments.  I know you mentioned that you struggled some out there today.   
 KENNY PERRY:  It was a hard day on me.  I was cold all day for some reason.  I never could get warm and I was stiff.  I didn't have anything.  I kept hitting everything left, for whatever reason.  I hit it beautiful the first four rounds, and today I just didn't have much.   
 But I was able to birdie 13, 14, and 15 and get right back in the tournament.  And then I drove a pretty decent shot on 16, went right in the middle of a big divot.  I had nothing.  Just kind of skulled an 8-iron up in the back of the green and 3-putted.  And that just kind of ended my week.   
 But all in all, 90 holes, it was a grind.  I was tired, and it was a great week, I guess.   
  
  Q.  You're at a point in your career when some guys are kind of eyeing the Champions Tour.  But you've shown that you can play out here.  Does that thought creep in your head or do you still want to compete out here?   
 KENNY PERRY:  I think you always want to compete on this TOUR.  I'm healthy still; I'm strong; I still hit it plenty far.  I don't see why I can't compete out here.  Look at Fred Funk.  He's kind of a guy I'm looking to -- he stayed highly motivated all the way up until he turned 50 and is still doing well now.   
 Jay Haas kind of did the same thing.  I'm trying to follow in their footsteps and keep doing the same thing.   
  
  Q.  A finish like today gives you a validation towards that I assume?   
 KENNY PERRY:  I hope so.  I really want to get on that Ryder Cup team.  It's in Kentucky, that's my home, and very focused and working hard to try to get as many points as I can to get on that team.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned you were cold today.  Did the weather have any issue with you in the previous four rounds at all?   
 KENNY PERRY:  I played here on Wednesday, this was my first round.  Golf course was totally different.  I hit a 5-wood into 11, I hit 9-iron Wednesday, and so that just showed 10, 11 were dead into the wind, 10, 11, 12.  Those holes played really hard.  And they're very difficult holes to begin with.   
 I just thought that 1 and 2 right out of the gate played tough.  The second hole is a brutal hole.  I had to hit a 5-iron in there for my second shot and barely got it over on the water on the front right of the green.  Made a nice 2-putt for par.   
 It's just -- to me, it's not -- I don't want to -- the tournament's just not the same.  Trying to play this golf course as opposed to when I won at Bermuda Dunes.  The desert courses to me have so much more flavor and feel to them than this big open golf course.  To me, I feel like I'm playing the young man's game, whereas when you played at the desert courses, you got to shape shots, work your way around.  It's just a totally different feel of a tournament.   
 I just wish that -- nothing against SilverRock and that, I'm sure they're great courses.  I've been out here 23 years and I seen a lot of changes out here and it just -- I wish we would stick to more desert golf courses.   
  
  Q.  Could you talk a little about your bunker shot at 13 and that started a three-hole run?   
 KENNY PERRY:  I hit a pull hook off the tee and it went under a tree, and all I did, I took a 5-iron and I was intentionally hitting it in that bunker.  I thought maybe I could get up-and-down.  That was the only play I had.  I got it up on an up-slope of the bunker, which was huge, and I just was trying to get it close.  And I got lucky and it went right into the hole.   
 So I holed, I had four or five hole-outs this week.  Not bunker shots, but I chipped in, which was pretty neat.   
  
  Q.  You're talking about a young man's game.  With these courses, is that one of the things you have to do to compete with these guys?  Are there things that you have to deal with that they don't?   
 KENNY PERRY:  Yeah, they don't understand, they don't have the -- I've got a lot of knowledge in my head from all these years, and what it feels like to me and what I'm after.  The kids, like Anthony Kim, he doesn't understand where I'm thinking and what I'm feeling, where I'm coming from.  But yet, to him, he's a big, powerful high-ball -- he launches -- it's beautiful to watch him play.  Watch all these kids.  They have so much club head speed now and my speed has really come down.  I don't really have the club head speed like I used to and I don't have the altitude on my irons like I used to.   
 So now we're playing a lot longer, 7,400 yard courses, 75, 76, and you just got to really hit a lot of good shots.  And I put a 5-wood in the bag this week which was tremendous.  I hit a lot of quality 5-woods.  Normally it would be a 3 or 4-iron for me, but I can't seem to keep the ball in the air any more, so.   
  
  Q.  And a lot of kids are young, they're not getting stiff either.   
 KENNY PERRY:  No, I just don't have the mobility like I used to.  I can really tell a big difference.   
  
  Q.  Do you know much about D.J.?   
 KENNY PERRY:  Not really.  I know he's a great kid.  I sit and talk to him a lot.  I have not played with him a lot.  But he's a fun loving guy.  He's always laughing, cutting up.  I know he's highly motivated because he wants to buy this hunting farm.  I don't know how many acres it was.  He was telling me all about it.  And he says he's got to have it.  So that's why he's playing well.   
 JOHN BUSH:  Take us through those three birdies, number 13.   
 KENNY PERRY:  I holed the bunker shot.  That was for a birdie there.   
 Then let's see?  What was 14?  14, I hit a 3-iron pitching wedge to about 15 feet and made a nice putt there.   
 14 is the par-5.  I hit a driver and a 5-wood just over the green chipped it about two feet past and made that.   
 JOHN BUSH:  Thank you Kenny.   
 KENNY PERRY:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT