WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 3, 2007
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You just kind of hung around today, and good things happened to you. 
 KENNY PERRY:  Well, that's kind of the nature of this tournament.  You just need to make lots of pars.  I told them yesterday, make a birdie here or there, you just need to draw a little interest, just try to hold on to it.  It's just a very demanding golf course.  It's one of the hardest courses we'll ever play, except on majors.  I was fortunate enough to keep it in play today.  I missed a few fairways, but I was able to stay -- on the shorter holes I got a little aggressive off the tee but I was able to manage a wedge and play around the hole and get it on the green.  But the tough holes I was able to hit the fairways, and that tickled me. 

 Q.  You ought to love this golf course.  It's a lot of long, straight holes which kind of play right into your game, and yet it hasn't been real kind to you. 
 KENNY PERRY:  Well, I had the lead here with nine to play two years ago, and I was paired with Tiger on that Sunday and I struggled on the back nine.  But I had a great shot at winning that tournament.  You're right, this is a perfect venue for me here.  The golf course sets up nice to me.  But I'm playing a little more cautious this week.  I'm hitting a lot of irons off the tee.  I noticed Peter and Geoff were hitting driver on every hole.  I was hitting 3-iron a lot out there and just trying to get it in the fairway, get it on the green and maintain, make pars and just kind of go on. 

 Q.  Is this a great preview to the PGA, or is it a week to beat you up before the PGA, which isn't a good thing? 
 KENNY PERRY:  We're going to be mentally stressed out come Sunday afternoon late.  It's definitely a tough test.  It will definitely get you ready for the rough and chipping around the greens and speed of the greens.  I'll feel very comfortable going into Tulsa next week with how fast these greens are because I think they're going to be very comparable. 

 Q.  You've played so well the last month and a half.  Are you feeling good about the way things are clicking for you? 
 KENNY PERRY:  I think so.  I'm excited.  I think things are going in the right direction for me.  I don't want to jinx myself, I just think good things are going to happen.  If I keep doing what I'm doing, I'm going to be there late on Sunday. 

 Q.  Not many people shooting under par, and you've done it twice.  How have you done that? 
 KENNY PERRY:  I only shot 1-under both days, so it's not like I'm taking it deep.  I've been very fortunate.  I've driven it very well and I've putted very well.  I've chipped out of the rough out there.  The rough is nasty.  It's very demanding and you're struggling if you hit it in the rough.  I've been pretty cautious on holes, hitting a lot of 3-irons off the tee, playing to the middle of the green and taking my 30-footers, taking pars, getting out of town.  Then I got aggressive on the shorter holes and I was able to make birdies at the shorter holes. 

 Q.  Give us a sense of how the greens are compared to when you played yesterday morning? 
 KENNY PERRY:  The greens are a lot firmer and faster.  Yesterday it was kind of damp, kind of cooler, but it had really dried out.  The winds were like five to ten all day today, and they were very firm, very fast.  It's kind of nice playing because it's definitely going to get us ready for the PGA next week because this is a very difficult test out here right now. 

 Q.  You've had a few quiet starts this season, but the last five tournaments you've been in the top 15.  What changed? 
 KENNY PERRY:  I started with the belly putter five weeks ago, really have been putting beautifully.  Just been working with Matt Killen a little, and we're staying a little bit more on top of the golf ball.  I've gotten rid of the pull hook, so I'm actually starting the ball to the right now and drawing it back to the fairway and getting the old shape of shots, so it's getting better. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT