TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2007
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What was working well for you   
 KENNY PERRY: I birdied five of the first six holes right out of the gate and I made three bombs.  My putter got me off to a good start today.  I didn't hit it all that well.   
  
  Q.  Did the weather have any affect on you at all?   
 KENNY PERRY: I thought it played easier.  The wind laid down and I couldn't advantage of it.  The back nine really played slow today.  There were a lot holes you can go four and there's three groups on the tee box, a lot of waiting, one hour and 15 minute wait, that kind of put a damper on it.   
  
  Q.  What were the bombs you were talking about?   
 KENNY PERRY: Probably 30 feet on 1, probably a 25-footer on 5, the par 3.  I tried to shoot 4-under.  I made seven birdies and two bogeys.   
  
  Q.  Where were you at the time of the delay?   
 KENNY PERRY:  I was on the 15th tee.  There were two groups, one in the fairway, one on the green, and we were on the tee when the horn sounded.   
  
  Q.  How do you deal with the wait?   
 KENNY PERRY: It just slows your rhythm down.  You're kind of anxious to keep it going and then all of a sudden you have to put the brakes on.  You kind of get used to it, but it is frustrating sometimes.   
  
  Q.  You said you didn't hit it well, your putter just kind of --   
 KENNY PERRY: I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens today, but nothing really close, except for like on No. 2, I hit it pretty close on 2, and 3, I hit it pretty close.  I was 5-under through 6, and that's what I shoot.  So I play even par the rest of the way.  I birdied 11 and 12, made a bomb on 12, probably a 30-footer on 12 for birdie.  I hit a beautiful little club the right side of 13, it went long and right over the green, and you can't get it up and down, made par.   
 A 3-wood on 15 rolled up, and then it trickled forward to the right.  I don't get that up and down, so it was kind of frustrating.  I had my chances to go lower.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT