THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 3, 2007
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  When did you realize you were in this thing?   
 KENNY PERRY:  Well, not really.  I was never -- you know, I was so far behind all day trying to play catch-up.  So, you know, I had the gas pedal down all day.  I was just pushing hard.  I knew I just had to try to make birdie every hole, and when that eagle went in -- I holed that wedge on 6, I thought, well, you know, that's nice.  I ended up shooting 30 on the front nine.   
 I played good on the back, I just couldn't quite get the putts in.  I still shot 3-under, which I'm very tickled with.  It was just a great day for me, being from where I was two months ago to where I am today.  It's been very uplifting.   
  
  Q.  We've seen two of the best three rounds in tournament history this week.  Does that speak to how perfect everything was out there?   
 KENNY PERRY:  The golf course is immaculate.  Jack does it right.  This is a phenomenal place.  Even what little rain we had, the golf course played so firm and fast and the greens are so true that if you get them on-line here, we're going to go in, and that's what you see.  You see a lot of guys making putts, and you see the ball holding.  All the guys are attacking the flag.   
 Other courses we play they kind of trick them up a little bit where the greens are so firm you're having to land way short and kind of roll them up to the hole where this week we were able to attack it and fly stuff at the pin and you knew the ball was going to stop.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 KENNY PERRY:  Well, one week doesn't mean anything.  It means I had it this week.  If I can somehow sustain it now and carry it on through Hartford and the rest of the year, we'll see.   
  
  Q.  What do you need to do to sustain it?   
 KENNY PERRY:  I need to keep working on what Ron Green has told me and what Tommy Armour told me.   
  
  Q.  You've played this course so well over the years, have such a good history.  What is it about your game?  What fits it well do you think?   
 KENNY PERRY:  Well, there's a lot of variation of holes out here.  It's not a boring golf course at all.  I mean, it really catches your -- every hole catches your attention out here.  I've always been a pretty good driver of the golf ball, and I'm probably first, second or third this week, I believe, in hitting fairways.  I drove it beautifully, so I was always in position to attack the pins, and the greens were holding, so my irons were on.  So I got it close a lot this week, so that's kind of been my secret around here.   
 I drive it pretty good, my irons are pretty good, and whenever the putter shows up, then I'm kind of in the golf tournament.   
  
  Q.  The first three rounds your putter just didn't show up enough for you to get it going?   
 KENNY PERRY:  Actually I played good Thursday and Saturday.  Yesterday -- I mean, Friday I shot 2-over, but I was pretty proud of that 2-over.  I mean, it was windy and the greens played a little firmer, and I just couldn't quite get -- didn't quite have the feeling, couldn't quite get it going, so I kind of fought and scrambled to shoot 2-over, and it kept me in it.   
  
  Q.  You said you're pretty accurate in shooting as far as where to place the ball on the course?   
 KENNY PERRY:  Very much so, yeah.  My position off the tee, if I need left side, right side of the fairway to hit a back right, back left pin or whatever, I seemed to put the ball in the right spot all day to be very comfortable with irons into the holes.   
  
  Q.  You talked yesterday about losing 25 pounds.  Do you think that's making a difference in how you play?   
 KENNY PERRY:  Well, it could, I don't know.  I told them yesterday, I feel kind of puny.  I don't feel as strong as I normally feel because I've lost so much weight.  You know, just got to keep working at it and get stronger, and hopefully I can carry it to -- I'm at 205 right now.  I'm trying to get to 200.   
  
  Q.  You lost it for what reason?   
 KENNY PERRY:  Just basically fat, out of shape, just playing terrible golf and my right knee with the surgery and all, I was just trying to get the weight off my knee.   
  
  Q.  Fair to say when you did have a hiccup on it was the par 3, you got in the sand on 8, but you had a great out of the sand?   
 KENNY PERRY:  Exactly.  That was the only poor iron shot I hit all day.  I kind of tugged an 8-iron a little in the left bunker.  That's kind of been the shot that's been plaguing me all year.  Thank goodness I only hit one today, and most of them started out right and drew back to the flag.   
  
  Q.  You said there's a big difference from two months ago.  Any major changes that you made in your swing?   
 KENNY PERRY:  Well, I couldn't make a cut two months ago.  This is probably -- I haven't had a Top 10 in almost two years now, so ever since the knee surgery and all, I've really gotten behind, and my golf swing, I was compensating for it, and I really got in a lot of bad habits.   
  
  Q.  Did you know it was a special day once you started out on the course today?   
 KENNY PERRY:  No, no.  I saw a little light at the end of the tunnel yesterday when I shot 5-under, and I knew I was starting to do the correct things.  You know, my golf swing was starting to click and start -- I started seeing the ball start out here in my eyesight instead of starting out over here.  When I knew it was coming back, when I saw the ball out over here when I first picked it up, I knew my swing was back on plan again.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned there was a little change this week you made in your swing?   
 KENNY PERRY:  Well, Tommy Armour gave me the greatest tip I could ever have.  He told me I was moving the golf ball with my head really bad.  He said, just keep your head centered and swing around it, he says, and you'll stay on top of it and the club won't lay underneath you like it's been doing all year, and you'll start hitting solid golf shots.   
 Sure enough, as soon as that happened, I started doing what he said, squishing the ball.  I started making that great contact, started hitting it hard, and I could actually control it.  The flight, if I wanted to hit it high or low, I could pretty much do whatever.  It was a blessing.  You know, old Tommy, whenever I see Tommy, I owe him a dinner or something, a bottle of wine.   
  
  Q.  That was just this week?   
 KENNY PERRY:  Yeah, Tuesday in the practice round.   
  
  End of FastScripts…  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT