FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 26, 2005
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  First off, Kenny Perry, job well done last week at Colonial.  You admitted last week's victory was a lot more emotional than two years ago; why was that?
KENNY PERRY:  I mean, I think it was the people, it is the tournament, it is the history there.  I just    I have really got to know the whole staff.  I got to know the guys in the plaid jackets.  I have been with them two years, I know them personally.  I know how much they love that place.  And how much love is there.

It wasn't exactly I was playing for myself, they inspired me to play for them.  It was awesome.  They were all coming up giving me high fives, saying, "we love to have you back as our defending champion."  That is more special.
Q.  One more win at Colonial, or maybe 2 more wins at Colonial before the Kenny Perry statue goes next to the Ben Hogan?
KENNY PERRY:  He won 5 times.  I doubt that will happen.  I think there has only been ten multiple winners, and nine of them    only nine with double wins.  And Ben has got 5.  So if I can get three, that would put me ahead of eight other guys.  I would be second, and that would be cool.
Q.  Talk about coming here this week.  Golf is cruel.  Kind of like, "what have you done for me lately?"  Your win last week was an easy win on the scorecard.  You show up tomorrow morning, the bell rings, it is a whole new week?
KENNY PERRY:  Exactly.  You know, you can go in a slump.  You catch lightening in a bottle and you are back on top of that mountain.  I was able to get there.  That is twice this year I was able to win.

Tomorrow I will get there and settle down, and come off this high, and try to hit quality golf shots.  Get back in the flow of things, and get back in the rhythm of it.  See if I can get there and win another golf tournament.  I don't know if it is possible with the changes and conditions at this golf course.  It made it longer, tougher.  They changed the surface on the greens to Bermuda.  I've never been a good putter with Bermuda.  I was struggling today on the green.  My speed was fine, but the reading of the greens wasn't good.  I have to figure, hopefully Andy and I, my caddy, can figure it out tomorrow.

Hopefully, I will hit it closer today so I don't have to struggle as much.  It is a fickle game.  That is why I love this game.  One week is great, one week may not be.  You keep plugging a lot, that is all you can do.
Q.  Couple of things on the rise, President's Cup obviously, Ryder Cup, Tom Lehman, the captain.  I am sure the two events are on the back of your mind?
KENNY PERRY:  Very much so.  I was plugging Tom last week.  It was on Wednesday he looked at me, he said, "KP, how are you playing?"  I said, "I am playing good."  I looked at him and said, "I am playing good this week."  He says, "you are?"  I ended up winning and I saw him in the locker room.  He said, "you were not kidding about playing good, were you?"
KENNY PERRY:  I am trying to put a plug in there to get on that Ryder Cup team.  That would be a goal.  Looks like I made enough money to play on the President's Cup this year.  So I am looking forward to that.  We will have a good time.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Thanks for your time.  Good luck.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT