BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 19, 2005
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KENNY PERRY:  You get up at 4:00 every morning and try to play golf around here.  It's funny how the weather has been this year.
Q.  Good tournament so far for you.
KENNY PERRY:  I played steady this year, nothing great.  I made four out of five cuts and I'm starting to hit the ball better.  I hit my irons good.  I hit them better this week than I have in the previous weeks.  I've hit it a lot closer to the hole.

I've always driven the ball pretty good and I'm still hitting a lot of fairways, and now with my irons getting closer to the hole, it's the reason why I've made a few birdies.
Q.  How is the course playing?
KENNY PERRY:  I killed a drive on 18, hit 6-iron in there.  And 17 I killed a 3-iron as far as I could hit it; hit it in there about four feet and missed it.  I was pretty proud of the way I played the last two holes.
Q.  Scores are lowest we've had -- and weather like this, is that a product of the rough?
KENNY PERRY:  The greens are slow.  The greens are not out of control.  The rough is just terrible.  If you hit it in the rough, you're just kind of chipping out and you're struggling to make a par.  I missed one fairway today and that was on the 12th hole, the par 5, and I had to hit a 7-iron out and I still had a 6-iron to the green where I normally hit a driver and 3-wood close to the green in two.  I had 6-iron into that green.

If you're in the rough, you're going to struggle.  The guys that drive it well the next two rounds are going to have a good shot at winning this tournament.
Q.  Talk about what happened at the end of last year with your game.  You just didn't feel confident playing?
KENNY PERRY:  Well, I played okay last year.  It will never compare to my '03 year when I was winning, I won three out of four weeks.  I guess to me I was trying to compare to that year.  You know, any time I can come out Top-30th out here on the TOUR, I'm tickled.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT