BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 24, 2004
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  Another great round for you today, a 64.  Let's jump right to the back-to-back eagles.  That seems like the highlight today.

KENNY PERRY:  Well, definitely, yeah.  I look back in my 18 years, I don't know if I've ever done that, made back-to-back eagles.  There's not too many places you have back-to-back par 5s, either.

It was a great day for me.  I hit the ball great today.  My irons were great. I drove it a little bit better so I had a little more confidence with my club selection.  I just had putt after putt after putt, and those two eagles really got me back in the golf tournament.

TODD BUDNICK:  It looks like your good play from last year is continuing and you're one back of the lead with 18 holes to go.  What are your thoughts for tomorrow?

KENNY PERRY:   We've just got to keep going.  I said after I shot 64 the opening round I was going to have to do four more of those to have a chance to win.  So I'm in a good seat and a good position here.  I need to go out there somehow and shoot 5-, 6-, 7-under again tomorrow.  Phil is playing great, obviously.  It's going to be a shootout.  He's going to be making lots of birdies.  It's going to be interesting to see how it goes tomorrow. 


Q. On the second eagle, did you stand over that putt going, "I've never done this in 18 years," Or it was such a simple putt it was of no concern? 

KENNY PERRY:   It was an eight-footer, inside right putt.  I hit a great 3-iron there.  I had 208 to the front, 229 to the hole, and the pin was back left around this bunker and I curved it right around the bunker and it hit right on the fringe of the green and just killed it and rolled down there about eight feet right-to-left.  I hit a great 4-iron on the previous par 5.  It lipped out, they said it almost went in the hole.  I had, I don't know, about 217 to the hole there and hit a 4-iron and it landed 15 feet short of the hole and almost rolled in and went right past it. 

Those two putts were pretty crucial for me.  I needed to make them.  I was not thinking about back-to-back eagles.  I was just thinking about making it to get back in the golf tournament.


Q. You're supposed to be tired.  When is the last time you had an extended break, and are you taking one after this?

KENNY PERRY:   I have not had an extended break in a long time.  I'm getting ready to take one after Phoenix.  I'm going to take three weeks off and go home and just kind of recharge the batteries a little bit.  I've had a week here and there but I've not really had the time to get away from golf completely.  I'm looking forward to it.  I'm hoping to have a good round tomorrow and play good in Phoenix and enjoy my three weeks off.


Q. After you shot 69 yesterday and you were facing La Quinta today, what were your thoughts?  Did you think maybe you had shot yourself out of it yesterday? 

KENNY PERRY:   Well, not really.  I looked at the scores at La Quinta and I saw a 62 and a 63 and a 64 shot here, and normally those numbers are not shot at this golf course.  I kind of realized that maybe the greens were being a little bit more receptive and I think the overcast skies and no wind today, and this golf course is immaculate.  I just kept it in the fairway and I was very patient and gave myself lots of putts and was able to come out with a good round. 

In the past, I've never played that great here, but the year I won here, I played a good round here.  I think I shot 66 here.  Maybe that's a good omen. 


Q. Two years ago you were a stroke behind Jay Haas going into the last round.  And if I remember right, talking to you afterwards, you were very disappointed with a 71.  Obviously you are a bit different player now after last year, a totally different experience maybe trailing by one this year, as opposed to two years ago, or not?

KENNY PERRY:   Well, I remember the Sunday last year, the greens were very firm and we had some wind.  We had some weather conditions to kind of mess with, if I remember correctly. 

If this little front stays in here and stays calm and not too hot like it did today, I think the greens will stay very soft and very receptive.  I think there's going to be some good scores shot out there tomorrow. 

But, yeah, I'm not going to be too nervous.  I'm enjoying the way things have been going.  I'm just going to try to go out there and give Phil a run for his money.  That guy can play, so I'm going to try not to back off.  I'm going to try to put the pressure on him and hopefully have a good day and we'll both play really good.  I think that's the way to win a golf tournament.  I want everybody to play good.  I want to win because I played better and the best man wins. 


Q. What does it say about Phil's game to be able to play this well in his first real tournament since the Presidents Cup?

KENNY PERRY:   Well, shoot, that guy is a great player.  Nothing ever surprised me from him, as good of a short game as he has.  And he said he worked in the off-season on his short game so that kind of surprised me a little bit.  Obviously it's paying off.  He's 26-under. 

All of these guys are great players.  It's just a matter of you kind of getting in that zone and you getting in that ceiling, like I had those last few holes, I felt like I was going to birdie every hole and that's kind of the mind-set I need for tomorrow.  I need to get in a good rhythm out will and hopefully a few putts will drop early and we'll just go out there and try to shoot a good, low round. 


Q. You did talk earlier in the week about how exhausted you were.  How have you gotten through this?  Obviously these courses are a little bit easier than up at Pebble Beach or something, but has it been tough to stay focused or has it just been fairly easy? 

KENNY PERRY:   I've been more focused this week after missing the cut last week.  I was pretty upset shooting even par and missing the cut by one last week.  I actually played okay.  I just didn't putt very well.  It's nice to finally be on good, smooth greens and get away from that bermuda and that grain and go to a place where I understand and know how to play a little bit. 

I think I've been very focused.  And I'm not that tired.  I go through phases to where if things are not going too well, yeah, you can get pretty frustrated in a hurry.  But since things are going pretty good, I'm pretty optimistic and I'm looking forward to the challenge of tomorrow's round. 

TODD BUDNICK:  How about your birdie on 10?

KENNY PERRY:   I hit a 2-iron and a 7-iron about 12 feet or 15 feet from the hole. 

12, I hit a 5-iron probably 15 feet left of the flag. 

14, I chose the wrong club.  I hit a 7-iron.  I had 171, kind of upshot in the wind a little bit and came up in the front bunker shot.  I hit a beautiful bunker shot, missed about a two and a half, three-footer and should have made it.  Let that one get away from me. 

Then I birdied 17.  I drove it in the right rough and fit it through a slot in the tree and hit it about 30 feet left of the hole and was just trying to 2-putt it.  Thank goodness the hole got in the way.  I hit it a little firm and it hit the hole hard and jumped up and went in.  Got a huge break there. 

So I ended up turning 2-under and then I shoot 30 on the front nine, which was my back nine, which was huge.  I birdied the first hole.  I hit a 3-wood and a pitching wedge ten feet short of the hole. 

Then I had the two eagles.  I hit driver, 4-iron probably 12 feet past the hole. 

Then I hit a driver and a 3-iron on the next hole probably to about eight feet. 

Then I made birdie on No. 8.  I hit 3-iron, 8-iron probably ten feet left of the hole. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Kenny.  Good luck tomorrow. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT