PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2014
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KENNY PERRY:   Glad that's over with.   It's hot.  
   
 Q.   Pretty spectacular way to close out your tournament?  
KENNY PERRY:   Yeah, I thought that was pretty neat.   I hit the same drive I hit in the '96 PGA, dead left.   I'm thinking that was the same shot that I hit on the 72nd hole.   Then I couldn't‑‑ at least I could get it back in the fairway.   
Then I had 215, I hit the prettiest little 4‑iron hybrid I've hit all week.   Hit it stoney.   Could have used that 20‑something years ago.   That would made my life a big game‑changer.  
   
 Q.   What was today like?   
KENNY PERRY:   I've never heard "Happy Birthday" sung so many times.   Every hole.   Poor Luke was like, "Did you Tweet out that it was your birthday today or how did everybody know?"   It was funny.   It was pretty special.   I had huge galleries.   Pretty neat way to go out.  
   
 Q.   Was this week better than you thought?  
KENNY PERRY:   I kind of imagined it like this, but it was pretty special.   Remained me a lot of Ryder Cup, the enthusiasm, the people that they had, the cheers and the love.   I had a lot of friends and family, very similar scenarios.   It was pretty much what I imagined it was going to be.   I pretty much enjoyed it.  
   
 Q.   How much did the rain affect play today?  
KENNY PERRY:   I struggled‑‑ I was playing nicely, and then when I had to sit down and wait an hour and come back, my game wasn't nearly as good.   I fought it around.   
I didn't make a bogey today, which I thought was pretty neat.   I made 15 pars and three birdies.   
The golf course didn't change any.   It was wet from the other days.   The ball is plugging, so it didn't change anything the way the golf course‑‑ it may have softened up the greens a little bit to where you could actually get more aggressive with the iron shots.   I can't imagine in the past that shot would have held on the green in the past.   
You are going to see the guys go after the flag sticks and do some good stuff today.  
   
 Q.   Does this feel like a door is closing for you?   
KENNY PERRY:   I'm glad.   I'm ready for it.   Thirty years of trying to make 3‑footers, I'm ready to do something else.   It's been great.   I had my time, had my chance and my opportunities.   It was awesome.   I enjoyed every bit of the ride.   
I'm still going to play the Champions Tour some.   I will still play competitively here and there.   I've got two grandkids, another one coming in February, so a lot of things are changing in the Perry household.  
   
 Q.   What is going to be your favorite memory of this course?  
KENNY PERRY:   There's a lot of great memories.   My memory is popping the champagne up there on the balcony.   How can you not.   With the red, white and blue all over you, to me that was the coolest, most best experience of my golfing career.   
   
 Q.   You are babysitting on Tuesday?  
KENNY PERRY:   I do it every Tuesday.   Love it.   We have a blast.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KENNY PERRY:   I'm taking eight weeks off after today, so I'm looking forward to two months of‑‑ not going to do anything.   Then I'm going to play the last four, the two in Carolina, defend at the AT&T, then play the Schwab Cup in Scottsdale.   
I've already played 20 events up to this point combination of both Tours already this year.   In our season on the Champions, it's really kicking off.   We've got Dick's Sporting Goods next week, then we go to Seattle, two in Canada, one in Hawaii, then The First Tee.   I'm going to skip all those and go home and enjoy the family.   
   
 Q.   What has it meant to you to represent your state?   
KENNY PERRY:   Well, it's just a dream way to end your career.   If I could have scripted it, this is how I would have scripted it at my home state of Kentucky at Valhalla.   I've had great times and sad times and lot of emotion, all my friends and family.   And it couldn't have‑‑ we couldn't have scripted it anyway better.   This was the way to do it.   
I played nicely.   I played nicely for four days, probably finish 25 or somewhere around there.   That is about as good as I can do.   I told my caddie that I didn't really make too many mistakes out there.   Just didn't make enough birdies.  
It's a big golf course for me.   I hit a lot of hybrids this week, 3 and 4‑iron hybrids off my tee shots.   I was looking where those other guys were hitting it.   They are hitting 7 and 8‑irons; I'm back there hitting a hybrid.   It's time to move on.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KENNY PERRY:   Well, we got‑‑ John is going to be the future of Kentucky golf.   We have got other guys coming up that are going to do really well, I think.   J.B. just needs to get healthy.   I don't know with his brain surgery, then he broke his ankle.   He's had a lot of obstacles to overcome.   He came back and he won.   So he's kind of getting back in the groove.   J.B., he's got all the talent in the world.   He's got the power, the touch.   He can putt it, he's got a good caddie, got a good family.   So the sky's the limit for him.   It's a matter of how much does he want it.   You have got to get after and get it.   He likes to‑‑ he doesn't like to practice a lot at times.   When his week is off, he goes and disappears.   He needs to focus a little bit more on his golf if he wants to stay sharp, keep that edge and be really super competitive week in and week out.  
   
 Q.   Describe that last shot and also your feelings?  
KENNY PERRY:   I had 215, 4‑iron hybrid.   That's about a perfect distance for it and flushed it.   I mean, there was a little bit of right‑to‑left wind.   And man, I let it roll right where the wind.   It came, landed right by the flag stick perfect.   
Everybody cheering and singing happy birthday.   That had been going on all day, so it wasn't anything new.   It was pretty spectacular.   The roars here in Kentucky at Valhalla are incredible whenever you make birdie or do whatever.   The roars are ‑‑ they gave me goose bumps come up the 18th.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit for your second shot?  
KENNY PERRY:   Pitching wedge.   I was in deep rough with a tree under me.   I was in trouble.   Bad tee shot.  
   
 Q.   Does that senior PGA next year‑‑  
KENNY PERRY:   I've never played there.   It's close to my house, a couple of hours from my house.   I'll be dropping in there here and there to get ready for it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT