GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 26, 2003
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What were you working on at the range?

KENNY PERRY:  I worked on a lot, getting more comfortable with my driver and made a few swing adjustments and we will see if it works tomorrow.


Q.  Were you aware of all of the craziness that was going on out there?

KENNY PERRY:  You know, I had bogeyed the 12th hole to go to 6-under, which was even par for me for the day, and I looked at the leaderboard and I saw Willie at 13-under, I thought, oh, my goodness.  I didn't realize I had fallen so far behind.  I thought 9- or 10-under was still winning the golf tournament.  I made eagle, eagle, to get to 10-under and I look up and I am tied for the lead, and I thought, whoa, what happened?  Then I bogeyed 16, 17, birdied 18.  I had a roller coaster.  That nine holes will do it to you. 


Q.  Is that the beauty of this course, because of what happened from 7 to tie to one behind?  That's the nature of this course.

KENNY PERRY:  Exactly.  You got two holes, par-5s are very reachable.  15, I hit a 3-wood, they said it would have went in the hole if it rolled another foot.  I left it a foot short of the hole.  It would have went in for one.  But you can make also make six on that hole.  I mean it's a great little short hole.


Q.  Willie made seven on that hole?

KENNY PERRY:  It can get you. 


Q.  Do you feel you have things straightened out now? How long did you spend on the range?

KENNY PERRY:  About an hour. 


Q.  Is that unusual for a Saturday?

KENNY PERRY:  Yes.  Normally when I am playing pretty good, I don't practice much after the rounds, I tried to concentrate on scoring and not try to get to mechanical and try to go out there and relax.  I did practice much at Colonial and Memorial when I was playing well, and Milwaukee, but I hadn't quite felt all together.  I had a lot of jet lag.  I felt tired today.  I left a lot of balls out to the right.  I think it's fatigue more than anything than the golf swing.  But the 2 eagles pumped me up a little bit and got me back in the golf tournament.  Hopefully I can go out there and shoot a good round tomorrow and see what I can do.


Q.  You must feel you are in good position considering your record the last 6 weeks.

KENNY PERRY:  Well, any time you are within two or three of the lead, you are in good shape.  You really are.  This is the kind of golf course you have to hit golf shots.  You have to hit quality shots here to shoot good scores.  It's more of a ball striker's golf course and I like that.  The rough is kind of nasty.  If you hit it in the rough there so you need to hit lots of fairways.  I'm driving it good.  If I can just get my irons to come to me, just a little bit, where I can get comfortable, be a little more aggressive, and aim at a few more flags, I will have a good shot tomorrow.


Q.  So it's mainly the driver and short irons you were working on?

KENNY PERRY:  Yes, I had like on 3 today, I had 115 yards to the hole and I hit it 30 feet.  4, I hit it to within 115 of the hole and I missed the green to the right.  I loved it way right.  Just very uncharacteristic shots I have been hitting.


Q.  Now you know how we feel?

KENNY PERRY:  (Laughter) pretty interesting out there. 


Q.  How was the wind out there, swirling, did that have any factor on your club selection?

KENNY PERRY:  The only hole I really noticed it on was 16.  I thought 16 was a very difficult hole today with the pin placement, the club selection, the wind blowing right-to-left and into you, a very difficult hole. 

I hit a very poor shot.  I hit it in the right front bunker and made bogey.  Other than that, the wind didn't really seem to affect too much.  They had the tees up on 13, on the par-5s, so you were able to hit it further down there. 

On 15, 17 and 18 I felt all played down and left-to-right.  I only had 100 yards to the flag on 18.  I drove it over the cart path down there.  I only had 100 yards to the hole.  The hole played downwind.  But all in all I thought the 16th hole was the only hole you had to hit a golf shot to really manage the wind there.

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Your 2 eagles, if we could go over those, 13 and 15.

KENNY PERRY:  A driver, 3-wood to about 20 feet. 

And then a 3-wood on 15 to about a foot, foot and a half. 

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You said you had 100 yards and you hit a sand wedge on 18?

KENNY PERRY:  Yes, on 18 for birdie.  I hit it about four feet right of the hole. 

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Any more questions? Kenny Perry,  thank you.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT