PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2014
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible)?
KENNY PERRY:   I played nicely.   I mean, I didn't‑‑ I struggle on 2 and 6, those are two hard holes for me out here.   I eagled 4, I drove it on the green.   That hole is going to have a lot of fireworks today. 
But all in all, the scores are really good.   Ryan Moore, who I played with today, shot 4 or 5‑under.   I think Danny Willett in front of me shot 6 or 7‑under.   I saw Hunter Mahan shot low. 
It's going to be a good day.   There's a lot of scoring opportunities, which is kind of typical.   Saturday is usually the day they set it up and give us a chance to score. 
Tomorrow you'll see dead opposite.   You will see really severe pin placements and it'll be a very severe test tomorrow.

Q.   What comes to your mind when folks say Mr. Kentucky?
KENNY PERRY:   I don't know.   That's quite a statement.   I don't know about that one.   It's pretty cool, though.   I don't consider myself Mr. Kentucky by no means.   I am a Kentuckian and I'm proud of it.   The fans have been great.   They've given me a lot of love this week, a lot of support.   It's been a lot of fun.

Q.   Are you looking forward to that (inaudible)?
KENNY PERRY:   Not really.   At my age you don't look forward to birthdays.   Hopefully it's a nice day, go out there and have a good round of golf. 
We're going to have a good time tonight.   They've got a big party for me planned tonight over at Mark Paige's house.   We're going to have a good time tonight and enjoy this and come out tomorrow and have a good day.

Q.   Was that an invite for everybody?
KENNY PERRY:   No.   That's where it's going to be, but don't show up. 

Q.   On 4, you hit that tee shot, kind of stood back and looked at it.   What were you thinking?
KENNY PERRY:   I was thinking I needed that one 28 years ago in 1996.   That's the drive that I needed.   That's the exact thought that hit my head.

Q.   Overall, you said it is a gift to be here.   You wanted to use this as a way to thank your fans.   So far have you been able to do that?
KENNY PERRY:   Oh, yeah.   By far, shoot yeah.   They showed me a lot of love; I showed them a lot of love.   It's been great to play for 28 years out here, 30 whatever I've play out here.   To be able to end it here in Kentucky, it couldn't be any sweeter.

Q.   I know it's not over yet, but what is the thing that you are going to remember most about your time this week?
KENNY PERRY:   I felt like Tiger Woods, a rock star.   I really did.   In my whole career, I never felt like that where everybody on every hole, I'm from Bowling Green or Glascow or Hopkinsville, a small town near Franklin, Kentucky, so many people following me.   Just all over.   Go big blue!   Go WKU!   Go Tops!   It's been pretty incredible, to tell you the truth.

Q.   You were standing up here signing for about an hour?
KENNY PERRY:   That wore me out.   That was pretty cool, though.   I felt like I was at the Ryder Cup again. 

Q.   You talked earlier in the week about the length of this golf course.   With the rain that we've had the last couple of days, has it may the play a lot longer?
KENNY PERRY:   For me it has, but for those big hitters I think it helps them.   It allows them to keep the ball in the fairway a lot easier.   I didn't get any mud balls today. 
The golf course was beautiful it played great today.   I expect fireworks out of those leaders.   I think they're going to go low today and shoot some good scores.








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT