MERCEDES CHAMPIONSHIPS
January 4, 2002
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TODD BUDNICK:   Kenny Perry, a 67 today, brings him to 11-under, 135, a share of the lead. 
Let's go through your score card.  Start off with the bogey on No. 2. 
KENNY PERRY:  No. 2 was about a 230 yard par 3 into the wind.  2-iron over the green, 3-putted for bogey. 
Next hole, hit a sand wedge to about 20 feet, made a nice putt up the hill for birdie. 
Next hole, I hit a 2-iron and a 7-iron about three feet from the hole on 4 for birdie. 
6, I drove the green.  6 was drivable today.  I drove it on the green, 2-putted for birdie on 6. 
8, I hit an 8-iron about 15 feet left of the hole for birdie there, made that for birdie. 
9, I hit a 3-iron, 3-iron, right on the front of the fringe of the green, pitched it up to six inches, tapped that in for birdie.  Shoot 3-under on the Front  9. 
10, I hit a 2-iron and a sand wedge about 12 feet right of the hole, made that for birdie. 
Let's see.  I parred 11, 12, 13. 
Birdied 16.  Hit a driver, 9-iron about six feet right of the hole, made that. 
18, I hit a driver and a 3-iron on the green, 2-putted for birdie. 
TODD BUDNICK:   Did you bogey 7? 
KENNY PERRY:  I did bogey 7.  I 3-putted.  I hit it about 30 feet right of the hole and 3-putted. 
TODD BUDNICK:   All in all, you have a share of the lead.  Got to be happy with the start to the season. 
KENNY PERRY:  Yeah, considering I hadn't played since THE TOUR Championship.  I took my son to Jacksonville about a week before Christmas and played five days down there.  I hadn't touched a club since. 
I came out here on Friday and did a little work early this week, got used to these Kona winds.  It's helping. 

Q.  Over the last year and a half or so, your game last moved up into a consistent level where you hit the Top 25s just about every time you play.  What do you credit that resurgence to?
KENNY PERRY:  Old age (laughter). 
No, actually, really I'm pretty much at peace with myself and my life.  When my kids were younger, I stressed being away all the time.  Now I've got them all with me.  I've got one starting college next year.  I have sophomore and an eighth grader.  Seems like my life at home is more at peace now.  They're kind of off doing their deals, running around.  They don't seem to want to come with me as much.  They're happy at home.  I'm happy trying to make a living for them.  I'm not as stressed out. 
Doesn't seem  -- I don't feel like I have to be at home as much.  They kind of got their life going.  Now I can spend 25 weeks out here and really focus on what I'm doing.  Then when I'm home, I'm home for 25 weeks or 27 weeks, whatever it is, so I can focus in, have a good time with them. 
I don't know.  Just everything's going real good for me.  Pretty much I've had a good career.  I've been out here 16 years.  I don't really have any expectations.  I mean, I'm just going to relax and go out and play good golf.  Hopefully it's good golf.  I'm just going to try to enjoy what I'm doing, enjoy these last few years of my career. 
Used to in the middle part of my career, I was so stressful, I beat myself up so much, even when I had a poor day.  Now if I play poor, "Let's go try to have a nice dinner, get ready for tomorrow." 
I just don't feel the pressure like I used to.  I still want to play well, I still want to win.  All in all, it's made me a better player because I'm more at peace with myself. 

Q.  Can you talk about your odyssey getting to Maui?  Can you kind of run through that. 
KENNY PERRY:  It took me about 24 hours to get here.  My flight out of Denver was delayed with bad weather in San  Francisco.  By the time I got to San  Francisco, I missed my connection to Maui.  I set in the airport about seven hours or six hours the.  Stood standby.  Thank goodness I got on that flight.  Got over here about midnight.  Took two hours to get our luggage.  I guess there was only one group of people doing that.  2:00 in the morning, got my luggage, was trucking to the hotel. 
It was a long day, but I'm glad I got here.

Q.  Door-to-door about 24 hours?
KENNY PERRY:  Yes.

Q.  From your place in Kentucky?
KENNY PERRY:  That's correct.

Q.  Give us an idea of the difference in the course between yesterday and today?
KENNY PERRY:  Oh, big difference.  You know, I think these winds, the golf course plays really difficult.  Yesterday I could get to all the par 5s.  On 15 I hit a driver and 4-iron in the middle of the green on 15.  Today I hit driver and a 3-wood and sand wedge.  I couldn't even get close to that hole. 
16 was a tougher driving hole, to carry that bunker.  Middle bunkers.  I about drove it on the green the day before. 
I think 17 and 18 played a little easier today.  I couldn't get to 18.  Guys were struggling on 18.  I hit driver, 3-wood, got to the corner where I could pitch it on.  A lot of guys were hitting it, it was rolling back down in the rough, having tough shots in.  I was able to knock it on today with a 3-iron.  That was different. 
1 and 2 are difficult with this wind, very difficult holes.  They didn't play nearly as hard.  I think I hit 7-iron yesterday.  Today I was slashing at a 4-iron or whatever to try to get it on the green. 
I don't know.  We've seen two conditions.  I don't know what we'll see tomorrow.  They say you never know around here.  I like the other winds better.  But I scored better today.  I don't know.  Maybe I need these winds.

Q.  Quick follow-up.  What time did you check in the hotel finally when you got here?  2 in the morning?
KENNY PERRY:  Somewhere around there.  Midnight, 1 in the morning, somewhere around there.  I can't remember.  It was all a blur. 

Q.  Are you going to use the Mercedes if you win this year?
KENNY PERRY:  I don't know.  I'm a Chevy man.  I've always driven Chevrolets (laughter). 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT