PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about putting yourself in a good position?
KENNY PERRY:   I don't know if I'm in good position but I made the cut and get to play on the weekend which is a treat.   That's all I tried to do this week was to play well enough to get to the weekend. 

Q.   Having problems holding the greens yesterday; how much did the rain soften them up?
KENNY PERRY:   Not a lot.   They have that SubAir system and they can suck the moisture out of these greens as quick as this comes on them.   I hit it better today than yesterday.   My irons were better.   I hit some quality hybrid shots. 
I'm having to hit such long shots.   I was watching Rory and Bubba behind me where they were hitting it and comparing it to where I was and I was like, they are playing a different golf course than what I'm playing.
So I have to execute perfectly just to even survive out there.   That's a big golf course.   I can't get over how long that golf course is now.   But ecstatic.   It's going to be fun to play and play on my birthday on Sunday, so that will be neat.
I achieved my goal to make the cut and play the weekend.   Here I am, I played '96 to now, a lot of emotions, a lot of support out there, a lot of love from the fans.   So played my heart out. 

Q.   When did you first realize you were going to make the cut? 
KENNY PERRY:   I didn't entertain that thought until I holed out the last putt to tell you the truth.   I didn't want to go there.   I figured the cut was going to be 1‑under or even, so I knew I had to really play hard on that last hole.   Thank goodness I was finishing on 9.   18 has been hard on me in my career, so I liked finishing on 9 today.

Q.   Do you feel like the course is going to get worse?
KENNY PERRY:   I think as the golf course starts drying out a little bit, you're going to get more and more of that, because I had a lot of those on the front nine, which is my back nine today.   The guys this afternoon, they are going to have some problems and experience a lot of that.   But I think the golf course is gettable.   The pins are still very difficult.   I don't think they are as difficult as yesterday.   But you're going to see some good rounds of golf. 

Q.   Do you think it's an advantage playing early versus late? 
KENNY PERRY:   I think so, because of the mud ball conditions, and I think we'll come up this afternoon, I really do.   I think you'll see some squirrely shots out there. 

Q.   Do you feel this course more than most courses? 
KENNY PERRY:   I don't know if I feel it.   I've felt a lot of heartache at times and jubilation in Ryder Cup.   It was fun popping the champagne up there on the balcony behind me.   But it's great.   I'm going to be 54 on Sunday.   Be realistic; I played beautifully for two rounds, made the cut, made my goal.   So going to play two more rounds and celebrate with everybody. 
The first two rounds were pretty nerve‑wracking, self‑induced.   I was just wanting to do well.

Q.   Do you feel like you're playing with house money, making the cut and playing on your birthday?
KENNY PERRY:   Definitely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT