BUICK OPEN
August 10, 2001
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KENNY PERRY: Well, I tell you, it was a great day for me.  I told my caddie after the 3rd hole I knew I was playing well.  I have had, I guess, four Top-10s out of my last six weeks, finished 11th last week at The INTERNATIONAL.  And I just felt really good about my golf game, and when I birdied the first three holes I looked at my caddie, Freddie, I said, my game is ready to run.  I just really felt comfortable about what I was doing, about the way my golf swing felt, and I felt like I was going to make a lot of birdies.  Ended up birdieing the 5th hole when I birdied 7, 8, 9 to shoot 29, I started thinking crazy numbers, I guess I started thinking 58 and 59 started coming in my head, that's how good I felt about my golf game.  I think pace of play slowed down a little bit on the back nine.  We started jamming up on that par 5 about No. 12, 13, I kind of got a little out of rhythm but all and all it was a great day.  Can't complain, I don't like to end on a bogey on the last hole but that's not an easy golf hole.  So 64, get ready for the weekend. 

Q.  Somebody's birthday today, you said?

KENNY PERRY: Yeah, my birthday today.  So my wife told me last night to go out there and give yourself a good birthday present.  So I guess I did. 

Q.  Is she here with you?

KENNY PERRY: No, she told me on the phone last night.

Q.  Most people do their damage on the back nine here.  You did it on the front.  What was the difference between nines, the pace of play, things slowing down?

KENNY PERRY: I think so a little bit.  I hit it close on 10 and 11 and just missed putts there. Then I birdied 12 and 13, I hit it about 20 feet for eagle and 2-putted for birdie.  And then 14 I drove it in the left bunker, well just out of the bunker kind of not in a good spot, chipped it to about eight feet, hit a terrific shot and didn't make birdie there.  So it hurt. I didn't make birdie on 16 either, hit 3-wood right in the front green-side bunker, hit a poor bunker shot to about 15, 18 feet, so normally I hit those closer than that.  I hit a pretty poor shot.  But 17, 18 are tough finishing holes, so, they kept me from birdieing.  Hit a poor drive on 18, but I played better on the back nine yesterday than I did  -- I shoot 66, I think I shot 32 on the back yesterday.  Had a better front today and a better back yesterday.

Q.  What do you attribute your solid play recently, last several weeks?

KENNY PERRY: Well, I have switched to a new set of irons, they are called 360s by Taylor Made, seemed like ever since I put those in the bag I have been hitting a lot of real good iron shots and they seem very easy to hit.  Look very good optically to me.  I feel very comfortable over them.  I switched to the 320 driver and I am hitting it further and I guess I am second on the Tour in total driving.  So I think it's been a little bit of equipment change helped me a lot, and I think I am just settling down starting to play some -- my swing has come back.  I don't know why.  I kind of got -- my last win was I think in 1995 there for a couple years, I kind of -- I was making -- you know I was making my card and keeping my job, but I just wasn't quite getting in the top.  Just here within the last year I started getting up on the leaderboard; I am starting to want to win again.  I think I am hungry then and I think that's the reason why my play has gotten better. 

Q.  You said you started thinking crazy numbers when you made the turn.  How long did that last and did that throw you off at all, maybe get ahead of yourself?

KENNY PERRY: I thought if I could get through 14, if I could maybe slip in an eagle or birdie 12, 13, 14, I thought I had a pretty decent chance.  And then when I didn't birdie 14, thought kind of left my mind after 14, I just started trying  -- 15 is a tough par 4.  And 17 and 18 are pretty tough little holes.  So once I didn't make eagle on 13 or 14, I thought, well, we just need to try to make some birdies, or pars and just go on get that notion out of your head.

Q.  59 -- (inaudible)

KENNY PERRY: That's kind of the number to want to shoot, only been done twice. 

Q.  How is the golf course playing?

KENNY PERRY: Golf course is doing well.  

Q.  Basically what do you do when you are not  --

KENNY PERRY: My brother-in-law runs it, me and him did the whole project.  We built it and he runs it, and I don't really have a lot to do with it.  I don't want those numbers in my head.  I just know I have got a family working there, my daughter, she's 17, she's working out of there.  She's co-opping out of high school so I have got her working behind the counter.  I don't want to think a lot about that.  I just want to concentrate strictly on the Tour what I am doing here.  If I decide to leave the Tour then I will focus in on my golf course.

Q.  On 11 you missed a putt about an inch?

KENNY PERRY: Yeah, hanging on the lip.

Q.  10 was close, how close?

KENNY PERRY: 10 was a good putt.  I played it probably 3, four inches right-to-left.  It was just outside right.  It just missed, so I played a little bit too much  -- it was a good speed, almost went in.

Q.  Good start for the weekend.

KENNY PERRY: Yeah, still have to play two more rounds. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT