THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 28, 1996
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 WES SEELEY:  Perry went out in record tying 7 under par and
a share of the lead and tell us about it.

 KENNY PERRY:  Well, I birdied the first three holes right out
of the blocks; which is a nice way to start your tournament; kind
of got me relaxed; kind of set the tone for me for the rest of
the day.  The first hole which was -- I hit it I landed a pitching
wedge right by the hole but it kind of rolled over to the back
fringe and I chipped it in for birdie.  It was about 20 foot chip
shot so that was a kind of nice way to go.  To the front fringe
on 2; chipped it up there about two feet; tapped that in for birdie.
 3, I hit it about -- hit 7-iron about 15 feet right of the hole;
rolled that in for birdie.  I parred 4.  2-putted.  Parred 5.
 And then I hit a 9-iron on 6 to about an inch of the hole 3-wood,
9-iron, had a chance just short from going in so that was nice,
and then I  hit 3-iron on 8, about six feet past the hole; made
that for birdie.  And then 9 I hit a sand wedge; had 91 yards
hit to driver 2-iron, hit sand wedge; kind of blocked out by those
trees.  I was in the left side of the fairway; kind of hit it
to the middle of the green; had about 18, 20 footer; rolled that
in for birdie.  So it was a nice way to start.  Played about the
same on the backside.  I just didn't seem to hit it close.  I
hit a lot of fairways; a lot of greens and was able to birdie
the 12th hole.  Hit 3-wood, sand wedge to about twelve feet; was
able it to make that.  But I got the biggest break of the day
on 14.  I drove it good and I had 196 to the hole and I was in
between a 4 and a 5-iron so I was going to take the 4-iron; hit
it easy and I blocked it well to the right and it hits -- it glances
off this palm tree and it goes to within eight to ten feet.  They
said it had a chance to go in, almost lipped' -- almost went in
the hole; then it rolled below the hole about 18 feet away.  I
guess that would have been a little unfair if I would have made
that one.  I miss that one on purpose. AUDIENCE LAUGHTER). I just
didn't do anything -- didn't hit too good A drive on 16 so I had
to lay it up; had 102 yards  to the hole and hit a terrible pitching
wedge left of the hole and 2-putted for par, and then I hit 17,
18 just knocked it in the middle of the greens and had 20-footer
was able to 2-putt so,... I just tried to -- I really tried to
just be patient out there. I didn't try to force the ball into
too many pins and I never tried to short side myself.  I always
try to miss the ball away from the tucked pins and it seemed to
work today.  Hopefully I can be a little bit more patient and
not get too aggressive out there.

 Q.   What was closest you came to a bogey today?

 KENNY PERRY:  It just -- I guess it would have been on 15.  Yeah,
I hit it in the left green-side bunker and I blasted it up to
about a foot, so -- but it was a pretty tricky little bunker shot;
didn't have the much green to work with.  Only had to hit it --
probably only had to hit the bunker shot ten feet and then only
probably had another ten feet of green.

 Q.   This was a little different than your last competitive
round?

 KENNY PERRY:  Yeah.  I shot 82 first round t New Orleans and
withdraw.  The past four weeks have just been terrible for me.
I just played terrible golf.  And so I shoot 82 first round at
New Orleans; pretty frustrated the way things are going.  I am
in my  truck driving all the way over here; gave me good way to
think about it on Friday.  I am staying with Leonard Thompson
who is living out in Marsh Landing.  We came out Saturday and
Sunday.  He kind of paid attention to what I was doing out there.
He kind of knows my game. So I worked all day Saturday Sunday;
then Monday through Wednesday I was out here from 9 to 6 everyday
just hitting balls.  I also switched to a new set of irons.  Put
a new set of bubble shafts in my irons.  I have been playing steel
all year and Jim Sealman and Dick is now the inventor of these
new bubble shafts which is equivalent to an X-100 in steel.  Now
I am hitting the ball at the target; seemed like my shots I have
been missing far left, and all of a sudden my ball flies straightened
out for me, and it gave me a lot of confidence, and they were
really -- they were really super golf clubs.  I am still a little
unsure on my distances on a few shots as to how far they are actually
going, so I am kind of kind of learning feeling my way around
to that extent, but I am really excited about the rest of the
week and about the -- you open up a new set of irons and hit them
as well as I did, that is kind of a nice way to go. 

 Q.   Besides the irons, have you fixed something in your swing
that explains 82 too 65?

 KENNY PERRY:  I haven't changed my swing.  I think basically
I have been getting kind of lazy what I have been doing and not
been practicing enough.  I hit a lot of golf balls and I felt
very comfortable out there today.  I didn't feel like I was going
to pull it left or right.  I just felt like I was swinging down
my target line, the ball seemed to go where I was looking.

 Q.   Where does that 82 rank as far as --

 KENNY PERRY:  That was probably my worst round on ten years on
Tour.  I don't think I have shot any higher.  That is kind of
an eye opening experience to have your best year previous year
ever, and then come out and play so poor.  It is a pretty humbling
game and it makes you get refocused.  I think that round, even
though it was such a terrible round, it kind of got me going in
the right direction again because it showed how lazy I had gotten,
and how complacent and how I was taking the game for granted.
 I felt like I could just go out there and make it happen, and
that is just not the case with me.  Most of you all see me swing
the golf club.  I don't swing it very conventional, so I have
to hit a lot of golf balls to make it happen.

 Q.   Tell us about the drive across.

 KENNY PERRY:  I-10, boringest drive in the world.  You get on
New Orleans and you get on an Jacksonville. (LAUGHTER) I had --
it is probably nine hour drive and basically you sit there for
nine hours or beat yourself up.  It is -- you are asking yourself
a lot of questions, you know, what is going on?  Have I lost it?
 You just get a lot of thoughts running through your head, negative,
as well as positive.  And I think I put it in perspective and,
hopefully, got my act back together and hopefully, you know, that,
will make me a stronger player in the future.  But it is nothing
even more frustrating than to put time in and you know, not get
any results, so it was nice to see all the time I put in, the
past five days and to finally see something happen.

 Q.   Where on I-10 were you when you started to feel better?

 KENNY PERRY:  No point on I-10 that I felt better.  When I saw
Leonard Thompson, he cheered me up.  That is about the only thing
that made me feel better.

 Q.   Besides the 82, I mean, why not come back the  next day
and just try to post some number?

 KENNY PERRY:  Well, basically there is no point.  I mean, I couldn't
make the cut.  The cut was probably going to be even par, one
over, and why make it miserable for your playing partners as well
as yourself to go out there.  I just knew nothing was going to
happen.  Mentally I was a whipped puppy.  I was just not going
to go out there and think very good -- for me to kind of get away
and stay back and think about it, it is more of a healing process
there than to go out there and beat myself up again.

 Q.   Did you ever withdraw after a round for no physical reason?

 KENNY PERRY:  Yeah, one other time.  And I don't remember where
it was, but I have done it before.  That is not very professional
and I really don't think you should do it.  It is not good to
the sponsors; to the people that run the tournaments; to your
fans, but still, sometimes you just have to step away and try
to get refocused.

 Q.   Did Leonard do anything with you off the golf course,
kind of help, cheer you up?

 KENNY PERRY:  Well, he basically just reaffirmed what I thought
was happening out there.  He watched me play and he knows my game
as well as  anybody, and I was hitting the ball solidly.  He said
there is nothing wrong with your game.  And he kind of agreed,
it was more my mental side of the game than my physical side.


 Q.   You guys go out or do anything to kind of relaxed you
and helped you?

 KENNY PERRY:  No -- well, just playing very casual relaxed golf
on the golf course.  He is like me.  He practices all the time.
 I have never seen a man love the game more than this guy, and
so he always gets me pumped back up.

 Q.   How long have you known Leonard?

 KENNY PERRY:  Leonard is one of the guys that kind of took me
under his wings when I first started out here.  I have been on
Tour ten years.  I was on the Power-Bilt staff then; so was Leonard
that is how I got to know him.  We were both with the Power-Bilt.
Leonard just seemed to show me the ropes, kind of told me kind
of -- helped me how to play, how the -- course management where
to stay, how to travel.  As a young kid coming out here, there
is a lot of things besides golf that you have to learn out here.
 He really helped me in that aspect.

 Q.   He hasn't had the easiest time of it in the last six
months or year with his back and things like  that --

 KENNY PERRY:  No.

 Q.   Is that surprising he was able to help you as much and
here is a guy that has been struggling a little bit himself?

 KENNY PERRY:  It is not -- he didn't -- we didn't talk any mechanics,
anything about the golf swing.  Me and him both swing the golf
ball very differently.  You know, but he is all pumped up because
he turns 50 January 1, so you know, here is a kid, he is almost
like a little kid running around getting ready to turn 50, so
you know, that kind of lifted my spirits to see how excited he
was about it, and you know, I didn't want to come in here be all
depressed. Nobody likes to be around a depressed person, so he
kind of lifted my spirits.

 WES SEELEY:  Anything else for Kenny? .


 End of FastScripts.....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT