SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2014
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What was different today compared to yesterday?  
KENNY PERRY:   The good lord woke me up this morning, that was the difference.   
No, I hit it fine yesterday.   I hit two loose shots yesterday.   I hit a driver on 18 into the hazard right and made double.   
I pulled an 8‑iron left on a hole and made a big number, I think.   
But other than that, I struck the ball beautifully, like I did today.   I putted lousy all week.   I hit a lot of really good golf shots this week and I just can't get the speed of the greens.   I either hit it too easy or too hard, I just can't seem to find the rhythm on the greens.   
But I hit all the par‑5s on the course today.   Except 5 I couldn't get to it, but other than that is, I took care of the par‑5s today and just made one birdie on another hole.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like depending upon what the leaders do, you're going to have a shot tomorrow?  
KENNY PERRY:   Well, there's no wind out there, it's very getable.   I don't see the leaders backing up, I really don't.   I think what I'm going to need to do is shoot another 62, like I did two years ago on Sunday and that would get me in the ballpark, I think.   
I think somebody is going to get it to 8‑ or 9‑under, I really do.   I could be wrong.   They may not.   And if they back up and they get me right in my wheelhouse, I can shoot that good.   
So at least I've got a shot.   At least I shot a number today to put me in some kind of position to maybe, if I shoot one of those miracle rounds tomorrow, I can do it.  
   
 Q.   How dejected were you yesterday after the 75?  
KENNY PERRY:   Well, it was just a tough deal.   I played okay.   I really wasn't too upset.   I went and grabbed me something to eat and went to bed, slept nice and just ‑‑ it's just golf.   That's just all it is.   It was just a day I couldn't make ‑‑ I couldn't turn it around, I couldn't make things happen.   
Today, I never missed a shot.   And I hit it perfect today.   I lipped out four putts today.   I could have shot four better.   I had four rim out pretty hard on me.   And they were like from eight to 10 feet, they weren't that far putts either.   I hit it nice today.   So if I can just do that again tomorrow, maybe I can put a little pressure on them.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT