SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 22, 2014
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Take us through your round and how you played.   
KENNY PERRY:   It went good.   Birdied the first hole right out of the gate.   
But then I bogeyed the second hole.   Hit a poor 6‑iron on 2.   
That was my day.   I plodded along, hit a lot of good drives, hit a lot of greens, had a lot of opportunities.   And just didn't take advantage of my opportunities today.   
I knocked it on the par‑5, 9, in two and was able to 2‑putt there for birdie.  
Then back there on 15, I had a 5‑wood into the green for my second shot and I missed the green left, I don't get up‑and‑down there and I make par there.   
But then I birdie 16, the next hole, and so I made four birdies and three bogeys.   
So it was a steady day.   I didn't really do anything great, but I didn't do anything very poor.   I just need to be a little crisper on the greens.   I need to read them better.   I didn't read them as well as I've been reading the greens.   My speed was not as good.   
The last two weeks the greens have been pretty fast, this week the greens are not nearly as fast and the roll out, so you got to hit them a little bit.   
So just some adjustments, I got to make some adjustments to get ready tonight, get out there tomorrow, and have a good day tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   In a Major when the conditions are difficult and the courses are difficult, anything under par is good, right?  
KENNY PERRY:   Always.   Always.   Any time you can ever shoot under par in a Major, you've done a good job.   I was very pleased with my round today, even though I bogeyed the last hole with an 8‑iron in my hand.   Missed the green just a smidge so I couldn't putt it, I had to chip it over the fringe and made bogey on the last hole.   
But I hit nice shots.   I just need to keep hitting good golf shots and I need to putt a little bit better.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel you can make a run at this and continue this hot streak you've been on?  
KENNY PERRY:   You never know.   I need ‑‑ when you get our age, it's amazing what you feel like when you wake up each morning.   Am I going to feel the same.   Some days I'm stiffer than others and ‑‑ but it was okay.   It was very brisk this morning.   It was probably 50 or 49 degrees or 50 when I teed off.   It actually, it was a beautiful day to play golf.   Even though it was probably 55 or something, didn't have a lot of wind, so it really, the golf course is out there, somebody's going to shoot a good score today.  
   
 Q.   You've been here a few days, you were here a couple years ago.   What are your overall impressions with the way this tournament is run here?  
KENNY PERRY:   The PGA does a great job.   I think it's amazing when they take this area and they actually upgraded this area and they're bringing life back in here and bringing money in and bringing in jobs and this is a beautiful golf course and it will definitely help this area, which I think is great.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT