MONTREAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2013
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Kenny, thanks for joining us.   Maybe just take us through, maybe go back to 17.   What happened on that putt? 
KENNY PERRY:   Well, the putt on 17 really fooled me.   I didn't realize I was that much downhill.   You know, that's just lack of knowledge.   That's just not knowing the golf course, playing enough rounds, not really playing‑‑ I didn't really know that part of the green very well. 
And plus I was trying‑‑ I was trying to lag it, but I was also trying to make it.   I pushed it a little bit and then it broke and got going with the slope.   Next thing you know it's four and a half feet, fivefeet past the hole.   I didn't realize I was that much downhill.   I got fooled on the slope more than anything. 
Then I pushed the next putt.   It was horrendous, just shoved it out to the right. 
I didn't putt well all week, but I putted well enough.   I drove it okay.   My irons were just okay.
The golf course really had us all.   The greens were very firm.   It was very difficult to get it close to the hole.   I chipped pretty good.   I really had a good week.   Just all us were struggling out there.   For 5‑under to be ‑‑ I mean, we have been having 19‑under win each week, and we have got 5‑under wins the golf tournament. 
It was very difficult conditions, blustery.   I was very proud to have way I played for threedays.

Q.   Riding the golf cart, I didn't see when you actually got on board.   Is it the knees? 
KENNY PERRY:   Well, I had back spasms this morning.   Somebody feels like they are sticking an ice pick on the bottom of my right heel. 
I put a new pair of shoes in play this week and it immediately hurt my feet.   I was struggling with pain every night, trying to work out my foot.   The shoes were terrible. 
I told my wife, I'm just going to ride today, all did.   I was just trying to finish the round basically.   All I was just trying to do was just finish.   I wasn't trying to win a golf tournament.   That wasn't even in my mind.   I didn't know if I was even going to finish. 
I probably‑‑ if this would have been a PGA event, I probably wouldn't have played.   My back was killing me and then my foot was killing me.   And so I just took a lot of Advil and held my breath on all those shots and just fought through it. 
Nobody was making a run today, so it kept me interested.   It kept me like, Shoot, nobody is going anywhere.   Then I looked up and I had 2‑shot lead.   I was 6‑under and the next was 4.   That's crazy.   That's strange how golf is, when you feel like you are not playing your best but yet you got a 2‑stroke lead.   To me that was mind boggling.

Q.   Were you in the cart from the beginning of the round?
KENNY PERRY:   Yes, I started first hole.

Q.   Takes some pride, obviously, given the fact that you were not feeling well. 
KENNY PERRY:   Well, it was just a‑‑ I was just fighting through it.   I was just trying to finish.   I came all the way up here to finish.   My goal was to play 54 holes. 
I actually played very nicely today.   I drove the ball beautifully.   I drove it better today than I've driven it all week.   There is something to be said about the wounded guy.   I guess I was more in control, more in reserve, not trying to swing so hard at it.   My golf swing got in rhythm, got in sync.   My back, you know, it catches past impact.   If I can get‑‑ I knew right after impact I was going to feel pain.   I just fought through it.   I just knew once the ball is away you can't really worry too much about it.

Q.   Saw you giving Esteban a bit of a hand when he ‑‑
KENNY PERRY:   Oh, yeah, great shot.   I really like Esteban, great guy.   He's a talented kid.   He works hard, very proud of him.   That was a great shot.
I told him, We need to get this over with in a hurry.   I can't play many holes anyway.   One of us needs to make a birdie.   Bad for me, but good for Esteban.   Great job.

Q.   Could you have played some more holes? 
KENNY PERRY:   I could have, yeah.   But I didn't know.   I mean, if it would have gone completely out, it would have been over with.   It was a lot of pain.   I was playing in a lot of pain.

Q.   How do you take care of that tonight? 
KENNY PERRY:   Fly home.   Flying home tonight.   I've got a doctor's appointment tomorrow actually to have a cyst removed on my back.   I've got to have surgery tomorrow.   So I'll talk to my doctors tomorrow and see what they can do for me. 

Q.   So while you're in, you might as well do one‑stop shopping? 
KENNY PERRY:   Exactly, right.

Q.   Was that something that was in your mind at all that it could seize up and just get to a point where you‑‑
KENNY PERRY:   Well, I wasn't too worried about it.   I was prepared to come in.   I was prepared.   I was not going to injure myself any further.   If it got to a point where I could not play, I would have rode in. 
One way or another, I was very excited when I hit the last ball on 18 and got it on the green in regulation.   I knew I had done what I set out to do.   I was able to finish a round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT