MONTREAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2013
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Kenny, thanks for joining us.   71 today, 1‑under and 3‑under for the tournament.   Maybe like a quick recap of your day and then we'll get some questions.
KENNY PERRY:   Didn't much happen for me out there, made two birdies and one bogey and 15 pars.   So I made ten pars starting from 10 out, 10 through 18.   I really never could get anything going.   It was pretty blustery out there, tough conditions. 
Bernhard played a beautiful round of golf to shoot 6‑under or 67. 
Couldn't make it happened today, but still in the golf tournament.   My two wins this year have been from behind.   I kind of like being the chaser, not the guy being chased.
Hopefully we can get out there tomorrow and get off to a good start and battle him down to the end.
2, I hit a good drive and a pitching wedge just over the green and I chipped in with my sand wedge.   I had about a 15‑footer, not too far from the hole and chipped it in.
Then I drove it pin high left in the bunker on the little short hole and hit a bunker shot to 12inches, foot, tapped that in for birdie.   Wasn't much happening.

Q.   No. 8, the bogey?
KENNY PERRY:   I hit the best shot of the day on No. 8.   I hit a pretty pitching wedge.   It landed 15 feet short of the hole and it went over the green.   And then I chipped it short and 2‑putted for bogey.

Q.   You were saying you were happy with your driver yesterday.   How did it feel today?
KENNY PERRY:   I think I only hit one fairway today.   I kept hitting it both ways.   I had two‑way misses today, I was missing it left and right.   I can't really blame the driver too much.   I think it was just conditions were tough out there.   I didn't seem as loose today as I was yesterday.   I felt stiffer and just my swing was just not in rhythm.   I was out of sync today. 
I just battled hard out there to try to make pars and did a good job.   Hopefully I can get in rhythm tomorrow and drive it better. 
I drove it good the first today and today was not as good.   You have days like that. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
KENNY PERRY:   I was two behind in both of them, going into Sunday.

Q.   And you shot what in both tournaments?
KENNY PERRY:   I think I shot both 63s or 64 on Sunday to win both of those events.

Q.   At three back, how do you feel about going into tomorrow?   Do you think you can make it up?
KENNY PERRY:   Oh, yeah.   You know, if he shoots even par and I shoot 4‑under, you know, I win the golf tournament.   So he needs to play a good round of golf and I need to play a great round of golf. 
If he plays a really good round of golf, nobody is going to catch him.   It's his tournament to win. 
It's tough out there.   It's supposed to be in the 50s tomorrow with, I heard, 30‑mile‑per‑hour gusts.   It's going to be a very dicey day tomorrow, going to be very tough out there.   If I can shoot anything under par, that may be good enough to win the tournament.

Q.   Could you compare the scores to any other course you played before?
KENNY PERRY:   This is like a U.S. Open.   The greens are very firm.   If you hit it in the rough, it's very hard to keep the ball on the green from the rough.   The greens are so firm.   The speed of the greens aren't as fast as the U.S. Open, but the firmness and texture of the greens are so hard and so fast the ball bounces. 
You really got to hit it in the fairway.   You have got to have ball control.   You got to hit it in the fairway to get enough spin on the golf ball to get it to stop on the greens. 
The rough is not very penal out there.   You can hit it fine out of the rough.   You don't have any spin, it goes over the green every time.   It puts a lot of demand on you to hit the fairway off the tee. 
I may try to scale back a little bit maybe hit some 3‑woods or 5‑woods or something to get it in the fairway tomorrow.   I have been letting loose with the driver and taking my chances with wedges.   Been getting it around okay, buttoday I never really hit it close to the hole.   I had 15, 20‑footers all day.   Never really got it close, never had any good bogey opportunities except for the 6th hole or whatever the short hole I drove the green. 

Q.   Would you prefer with to play with him tomorrow or a threesome ahead of him to put pressure on? 
KENNY PERRY:   It doesn't matter.   If I'm in front of him and I'm posting good numbers, he is going to see that on the board just as well as if I was playing with him and post good numbers, posting birdies. 
I just need to get out there and get to running a little bit and getting to make some birdies early, at least to let him know that I'm around. 
But there's still a lot of guys at 3‑under.   I didn't see the board.   I think there's four or five guys at 3‑under.   One of those guys, if they shoot a great round, they could still win the golf tournament, too.   It's not just between me and him.   There's probably a handful of players that can win this golf tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT