U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2013
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Kenny Perry now in the flash, 7 under, 63, one off the Senior Open Championship record, and he's the 2013 Champion.  
   
 Q.   Still have plenty of daylight left.   Want to go walk it again?   
KENNY PERRY:   Not really.   I think six straight days of it is enough.   Great week.   Great tournament.   I mean, it just all came together for me.   To shoot 64, 63 on the weekend.   
Today's round was probably the greatest round I've ever played.   I mean, I just was spot‑on with all my irons.   I putted like Ben Crenshaw.   You know, it all just came together for me.   It's just been a remarkable month.   I've had a great run.  
   
 Q.   Talk about how you get on these streaks.   What are you doing to get it going?   
KENNY PERRY:   Well, I got off to a great start again.   I birdied the first two holes yesterday.   Today, I birdied 2 and 3.   I was in great rhythm, and, shoot, I ended up turning the front nine at 30, birdied the 9th hole.   I was just off and running.   
I just thought, you know, things are going my way.   Let's keep putting the pedal to the metal here.   Let's try to make as many birdies as we can make and see where it ends up.  
I was able to take advantage.   
This golf course suited me perfect.   It was‑‑ you know, I hit it long.   Even though I hit it in the rough, I was still able to manage the shots out of the rough and keep them on the green and stuff.   Instead of slashing at it from 160 yards, I was up there at 100 to 110 yards, and it made a huge difference.   Length was a huge factor this week.  
   
 Q.   Kenny, what does it mean to go back‑to‑back?   
KENNY PERRY:   It just means a lot.   It means a lot to win a National Open.   For me to have that now attached to my name, the greatest win I've ever had.  
To lose a Masters in a playoff and lose a PGA Championship in a playoff, heartbreak.   All I felt was heartbreak.   And now, to finally get it all together and to finally have a Major‑‑ two Majors attached to my name is very sweet.  
   
 Q.   Is there something you learned from those experiences that helped today?   
KENNY PERRY:   No, I don't think so.   I try it all the time, all of them.   It just seemed this was my time.   Just seemed like it was easy this time.   Under a lot of strain, it didn't seem like, out there.   I wasn't pressing to hit the golf ball.   My swing was on form.   
My putter was really on form, which took a lot of pressure off my golf swing.   I felt like I could make it from anywhere out there today, which is very unusual for me, because I'm usually not a good putter.   I'm usually a decent ball striker, and putting is secondary for me.  
These last two Majors, my putter was on fire.   So that's the big reason why I won.  
   
 Q.   How long have you used that putter?   
KENNY PERRY:   I've had that putter about ten years.   But I've used it off and on for the last‑‑ mostly, I used an Odyssey, and then my CRAZ‑E, PING CRAZ‑E and a Yes! putter.   But this one has always made the traveling team, let's put it that way.  
It's funny, I put it in play because it's got almost 4 degrees of loft.   I put it in play at Fox Chapel because we were playing under very wet conditions and I needed loft on the greens, and I putted beautifully to win.   I said, I'm going to use it this week too.   
The first few rounds were very similar.   The greens, we were having to put a lot of water, with the heat, they have to keep the greens alive.   So the greens acted very similar with the speed and all, very same place.   It worked out great these two weeks.  
   
 Q.   Kenny, did you give any thought to President's Cup this year, maybe being a pick.   
KENNY PERRY:   Freddy won't pick me.   Even though I have won three Memorials.   You need to tell him that.   No, I don't think‑‑ but I'm always in his ear.   I say hey, Freddy, I said, I'm available if you need me.   I'm always talking to him.   
But I think that would put a lot of pressure on him, to pick a Senior Tour guy.   He'd probably pick himself before he'd pick me, which is understandable, you know.   He's a great player.  
   
 Q.   Kenny, you talked about the golf course fitting your eye.   How did it change from Thursday to today?   
KENNY PERRY:   Well, we had a north wind on Thursday.   Had a north wind, and then we finally got a south/southeast wind, which I think is probably the standard wind here.   Golf course plays totally different.   
Like the 10th hole, I hit driver, pitching wedge into 10 with the southeast wind.   With the north wind, I can't even get over the water there or past the bunker, and I'm hitting a 4 iron.   That hole played totally different.   I was thankful that the heat and the southeast wind came back.   That's the way I like to play this golf course.  
   
 Q.   At what point did you know your putter was that good today?   
KENNY PERRY:   When I made it on about five straight holes from 2 on.   I mean, they're all going in.   My speed was great.   I knew when my speed was good, I knew good things were going to happen.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT