U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2013
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   6 under par, 64 today, and he's 6 under for the Championship.  
   
 Q.   That must have sounded good to hear that, huh?   
KENNY PERRY:   Yeah, anytime you shoot 64 in a Major, you've done something.  
   
 Q.   Where did you come from after yesterday?   
KENNY PERRY:   I went from the outhouse to the penthouse.   I couldn't do anything right yesterday, and I did everything right today.   So I guess it's just golf, maybe.   I don't know.   
You know, I knew I was ten back starting the day, and I knew somehow, if I could get within five, my goal was to get within five of Michael Allen for Sunday's round.   So if I can shoot another low round, I might have a chance to catch him.  
So, you know, incredible round, 6 under.   So I'm within two, I think, right now.   So I did what I was wanting to do.   So I got a good shot tomorrow if I can put another good round together.  
   
 Q.   Could you tell at one point now it's rolling.   
KENNY PERRY:   I birdied the first two holes right out of the gate.   That kind of set the tone for the day.   I three‑putted the next hole.   That kind of set me back.   
I had a lot of great opportunities, great looks.   Drove it beautifully.   It was just a fun day of golf.  
   
 Q.   Kenny, you missed a short one on 4, another one on 5.   
KENNY PERRY:   I hit it close.   Could have been a 59 today, very easily.   I hit a driver that landed two foot from the hole on 13, and it went over the green, and I didn't get that up and down.   I couldn't get a 5 iron on the green on the next hole on the par 5, and I couldn't get that up and down.   
Then I hit it close on‑‑ I mean, it was incredible.   Then I made a nice putt on 16 and chipped it close on 17.   So that was a good way to at least kind of get some of them back.  
   
 Q.   Can you describe your strategy to hit driver on those short par 4s?   You've been doing that all week?  
KENNY PERRY:   I've been doing it all week.   I figure I can hack it out of the rough better way on up there as opposed to way back.   That was my goal, just hit as far up there as I can.   I'd love to get it in the fairway, but if it gets in the rough, I feel like I can hit that hundred yard sand wedge shot and still get it‑‑ the greens as soft as they are, if they were very firm and fast, I'd be in trouble.  
They're receptive even for the flyer, kind of the knuckley ball coming out of the rough.  
   
 Q.   You were talking about local knowledge and how you wish you had more of it.   Does playing three championship days, do you start to get the hang of it?  
KENNY PERRY:   I don't think you ever get the hang of this place.   There's so much elevation and moving the tee boxes around a lot.   It really is a very tough test.   It's a test you could get, though, but you've got to get it in the fairway.  
I said from the beginning of the week, if I drive it in the fairway, I like my chances this week.   The first day was great.   Yesterday was off.   I only hit two or three fairways.   Today, I don't even know if I missed a fairway today.   I missed a couple, but they were in the right spots where I could hit sand wedges up there near and get them on the green.  
   
 Q.   Michael Allen is holding a five‑shot lead going into today over the closest pursuer.   Would you figure with 36 holes left, that still a lot could happen?   
KENNY PERRY:   Definitely.   Open conditions, that's a lot of golf.   And I knew, if I could somehow shoot 3, 4 under, that was kind of my goal to get to where I could actually have a shot for tomorrow to put some pressure on him.  
I was in that rocking chair kind of seat.   If I played great, I've got a good shot like I did today.   If I don't play any good, it's an aggressive kind of mode that I was in today.   I need to kind of figure out how to do that again tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Thank you.   
KENNY PERRY:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT