TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 15, 2012
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Kenny, a little blip at the last but a very nice round of 5‑under today, and you made some nice putts, a 22‑footer on the par3; talk about the day.   
KENNY PERRY:   Yeah that was it.   I putted beautifully today.   I got it around nicely.   Got it in the fairway, got it on the green and gave my putter some shots at it.   That was probably the best round of golf I've ever played on this golf course.   This course usually beats me up pretty bad.   It's a tough golf course and you have to drive it well.   
I only hit driver once on the front nine; so there was a lot of 3‑wood holes, 5‑wood holes, try to get it in position and I was able to do that on a couple holes and kept the momentum and kept the round going.   
Everything was great.   Pulled my driver a little on 18 and pulled it out of the bunker a little long and made a nice pitch down there and putted down there and missed about a 4‑ or 5‑footer.   
All in all, fantastic day, if you told me I was going to shoot 5‑under going out, I would jump up for joy.  
   
 Q.   What's it like coming back to this Tour and playing with the younger guys after being an established star on the Champions Tour?  
KENNY PERRY:   I don't know about star but it's great.   It's good to come back and play with my old buddies.   Anthony was a big star at The Ryder Cup there in Louisville on that team that I was part of and that brought back a lot of memories.   It's good to hang out with the guys, see them, say hello.   
I'm fully exempt this year out here.   I could play every week if I wanted to except for the majors and the World Golf Championships, and I have chosen to play the other tour.     
             So I represent Transitions, and that's why I'm here this week.   They have been a great sponsor for me the past four years.   I hate to see them go.   This is their last year here, so that's sad on my part.   I understand it's a big commitment to be a title sponsor.   
You know, what I'm just enjoying life, I'm just playing where I want to play, go where I want to go, I've got a grandson now, he's a year old and I'm spending more time at home.   My son who is caddying for me this week got engaged at the Waste Management on the 18th green, so that was pretty school.   Now he's here caddying for me this week, again, so we are sharing some special time before he takes off with his career and his life.   
You know, it was funny, a guy told me that I'm in, being a country boy, he says, "You're living in the short rows now."   
And I'm like, what are you talking about.  
And he says, "You know when those farmers have those gigantic fields, you start cutting the corners, those row of corn get real short, he says, you're in the short rows in the game of golf.   
I said, yeah, that's probably pretty true.   I have a few more years left out here to play, and I've got a couple more years exemptions, Top‑50 all time money or Top‑25, if I want to use it so I can still play a couple more years; if I want to dabble still, like kind of what I'm doing now.   So life's good for KP.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT