HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2010
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. "Woe is me, I don't think how long I can play out here, it's just left me, I can't find it," and now you've got a chance to win the tournament. 
 KENNY PERRY: It's amazing what one good golf swing can do for you. Actually I've got a little pop back this week. My driver has a little length to it, the fairway is firm, the ball is rolling out, which is helping me, and I'm just letting my experience -- I switched to another putter today.
 My one Craz-E I've had forever broke. I had to reset it twice, so I went to a back-up that I used when it broke at the Mercedes, and I finished sixth with it, and I put it in play today and I putted good. I made putts that you've got to make to get in a tournament, and man that was huge. 
 I've been driving it okay, and my irons are a little suspect, but I adjusted nicely today and I did enough to get me in the golf tournament. 

 Q. What was the one -- (No microphone.)
 KENNY PERRY: It's been the same issue. My lower body has been outrunning my upper body. When I kick out early I drop my hands and get underneath the golf ball. I've been trying to keep my hands out and release my lower body -- I've got to slow the lower body now, and when I do that I hit a beautiful little draw, and it starts out right in my -- (No microphone.) -- when I get nervous I don't remember to do that. 

 Q. Can you talk about your round? 
 KENNY PERRY: Six birdies, great day. Putted beautifully, what a difference. I used a Craz-E the first two rounds. Mine broke on me at Kapalua and this one was better. My lines were better, where I was looking, and the ball was going and my feed was better, so consequently it took pressure off the rest of my game, so I knew if I could get it around the hole, I could make some birdies. 

 Q. And you're happier with what's going on now than you were? 
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah. It's been a long year, a lot of work, lost a lot of weight. I've been working out hard, trying to rededicate myself and get back in the mix here, and actually I have a great shot at winning a golf tournament again. 

 Q. What was the wind like?
 KENNY PERRY: It was wicked, 20-plus out there. The fairways are firm, hard to get the ball in the fairways, and you're trying to gauge the rough, and it's a difficult test out there. I played beautifully, hit it great, had a lot of great opportunities until the last couple of holes. I really could have shot a really low round today, but I'm happy with 4-under. 

 Q. What happened on 14? 
 KENNY PERRY: Hit a drive down the left and it was in the rough and was expecting a flyer and I hit it fat, I chunked it. You've got to pay attention on that hole. It was down the middle of the fairway the whole way, and next thing I know it's 2 feet into the rough, and I was expecting a flyer and I hit it fat and I hit a poor shot. 

 Q. Thanks, Kenny.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT