THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2010
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Key of the round today? 
 KENNY PERRY: Got off to a great start. I was 4-under after 7, and that really relaxed me. I made eagle on 2 and was off to a wonderful start, and got really sloppy in the middle of the round. I chunked it. 
 I've got all these chunk shots in my repertoire right now. Chunked it on 9, made bogey, and then I made two crucial par putts on 10 and 11 to save my round and get the momentum back. And I was able to make a couple more birdies coming in to shoot 5-under, so pretty pleased with it. 
 But after last week after my debacle on the second round, you know, I don't know what to expect anymore. You know, here the last couple of years I knew I was going to be pretty much around par and play better, but I'm all over the lot right now. It's crazy what's going on to me out there. 
 I don't know if I'm going to go out there and shoot 67 tomorrow or shoot 75. I don't know. I've got to kind of regroup. I hit the ball nicely today. It was a better ball-striking day than I've had all year and I putted nicely, so hopefully things will turn around.

 Q. Was there any adjustment to your swing or anything, any key? 
 KENNY PERRY: No, I just kept working on the same things I've been working on: Ball position, alignment, and trying to stay on top of the golf ball and cover it. Clubs have been laying in underneath me and I've been coming too far from the inside by hitting fat hooks and pulls. And I pulled that one on the last hole, and luckily it didn't go in the water and I was able to get up-and-down and make par. 
 I don't know. It's just been interesting. I had the Champions Tour reps come and court me this week to get me ready for the Champions Tour. As poorly as I've played this year, I was ready to go after last week. So I don't know what to expect. I mean, I'm out there right now.

 Q. Is this a place you've liked through the years? 
 KENNY PERRY: I've had hit-or-miss here. I've had some good weeks and then don't do so well. This is a golf course that can get you when you're playing good or bad.

 Q. It's not a place to come find it though?
 KENNY PERRY: Exactly, exactly.

 Q. How does it feel when those guys come to you and say, we're looking forward to having you out there, when you're shooting 5-under here? 
 KENNY PERRY: I'm looking forward to it. I mean, I'm looking for a stress-free, fun environment just to go out there and enjoy all the accomplishments we've had over all these years. 
 This is my 24th year. Actually I played TOUR events starting in 1984, but I got my card in 1986. It's been a long road. I'm tired.

 Q. You're not that tired, are you? Did they kind of sidle up to you and go, So, you're turning 50?
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, they've brought me some gifts. The Champions Tour, Jimmy brought me some gifts this week from the Champions Tour.

 Q. Which included what? 
 KENNY PERRY: It was in a bag, you know, sandy opened it. It was a oh, a shirt and a hat. Just what I needed (laughing).

 Q. I thought maybe it was like a rocking chair or something like a Champions Tour bag?
 KENNY PERRY: No, I need a rocking chair out here, not out there.

 Q. You may be one of the few people who looks forward to turning 50?
 KENNY PERRY: I am. I'm looking forward to it.

 Q. Is Ryder Cup still even like a thought for you? 
 KENNY PERRY: Well, as poorly as I've played, it's not been a thought at all. I mean, if I can start putting some rounds together and get in a little momentum, then I can kind of shoot toward that as being a goal. But I've just played horrendous this year. I've not had a shot at doing anything.

 Q. The only reason I ask is you really didn't get going until Memorial two years ago?
 KENNY PERRY: Well, actually Atlanta. I banked it off the tree in Atlanta, and that really sparked me in Atlanta, and that was in early May. 
 So May is kind of when I start feeling like it's time to play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT