QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2010
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round today.   
 KENNY PERRY: You know, I found my old driver that I won twice with last year. I didn't know where I had left it, and I found it, brought it here, drove the ball beautifully today. Thank goodness I found my old driver. I hit my irons nice, and I put a belly putter in play for the first time today. I probably had 12 one-putts. I mean, I was making them from all over the place.   
 Pretty excited. First round out with a belly putter, pretty interesting, kind of nervous with it and all, and to make putts like I was making gave me a lot of confidence out there. I drove it nicely and then I hit some nice quality iron shots and was able to capitalize. Made some unbelievable putts.  
 I birdied 17 and 18 on my front nine, which finishing -- coming in on 17 and 18, to make two birdies there was unbelievable. I made about a 40-footer on 17 and I hit a beautiful 5-iron to that front left pin on 18 to make birdie there. And then birdied No. 1 to go -- just kind of kept the ball rolling.   
 One little blunder, I chili-dipped a chip on the 8th. I about drove it on the green on 8 and chili-dipped a chip and ended up making bogey. But it was a fun round of golf. It's been a long time since I've played like that.  
  
  Q. What was the reason for the belly putter?  
 KENNY PERRY: Well, you know, Taylor has the removable shaft technology, and I had laid the head inside a drawer which I had forgot about, the head that I won both my tournaments, and I've been using that shaft -- I wanted to try out that shaft with all the heads. That's the one shaft I kind of rotate around.   
 So I found it last week, and I put it in the bag. I was like, wow, where has this been. It was a nice treasure I found.  
  
  Q. What made you go to the belly putter?  
 KENNY PERRY: Well, I've used a belly before in tournaments. I top-tenned at Bay Hill a couple years ago, just kind of off and on, here and there. My putter, my Ping Craz-E broke at Kapalua, and I had it reshafted twice, and I just can't seem to get the feel with it. It's just not right. So I said, well, you know, we're going to go back to something and get comfortable with the ball and roll it. My speed was beautiful today, so I'm excited.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT