U.S. SENIOR OPEN
July 2, 2017
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I'm here with our champion, Kenny Perry, two-time U.S. Senior Open champion.  How does that sound and feel?  
KENNY PERRY: Unreal, to tell you the truth.  It's our goal to always win our championship, and I never could get it done on the regular Tour.  It's such an honor for me to represent this Tour, and this is our Open.  To me, this and the senior PGA are the two exclusive tournaments on the Champions Tour.  To be a two-time champion, the USGA did just a tremendous job this week with the golf course.   
I mean, I never had such a mental challenge all week.  I just kept playing middle of the greens, trying to make pars, and just plodding along out there.  It fell my way this week.  Putter got hot, made a few putts at key times.   
But I just can't thank the USGA enough.  I'm honored.  All these great names that are on this trophy. Just blows me away to be part of it.  I mean, this trophy goes back a long way.   
 Q.  Let's take a look at some of your signature moments here.  1st hole, one back starting the round.  Good tee shot.  Now your putt.  
KENNY PERRY: 12, 15 feet, breaking.  Kirk was in front of me.  He gave me a little assist to see what to do.   
 Q.  What does it do for the remainder of the round starting off like that?  
KENNY PERRY: I felt ready to go today.  I felt good.  I had a good warmup session.  Then it just told me I'm in the game.  My nerves aren't too bad.  I'm ready to go.   
(Francis D. Ouimet Trophy presentation.)   
 Q.  Kenny, you don't do this by yourself.  All your friends and family back in Franklin, Sandy, the family, what do you say to them?  You celebrate not only yourself, but with everyone who helped you along the way.  
KENNY PERRY: Well, you know, they're part of the team.  Sandy and I have been married 36 years.  Three kids, six grandkids.  Here I am at 56, getting ready to turn 57 in two months and still be competitive in the game of golf and still be valuable.  It's pretty awesome to have that group behind me, pushing me.   
My son loves to play golf, Justin.  He's a lot of fun to get out there and compete and battle with.  I've got good friends at home.  I've got a great support group, and that's what keeps me going, keeps me battling.  Actually, I've been kind of lost for two years, been really struggling out here.  I thought, you know, my time was about up.   
All of a sudden, I switched caddies, changed the putter --   
 Q.  Always the putter, isn't it?  
KENNY PERRY: I putted great this week.  I grabbed it Wednesday.  I'm making putts and holing putts all over the place and shooting 16 under par.  I've been hitting it okay all year.  I couldn't get one in the hole.  It all came together.  Why it did, I don't know, but I'm very thankful.   
 Q.  You have a lot of friends out here.  Once again, enjoy.  
KENNY PERRY: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT