MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2010
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How was it out there today, more difficult today than the previous two rounds?  
 KENNY PERRY: No, it was perfect. No wind, probably the prettiest day I can ever remember out here playing in the tournament. It just was peaceful. Pins were set up tough, the front nine pins I thought were brutal. That fourth hole, sixth hole, 7, very tough to get at.   
 But I eagled 13 and 15, so I had two eagles. I mean, then I bogeyed 17, I mean it was one of those, it kind of reminds me of the old days where you can make bogeys, birdies, eagles, there's a lot happening out there.   
  
  Q. Why was it conducive to the scoring today?  
 KENNY PERRY: There's just no wind. No wind. It's beautiful. You can actually get at something. The greens, they're receptive and they're not super hard.   
 No, everything's hanging in there for us.  
  
  Q. Talk about those back nine 3s.   
 KENNY PERRY: I told my son I said, "If I make this putt I'm going to give you the crystal."   
 It was about a 30-footer up that hill and it went right in the middle of the hole. I guess I meant for him to have crystal.   
 And then I holed a bunker shot on 15, it looked like a putt, it just rolled right in like a putt for eagle. So a pretty neat deal.  
  
  Q. Who was more excited you or him?  
 KENNY PERRY: He was, by far.   
  
  Q. Two eagles, did you feel it should have been lower?  
 KENNY PERRY: Well I 3-putted three times. I didn't putt well, I 3-putted three times on the front nine and just couldn't get the ball in the hole.   
 I just struggled with pace of, with the speed of the greens this week. So my old putter, old faithful, I can't get it -- it broke and I reshafted it and it just don't feel the same.  
  
  Q. When is the last time you had two eagles in a round?  
 KENNY PERRY: I don't know. I couldn't tell you.  
  
  Q. Have you ever done it here?  
 KENNY PERRY: No. I only made probably one eagle prior to that all the times I played here. I can only remember one, so.   
  
  Q. Second time you eagled 15 though.   
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, that's three eagles this week. I'm getting a lot of crystal.   
  
  Q. Tomorrow what do you think with the conditions and pin placements?  
 KENNY PERRY: They have used up some of the Sunday pin placements already that we had last year. So 16 will be back where it was last year, I noticed.   
 So it's going to be just like this. So somebody's going to shoot a number to win. You're going to have to shoot a score to win this tournament, it's not going to be given to you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT