MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2010
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 KENNY PERRY: With the north, northwest wind the golf course played hard. It played long and I'm getting shorter, but playing these kids, it's, it was quite a test today. Everybody's got to be on their toes.   
 Those pin placements I thought were in some tough spots today. I played percentage golf, played to the middle of the green, was just 2-putting from 20, 30 feet trying to keep below the hole, didn't get too aggressive. And you can't win golf tournaments that way, but you can't lose them either and at least now somehow if I can go out there tomorrow and post something early -- I'll be one of the early ones out -- and if can I post a low score I can get back in the tournament.  
  
  Q. You've been around here a lot of times, is it about as tough as you've seen?  
 KENNY PERRY: About as tough as I've seen. Definitely. It was a lot tougher today than any of last year, so.   
  
  Q. A lot of guys coming through are talking about the fact that how difficult the golf course is playing, a little bit of moisture, wind. Is it the experience factor, because you're doing what some of the guys aren't able to do, which is keep your score low.   
 KENNY PERRY: Well you got to hit it good, for one thing. There's a premium on driving in the fairway, and then you got to be precise with your iron shots, and then you got to pick the right club. I mean it's just, there's a lot of variables out there.   
 I think the word of the day would be patience. You can't really try to make birdies today, even on the par-5s I couldn't get -- I could have gone for 13, but that would have been dicey; and 15 I had 280 to the hole on 15. I couldn't even go for it. So it's dead into the teeth of the wind. Where yesterday I hit five in there stiff for eagle.   
 So it's a totally different golf course today. It's a 180 out there today.  
  
  Q. What hole did you find to be hardest hole?  
 KENNY PERRY: I thought every hole played hard except for 9 and 10. And those are usually two of the toughest holes out here.   
 Because I flipped a pitching wedge into here and I flipped a little 7-iron into 10. And I birdied both 9 and 10.  
  
  Q. We saw Couples put one in the bunker.   
 KENNY PERRY: Well it's not easy, they just played easier than they normally played. And then the rest of the golf course was all cross wind and into the wind, so.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT