THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 26, 2009
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KENNY PERRY: I wasn't expecting that kind of start, especially on this golf course. But I'm driving it great. I was splitting the fairways early in the round, and I was having short shots and able to take advantages of the wedges into the green early. I was able to set the tempo early and it just relaxed me. It was a very comfortable round of golf.  
  
  Q. On the range did you have the sense that you were hitting it exactly where you were aiming?  
 KENNY PERRY: I've been hitting is okay, but you've got a sand wedge in your hand. I had 105 yards on 1, I had about 100 yards on 3, and I had about 150 yards on 4, and I hit all of them within six feet of the hole. Pretty exciting, good way to get started.  
  
  Q. Your daughter came in on Thursday night, first time you had seen her since school started?  
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, it's great to have her here. We went out to dinner last night, her and my wife and my son. My oldest daughter and son-in-law are coming out tomorrow, so I'll have the whole gang out tomorrow.  
  
  Q. As difficult as this course is, did you think a 64 could be shot here?  
 KENNY PERRY: I mean, it's out there, but you've got to play flawless golf. You've got to play perfect. I drove it great, and it just seemed like when I did miss the fairway, I had a decent enough lie where I could recover. But it is a very demanding golf course. You cannot play out of the rough, and I'm a pretty good driver of the golf ball normally. First day I was horrible. I was better yesterday, and I was even better today. If I can kind of keep that rhythm going and drive it great again tomorrow, I like the way things are going.  
  
  Q. Do you relish being able to play with Tiger tomorrow in the final round of a big event?  
 KENNY PERRY: I love it. Yeah, I love playing with him. He's a great guy, great competitor, and we all learn from him. He's made us all better. He's made me better. Here I am at 49, I'm still trying to beat him. To me, I have fun with it. He'd better bring his "A" game is all I've got to say.  
  
  Q. How is your son handling being your caddie?   
 KENNY PERRY: He's reading the greens great. He's seeing the grain great, and he knows how I play. He's watched me play my whole life. It was an easy fit.  
  
  Q. Are you thinking about the FedExCup at all or just thinking about trying to win the tournament?  
 KENNY PERRY: That will all come in. I'd love to get 15 wins. I'd like to get on that even number -- get on that odd number again, kind of get on the 5s. That would be pretty awesome on my way to trying to get 20.   
  
  Q. For the FedExCup the guy that you've got to catch is Tiger. Are you going to be paying attention to where he is on the board at all because you need him to drop a couple spots for you to have a chance?   
 KENNY PERRY: That will probably only come late. First 14, 15 holes I'll be kind of zoned into what I'm doing and then I'll kind of see where the chips fall.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT