THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 25, 2009
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What do you think of 18 as a finishing hole, just curious, for a tournament of this magnitude with all the money that could be on the line? Is that the most dramatic end?
 KENNY PERRY: You know what, it's a hole you can make 4 on in a hurry. But it doesn't like give you the fear factor like maybe the 18th at Bay Hill or some kind of hole like that, you know what I'm saying? But still, it's a very demanding hole with a tiered green and the greens as firm as they are, and we're back there 235 away and we're all hitting 4-irons and hybrids, and the bunkers as soft as they are, the ball will plug if you throw it in the bunker. It's a very difficult hole. But does it give -- it doesn't give you the intimidation factor like some of the other finishing holes do.

 Q. Did you say you got an IV yesterday or just drank a bunch?
 KENNY PERRY: No, I was drinking as much fluids last night as I could get in me. I was sicker than a dog yesterday after the round. 

 Q. The Presidents Cup in a couple weeks, what does that mean to you? Is it patriotic, almost bigger than the majors for you?
 KENNY PERRY: Well, the Ryder Cup was. I'm not trying to downgrade The Presidents Cup at all. Presidents Cup is like playing with your buddies. The International squad is like the guys we play with week in and week out out here, we know each other, we're all good friends. A lot of barbing, jabbing going on out there, a lot of snide comments. And it's really fun. 
 The Presidents Cup to me is a lot of fun. I was so nervous last years at Valhalla in front of my home state at the Ryder Cup, you know, they've been killing us. We've been winning The Presidents Cup, we've been losing the Ryder Cup, so there's a big difference there.

 Q. Can you tell us some of the snide remarks at the Presidents Cup?
 KENNY PERRY: No (laughing).

 Q. You were pretty nervous if I remember on the 18th in South Africa with Nick, if I remember, right? 
 KENNY PERRY: I was very nervous.

 Q. I wondered how much of the good-naturedness and buddiness and nerves have to go with the fact that he hasn't been killing in the last few years?
 KENNY PERRY: I think it all kind of goes hand in hand there. Nick is one of my real good friends. One of my good buddies just built in the car, so Nick and I have stayed in touch for a long time. Even though I was nervous on the 18th hole, I was more nervous -- I was wanting to be good for Jack Nicklaus. Jack was my captain and I didn't want to let him down. Me and Nick were just having a great match. I think we had 12 holes where it changed hands. I won six and he won six or something, all birdies. It was an incredible match. 

 Q. I know you don't intend to lose in a couple weeks, but does this International Team need to make this thing close or not win?
 KENNY PERRY: Who said last year, it might have been Faldo said, that we need to win the Ryder Cup to kind of make it, give it a little -- bring back the flare and the mystique of it. I kind of agree with you. I think The International team needs to start winning some more and make it to where the fans will see it and view it and make it a nice -- be a great event. 

 Q. You mentioned the camaraderie of it and all that. Virtually all these guys are TOUR members. Are there any other elements of the Presidents Cup that you like?
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, I like the idea everybody plays on Thursday. We play foursomes on Thursdays or fourball, I don't know which one, and then we all play -- I kind of like that. I can't do 36 anymore, man. I was beat last year at the Ryder Cup when I went 36 on one day. I'm going to tell Freddie I want to go foursomes. I love alternate shot. That's kind of my game. To me, I enjoy there more than anything. That's not going to wear me out. It seems like the Ryder Cup is really packed in there for three hot, stress, tense days where here you've kind of got a little time to catch your breath.

 Q. Have you talked to Freddie a lot?
 KENNY PERRY: No, he texted me one time, and that's it. He just texted me.

 Q. Does Freddie talk to anybody or does he just text anybody?
 KENNY PERRY: I guess he just texts. I heard he doesn't use the phone. I hard if you call him he won't answer; he's afraid somebody's at the other end.

 Q. What other things have you heard Fred say because he's different than most?
 KENNY PERRY: I don't know Freddie very well, even though I've been out here as long as he is. Freddie to me is kind of aloof, kind of out there. He's just a loose cannon. You never know what's coming out of him. Really, he'll be nice and laid back, and then all of a sudden he'll get on a tangent and a tear and I've seen him just rip some guys before.

 Q. A lot of different captains. Do you think he's going to lean between one side or another?
 KENNY PERRY: No, I haven't got a feel for this. I don't know how he's going to do it. I love having Jay Haas there because I know kind of how Jay Haas -- he's been there, been around the block. Freddie has played in a million of them. I think it's going to be a very loose atmosphere in the clubhouse. I don't think it's going to be too much stress on the American team that way. I think we're going to have a lot of fun.

 Q. Have you met Michael Jordan?
 KENNY PERRY: I only shook his hand when he was on the 12th tee box there at the Ryder Cup.

 Q. He wasn't in the team room or anything?
 KENNY PERRY: No.

 Q. I know you're like a speed guy, but are you familiar with how accomplished he is?
 KENNY PERRY: Oh, yeah, he's a six-time NBA champion and all that. Yeah, I remember watching him with the Bulls.

 Q. Best athlete of his generation, what effect can you almost anticipate he's going to have on the team?
 KENNY PERRY: Well, to us it's going to be cool just to hang around with that cat, just to be able to just go up and shake his hand and listening to his stories. I want to hear some NBA stories; I don't want to hear no golf stories.

 Q. Anthony Kim, Hunter Mahan, are all young, first time at the Ryder Cup. Your observation of them? Phil said it was a benefit because they didn't have any scarring from losing teams. 
 KENNY PERRY: Well, it could have been. 

 Q. What impressed you --
 KENNY PERRY: Well, they were great players. They weren't holding anything back and they were trying to prove something to the world, and I think that's a good thing. 

 Q. Were you surprised at the Adam Scott pick, and could you see that having a bad impact on Adam, given the fragile state of his confidence right now, and the spotlight and scrutiny that's going to come with it?
 KENNY PERRY: I think it puts a lot of pressure on him. I don't think it's a bad pick. I know Adam and Greg are good buddies. We've all played with Adam. Adam was a world class player, and a week like that might get him back -- get his confidence back. It is a little bit of a step out on a limb, but it's Adam Scott. It's a guy that's proven. He's an accomplished player.

 Q. Maybe he's trying to light a fire under him to kind of get the spark maybe. 
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, maybe so. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT