ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 23, 2009
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You had a pretty solid day. But then get to 15 and 17 and struggled there. What happened?   
 KENNY PERRY: Not much. It's just a big, tough golf course. We're playing with crosswinds, 15 mile-an-hour winds. The greens are firm and fast. You let one get away from you, and it's hard to get up and down.   
 I'm tickled with 3 under. To go out there, I made three miracle birdies on 10, 11, 12, which was mind boggling to me where I made birdies from.   
 So all in all, it was a great day. I'm tickled with it. I'm just tired. I've got a real bad headache, and I just want to get me some good sleep, get a good meal and get ready for early in the morning.  
  
  Q. Does it go without saying with everyone shooting low scores on this course, it's important to get off to a good start?   
 KENNY PERRY: All the good scores are shot this morning. Every number posted was this morning. You didn't see any good scores in the afternoon, which shows how difficult the golf course played this afternoon.   
 So, hopefully, it reverses tomorrow, and we have a good shot at getting at this golf course in the morning. Maybe they'll have a little teeth in it tomorrow morning for the boys.  
  
  Q. How close was your putt on 13, and did you lose a little momentum there?   
 KENNY PERRY: I just misread it. I hit a great putt. I played it outside left and it didn't break. So it was probably a 6 or 8-footer. It didn't really slow my momentum, because the next hole, the par 3, I hit it in there 15 feet again, and I didn't make that one.   
 So the shot on 15 is the one that got me. I had it on the fairway. It was a makeable up-and-down, but I had a long chip shot and didn't get it. I got it up there 15 feet, not a good chip, and made bogey. So that got me going in the wrong direction.  
  
  Q. How was the crowd today? You got almost as many cheers as David Toms.   
 KENNY PERRY: Yeah, the crowd was great. They always are good here.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the importance of this round, and getting started and getting back into playing again?   
 KENNY PERRY: I can't answer that question yet. I need to kind of get back in the thick of the tournament. You know, I really felt good out there today. I did lose focus a little bit and kind of thinking a lot about two weeks ago and what was going on.   
 But I mainly got tired. I mainly got tired mentally, which got me tired physically. Even though I was 5 under par, it just seemed like I was really wearing down by the end of the day. I'm really hungry right now, so I need to get something to eat.  
  
  Q. Did you always have a headache?   
 KENNY PERRY: No, it just came on on 15, when I started losing it, I started sinking fast, so I'm glad the round's over.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT