SEVE TROPHY BY GOLF+
October 6, 2013
Sam Torrance
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the week?   
SAM TORRANCE:   They won.   They were very strong.   I mean, we gave it everything, but just came out just short.   
   
 Q.   It came right down to the very last match, and there were times when you were ahead; there were other times you were level.   It was always in the balance.   
SAM TORRANCE:   Yeah, it went a bit difficult midway through the afternoon, but they fought back.   Chris Wood holed a fantastic putt on 15 to keep it going and give us hope, and a fantastic birdie by Francesco Molinari on 15 to finish it off.   Well done, Europe.   As I say, golf was the winner.   That was a great event.   The taste of defeat is never great, but we will learn from it and come back strong.  
   
 Q.   Sometimes it is the building of players?  
SAM TORRANCE:   Absolutely.   
   
 Q.   Certainly there are plenty of positives to take from the performance?   
SAM TORRANCE:   Oh, absolutely.   They played great.   They were really strong and the Europeans were just that little bit stronger.  
   
 Q.   From your perspective, you'd love to do this again?   
SAM TORRANCE:   Who knows.   If was great fun, if they asked me again, I'd do it but I don't think they will.   It was great.  
   
 Q.   Overall picture, it was good for Ryder Cup?  
SAM TORRANCE:   They will learn, both teams will learn a lot from this about the excitement and pressure of team golf and they will take that forward and they will try to make The Ryder Cup even more now.   
Obviously disappointing not to win but I couldn't have asked for more from my team.   They were fantastic all week, in every aspect.   
   
 Q.   Do you think the Khan thing didn't help?  
SAM TORRANCE:   Absolutely, didn't hinder.   We were half a point nearer to victory.   
   
 Q.   And it came down to the last match?  
SAM TORRANCE:   It was always going to be very tight.   
   
 Q.   What do you thinkPaul learned from watching?   
SAM TORRANCE:   It's more about what they learn than what Paul learns.   He knows quite a lot.   It's really down to the players.   The taste of defeat is always tough to take but you can come back from that stronger.   
   
 Q.   Whet their appetites for trying to be involved next year?   
SAM TORRANCE:   Absolutely.   They will be even more enthusiastic now of making The Ryder Cup now that they have had a taste of what real team golf, as well.   
It was fantastic and it was a great honor for me but I don't think I'll be captain again.   
   
 Q.   In some shape or form hopefully?  
SAM TORRANCE:   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   From a Scottish perspective, of four boys, have they all got a chance again?   
SAM TORRANCE:   Fantastic.   They played great.   I felt sorry for Scott today, he came up against a tough one; Marc Warren was magnificent.   They played great, Stevie Gallacher, too.   
   
 Q.   What do you do now?  
SAM TORRANCE: Dutch Open this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT