U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
May 19, 2019
Michele Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Quite a back nine for you.  
MICHELE REDMAN: Yeah.   
 Q.  Talk about it a little bit if you don't mind.  
MICHELE REDMAN: Actually the last three days, I hit the ball really good.  I just probably missed a couple putts I should have made, but I made a couple, too.  I haven't played a lot of golf, so I'm pretty happy with how I played.  Again, I had a couple opportunities coming in on the back, and I started out really good yesterday on the front, so it was just a matter of the putts falling at the right time.  But as much as I get to practice, I'm happy with where I finished.  I'd like to win, but...   
 Q.  The birdies on 11, 13 and 15, did you hit it close?  
MICHELE REDMAN: 11 was probably about 10, 12 feet; 13 was probably about that.  And then 15 was probably about a five- or six-footer.  I chipped it up there.   
 Q.  You say you've been striking it well for the last three days.  Did you see this as a possibility today?  
MICHELE REDMAN: I actually saw it yesterday, too.  Like I said, I feel like I'm hitting the ball well enough to win, but I don't get a lot of time to practice, so I think that kind of hindered me a little bit at the beginning of the week.  I haven't played competitively since October, and I've maybe played five rounds of golf before I got here.  I broke a bone in my hand in December, so I had a lot going on coming in here, so my expectations weren't super high, especially the way I hit it in the practice round, but as the days progressed, I just -- I hit the ball great the last three days.  I probably can't hit it much better than I hit it.   
 Q.  How about your assessment of the week here, the event itself and the following and all that stuff?  
MICHELE REDMAN: I love this place.  There's a lot of history here with Peggy Kirk Bell.  I mean, it doesn't get any better.  I've been here a couple times.  It's one of my favorite Donald Ross courses, and it's really good now that they've redone the greens.  It was great before; now -- the greens are difficult here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT