LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 22, 2003
Michele Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  All right.  Just give some general comments about your round and how you feel with 66 on the board?
MICHELE REDMAN: I hit it really good today. I only missed one green, and I kind of lost my concentration.  Other than that, I hit really good.  The first three holes I lucked out.  I feel really good about it.

Q.  Everything was clicking today for you?
MICHELE REDMAN: I took a couple weeks off and I'm kind of refreshed.

Q.  How is the course playing?
MICHELE REDMAN: Pretty good.  The wind picked up a little bit, so the greens got a little firmer coming in, but it's playing pretty good.

Q.  Why do you think the scores were lower in the afternoon?
MICHELE REDMAN: The par 5, they're both reachable.  Like number 5 was reachable with a 6-iron today.  That kind of makes a difference.  The greens aren't that easy, and it's still the first day.  I don't think -- as far as the weather, I don't think the weather is going to be that good after tomorrow.  You know, we're just playing better.  I think that's the other thing.  We're  -- you have to play really well.

Q.  Does it feel good to get a good score in since the weather's going to be worse this weekend?
MICHELE REDMAN: Yeah, for me it's a big thing with hitting the fairways and the greens.  I haven't felt like I've hit the ball as well this year as I would like, and it kept me out of a lot of tournaments this year.

Q.  Why'd you take the weeks off?
MICHELE REDMAN: I was tired.  I was home for two weeks.  It was either going to not play there or not play here, and I really wanted to come here.  So, I decided not to play there.

Q.  Did you pay much attention to what Annika did today?
MICHELE REDMAN: You know what I did, I watched the first couple holes, and then I had to come out and practice, but I think she played pretty well today.  So, you know, she looked like she was having fun, and that's the idea out here.

Q.  Do you look at it as like the glass is half empty since you left some shots out there today?
MICHELE REDMAN: Yeah, I take what I get out there.  That's golf.  I look at more like I'm really starting to hit the ball good and that's really what I want to do while I'm out here.

Q.  Did your decision to play here instead of Augusta have anything to do with how you played last year?
MICHELE REDMAN: Yeah, that's some of it.  I had never played Augusta before.  I was so tired.  I like coming here.  That's the bottom line.  I like the course.  I like the people.

Q.  What is it about this course that you like?
MICHELE REDMAN: You've got to hit it straight, and it's just fun to play.  It's different.  You know, you still have to place the ball on the right side of the pin.  You have to hit it straight.  It really sets up to my game pretty well.

Q.  Are you going to make any adjustments or do anything different tomorrow?
MICHELE REDMAN: Nothing different.  You know, like I said, if I hit the ball like I hit it today for three more days, it will be good.  That's what I'm looking for.

Q.  Do you feed off of other players in your group who are playing well like Catriona Matthew was today?
MICHELE REDMAN: Catriona and I are friends.  That helps too.  You try to stay in your own game, but it is fun when everyone is making birdies out there.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT