WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 3, 2002
Michele Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: First two birdies and the double.
MICHELE REDMAN:  Okay, I birdied 5, knocked a sand wedge up  probably 10 feet, made that for birdie. 
I 2-putted from about 18 feet on 9 for birdie. 
Then 17, I just hit it in the water, 2-putted for five.  I mean, that hole, I didn't really hit that bad of a shot.  I just missed it a hair. 
MODERATOR:  What did you hit in there? 
MICHELE REDMAN:  8-iron. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Short.  8-iron the last two weeks, it's cost me a lot of money out here.  It cost me the tournament last week, to be honest with you.  Doesn't seem to be quite right.

Q.   What happened last week with it?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Same thing.  Just lipped it out to the right.  13th hole last week, bogeyed the 13th hole the first three days because I just didn't hit a good 8-iron, so... 

Q.   It seems today that the heat and humidity were getting to a lot of the players.  Something was getting to a lot of the players to keep them from making a move forward.  Was 17 for you a mental mistake? 
MICHELE REDMAN:  Not really.  At that point I felt pretty good.  I felt pretty good out there all day today.  It was really hot.  You just have to drink a ton of water. 
You know, the course played more difficult today.  It's played different every day.  It's getting harder and firmer, and the greens are a lot quicker.  They're getting burned out. 
Like for us all day today, we were in between clubs a couple times.  Even on the last hole, we weren't sure how much it was going to run.  I saw Kim's shot into 18, only released four or five.  I went ahead, hit a little 9-iron, mine released like 12. 
It's a guessing game a little on some of the holes because you're having short clubs but you're not sure if it's going to spin or take off on you. 

Q.   You went from I think three back to five back on one hole.  What does that do to you from the standpoint of now you have 18 holes left to catch her, she's been playing well?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Yeah, Kim made some putts on the Back  9.  She was hitting it good.  She hit some good shots on the Back  9, but made some great par-saving putts on the Back  9 also. 
I'm playing well enough right now, I'm striking the ball well enough, I'm putting really well.  That's the only mistake I've made all week.  I have not made a bogey all week.  I still feel good about going into tomorrow.  There's three rounds at this course.  If you get on the wrong side of the pin, one mistake, it puts a lot of people back in it. 

Q.   What would you imagine the course will be like tomorrow if it was playing as difficult as it did today?
MICHELE REDMAN:  I don't think it will play as difficult tomorrow because I think teeing off early, hopefully the greens are going to be a little bit softer.  I mean, I could be wrong, but I don't know.  I mean, are you asking me what I think the scores are going to be like tomorrow? 

Q.   I don't know.  The impression I've gotten from watching a little bit out there and talking to players is that this course is really baked hard right now. 
MICHELE REDMAN:  It is.

Q.   I'm wondering how you're going to deal with it in another day where it might be baked harder.
MICHELE REDMAN:  On some of the par 3s especially, you have to be very defensive, even 17, 15 and 8.  I mean, the greens are so firm, both of those holes, all of them, except for 15, if you hit it on, it's not going to stay.  You have to hit it just in the fringe. 
I mean, you just have to play defensive out there and you have to be smart before you hit your shots.  You know, if you have to take a 40-footer instead of being aggressive and making a stupid play, that's what you have to do. 

Q.   Do you have any plans for your 8-iron tonight or not?
MICHELE REDMAN:  I'm going to go hit some right now and then after tomorrow I have a brand-new one that's going to go in my bag as soon as I get home (laughter).  It's what I should have done before.  I don't know why I didn't do that.  It was bent.  I got it back, it wasn't fixed.  I don't normally have that kind of problem with my clubs.  If I'm hitting it bad, I'd say, "Whatever."  But I'm hitting the ball really great.

Q.   Do you think you bent it back when you hit it on the tee at 17?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Maybe.  Hopefully (laughter).  We'll let you know after I hit some balls.  That's great, they showed that on TV.  Oh, well. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT