WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 2, 2002
Michele Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR:  Four birdies today.  Let's go over those first. 
MICHELE REDMAN:  On No.  3, I knocked a 7-iron about 10 feet, made that for birdie. 
No.  9, I hit a 5-wood in about 45 feet, 2-putted for birdie. 
No.  10, I hit a pitching wedge in about 15 feet for birdie. 
Then No.  9 (sic), I hit a 9-iron in about three feet for birdie. 
Actually, I hit a couple fringes out there.  I really only missed one green, that was No.  8, and I got it up and down, so. 
MODERATOR:  What did you think about your round?
MICHELE REDMAN:  I hit one on No.  4 about three feet, missed it.  I couldn't get comfortable over the putts for some reason.  Kind of one of those things where you thought you (inaudible) something, but you probably didn't.  I knocked it close on I think No.  7. 
I knocked it really close on 7 and didn't make it.  I was about 10 feet there. 
Overall today, I hit the ball really great.  I was happy with the way I hit it. 
MODERATOR:  Questions. 
Q.   Can you talk about how this course sets up your game in comparison to New Albany?
MICHELE REDMAN:  I think this course is a little bit more difficult than New Albany.  You have to be on the right side of the pin.   There are some holes you can get in trouble with hitting it in the water. 
For me personally I like it because you still have to hit good shots into the greens to get good results. 

Q.   Are you surprised the scores aren't a little bit lower? 
MICHELE REDMAN:  Kind of.  I mean, I hit a lot of wedges today.  I hit a lot of wedges on the Back  9, probably on four or five holes.  I am.  But the greens  -- I think the greens are really difficult to read.  I think you really  -- except for the putt on 4, like on 7 I knocked it 10 feet, and the putt just totally fooled me.  It went more left than I thought. 
You know, it's a new course.  I think everybody is trying to get the idea of how it's playing, what the greens are doing.  So I think that's probably some of it. 

Q.   Easier than you thought it would be coming in?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Yeah, because you know what, I didn't play yesterday, then I played in the ProAm.  I just think it's playing firmer.  You're getting a lot more run in the fairway than you were two or three days ago.  So it actually surprised me a little bit, too. 

Q.   You had quite a group rooting for you. 
MICHELE REDMAN:  I had like 10 or 15 people out watching me today.  It was great.  I always like having people out, yeah. 

Q.   People know you here.  Do you like that?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Definitely.  The more the merrier. 

Q.   No pressure?
MICHELE REDMAN:  No, not really.  I think I've been out here long enough now that I try not to do that, you know.  But I just like to kind of hit some good shots.  I always just try to do my best.  I try not to put any pressure on myself. 

Q.   One thing you said was that you like this course because you have to hit good shots into the greens.  Talking to a lot of players before the tournament, they seemed to think that's where the premium is on this course, the second shots into the green.  For that reason, because you like that kind of golf course, as you think about the courses that you play on the tour, would this be maybe one of the ones that favors your game more than others?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Yeah.  As far as hitting into the greens, I mean, there's a lot of room in the fairways.  I have a tendency to play better on courses that are more difficult.  I'm not saying this isn't a difficult course, but the fairways are a little wider than some of the other courses. 
But hitting into the greens, these are more difficult, I think, because there's so many different slopes on the greens that to play two rounds on them, I don't think you get to know them as well as you would like.  I think that's the big difference. 
I really think that you can get some kicks out here on these greens that can really hurt you. 

Q.   For that reason, do you think maybe you would have a better chance here than you would have had at New Albany the last three of playing well and being in contention?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Yeah, because, I mean, I didn't play New Albany last year.  I never had a start at New Albany like I had here, definitely.

Q.   How did you feel about your play today?
MICHELE REDMAN:  I really felt great.  I hit it really good.  I took yesterday off.  I'm kind of tired really.  I've had three really difficult weeks.  My dad hasn't been well.  I traveled home a couple times in between events. 
I felt great out there.  I got a great night's sleep.  It's funny, like I said, I didn't practice yesterday, but I didn't give myself a lot of time to warm up this morning either.  It probably was the right thing to do. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT