SYBASE BIG APPLE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY GOLF MAGAZINE
July 19, 2001
Michele Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MICHELE REDMAN:  I'll start on the front.  You want up-and-downs too, right?  Okay.  I knocked a sand wedge to about 12 feet on eight for birdie.  Then I knocked a 9-iron to about 21 feet on nine for birdie.  Made it.  11 I knocked a five iron about 15 feet for birdie.  12 I hit a 9-wood in to about 10 feet for birdie.  Then 15 I knocked a 5-wood 10 feet for eagle.  I had 190 to the front and I had 201 to the pin.  I 3-putted 16 from above the pin from about 12 feet.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

MICHELE REDMAN:  Probably two to three years.

Q.  What did you take out?

MICHELE REDMAN:  4-iron.

Q.  So you go 9-wood, 5-iron?

MICHELE REDMAN:  It stopped quicker.  I have a 4-iron, it just depends on where I am.  I'll put the 4-iron in occasionally, but not very often.  That 9-wood comes out of the rough pretty good.  The 4-iron doesn't work too well out of the rough.

Q.  Can you give us a basically a rundown of where you are right now with your game, the status of your game?

MICHELE REDMAN:  Well I just had two weeks off and I feel tons better.  I was pretty fatigued and I think that, I knew eventually it was going to catch up to me, because I was playing quite a bit.  So I took two weeks off and I feel really good with my game.  I worked really hard on it this year.  Especially in the off season and I have been hitting the ball great.  Today I hit it really good.  I left some putts out there for sure, so I'm just really hitting it well.  And I've been working on my --  I haven't been hitting my driver as well this year.  So about five weeks ago I put a new Ping in and I think it's made a big difference in my game.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

MICHELE REDMAN:  I do.  I like it because you have to be smart and you have to keep it straight off the tee.  I've played here a lot.  I think I know the course really well.  And I know that there are times out here when you can go for it and when you can't. And you have to pick and choose.  It's just like every course but this course particularly just because of the greens.  The greens can get really quick out here and I think they're probably going to get firm.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

MICHELE REDMAN:  Definitely.  I just said, I started out on 10, 11 and 12 and I think those are three pretty tough holes too, because they were playing into the wind this morning.  I thought they played pretty tough.

Q.  That being said, are you surprised that there's a 7-under on the board already?

MICHELE REDMAN:  I didn't know that.  Is there?

Q.  She eagled the last hole.

MICHELE REDMAN:  Yeah, I am.  The course isn't playing that easy.  You still have to make putts out there.  So the course isn't playing that easy.

Q.  You said you left a few shots out there?

MICHELE REDMAN:  Putts, yeah, I missed a 6-footer on 18 for birdie.  And then I 3-putted 16 from not very far.  And then I hit the lip three or four other times.  I really hit the ball good.  I'm pleased with the way I played, considering I've had a couple weeks off and there's a lot of golf left to play.

Q.  When you say you do that, I mean is that a good sign that your stroke is there?

MICHELE REDMAN:  Yeah, it is.

Q.  Or are you fighting it a little bit?

MICHELE REDMAN:  No, I feel like I'm rolling it pretty good.  I made a couple coming in too.  So it kind of all evens out.

Q.  What did you hit on 18?

MICHELE REDMAN:  It's right in the center of the green. I think it's like --  trying to think, I had 154, I think it's like 10 or 11 on.  I think it's 11 on.  I hit a little five and I should have hit six.  Because I hit it really, it hit hole high and bounced past three or four paces.  I really, actually, I was surprised because I thought I had a chance of hitting it in the hole when I hit it.  Because it was going right at the flag.  I hit a good shot I just hit the first putt too hard.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

MICHELE REDMAN:  The first eight days that I was home I did absolutely nothing.  I boated.  That's my favorite thing to do when I'm done.  I went to the lake every day.  And I didn't want to have anything to do with golf, to be honest with you.  But then I played every day after that.  I just played.  I had a couple pretty good games and I played some good courses when I was home.  I didn't take the whole two weeks off, but I played five out of the two weeks.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

MICHELE REDMAN:  You know, I've been hitting the ball so well the last few weeks and I just really didn't feel like I needed to hit a lot of balls.  For me it's playing and just kind of keeping that edge and keeping my scoring intact.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

MICHELE REDMAN:  I had only played three, but I had played quite a bit before that.  And I played so much in the off season last year that basically I didn't feel like I had a lot of time at home.  I think that's the first two weeks solid I've had at home.  There was that break in between the Dinah, but I think I went for a lesson then.  So that's the first two weeks straight at home that I had at home.  I took two weeks off over Christmas but that's it.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

MICHELE REDMAN:  I get mentally fatigued.  Everything bothers me.  Just probably like everybody else.

Q.  Do you own a boat?

MICHELE REDMAN:  Yeah.

Q.  What kind?

MICHELE REDMAN:  A Wellcraft.

Q.  What size?

MICHELE REDMAN:  I just got it.  It's a 26 feet.  It's fun.  Expensive, but fun.

Q.  When you say recently got it.

MICHELE REDMAN:  Like last week when I was home was the first time I got to use it.  And I managed to not scratch it, so I was pretty happy.

Q.  How long have you had it?

MICHELE REDMAN:  Well I've had it for probably, let's see, about a month and a half, two months now.  I picked it up in May some time.

Q.  So you go pick it up, you say, gee it looks nice, and you leave it there?  So it's more of a trophy than anything else? 

MICHELE REDMAN:  Yeah, kind of.

Q.  Where do you have it docked?

MICHELE REDMAN:  Just at a marina 10 minutes from my house.  So it's easy for me to get there.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

MICHELE REDMAN:  I think it's pretty big.  It was funny because I played a practice round with one of the rookies and you can just tell by some of the things they're hitting off the tee, you know, that I can remember hitting driver off of like eight.  And sometimes you have to hit driver into the wind.  But like number, I don't think you need to hit driver off six either.  And it's just amazing, just little things here and there off the tees especially and some of the greens that you just remember.  I think it's huge here.  I even told my caddy today, number 8 that looks like an easy hole, easy green.  But that green has a little slope to that green that you really can't see.  And I didn't think a lot about them until the last couple years.  So it's just the more you play a course, the better you get at it.

Q.  What did you hit off of 8?

MICHELE REDMAN:  I hit 3-wood today and I had 87 yards to the pin.  And that was playing a little bit into the wind today.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MICHELE REDMAN:  3-wood.

MICHELE REDMAN:  Okay.  Thanks.  Nice to see you again.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT