U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 1996
Michele Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  I really felt good about the way I played today.  I hit a lot of greens, I hit a lot of really good putts.  I probably could have made three or four other putts easily, but they broke away from the hole at the last minute.  The course is playing really long today, and I hit a lot of 3-woods, and I just really hit the ball good today and I putted well. 
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  Yes.  The first hole I hit the green, made my putt for birdie.  2nd hole I missed the green, didn't get it up-and-down, so I made bogey.  3rd hole I hit the green, two-putted for par.  4th hole I hit the green, 2-putted for par.  The 5th hole I hit the green and made a birdie there.  You need to know what clubs, don't you? 
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  The first bogey I made was 2, and I hit a 3-wood out of the rough there.  And then first birdie was 5, I hit a 3-wood. 
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  About eight feet.  And then -- 
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  10 I hit a sand wedge in there, and I was about 18 feet, made that. 
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  13 -- I'm trying to think what hole that is -- seems so long ago. 
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  I hit a 3-iron left of the green and didn't get it up-and-down.  I hit about 18 feet.  14, hit 3-wood about ten feet.  15, gripped down on a 5-wood out of the rough, and it just rolled over the green, didn't get it up-and-down, so I made bogey there. Then I 3-putted 18 from about 20 feet. 
 

Q.  Can you just talk about how tough it was?  I mean it looks like there might only be one score under par.
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  This course, I think -- I mean, it's just playing really long.  You're having to hit a lot of 3-woods in.  To me, there's very few holes you can be really aggressive and go at the pin.  A lot of holes I went for the center of the green, and I didn't try to go out and shoot 65 or anything today.  That's my game, normally, anyway.  I make a lot of pars, I don't make a lot of birdies sometimes.  And also, there's, like, three or four holes where you get up to the tee and there's a couple of groups waiting. And I found that a couple of holes I made bogeys on those were the holes I had to wait before I teed off.  Two of the three bogeys I made were the holes I had to wait on.  When you have to wait and you get up and you keep swinging -- other than that, and there was a lot of wind out there, like 17 wasn't playing quite as long today because it was a little bit downwind.  You have to be on the right side of the pins.  There's a few greens you can't miss long or short.  Or if it's to the left, you don't want to miss it to the left. 
 

Q.  Did you know your situation at 18, that you were in the  lead?
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  No, not really.  I did and I didn't.  I wasn't really that nervous over the putt.  I just didn't hit a very good putt there.  That was probably the only mistake I made today.  I really felt good about the way I played and I'm going to go out and do what I did today. 
 

Q.  What were the two putts at 18; 20-footer --
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  About a 20-footer and about a 3-footer downhill.  I hit it three feet past. 
 

Q.  Comment a little about the pace of play today, how tough was that to maintain your focus and concentration out there?
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  It was tough for me when I had to wait and then on No. 5 tee there were two groups on the tee before we got there.  A lot of it depends on who you were playing with.  The two girls I was playing with we talked, we just chatted.  The first hole today I birdied it and I've got to get up and wait 15 or 20 minutes to tee off again.  It's tough, it's not easy.  Like I said, two of the bogeys I had today were after I had to wait.  I need to be aware of that tomorrow and watch out for it, because it's not easy there. 
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  I played with Kate Golden and Brenda Corrie-Kuehn. 
 

Q.  What's causing the slow play?
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  The second hole is a good driver and 3-wood for a lot of people out here.  And I just think that it's just tough, probably three-quarters of the field, maybe at least half are chipping onto that green, it's almost like a par 5.  So people are stopped on the tee.  And No. 5, the par 3 was playing 200 yards into the wind.  And I nailed a 3-wood there.  I saw a lot of people hitting the driver before I played.  It's almost like a short par 4.  The holes that we're waiting on the people are chipping, usually. 
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  Then we waited on 13, the other par 3.  I don't know, that one is really not playing too bad, it's like a two or three iron in there.  I don't know why it's being held up there. Maybe because the hole before is a short par 4, I don't know. 
 

Q.  Michelle, you are not usually in a position where you're leading a major tournament by one stroke in the middle of the round.  What was that like for you?
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  I thought about it.  I haven't played as well this year as I like.  I've done a lot of thinking the last couple of weeks about why I haven't.  And I think a lot of it is because I'm so worried about where I am in the field, how many shots I am out of the lead.  When I played well last year I didn't do that.  I didn't look at the boards.  I found myself looking over and I put the thought out of my mind.  I'm going to do that the rest of the week. It may be hard to do that, but that's what I'm going to do. 
 

Q.  You're making it exciting for me.
 
MICHELE REDMAN:  It's fun. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT