SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 2, 2006
Michele Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANA GROSS RHODES:  First of all, Michele, great round.  Right now you're tied for the lead at six under.
MICHELE REDMAN:  Seven.
DANA GROSS RHODES:  You're at seven.  So you're in the lead right now, which is great.  Talk about that.  That's amazing.
MICHELE REDMAN:  I don't know.  I did really good.  I finally started making some putts.  I hit it really good.  The last two months my putting has just really hurt me.  So just all around played good.
DANA GROSS RHODES:  You want to over your score card quick?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Did you want me to start in the front?
DANA GROSS RHODES:  Please.  You can do it whichever is easiest.
MICHELE REDMAN:  From the front is fine.  On No. 2 I knocked a 9 wood about 12 feet, 15 feet for birdie, made it.

Two putted from about 40 feet on No. 3 for birdie.

Pitching wedge to about five feet on No. 4 for birdie.

Pitching wedge to about three feet on No. 5 for birdie.

No. 6, I hit a 5 iron to about 12 feet for birdie.

And then I got it up and down on 8 and 9 for pars.

And then on No. 12, I hit an 8 iron about    wait a minute, am I doing that right?  I'm confused because I'm playing it the old way.  So I gotta start again.

No. 12 I hit a pitching wedge to about 20 feet, made it for birdie.  And then    this is really hard doing it this way.  Sorry.
DANA GROSS RHODES:  That's okay.
MICHELE REDMAN:  14, I missed the green and got up and down for par.

And then 18, I chipped it up to about one foot for birdie.
DANA GROSS RHODES:  We'll take questions.
Q.  Was there anything at the start of the day that told you that this was coming, that the putts were going to start to fall?  Were there any adjustments that you made in the past week or so?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Yeah, I didn't do anything.  I just got away from it.  I tried too hard on the putting, and I just played like three times last week and did some things I actually wanted to do for fun.  That's all I did.  I'm just trying to be more relaxed with the putter.  I think you don't make them and you start getting a little more tense.  That's the only thing.
Q.  How hard is it to relax during the season even?  When you take a week off you think about the next tournament.  You mentioned doing things you liked to.  What were those and how hard is it to relax in the middle of the season?
MICHELE REDMAN:  I bought a cabin about a year ago north OF where I live in Minnesota.  That actually helped me more than anything.  There's not a lot of papers up there and you're outside all the time , and you don't think as much about golf.  You don't think so much thinking about golf, and the pace is much slower than it is in Minneapolis.  So I think that actually helped me.
Q.  Is it a thing with putting where you see the first one drop and then the second one and then start getting the line clearer and getting more confident with it?
MICHELE REDMAN:  I think that's a little bit of it.  But for me I think right now it's just tension and relaxing and trusting my stroke a bit more.
Q.  What was it like going through that stretch of five straight birdies?  Did something get you start in particular, or how did you feel during that stretch?
MICHELE REDMAN:  You know it was fun, because the last couple weeks I have not been making the birdies that I am normally used to making.  I went with it and relaxed and tried not to think about it too much.  And to be honest with you, I wasn't sure how many I had in a row there after I birdied No. 6 which is usually a pretty good sign.  Try to have fun with it and back to the relaxation thing again.
Q.  You had some good rounds here in the past.  Is this a course that you like?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Yeah, I like it.  I mean, you have to hit    the fairways are tight and the greens are small.  I like it because you have to get good quality golf shots onto the green to make birdies.
Q.  And you're in the lead now.  We'll see if that holds up the rest of the day.  But you said the key for today was staying relaxed.  How do you not get caught up in the moment and stay relaxed going into tomorrow?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Just try to create the same feeling that I had today and that I kind of created the week that I had off.  There's a lot of golf left to be played, and I've learned out here that the tournament is not over until the last putt is in the hole.  So you just have to try to do one shot at a time do your own game.
Q.  Were you at the cabin last week?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Yeah, yeah.
Q.  How long is the golf season where you're come in Minnesota?
MICHELE REDMAN:  Every year so far    this year I was able to play in March, and then every year the last three or four years I've been able to play up until the week before tour championship.  So it really hasn't affected me at all.  People think it's shorter than it is, and that's okay.
DANA GROSS RHODES:  Any other questions for Michelle?  Okay.  Great.  Thanks for coming in.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT