JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2019
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Any time you can string two good rounds together, you have to be very pleased.  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, absolutely.  Very pleased with the way I played today.  Made a lot more putts.  Now just we'll go with it tomorrow, and I just had that one little bogey there, which was a bad tee shot, but it was weird, the second shot, like we were just talking about, but here we go, we're in the final group on Saturday, and we'll just try to keep it going and keep the foot on the gas.   
 Q.  You need birdies on a golf course like this, but only one bogey through 36 holes.  I know that's as much a key as the birdies you've made.  
ANDREW LANDRY: For sure.  Yeah, short game has been good.  I haven't really had to chip that much, but the times that I'm chipping, I'm hitting good chip shots, which has kind of been unusual for the last four or five weeks.  I haven't really been chipping the ball that great.  But I don't know, just every week is a little bit different.  It's a funny game.  Who knows what could happen.   
 Q.  Speaking of scrambling, I thought the real key to the round is 1, 2 and 3 you get those birdies, but it doesn't happen if you don't have that great escape job at 18.  How important was that?  
ANDREW LANDRY: That was super important, kept -- my caddie Terry, he was just like, okay, let's just chip it out.  I was like, no, I'm going to go for it.  I practically had a perfect lie because the guy was laying pretty much sitting there for who knows how long, so it was laid down, grain was going towards the hole, and had a perfect lie, and I was like, this is a good little number for me to just kind of hit a punch cut, and the gap was plenty big enough, so I went for it.   
 Q.  Obviously that one on 6 got away from you, but otherwise pretty clean?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, very clean.  Played really, really good golf today.  Had a couple little loose tee shots, like the one on 6, but other than that it was a clean day, and short game was good, putting was good.  Everything was really solid.   
 Q.  How similar to yesterday did you feel?  
ANDREW LANDRY: It was pretty carbon copy.  I felt like yesterday I was actually flawless when it came to ball-striking.  I think I maybe hit maybe one little bit of a bad shot, and it wasn't even really that bad of a shot.  But other than that, it was just -- have a couple good days coming up with ball-striking.  This is a ball striker's golf course, and you put yourself in position to make a lot of birdies, and obviously the putts have got to go, but you've still got to leave yourself a good look at them.   
 Q.  You were talking yesterday about this course getting firm and fast, and it looked a little faster today.  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yep, it's definitely getting there.  Like I said yesterday, Saturday and Sunday will be fun.  It's going to be a firm and fast golf course come Sunday.   
 Q.  Are you playing with a lot of confidence right now?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I am, actually.  Like I said yesterday, I've been hitting the ball very, very well all year long.  I'm top 10 in driving accuracy right now, and that's a good stat to be in.  Like I said, the putter has just kind of been letting me down all year long, and it seems to be working pretty good the last two days.   
 Q.  What happened there at 6?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I actually had a perfect lie, and I hit it really good in the face.  I think I just tried to hit it too low, and what happened was just the ball just kind of got stuck in the grass and never really got high enough to come out.  It was kind of one of those deals where you can't keep it too low but you can't keep it too high.  It's pretty much a club selection deal.  I probably should have used a little bit more loft instead of a 5-iron.   
 Q.  Was that second tree in your way?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, second tree was in my way.   
 Q.  Game plan for tomorrow, going in one back?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Same game plan, just go make some -- hit fairways, make putts, and just leave yourself good opportunities, and you're going to have plenty of them out here, so you've just got to take the holes like 9 -- take the holes like 9 and even 8, just -- those are some tough holes, tough driving holes and tough approach shot holes.  Just take those holes and make some pars on them, and you've got plenty of other birdie opportunities.   
 Q.  That putt on 8 looked pretty good up until --  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, it kind of came backwards on me at the bottom of the lip.  You're going to hit a lot more of those when you play.   
 Q.  What do you take from Valero or the other times you've been in contention into tomorrow?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I'm just going to do the same thing.  That's all I did there.  When my game is there, it's going to be there at the end on Sunday.  My game is there right now, so just keep it going for the next two days and anything can happen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT