JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2019
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great start to your round.  Talk about today.  It seemed like scoring conditions and everything were nice out there.  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, everything went really well today.  It's been a while since that's happened.  Made some putts, kind of did a little bit of adjustment on I think like the 5th hole, and made a good putt and had a good chip-in, and just kind of played solid all day.  I hit the ball really well.  Other than that, it was just a good solid day.  Just made a lot of smart decisions and just placed the ball in good spots around the greens, around the hole, and just had a lot of good numbers.  Just for me, this has always been one of my favorite tournaments of the year.  The golf course sets up really well for me.  I've played well in the past here before.  So looking forward to the next three days.   
I know eventually I'm going to play well and be up there in contention on Sunday at this place.  I just don't know when it's going to be.  Hopefully it's this week.   
 Q.  How ideal have the conditions been?  You mentioned you've been here quite a few times.  The fairways seem to be running out just enough, the greens seem to be just receptive enough.  Was it fairly ideal?  
ANDREW LANDRY: It's ideal for today and tomorrow.  I think it's going to be a totally different golf course on Saturday and Sunday.  I think that once the greens get a little bit firmer, which they will, the green speeds are already up right now, and you can put yourself in some weird spots and have some pretty crazy putts that are stupid fast.  I've had a couple of them today, and you just kind of have to take your medicine and just try to lag it down there and get it close.  You can't ever really have any kind of pace on anything unless you're putting uphill.   
 Q.  What does a round like this do for your confidence?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Like I said, it's been a while since I've been over here, and I've been playing some really good golf.  I just haven't putted well.  Statistically all year I've driven the ball really well.  I've ironed it really well.  Just kind of inside of 20, 30 yards, just kind of been a struggle.  Just get the putter hot, and I think that I'll be right there on Sunday, just as long as I just keep making putts.  I've been hitting the ball the same as I hit it today, just need to go out and just make some more putts.   
 Q.  You've played well here.  You know it's all about stacking good rounds on good rounds.  Is that the mindset, or is it round by round, shot by shot out here?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I think it's going to be a little different this year, honestly.  I think you're going to see a little bit -- not as -- you're not going to get to that 18 to 20 mark I didn't think.  I was thinking more around 12 to 15.  It's just going to play a little bit firmer and faster, I think, and you never really see this place firm and fast.  It's kind of fun to see the golf balls run out in the fairways, and there was some wind out there, and we're going to have great weather.  Who knows what can happen over the weekend.   
 Q.  Was this about the number that was out there today, or were there maybe one or two more?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I think I maybe could have got a couple more in there.  I hit a bad chip shot on 17.  That could have been one.  I could nit-pick it, but I'm not.   
Yeah, I think there was an 8-under if you played really, really well.  I played really, really well.  You could get an 8-under in there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT