ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2019
Austin Cook
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Austin, Andrew, let's start with the good stuff.  What a start, and what a front nine.  Let's start with you, Andrew.  What let to that hot start?  What got going for you on the front side?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I think that over the last two days, we really haven't gotten off to that great of a start.  My goal today was just try to get off to a hot start and come out and have a perfect number on the first hole and knock a wedge in there to eight feet and make it and then we just kind of fed off of each other all day long.  Cooky kept hitting good shots one after another, I kept hitting good shots one after another, and kind of freed me up with the putter because I knew I could give him some aggressive rolls and he was right there to pick me up if I needed him.  Our game is so good out here for this event.  We just don't really ever get the ball that much in trouble, and if we do, we always kind of manage to get out of it without a big number.  You know, I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  I'm going to try to go and maybe work out a few kinks with the putter.  It was good for the front nine, and then it kind of got a little cold on the back.   
 Q.  To your point about the sluggish starts, on Thursday you're 2-over through four holes.  Right now you're at 19-under par.  On Thursday you'd have probably been pretty happy with 19 under heading into alternate shot.  
AUSTIN COOK: Yeah, we are, but we knew we could do that, especially with -- that we had 14 more holes of best ball and then we had another round of best ball coming.  Kip kept saying we were in a huge hole, but we kept calm, like this is going to be fun, we're all right.  There's plenty of golf left to play.  We just need to suck it up and start playing some good golf.   
 Q.  Was your putt on the last, on the ninth green, does that just sum up the backside, especially the last five or six?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I agree I think a lot of the putts that we hit on the front nine were really good.  I mean, I was close on 3, he makes a good one on 4, we misread on 5.  I mean, it's just -- we can just go through them.  It's just one after another.  But it's okay.  Like we're hitting good putts, we're reading the greens really well, and you know, tomorrow we'll go out and have some fun and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT