CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 19, 2018
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You follow-up your career low 63 yesterday with another incredible round here at the Nicklaus Tournament course.  How did you capitalize off of the conditions today?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Wind was down again, it's like a dome out here.  But played really well, just drove the ball, hitting the ball really well and making some putts.  Got off to a little bit of a slow start, I'm kicking myself in the butt right now for not birdieing those par-5s.  But we're in a good spot right now and I played two good rounds of golf, bogey-free both times, and it's just nice to be able to hit a lot of good quality shots and get rewarded when you're making good putts.   
 Q.  What's the plan going into this last rotation on the course, this is going to be the toughest course out here, what's your plan?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Same thing.  Just fairways and greens and whenever I get scoring clubs in my hand we'll go at them.  And it's just, I know it's supposed to be blowing I think tomorrow, maybe 10 or 20, so I got to just, I got the harder golf course tomorrow, with the wind up, but I think I have really good control of my golf ball right now, so shouldn't be too big of an issue.  I'm just looking forward to getting going tomorrow.   
 Q.  This is your first 36-hole lead on the PGA TOUR, you played plenty of golf, what do you know mentally about your mindset what it has to be going forward, staying patient?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Well, there's a lot of golf left.  I just got to just stick to my game plan and whatever happens, happens.  God's got a good plan for all of us and whatever happens, happens I'm easygoing.   
 Q.  You fashioned some nice play out here and bogey-free.  I think that's most impressive.  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, bogey-free is good.  Conditions out here are perfect and we didn't get much wind the first two days and hit a lot of good quality golf shots and got rewarded.   
 Q.  I'm always impressed at a young player that doesn't try to hold on, that gets to go deeper and deeper, you're still within your comfort level?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Absolutely.  Honestly, to be honest with you, I used to have a comfort level whenever I got to about 6-under par in college I would start freaking out a little bit and my coach would always make me go play the ladies tees and just try to get as low as we can possibly go and it's helped out in the past.  There's not really a comfort level anymore, but it's fun to just get out there and go as low as you can and put on a show for the guys in the pro-am.   
 Q.  Two rounds coming up for you on the Stadium Course.  Your thoughts?  
ANDREW LANDRY: It's going to be a tough day tomorrow, I think the wind's supposed to be up like 10 to 20 or something so, I know that golf course can get a little mean.  Especially those last three or four holes coming down the stretch.  So we'll get off to a good start tomorrow and hopefully catch the wind down and play some good golf.   
 Q.  Could be a Hogs gone wild weekend, you and Austin Cook a couple Razorbacks going at it.  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, how did he do today?   
 Q.  He's 11-under.  
ANDREW LANDRY: Nice, good, good for him, I'm looking forward to him I'm happy for Austin, he's playing good.  We played at La Quinta on Wednesday and he looked like he was playing some good golf, obviously he played well in Hawaiian at RSM as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT