CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 18, 2018
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You have to be very happy with the way you started the year at La Quinta with a 63.  What did it take to put it together today?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Honestly, just played really good golf, consistent, stayed super, super aggressive, that was kind of the game plan going into the week here at this golf course in particular.  Driving's my strength, so I hit driver on every hole.  It was a good start to the week, made a bunch of good putts, I holed out a 7-iron and just kind of got off to a really good start.  Just not really happy that I didn't make any birdies on three of the par-5s, so that was kind of a bummer.  But I was right in there and trying to get birdies coming in down the stretch to hit that 59 mark and just couldn't get it.   
 Q.  Is that something that sits in the back of your mind when you are coming down the stretch, knowing what happened here last year and how do you handle those thoughts going through your mind?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Actually, the pins were a little bit easier than two years ago, the pins were a little bit different, so we saw a little bit different pins and they were gettable.  So we, I just put the foot on the gas and tried to get as many birdies as I can because I know this is the golf course where you have to really start off and get it going.  So I'm glad I started here and now I get to go to Nicklaus and Stadium tomorrow and the next couple days.   
 Q.  Today was the gettable course in the rotation, but explain to people at home, they see low numbers and they think, oh it's got to be an easy course, but this is place you really have to pick your targets.  What is the setup like here at La Quinta?  
ANDREW LANDRY: It's good, this is probably one of my favorite golf courses on tour.  You got to do everything well.  We were just talking about, coming down the last hole, this is such a good golf course because you hit every club in your bag.  I think there were three clubs that I didn't hit, I didn't hit a 4, 6 and an 8 today, and every other club in my bag I hit.  So it's just a good golf course and it's, you got to stay right on top of it, but the wind was down and we had fun out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT