SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2017
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was really a tale of two nines.  Out in 29 with nine putts, and then 37 with a few more.  Talk a little bit about what it's like to get on such a roll and how hard it is to keep it going?
ANDREW LANDRY: That was extremely hard.  Getting off to a good start, I hit a good 6-iron on the first hole.  Made like a 4- or 5-footer or so.
Made a bad stroke on the next hole and it went in.  Then rolled in a couple 20-footers and then holed out on the next hole.  It was just like -- I just went black out there for a minute.  It was fun.  It was great to have a couple hole-outs there on the front nine and get myself going.
Honestly wasn't really feeling that up to par going into the day today with kind of my whole golf game and the way that I'm feeling.  Been sick over the last week.
Just coming out here with no expectations, and got off to a good start.  See how the week goes.
Q. How important is it for someone like you in your position having played the Web.com Tour last season really to get off to a good start in this fall wrap-around part of the season?
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, that's huge, huge momentum there going last week in Napa finishing seventh and then coming here and playing well in the first round.
To get off to a good start out here is huge.  I mean, I didn't get off to a good start my first year out here and definitely paid the price for it.  I know how important it is now, and I look forward to playing in Riviera and some of the golf courses I didn't get to play at.
Really looking forward to that.
Q. You started this round four birdies and an eagle.  Take us through the first five holes in the zone you were in at the time.  I know you're not even feeling very good, so you how did it go down?
ANDREW LANDRY: You know, obviously started off with a good 6-iron in the 1st hole.  Hit it to four feet.  Golf swing wasn't feeling that well this morning.  I've been struggling a little bit over the last week with just really not playing much because I've been sick.
Hit a good shot in there and the rhythm kind of started feeling good over the next -- first nine holes, I guess.  Hit a good shot there, and then I just was making putts on the front nine and holing stuff out.
Chipped in once and holed a shot out from 113 yards.  I went black out there for nine holes; 7-under kind of up on me.  The lag putting.  There were some weird pin locations out there where I didn't really feel comfortable hitting some longer putts.
I'm about to go work on my speed right now and try to get some better speed control for tomorrow's round.
Q. Tell us about how good that front nine was for you.  You took a little bit of a dip, but how important was it for you to end this round on a birdie?
ANDREW LANDRY: It was huge.  I was trying to push birdies coming in and I gave myself a bunch of good looks at it the last four holes and didn't really make anything.
I was hitting a lot of good putts coming down the stretch.  I thought I left that last one short, but it creeped right in the middle, so...
Q. At Napa you had a top 10 finish.  You're coming off a full Web.com Tour season.  What do you see now in your game now and your appreciation for it?
ANDREW LANDRY: Just confidence, believing I can do it.  I've been out here and I know what to expect now.  Other guys, first-year guys, they don't really know what to expect so it's going to take them maybe the Fall Series, maybe a little bit longer -- took me a little bit longer -- to kind of know what you're doing out here and to kind of believe in yourself.
But I've just jumped in.  I felt comfortable.  I love it out here.  This is the best place in the world and it's the best job in the world.  I'm happy to be out here and doing what I love.
Q. You were say you weren't feeling well.  Just a cold?  What's been going on?
ANDREW LANDRY: I think just allergies to be honest with you.  I've been blowing snot out and just nasty stuff.  But I'll be fine.  I've been just kind of taking it easy and yesterday -- actually, to be honest with you, I kind of slept on my shoulder wrong and didn't really get to practice the last two days.  It was kind of hurting.  Did some work on it in the tour trailer.
But I've been fighting allergies and just kind of stuff like that.
Q. Do you think in a weird way sometimes that helps a little bit t0 get your mind off golf?
ANDREW LANDRY: It does.
Q. How does that work?
ANDREW LANDRY: It does.  It actually does.  Kind of gets your mind off it where you don't have any expectations and you can go out and free up and play golf.
Sometimes it works; sometimes it doesn't.
Q. You were talking about you had that awesome stretch there.  How long has it been since you had a stretch like that?  What was that like?
ANDREW LANDRY: Oh, man, it's been a while.  I mean, I do it every now and then when I'm at my home course, but to do it in the tournament, it's been a long time.
John Deere, I know I holed out.  That's probably been the last time I've holed something out was last year or two years ago at John Deere.
But it's fun doing that and hitting shots like that and making putts.  Just kind of go black out and it gets really fun.
Q. I know you parred 16.  That's a pretty good score for that hole.  What's the challenge of that hole and how do you play it?
ANDREW LANDRY: Just hitting the fairway on that hole is pretty key.  That's a hard golf hole, especially where the pin was today.  I was hitting 5-iron in and I hit a really good tee shot.  The pin was up, seven on, seven left, so it's a hard hole.  You just got to kind of take it in the middle of the green.  Four pars there you'll do some good.
I mean, there are a couple holes out here like that, couple par-3s that are like that.  So I just need to try to get off to a little bit better -- not better start tomorrow, but a little bit better start with the putter and keep the momentum going with that instead of just having a hot nine and then getting ice cold.
Q. First five holes today ties a PGA Tour record.  Best start to open a tournament since the ShotLink era began.  What do you think about that?
ANDREW LANDRY: That's cool.  That's cool.
Q. You finally have a PGA TOUR record.
ANDREW LANDRY: No doubt, right?
Q. You started on 10 and you said you hit it four feet?
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, three, four feet.
Q. How far was it playing?
ANDREW LANDRY: I think it was 183 front left pin.
Q. Did you play here last year?
ANDREW LANDRY: Two years ago I did.
Q. So you've seen the course.
ANDREW LANDRY: I have, yes.
Q. You holed out on...
ANDREW LANDRY: 14, the par-5.
Q. How far?
ANDREW LANDRY: 113.  I think that was 113.
Q. With?
ANDREW LANDRY: 52-degree.
Q. Take us through that shot.
ANDREW LANDRY: To be honest with you, we kind of messed that yardage up.  We had 296 pin, and -- from the second shot.  We were trying to hit a 200-yard shot to leave ourselves about 96 yards in, which is a perfect lob wedge.
Got up there and kind of hit it a little on the bottom and got up there and I was like, Yeah, I don't really know if we got it.  We got the yardage -- because we took out a 56-degree and put in a 52 to add a longer club in.
We tried to steer clear from that 110 gap because it's a little bit of a difficult shot for me where a 52-degree.  You know, hit a good shot and it went in.
Q. Did it just up and go in?
ANDREW LANDRY: It just one hopped in.
Q. And then the next hole, some would consider it one of the easier holes on the course.  It's a driveable par-4 and you're 6-under par.  How do you -- what do you do when you go to that tee box?
ANDREW LANDRY: Well, we made -- I mean, I wanted to hit driver but the pin was back right, and you just can't do it there.
Terry and I just kind of talked about it.  If the pin is back, we're laying up; if the pin is up we're going to hit driver.  It was into the wind, too, so had like a weird yardage if we did hit driver, so just laid it up.
Thought I hit a really good shot, to be honest with you.  I think we just misjudged the wind a little bit too many times today.  Going to have a little bit better understanding about what it's going to do tomorrow.
I know it's going to be all over the place tomorrow, but we'll try to do a better job.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT