U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2016
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANDREW LANDRY: (No microphone) missed a lot of shots right, which I got those on the first few tee shots.  Maybe like 4, 5, I think.  I just couldn't really get it together, couldn't get a good feel for the golf swing out there but finally figured it out.   
On 9, hit a good tee shot there, and just kind of slowed everything down and hit some good shots.  I was thrilled with my back nine round.   
 Q.  With the conditions of the course, were you surprised by how it was set up at all?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I was.  There were some really, really hard pins.  Obviously, it was playing a lot longer, a little bit firmer.  So I was expecting it to play like that throughout the whole week.  So it was kind of a CHACHLT it was a little bit of a shock, but it was still out there, you know.  You could still hit the shots right.   
Obviously, D.J. played really well and hit the shots, and he came out on top.   
 Q.  What kind of feedback have you gotten this week from people in Texas?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Gosh, everybody has just been -- it's just been awesome.  I'm taking this as a positive.  Obviously, it's my best finish of the year.  So I'm taking it as a positive and move on to the following weeks and just continue to prepare.  I've been in this situation, so I'm going to learn from it.   
 Q.  You said you've been in this situation?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Just like Web, and I've won the last year on the Web and final groups multiple times last year.  I was in the situations.  I've learned from them, and I know now what to do, and that's kind of one thing that I'll jot down.   
Tempo is a big thing for me right now, especially when I get under some pressure.  So that's something that I'll learn from and fix next time.   
 Q.  You said tempo, I was watching you come up (inaudible), did you ever break that out there?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Not really.  I didn't feel like I broke any of that.  There on the back nine, I was really just trying to feel a lot slower back and get the body and the arms and everything working together.  So I kind of quit doing it on the back nine and just kind of felt -- I was still getting in that same position, but I was just trying to get more of a tempo feel, you know, and just time it all up because, when it's timed up, it's fine.  I can get away with it's not going to be a real loose shot.  It will be just barely maybe in the intermediate cut.  Drove the ball well on the back nine, though.   
 Q.  Was it hard not to think about the trophy in the U.S. Open early on in the day?  
ANDREW LANDRY: You know, I never really even thought about it, to be honest with you.  I was pretty far back of the lead, which I know it can easily pop up, like that can easily change in a hurry.  So I was just sticking to my game plan, trying to make as many pars as I can.   
I hit a really good shot on 2 and just went over the green.  The ball was going a long way for me to start.  I don't know if -- I wasn't feeling any adrenaline, but it was probably there.  So I chipped a 9 iron from like 145, I believe, on 2.  I mean, it flew over the green.  So that wasn't good.   
Then get on the next hole and hit that over the green and had two chips there that should have went in.  The one on 2 should have went in, hit the pin.   
The one on 3 hit the pin as well.  So tough break.   
I hit a really poor putt on 5 that just from like two or three feet, if that, and just didn't really make a good stroke.  And then I think I four-putted, I believe, on like 6.   
It was just kind of a downward spiral.  There were some really hard pins on that front nine, especially 10.  6 was -- yeah, 5 was ridiculous.  That was crazy.  You had to be in the fairway there.  So it was kind of a tough break, but it was just one of those things, you know.   
 Q.  You might have answered this, but was this a life changer for you?  
ANDREW LANDRY: No, not at all.  I just think it was really cool.  It's hard to be in the final group at the U.S. Open, that's what I was telling my caddie Kevin.  Walking down 18, I was like, man, I wish I could just take a picture of this because it's like the coolest view from a player.  Obviously, being there with Shane and seeing the group and him and D.J. fighting back and forth there coming down the stretch.  It was pretty awesome to watch, be there firsthand and be in the moment.   
 Q.  You had to hole a 40-footer after that situation.  Do you take any consolation kind of just --  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, that was kind of crazy.  I thought about that yesterday, just being like that.  None of this would have ever happened if that didn't go in.  So it was one of those crazy moments in your life that God has a plan.  That was my plan.   
 Q.  Did you have to take the penalty before the --  
ANDREW LANDRY: No, so like the tee shot hit the tree, and then I had to play two balls.  So the ball that I played, my original ball, I hacked out with a 4 iron and then hit a wedge shot onto the green, and I made the 40-footer.   
 Q.  So you didn't get the ruling?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I didn't get the ruling.  I thought that it was ground and repair, and it wasn't.  I ended up making bogey with the ball that I dropped and par with the ball that I just hacked out.   
 Q.  Was that a wedge shot?  
ANDREW LANDRY: 40 footer, yeah.   
 Q.  Did you ever play the -- I don't know how to pronounce it.  Like the Slizby.  It's a small course in Texas, the invitational on Father's Day weekend during the U.S. Open, you can play.  
ANDREW LANDRY: Silsbee.   
 Q.  Did you ever play that?  Watching the U.S. Open after getting done, I want to be there?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I played that, I think, once.  Nothing against the tournament, but --   
 Q.  Did you ever watch the U.S. Open after you finish there and think I want to be there?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I always wanted to be at the U.S. Open.  It's just one of those.  It's a Major.  It's our Kentucky Derby.  It's frickin' awesome.  It's obviously one of the greatest moments of my life right now, but I deserve to be here.  I feel like I will be here multiple times for the rest of my career, and I feel like I'll contend again.   
 Q.  Is there a point at which today during the round or on the course that you thought, okay, it's probably not going to happen for me today (indiscernible)?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Of course, you know.  When you're 6 over through six, it's not looking good for you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT