U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2016
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I've seen the scorecard, but just how close were you to not making it out of locals down in Carolina?  You had a little bit of a run there.  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, that was kind of crazy looking back on that.  I hit a tee ball on 18.  We were at Duke University, and I tried to cut it off the tee and hit the tree and bounced, and I had like 280 in on this par 4.  So there was like some ropes -- like ropes and all kinds of stuff.  So I thought that it was ground under repair because there was a lot of ground under repair throughout a week.  I thought it was ground under repair and I couldn't get a rules official over.  So I came and I just played two balls.   
My first ball I dropped, thinking it's going to be ground under repair, hit 3 wood up there.  And the other one I played, which was the actual ball that got me in, I played and hit a wedge shot up to like 40 feet, and I literally just got up and just like hit it because I didn't think it was even going to be -- I just knew it was ground under repair.  So I got up and hit it, and it went in, and I got in on the numbers.  So it was pretty lucky.   
 Q.  Have you had a chance to think back on that this week or just too busy?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I thought a little bit about it yesterday.   
 Q.  At what point?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Just after the round.  I just thought it was kind of funny that happened.  Now here I am.   
 Q.  Andrew, you're going to be going out in the final pairing in your first ever major championship.  Is that exciting or daunting?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Exciting.  I mean, that's -- who can't be excited about that?  That's what you always hope for and dream for.  So you just got to continue to stick to my game plan.  Who knows what can happen?   
 Q.  A four-shot deficit, but how important was your birdie at the 18th?  Was it that 30 feet there just to keep you in contention?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, obviously the two bogeys starting off the day kind of put me a little bit behind the eight ball, and I said, just keep it under par and still have some birdie opportunities.   
Whenever I was on the 12th tee yesterday, I saw some balls coming off the back shelf and feeding back towards the hole.  So I was trying to get it up all the way toward the hole and just missed a shot.  Luckily, I made that putt.   
 Q.  Starting the week, you said you were hoping for top 10, hoping to get your Tour card.  We keep seeing the same stat, you're ranked No. 624.  Going into this final round in the final pairing, change your view?  
ANDREW LANDRY: No change.  No change.  I'm still here.  Just same exact person.  Same exact beliefs, and I'm just sticking to my game plan.  That's all I can say.   
 Q.  Hiding behind those sunglasses, though.  
ANDREW LANDRY: That's right.  No one can see my eyes, I don't think.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT