U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2016
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Heck of a recovery on that back nine.  
ANDREW LANDRY: Thank you.   
 Q.  Obviously struggles on front.  Back nine, coming in birdie birdie, do you feel real good about the way you were able to turn things around?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah.  I hit some really good shots there coming in.  The 4 iron on 16 was really good.  I guess I missed the wind a little bit and didn't get as close as I wanted it to get.   
The speed, the green speeds have really cranked up a little bit.  They're definitely getting faster.  Balls are starting to release a little bit.  So I'm looking forward to this afternoon, see how everything's going to react.   
 Q.  How did you sort of keep things together?  A rough stretch there, 6, 7, 8.  How did you not let that get away from you?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I didn't hit bad shots, I didn't feel like.  I made good swings.  The only bad shot I hit was the bunker shot on 8 and I left myself in a bad situation.  I was trying to hack it out on the green and two-putt.  That's what I did.   
I didn't really do anything that bad besides just not hitting fairways.   
 Q.  Andrew, you shaved, you came out to the range yesterday.  How else did you spend your Friday?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Not really doing much.  Hung out, took a nap.  That's about it.  We got the laundry done.   
 Q.  Were you anxious?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, I was definitely anxious.  I was ready to, obviously, get out here and play some golf and just watching -- I watched a little bit to get pin locations and see how the balls were reacting on the greens.   
So we were kind of, first hole, we kind of had to tone it back just a little bit.  We didn't want to go right in there and fly one all the way up to the pin and it skip over the back of the green and start off with a bogey.   
So we had to -- we kind of pulled back a little bit there and stuck it in there, and we saw that the greens were soft so we started with it.   
 Q.  How good do you feel about this?  You had the day off yesterday.  Now you go and get out there today, take the momentum out there.  Feel good about it?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Sure.  Obviously, birdie, birdie to end my second round is a way to get my momentum going in the third round.  I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  You mentioned during the delays on Thursday, putting your phone in the bag and trying to stay in the moment.  You had a whole day yesterday where your name was being mentioned more than in your entire career.  How did you sort of keep that from getting to be too much?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Just staying with family and friends.  Just hanging out, keeping my mind off of it and eating and drinking waters.  Not beer, not cold beer.  But no, just trying to get out of it, you know, just -- yeah, obviously, my name was mentioned quite a bit.   
And it's definitely very pressured, just -- is this thing on?  It's definitely very pressured, especially when you have guys like Dustin Johnson and Sergio Garcia at the top of the leaderboard.   
So I just, you know, spent time with them and did a little laundry and slept.   
 Q.  Are you comfortable with where you are?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I feel very comfortable.  I feel like this golf course suits me very well.  I can just get out there and play my game.  I don't have to -- I'm not the player that's going to go out and shoot 28 under par.  I've never been that guy, so I'm always the guy that's going to kind of just dink it around right there and make pars and throw in a couple birdies.   
 Q.  Are you comfortable looking at your name at the top of the leaderboard?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Sure.  Should be there.  I hope it stays there for a long time.   
 Q.  Part of the weekend theater, it's not just like you're participating, but you're up there on the leaderboard.  What's that mean to you at a U.S. Open?  
ANDREW LANDRY: It's pretty outstanding.  Feels awesome.  Feels awesome to me.  It's very humbling, and I really want this one bad.   
 Q.  Andrew, did you have expectations coming in at the qualifier?  I know you've been playing better lately.  What would have been a good first two rounds compared to the reality?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Honestly, I told friends and family that maybe 5 over, 5 to 7 would win this golf tournament, over par.  And I didn't -- did not think that the rain would make this course that soft.  It's definitely scorable now.  Some holes.  Not all holes.  If you get the ball on the fairway, you can really take advantage of some good opportunities.   
 Q.  Greetings from Arkansas.  
ANDREW LANDRY: Nice.   
 Q.  Did you get support from Razorback fans?  
ANDREW LANDRY: We do.  I had my coach Brad McMakin, he's been very supportive of me my whole entire career.  He was like a dad to me in college.  He's always there.  There's also David Lingmerth.  He's out here as well.   
 Q.  The way you battled today and finished, did it almost feel as good as the 66 the first round?  
ANDREW LANDRY: It did, yeah.  That was a grind today.  I just needed to try to get my swing back and, you know, I struck the ball beautifully in the first round.  Needed to try to get my swing back and had some good shots there on the last few holes.  4 iron on 15, 4 iron on 16.  Really good shots, really good swings.  But the driver's the most important part out here.  You've got to drive it in the fairway.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT