U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2016
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANDREW LANDRY: Just one of those rounds that comes to you not once in a lifetime, but it comes to you once or twice, three times a month, and I'm lucky it was in the first round of the U.S. Open.
Q. What made you say that?  Was it making putts?
ANDREW LANDRY: Just making putts.  Game all around, sharp from tee to green to chipping to everything you do.
Q. You had a lot of time to think about that putt.  Was it on your mind most of the night?  What was it like?
ANDREW LANDRY: Not really actually.  I just kind of thought about it this morning a little bit.  I read the putt yesterday.  I knew what it was doing.  I knew it was a cup and a half out to the right, so no big break.  It was a pretty easy putt to make if you get the speed right.
So I just pretty much thought about it this morning, thought about it a little bit last night, but I didn't like dream about it.  I'm not that (inaudible).
Q. What did you hit for the approach shot?
ANDREW LANDRY: 7 iron (inaudible).
Q. And 18 for the putt?
ANDREW LANDRY: About 10 feet.
Q. What's your schedule this morning?
ANDREW LANDRY: I'm going to go do some laundry and take a nap.
Q. 7:30 tee time, I think, tonight?
ANDREW LANDRY: 7:30, 7:40, something like that.
Q. Did you know you broke a record?
ANDREW LANDRY: Somebody told me I broke the record for a first round U.S. Open.  So that's pretty cool.
Q. You had high expectations coming into this event.
ANDREW LANDRY: I did, yeah.  Expectations -- I kind of did this with Q school as well.  I told myself so many times over the years in my life that, if I get into the U.S. Open, if I get into Q school, I'll be able to make it.  I'll be able to do fine.
I think the U.S. Open just suits my game so well that I'm just able to manage these things because I'm not a guy that's going to go out and shoot 60 and 61 and 62.  I'm just a consistent guy that's going to shoot 68 and make a lot of pars.
I mean, take, for instance, Memphis, look at my first two rounds.  I made a zillion pars.  Didn't make many birdies, but I just hung in there.  It's a hard golf course, and that's the kind of golf courses that suit me really well.
Q. During the practice rounds, did you think that you had a round like this in you on this setup?
ANDREW LANDRY: I did.  I played Tuesday with Dufner, and we work with the same coach.  We played together, and I really hit the ball really good.  I probably hit six shots really close.  I was thinking to myself, you know, that's definitely doable now.  With the greens being a little bit softer, it's definitely doable out here.
Monday was a little bit different story.  That was a difference right there.  It was pretty crazy out there, so fast, so firm.  I played 10 -- I started on 10 and got 10, 11, and 12 in, and I was like, I feel like I'm 8 over already, and I'm not even keeping score.
Yeah, it's definitely helped with the rain softening the course up.  It's definitely playing a little bit easier, where you can hit it in there and hold shots into the greens and use the slopes to your advantage.  I think it was like maybe 5, and you can take it back behind the hole and spin it back and pretty much I'll just make it.
Bubba hit it really well.  Hardy hit it really well. D.J. Trahan hit it really well.  Those are the three shots that I really saw.
So, yeah, use the slope to your advantage, and it's definitely making the putt easier.  But I'm looking forward to the weekend.
Q. To come* to Merion and do what you've done (no microphone).  What does that feel like?
ANDREW LANDRY: I mean, being on top of the leaderboard is fine.  It's just there's so much golf left, and there's people who can blow it up and say, you're doing great, yes, I am doing great, but there's 54 more holes left.  Half the field hasn't even got off yet.
We've got great players, Phil Mickelson, Dustin Johnson, and those guys are about to tee it up.  Who knows?  They can go out and take advantage just like I did, shoot 66 or even break Johnny Miller's.
Q. How many right to left putts did you hit this morning?
ANDREW LANDRY: That's all I hit really.
Q. How many putts did you hit?
ANDREW LANDRY: Probably about 50, I'd say.
Q. And what was the yardage on the approach on 9?
ANDREW LANDRY: 190.
Q. Changing conditions, you talk about how the course suits your game, what about now with wet conditions?  A little cooler day.  They're expecting a little bit of a breeze.  It's going to take time to dry out.  What changes in you, in your approach?
ANDREW LANDRY: Game plan stays the same.  The most important part out here is just to hit the fairway.  You hit the fairway, you're going to have a good opportunity to make a good iron shot and potentially set yourself up for a great opportunity for birdie.
I think that -- I think game plan stays the same for me.  I've got my game plan for a firm, fast golf course.  I've got my game plan, obviously, for a soft golf course.
Q. When did you arrive here this morning?
ANDREW LANDRY: I got here at 6:30 or so.
Q. Outside of winning, what would a successful finish be for you?
ANDREW LANDRY: Top 10.  I'm looking for top 10s right now.  Obviously, not having the greatest season out on the Tour, and just really looking to get myself into positions to where I can maybe hopefully get in the Congressional next week and get a lot more playing.
I've got a lot of work to do out there to get myself in a position to keep my card, and just got to keep on grinding it out.  We've got a lot of good golf left, and it only takes one good week.
Q. I thought it was a good question.  Have you ever been on the 18th hole with a birdie putt that you made and heard nothing?
ANDREW LANDRY: Yes, many times.  It's called the mini tours.
Q. Was it odd being at a U.S. Open and getting that same response?
ANDREW LANDRY: No, not so early.  I got a text or something about they weren't letting spectators or something out here at a certain point in time.  I think it's still wet or something.  So it doesn't matter.
Q. It's just a different venue.
ANDREW LANDRY: Different venue, that's right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT