U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2016
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  With Andrew Landry here in the locker room after play was suspended.  Andrew, tell me a little bit about your round today.  How was it with the stops and starts, and how did you stay focused?  
ANDREW LANDRY: It was tough.  Just kind of kept to myself, had my family here with me, and just kind of kept to myself, went to the locker room, stayed by myself, talked with my caddie a little bit, and turned my phone off.  Had my phone off the whole time.  It was good to just kind of be by myself and just take it all in.   
 Q.  Great.  How many times did you play the course before you started today?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I played it two and nine holes on Wednesday, so got a little bit -- I got a little bit of a taste of it kind of softening up a little bit on Wednesday.  We kind of got a little bit of showers.  But just it's played different every day since I've been here.  The greens were -- I felt like the greens were probably running -- I think they Stimped them at like 16 whenever I got here on Monday, which is absolutely crazy.  Now, obviously, they're a good speed, and they're so perfect out there.  You can make so many putts.   
You know, I've hit the ball really well today and just made a bunch of putts and just kept it going.   
 Q.  Now, they blew the horn with you on the green on No. 9, your last hole of the day.  I bet you were probably hoping that that horn didn't blow for a few more minutes.  Can you tell me what went through your mind when that happened?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, I was on the last there, and I told Kevin I heard it thunder when we were in the fairway, and I hit a good shot there.  We kind of had a little bit of a wait there with a fellow competitor, whatever.  So we -- I was trying to get it in.  We were trying really hard, but it's hard, you know, when you've got a couple 60-footers out here, and it's the U.S. Open.  So you've just got to stay patient with it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT