THE AMERICAN EXPRESS
January 18, 2020
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Solid 65. Actually, a really good 65. You have to be very pleased.
ANDREW LANDRY: I am, yeah. There were a couple holes out there where I missed the green and left myself in some good spots, left myself in some bad spots, made some really clutch par putts and that was kind of the deal that kept my momentum going throughout the day. So started off hitting the ball really well and just kept on grinding it out. And it's been a heck of a week so far with my ball striking and just kind of, one day's ball striking, the next day's putting and putting's just been here all week. So we'll just keep riding it out and see what happens tomorrow.
Q. Talk about the week. You came in not having played great, but it has all culminated here with a lot of birdies. What's been the difference?
ANDREW LANDRY: Honestly, I got sick the week before Hawaii and I didn't really get to do anything and it was just kind of, the baby got me sick, so it just kind of led into mom getting sick and the whole deal. So, but I wasn't really too sharp in Hawaii, and then throw some wind and rain in there, it really makes you kind of look stupid. So, but came out here, got some good work in, and this is a place that I've had success in the past and love this golf. It's perfect outside, so it's just, it's fun to be out here.
Q. Does anything change playing the Stadium Course? It will be the first time you played it in the rotation. Some of the guys tomorrow, Scottie, will play it back-to-back days. Do you like the course? Does anything change?
ANDREW LANDRY: No, nothing changes. I mean, I'm going to continue to go out and have my same game plan that I had a few years ago whenever I lost in a playoff and just see what happens. Just, if I continue to go out and do the things that I'm doing right now, it's going to be a good little match tomorrow with him.
Q. And lastly, I was with you at Valero when you won there. Do you draw anything on that or is that too far in the past?
ANDREW LANDRY: No, absolutely. You always look back to some of those good memories and things like that. So, yeah, I mean, Oakmont helped me win a WEB.COM event. And that WEB.COM event helped me win a PGA TOUR event and so you always draw on those good moments. And the last moment that I really had that I was kind of in contention was John Deere and I just got outplayed by Dylan Frittelli. So I've been here, I know what to do, just see what happens.
Q. Three rounds in the mid 60s. How pleased overall are you with the way you're playing right now?
ANDREW LANDRY: Very pleased. This has been a good week so far and looking forward to tomorrow. And, yeah, just kind of everything's been really dialed in. Driving was a little bit off today. Not really hitting bad drives, just kind of hitting a little bit, missing it a little bit right of my target. I do know what's going on in my golf swing, so it's just one of those things. So I just need to just continue to do my own thing and continue to be putting the way that I've been putting and it's going to be a fun day tomorrow.
Q. Playing on the Nicklaus Course today, and playing the back nine first. That's the way to get the back nine done. Let's have a look at those. Six birdies on the back nine. Talk us through this putt.
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, I just had to, I mean, I had a real good line on it. It's always hard to make 30-, 40-footers like that, but I had a really good line on it and I just judged the speed perfectly and it went right in the middle.
Q. A bit slower scoring-wise in terms of the front. Final birdie of the day coming at the 5th.
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, my caddie and I, it was a 259 cover there. It kind of cuts out there in the fairway, and I just, it was a little bit into the wind. I felt like, hey, look, we don't need to really be trying to put that left side there in that bunker. Brice already hit a 3-wood, kind of missed a little bit, and he had a longer shot at it. I told him, I said, Hey, look, I'm driving the ball well, let's hit driver, get it up there. We have plenty of green to work with, into that pin it was 13 on. So I just hit driver up there and had a great number and wedged it in there to three, four feet.
Q. Tied right now at 21-under along Scottie Scheffler. How excited are you to have a run at this tomorrow?
ANDREW LANDRY: I really am. I'm looking forward to it. Scottie played at UT. I live in Austin. I've kind of watched his career, because I work with Chuck Cook out at UT Golf Club, so I've known Scottie for a little while. And it's good to see him back out in the mix and playing some really good golf this year on the PGA TOUR and last year, to be honest with you. So it's going to be fun. It's going to be a good day. I'm going to feel super comfortable out there with him. And hopefully he doesn't hit it too far by me.
Q. Some comments about the round today and how you think things went.
ANDREW LANDRY: It was good. Obviously a great day whenever you shoot 65, so I had that -- I've been in some trouble with my bunker game as of late, and obviously, the two bogeys that I've made this week have been from bunkers, and so I'm going to go and work on that a little bit. But overall, great day. Putting the ball so beautiful and hitting my irons good, driving it okay today, but I've been driving it well. So overall pleased with the week so far.
Q. Despite the bunkers you missed seven greens, but you got up-and-down six out of seven times, so what's that say for the rest of your short game?
ANDREW LANDRY: It's good. My short game's solid right now. I'm leaving myself in spots where I can get the ball up-and-down. Sometimes, like on the par-3, No. 3, you don't ever want to leave that ball either short or right. The play there is to take a, try to hit a high cut into the hole location. If it doesn't cut it's just a little bit long and it's a pretty basic easy up-and-down, so that's what I did today and that's kind of what I've been doing over the last three days.
Q. Looking ahead to tomorrow, you've won already on TOUR, what do you draw upon to get yourself over the line tomorrow?
ANDREW LANDRY: Just continue to do the same things I'm doing. It sounds cliche, but you just got to literally go out and just do what you do and stick to your game plan and things are going to change. There's going to be some crowds out there, there's going to be some media popping up whenever you don't want them to, and, but Elkington helped me out whenever I won Valero with the same deal. He was like, hey, look, these things are going to happen, so just be aware of it and don't let it get to you. And sure enough, it did. And it kind of got to Mullinax a little bit. It got to Zach on the 4th, 5th, 6th hole at Valero. And so like I was aware of some of those things and that's just things that you got to be, just continue to stay focused and not let it get to you.
Q. Is there some short-term memory involved there to just kind of wipe today out of your mind and start clean?
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, you want to take some things for tomorrow. I played a beautiful round of golf today so you want to be able to just build on this momentum and try to do the same thing tomorrow. I mean, you go out there and shoot 65 tomorrow you'll be holding the trophy.
Q. What went wrong in the fall series?
ANDREW LANDRY: Honestly, my golf game has just been so up-and-down, to be honest with you. I haven't been able to just be consistent. And that was my goal last year was just to be consistent. I just haven't been, it's just been one of those deals where I've just been up-and-down. It's either I'm in the hunt or I'm missing the cut. And I'm just, it gets frustrating for me as a player, because I want to be a top-30 player in the world and it gets frustrating at times. You just got to stay patient and just keep your belief.
Q. I know at Sony you didn't feel well.
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, I was sick the week before.
Q. That was a little different. But, so is it just this course and this tournament, because this obviously suits you well?
ANDREW LANDRY: You know I think that has a little bit to do with it. You look at guys like Tiger Woods, they're playing a limited schedule for a reason. They're not going -- Tiger Woods isn't going to show up at RBC Heritage because that golf course does not fit him. So that's kind of what we do as players, we build our schedule around golf courses that fit us. So this is one of them, it fits me. So I enjoy coming out here, the weather's perfect, can't get a better atmosphere and better town and it's just a great spot. And I love it, I would love to have a house out here one day just for a winter home, but my wife would probably kill me.
Q. Just a rumor I heard the TOUR was talking about holding a tournament here every week would you be interested in that?
ANDREW LANDRY: Oh, I would, yeah.
Q. In contention on this very golf course once again. What did it take to get this far through three rounds?
ANDREW LANDRY: Good putting. I've been putting the ball absolutely beautifully and just kind of everything's been there, my wedge play has been there, I hit some really good wedges. I went to a 54 degree this week instead of a playing a 52, 60 and it's just kind of given me that 105 to 115 number just a lot better. And I've had it three or four times and I've hit every one of them gimmie. So the wedges are there, the putting's there, just need to go out and go do it again tomorrow.
Q. Talk about a big confidence boost when all of those things are working, but you talked about the times of frustration. What has led to this kind of play?
ANDREW LANDRY: Just staying patient. You never know when all this is going to happen and you just got to really just stay patient and just keep playing, who knows what will happen. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. Like I said, I'm just going to go out and have some fun tomorrow. I had some success here in the past and I know what to do. And we'll see, Scottie and I are friends, so it's funny that he's a UT guy and I live in Austin, so we have known each other a little bit, it's going to be very comfortable out there tomorrow and I'm looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT