THE AMERICAN EXPRESS
January 17, 2020
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously two incredible rounds. 6-under yesterday on Stadium. 8-under today. What's been working for you?
ANDREW LANDRY: Putter was hot today, so hit some good quality iron shots, got some balls up-and-down. Kicking myself in the rear for the bogey on the par-3, but I had a good putt. And obviously they all can't go in, but my putting has definitely been working this week, and irons were yesterday, and putting today, so it's just been a good combination throughout the week so far, and hopefully keep this thing rocking for the Nicklaus Course and Stadium the next day.
Q. Was there a moment today that you felt like you really energized off of or a play that you were impressed with?
ANDREW LANDRY: Kind of halfway through my round there, I had it in a bunker on 8 and didn't draw a good lie. And I told Terry, I was like, well, we're going to have to kind of play this out left. And actually, I tried to draw one out of the bunker and it just kind of held straight and made a really good solid 15-foot putt there. That kind of got my round going a little bit faster, because then I went off to birdie 9, 10, 11, and 13. So that was kind of the big momentum change there. And then the back nine kind of gets a little tough there in the last couple holes. So I knew that I had 17 and 18 to play, which are kind of easier holes, and made birdie on 17 and just didn't hit a good iron shot on 18.
Q. I know Sony aside, we can take that out of the picture here, but what, anything different in the off-season or anything?
ANDREW LANDRY: No, just kind of hung around, didn't really do too much. I was practicing really hard. Right after we got finished at Northern Trust, I practiced really hard. And then the week before Hawaii I got really, really sick and pretty much spent the entire week -- I'm good now -- but spent the entire week not really doing anything. So whenever I got to Hawaii I was really rusty, and then the wind, and it just showed, so.
Q. What are you looking forward to tomorrow on Nicklaus Course?
ANDREW LANDRY: Just go out and continue doing the same thing I'm doing. I got a really good swing thought and it's working right now, so we're just going to ride it out and see what can happen.
Q. What do you favor, disfavor on that course, what are the things you like about it?
ANDREW LANDRY: I like that atmosphere over there, there's some good holes, there's some mediocre holes, you just got to drive the ball well out there, you got to hit your irons very well out there and you got to play smart, because there's some par-5s out there that can jump up and bite you if you're not playing smart. So we got a good game plan for it, we played well there in the past, and now we'll see what happens tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT