JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2019
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not quite what you had in mind today?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, just didn't hit the ball as close as I needed to, and the putts I did hit close, I didn't make it.  Good for Dylan, he actually works for my coach, as well.  It's been a good week for Chuck Cook this week.  That was obviously a big putt on the last hole to try to secure a third place alone, so that was huge.   
 Q.  Were you aware of the gap or what the situation was?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, I saw him -- I knew that I wasn't -- I knew that there were some lower numbers out there and I saw early Russell shot 61, and I figured 20 to 22-under would do it.  I just ran out of holes.  I mean, there was something else I could do.   
 Q.  What do you take way from a showing at a week like this?  
ANDREW LANDRY: There's a lot to take away.  I mean, just I know that my game's coming around in the right direction, and you know, whatever happens in the future, happens.  This is just a big week for me with a little amount of golf left.  So this is huge.   
 Q.  Chris Stroud finished 17-under.  Pretty good day for the Pea Patch.  What do you remember from that place?  
ANDREW LANDRY: There's a lot to remember.  Probably can't even say it.   
 Q.  He told me a lot about it.  He said the two of you went back and took a picture together when they closed it?  
ANDREW LANDRY: We did.  But yeah, that was a special place to both of us, and it's sad to see it go under, but you know, so be it.   
 Q.  It was a good place to learn the game, though.  
ANDREW LANDRY: It was.  It was more along the lines of like a -- it was only a nine-hole golf course, but it was more along the lines of a 3,000-yard St. Andrews.  So you had just bad conditions and the course played hard in the summertime.  If you catch the right crack, you might hit one 400 yards, but who knows.   
 Q.  I think it was after round one, you said you knew pretty soon you were going to be in contention on a Sunday at this tournament.  Is it at least validating to know you were able to take it down that far?  
ANDREW LANDRY: For sure.  Like I told my wife at the beginning of the week, I was like, I'm going to win here eventually in my career.  It might not be this week, but it could be somewhere down the road and this will be an event that I will win.  The golf course suits me well.  I've played well multiple times here now, and I just love the city and love the fans and volunteers here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT