JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2019
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Andrew, thank you so much for coming in, a 4-under 67 today and a hot day outside at the John Deere Classic.  Currently tied for the lead.  Can we get some comments about your round?
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, it was kind of a struggle day to be honest with you.  I started out my first nine was just beautiful, played very, very solid.  Just the ball was going forever.  It was hard to judge the wind.  The wind was kind of swirling from southwest to northwest.  Overall, you know, I think we did a pretty good job.  I need to do a little bit better job of eating more on the golf course because I definitely lost some energy there coming down the stretch.
THE MODERATOR: Talk about the conditions a little bit.  What was the course playing like, and how do you adjust to such hot weather?
ANDREW LANDRY: I don't know.  I didn't really adjust too well because I was hitting some bad wedges.  The golf course is playing beautiful.  They've done such a great job setting it up.  You never really see the John Deere play super firm and fast, and we're getting a lot of roll-out in the fairways, which it's hard to hit some of those tee shots because you kind of have to lay back, like on 9.  But I'm just driving the ball so well right now and I'm just trying to hit driver as much as I can and get it down there as close as I can to the hole, and it's leaving me some nice numbers.
Q. Even though you called it a struggle today (indiscernible).
ANDREW LANDRY: For sure, 100 percent.  I don't ever take these moments for granted.  They're very hard to get into these situations, and it's extremely hard to win on the TOUR.  I'm just very blessed to be here.
It was definitely a struggle day, but I definitely played very, very well.  It was just kind of a struggle from what the last two days were.
I'm very happy with the way that I performed, though, making some clutch putts to keep the momentum going and then making a birdie there on 16 and 17 to get me into the final group.  That was huge.
Q. Does this at all remind you of the Valero Texas Open?
ANDREW LANDRY: No, nothing really.  It's just a ball striker's golf course, this place is.  You look at the guys that have won here, like Zach Johnson and Steve Stricker, if you hit the ball very well, you can score at this golf course.  You still have to make the putts, but it's just a ball striker's course.
Q. You talked about having a conversation with Jordan with your first win and about his first win here, being a little bit apologetic about it.  Have you gotten past that and do you take confidence from what happened?
ANDREW LANDRY: Absolutely.  At Valero I had to go out and earn it.  That was not a given -- I think that the first win that I ever had was on the Web.com in Cartagena, Colombia, and I won because we had wind delays, and it was like a weird deal where I was always playing the back nine in the morning when the wind wasn't blowing and everybody else was playing it in the afternoon.  That was kind of my first moment where I was like, huh, I don't know if I really deserved to win that, and I came out here and I got my brains beat in.
I went back on the Web, and then I won again, and I was like, that was the one that I earned.  And trying to earn that one at CareerBuilder out in Palm Springs and then I had to take down Zach Johnson and Ryan Moore and Trey Mullinax, and those were guys that I've looked up to for a very long time, especially Zach.
Q. The last two days there's been a 62 out here, 64 the best round today.  Is there a low round out there tomorrow?
ANDREW LANDRY: I'm going to try to do the exact same thing that I've been doing.  It's obviously working.  Just try to go out and do the best I can do and try to hit a bunch of fairways and hit some good shots and hit some putts.  I know that sounds kind of stupid, but there's low ones -- there's going to be a low one tomorrow, and whether the golf course is playing firm or not, someone is going to be shooting those numbers.  We're playing with the best guys in the world, so it's going to happen.
I think if I go out and shoot 5- or 6-under par tomorrow, I don't think it'll be a problem.
Q. Was that your little guy out there?
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, it was.
Q. Is he a little too little to enjoy the Big Dig or --
ANDREW LANDRY: He went to the Big Dig, but he just kind of wanted to be around those little toy cars.  He loved those.  But he won't ever push the gas pedal because as soon as you push the gas pedal he's out of there.
Q. Are you ready for this to be a major for him once he gets a little older?
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, for sure.  I've been waiting -- this is honestly one of the tournaments I've waited for whenever I had a kid, I was like, man, this is going to be awesome to be able to come here and just for him to get to experience that.  I mean, it's so awesome that John Deere lets us go out there and opens their facility and be able to go out there and play a round for an afternoon and have good music and good food and lots of drinks.  It's just awesome that they do that.
Q. When the leaderboard is as log-jammed as it is going into the final round, how hard is it to lock in on what you can control, especially with how much things can change from one hole to the next?
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, I think tomorrow -- some golf courses you can leaderboard watch.  This is not one of them.  You've just got to go out there and play golf and try to make as many birdies as you can.  I was thinking about that today, like I never really looked at the leaderboard until, I think, like 16 or so.  I didn't really pay attention to it.
But it's just one of those places you can't really watch the board because there's a lot of changing and you don't want to steer from your game plan and start kind of playing a little too aggressive or vice versa and then end up biting yourself in the butt.
Q. You mentioned your putting yesterday and that kind of being the difference between last year when you were 23rd in the FedExCup and this year.  Have you been grinding away at it?
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, we have.  Pat O'Brien is my putting coach.  He's out of Dallas, Texas, at Lakewood Country Club.  He's been like, man, it looks good, we're doing the same thing, and we haven't changed one thing.  It's just a crazy game.  Like I said, he never even told me to go left hand low and try to square my shoulders up, I just kind of did it on Thursday morning before the round and started making some putts on the putting green, and I was like, hell, I'll go with it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT