JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2019
Andrew Landry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I really admired you on that inward nine to take a couple body blows at 11 and 12 and respond with three birdies on the way to the finish line.  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, just got tired to be honest with you.  It was just really hot out there.  My golf swing started feeling a little bit shaky, body was not really turning, just kind of arming it out there and not really hitting solid shots.  Got fortunate there to hit a good bunker shot on the par-4 and then left myself a 30-footer to try to at least save it, and that was kind of the key moment there that kept the round going.  That was a big putt for me.  I walked off the green, told him, that was a huge putt to keep it going.  I know that I had a couple birdie opportunities coming in.   
 Q.  You talked about the putt and the putter.  Another solid day for you, more than 90 feet in putts.  
ANDREW LANDRY: Yeah, it was good.  I'm making the one that I need to make, and that's been the key for the rounds that I've been shooting.  That's kind of what we've been talking about.  The guys that win golf tournaments are 50 for 50 from inside five feet or whatever it is.  I just try to stay focused on that and just try to make the putts that I need to be making, and if I don't make the other ones, then so be it.   
 Q.  Playing in the final group again; how much will you look back at the Valero Texas Open in that final round.  
ANDREW LANDRY: I'm just going to go out and have fun again like I did today.  If it happens, it happens.  I'm going to obviously take -- from what I've experienced in the past, what I've experienced in Palm Springs, U.S. Open in 2016, just all those moments lead up to these rounds.  Whatever happens happens.  Obviously the birdies are out there, so I'm going to have to go out and shoot a good number tomorrow.   
 Q.  An impressive round today all things considered with a little fumble there at 11 and 12.  What did you make of everything?  
ANDREW LANDRY: It was a good day.  I know I need to bring more food in the bag, drink more water.  I just got tired out there.  Didn't really feel shaky, but the golf swing just didn't feel right.  I'll just eat some good food tomorrow and eat a good lunch and try to get myself prepared for tomorrow.   
 Q.  We were talking before the round about your putting stroke and how you were going cross-handed.  It seemed like a little back and forth there.  What were you doing?  
ANDREW LANDRY: Just like I said yesterday, I've been trying to just kind of lower my left shoulder a little bit.  It kind of keeps me in the putt a little bit longer.  A degree can -- if you're a degree open, which that's kind of what I've been at impact with the putter, that's going to cause you to miss a lot of putts.  I think it's squaring up pretty nice.  Ball is starting on line and just feeling really good over it.   
 Q.  You've won on the PGA TOUR in 2018 but I know there were times of frustration after that where you wanted it so bad that maybe things off the course got a little different.  Of course now you have a year and a half old.  What is life like now on and off the course?  
ANDREW LANDRY: It's absolutely hectic.  I'm about to leave here and go get ready for bedtime for him and get dinner and be hectic and go play.  But it's good to be able to get off the course and just scratch everything, just forget about everything and get away from the game.  He's been a blessing.   
 Q.  What have you learned about life and balancing all of it being a PGA TOUR winner but now having that added to the mix?  
ANDREW LANDRY: I still haven't.  Whenever someone does figure it out, please let me know because I would love to know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT