CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 25, 2017
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. GAVRILOVA/A. Radwanska
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You went down 4-0 early, never seemed to be comfortable in this match.  What was the problem there?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, just couple of games slipped away in the beginning.  Suddenly was Love-4.  I was trying to come back.  I was close.  But then anyway she really played some good shots in important moments.  Of course, I had my chances.  I didn't use those.
Also in the second set, I was up, then I lose the lead.  Didn't come back either.
Q. Despite the loss, you did make the semifinals, and the US Open is next week.  Do you feel good about where you are and you can make a strong push towards a major championship next week?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I lost today, but I think it still was a good match.  Those three matches that I played here was pretty solid.  I think that was a great preparation before going to New York.
We'll see there.  I know I'm playing on Tuesday, so I have couple days over there to adjust and practice, and we'll see.
Q. Obviously you wanted to win this tournament, but what did you want to work on this week to get you ready for the US Open?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think finding the rhythm, match rhythm.  I didn't play that many matches I always played till this time of the year.  Every match matters at the moment.  So I wanted to have more matches.  That's why I choose to play here again, to have more matches before the US Open.
Q. You talked about last night not having played her before.  Was that a drawback today for you, not knowing what her game was like?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I could feel after a few games.  But she definitely played some really good tennis.  She surprised me a little bit with her defensive game.  You know, you thought the point is over, and suddenly everything is going back.
So definitely, you know, some great shots.  Yeah, well, she deserved to win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT