DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 17, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/C. Garcia
  6‑3, 2‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Thanks for coming straight in.   Would we be right in thinking you're not that well?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I came from Poland under different conditions, and there was a lot of sickness going on out there.   Everybody was sick.   Finally catch me, as well.   I came here not really 100% well.  
But I think the most important part is that I was able to finish that match and win that match, so that's the most important thing.  
   
 Q.   Did you think you may not have been able to finish at one stage?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, I was getting a bit worse and worse but didn't go to the line that I would have to stop.   That's why I was still going and, you know, keep fighting till the end.   It was worth it, I guess (smiling).  
   
 Q.   What was difficult?   Breathing or...   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Pretty much everything.   I really feel, you know, like everything is stuck.   It's hard to breathe, hard to run, especially it's noon, 30 degrees.   Didn't really help me today.   But, well, I think it was good enough, and I think I played really well with that conditions.  
   
 Q.   You sound pretty congested.   Is it just the nose or is there fever, as well?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You know what?   Sometimes I don't really want to check the fever just to feel better and telling myself I don't have it.   But sometimes it's not really true.   
Most of the time I'm not even checking it.   Just, you know, just keep going and I don't really think about it.  
   
 Q.   Have you been able to practice, or were you resting more the last couple of days?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, in Poland actually I took a few days off.   I couldn't do it.   I came here a few days ago and was practicing but didn't really feel that great.   I was able to practice and I was hoping that every day is going better and better.  
I think it's just I'm not really good with ‑‑ recovering sickness always takes me a week.   I guess I just have to wait.  
   
 Q.   You play Muguruza next.   What are your feelings about playing her?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it's going to be very similar opponent as today.   Young, upcoming, very good player, very solid from the baseline with huge serve.   You know, very, very similar.   So I think I will have to do similar things that I did today and we will see.  
   
 Q.   Looks like Fed Cup has meant so many people are so tired and sick and they went to different continents in very small time.   Venus yesterday was telling us that perhaps it should be done in a different way.   Do you agree?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, we are lucky that I was home in my hometown, so I was okay with that.   Indoor courts like three minutes from my home.   It was really easy.   So I was happy about that.   Especially that we never played in Krakow before any other tournaments or any matches.  
But, for example, going to Australia or to China between tournaments in Europe is not really great schedule.   So I think what they should maybe do, trying to play in the country that's going to be easier for everyone.   I think it shouldn't be any draw, like it just should be the place that is easier for the other WTA tournaments.   I think that's always going to be much easier for everyone just to stay very close or even the same country.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it's wrong to play Davis Cup and Fed Cup so soon after a slam?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, it's all about the schedule.   If you don't play much tournaments, two matches, just, you know, play for, you know, good rhythm, it's okay.   I think when you play few tournaments in a row plus the Fed Cup...   
   
 Q.   It won't encourage the top players to...   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think, for example, right now, it was okay for me.   I played Fed Cup.   Then I have week off and I'm here.   So it wasn't really busy and just two matches.   
It's not like ‑‑or, for example, when we were in the lower group, I don't know how you call it, the second World Group, and I played so many matches in one week, that was too much.  
But I think right now it's really okay.   So I was good with schedule.   Suits me very well.   I was at home and nothing was in a row, so it was okay.  
   
 Q.   We saw you in Australia obviously with Martina.     She's not here.   How does the relationship/partnership work when she's not here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   She couldn't be here, but she's going to be in Indian Wells and Miami for the big ones.   And, well, we in touch pretty much every day and talking.  
   
 Q.   On the phone, text?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, everything.   Of course sometimes it depends on the time zone and stuff, but of course she's watching.   We always analyzing everything and talking about the matches.   So yeah.  
   
 Q.   So you'll speak in a couple of hours?   Well, she's in the States.   It will be more than a couple of hours?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   You will speak before the next match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, for sure, definitely.   
   
 Q.   Can I just ask the significance of that yellow ribbon around your wrist?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, that's my favorite jewelry, LiLou.   It's Polish one.  
   
 Q.   The ribbon is part of the jewelry?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, yes.   It's just jewelry, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT