AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  V. WILLIAMS/A. Radwanska6-3, 2-6, 6-1An interview with:AGNIESZKA RADWANSKAQ. You played very well the second set, won it pretty quickly.  What do you think changed in the third?AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think it was three kind of easy sets.  But I think the games were pretty tight.  I think in important moments I didn't really take my chances.  Slipped very quickly, especially the third set.Q. You had a few easy wins over Venus in your last few matches against her.  How different was she tonight?  She seemed more energetic than in Montréal.AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Definitely she was playing very well today, very solid from the back, very good serve as well.  You know, moving also very well.  It was a little bit slower than during the day, different conditions, I guess.  I prefer faster conditions against her.  But obviously it was night session.Q. Did she surprise you with the way she played that third set?AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, a little bit, yes.  She was very consistent.  Returning very well.  I was putting first serve pretty much all the time and everything was going back.  She really had answer for everything today.Q. How would you say things are going in your first month with Martina?AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's good.  We had really good time here and in Sydney.  Obviously the result is not really great.  But, well, I think I just have to deal with that, you know, back on court, practice.  Just forget it and focusing on the next one.Q. When you're playing against her now, does it feel like you're playing against someone who is 34 years old seeded No. 18 or somebody who has won seven Grand Slams?AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think today I was playing someone that was playing that well, winning those seven Grand Slams.  Obviously she didn't really look like a 34-year-old.  She also had tough matches before.  But she was quick.  She was fresh, playing very well.Q. Was there something particularly that you were unhappy with in your game today?AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think I had couple of, you know, balls that I just supposed to win.  And I think I just didn't kill the ball.  Suddenly it was going back.  Those were really important moments.  Even one or two balls makes a huge difference in those kind of matches.  I think that, yes.  Some decision, as well, also in important moments, yeah.Q. What are your plans for February?  Fed Cup, then the Middle East?AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  Well, I'm going home because Fed Cup is actually in my hometown, Krakow.  I go there, stay there actually two weeks because of Fed Cup, so a long time at home, which is good as well.  Tough match against Russia.  I'm really looking forward to that.  First time in World Group, so it's exciting.  Then Dubai.Q. Do you think Poland can make a push in Fed Cup this year?AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I didn't think we could go to the World Group and we go.  We play couple good matches, one against very good teams on the way.  I think this one is the match that we have nothing to lose.  We are for the first time in the World Group.  So this is already great success.  But we try.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT