AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. RADWANSKA/V. Lepchenko  6-0, 7-5  An interview with:  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  You've been serving really well since the start of the tournament.  Have you changed anything on your service in the off-season?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really.  I didn't change anything.  But I think the serve is always very important in the game, so of course I been working on that, definitely a lot.  Maybe that's why it's a bit better.   Q.  How happy about are you about the level of game you are having since the start, and especially at the end of your second set today.  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think it was a very good match.  I start very well.  I play really aggressive and I was really serving good and returning good.  In the second set, of course I could finish that set much earlier.  Serving against the sun is not fun.  But I'm just very happy that I could close that set and just win.   Q.  You could possibly play Venus in the next round.  Talk about that.  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think the last match against Venus was in the final in Montréal.  So, well, I think playing her is always great challenge.  I think she is still playing great tennis even she's a bit older.  She's still really fit and playing a high level.  I think it's going to be another good match.   Q.  How much are you satisfied with your performance so far?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: So far I think I can't complain about anything.  I really had great three matches, three short matches.  So I'm fresh.  Didn't spend much time on the court, which is good.  Well, everything was working so far, so hopefully I can still play the same tennis on the same level.   Q.  How much contact are you having with Martina Navratilova at the Open?  She's clearly got other interests as well.  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  But, well, I think we could find and plan that everything is working for us both.  Of course she's also commentating, but she's always there when I'm practicing or playing match.  I think it's easy to do that.  We find a plan every day very good.   Q.  Do you occasionally hit against her in practice?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, actually I was played left-handed opponent today, so yes, she was serving yesterday, yes.   Q.  You said out on the court that you want to keep secret the advice she gives you.  How generally has she helped you?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think it's a lot of things, but of course it's in this kind of -- on this level, I think it's just really small details that are very important.  Of course everybody can play great tennis, but if you want to win a match or Grand Slam, you really have to do everything right.  That's what we're working on, just to focus on very important things and talking on and off the court, and just to figure out everything just to win those seven matches in a row.   Q.  It's a first time you got really pushed in the second set today in this tournament.  Is there something in your game that you want to work on after this experience you had today?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think it was pretty much the one game that -- and of course I had match point -- so I could finish it earlier.  I think it was still a good match.  You know, I play well, so I think I couldn't really worry about anything so far.  I just hope I can play the same good tennis in the next round and should be good.   Q.  The way you're playing, you must feel like you can beat anybody?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I hope so, but of course every match is different story and different opponents, so sometimes you play the opponent that you play.  You never know.  That's sport.   Q.  How much did the win over Serena in Perth give you coming in here?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it was good match, especially always few -- first few matches always tricky in the beginning of the year.  Definitely a lot.  I think I really played good tennis out there, especially in the final against U.S. -- the singles, and even the mixed doubles. Of course winning those kind of event is always great and always a lot of confidence as well.   Q.  When you're at the major, how often do you watch men's matches, just on TV or around?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I like to watch, so whenever I have treatment and I'm on the table I'm watching tennis.  What can you do?  Also in the evening it's nice, interesting night sessions.  So, yeah, I think when you're on the Grand Slam you're really also curious about other matches and scores.  Yeah.   Q.  Is there anyone of the men's side in particular that you enjoy watching?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think I just like to watch everyone a little bit, so always switching channels as well.  But of course it was a little bit disappointing for me yesterday that Roger lost.  Well, not his day probably.  (Smiling.)   Q.  You have different coaches in your career, so could you...  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Different what?   Q.  Different coaches in your career.  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Coaches, okay.   Q.  Talk about having your father, relatives as your coach and also having former legend, top player as your coach.  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, actually I just have two coaches, which was my dad and now Tomasz Wiktorowski, which is still here, and Martina is another coach in the team.  I didn't really have much other coaches in my career.  I think now I really have great team.  I have everyone that I need and everything is working pretty well.  I hope that stay like this for long.   Q.  But still your father give you any advices?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually my dad is just my dad now.  He was coaching me for a long time, but it was few years ago we stop.   Q.  Some of the players, like Serena, have said they feel like there is more camaraderie on the tour now than there was in the past; some players say they prefer not to make friends on the tour, to keep it business like.  How would you describe the camaraderie on the tour now compared to the past?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: To be honest, I don't really feel that anything change from now for example to five years ago.  I mean, I think this is individual if you want to be friends with someone or not.  So, you know, I think I can speak just for myself now.  The best thing is to really separate tennis and the friendship off the court.  I think it's very healthy, because of course we seeing each other pretty much like ten months a year pretty almost every time.  You know someone for ten years, fifteen, even twenty years when you're playing at the same tournaments when you're a kid.  So of course you have friends on tour, and some best friends s well.  I can't say this is impossible because it is possible.  Of course you go on court you want to win.  Doesn't matter who in on the other side of the court.  You just have to separate those things.  Of course you fight and you want to win, but then you shake hands and you're still friends.  So I don't think there is any problem with that.   Q.  Serena was telling us that when Caroline needs advice on a match it's better for her to go to you than Serena because she doesn't know how to analyze matches that much.  Would you consider yourself a good tactician of the game and you can give good tips?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think it depends of course who is opponents.  If I play someone for example ten times, of course it's easy to say something about the opponent.  So if I never play against someone then it's a little bit harder.  All depends.   Q.  Have you helped Caroline?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course.  We talk a lot in the locker room about either my opponents or hers.  Of course, yeah.   Q.  You mentioned Tomasz and Martina.  How does to work when you have two different inputs?  Do they sit together and tell you the same things together.  How is Tomasz adapting to this new situation?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think we're all very happy and they are really working together as well.  It's not like one is saying different thing and the other one completely another thing.  So really having now good team, and when we talk about something, it's all together.  I think they also having good relationship.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT