AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. RADWANSKA/J. Larsson  6-0, 6-1  An interview with:  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  How did you find that game today?  How are you feeling about your play so far?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think it was great match.  I really start well.  I play aggressive from the beginning to the end.  And well, short, good match.  So, you know, it's better, especially that it's really hot today.  Be fresh for the next one.   Q.  How do you feel about the next round matchup?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't know, who is that?   Q.  (No microphone.)  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think the third round is already seeded players, so definitely more tough.  You know, we'll see first who it's going to be, and I think if I play like today, it's going to be good.   Q.  Tomljanovic is obviously the underdog there.  Have you seen much of her play?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, and I think we play once.  I think she's one of the young upcoming players playing really good, strong, solid tennis.  She might win really this one. So I think it will be 50/50 in that match.  Just to have wait.   Q.  Be her first home Grand Slam as an Australian.  Make anything different for you?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: First of all, I really like Australia.  I really like playing here.  I have really good memories from last year.  Well, I just hope I can do even better than last year.   Q.  You mentioned earlier it was a quick match.  Do you want a test or are you happy to keep fresh and get through things?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think being fresh is one of the most important things, so I'm really happy that I play short and good and I really close that match pretty quickly.  Especially that the condition can be very tough. So I think it's much better than playing and being there for like three hours.   Q.  How important is it to conserve energy at this stage of a Grand Slam, the second round?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I think it's very important.  Especially you always think about those two weeks.  I'm just very happy that I have two quick matches.  I'm really ready and fresh for the next ones.   Q.  You reached the semi last year.  How do you feel now push on?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's another year; different opponents.  You never know.  That's sport.  Like we see, it's a little bit changing always.  Even couple seeds are out pretty early.  I think it's step by step.  You're not really thinking too far about the next week or already semis.  I'm just going to focus on the next match and then we'll see.   Q.  Does it worry you that the bigger players are getting tested already in this tournament?  Do you think about that when you go into your matches?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really.  We were talking about that the other day, that there is not much easy matches.  I think even the players who are a little bit lower ranked, they also play really good tennis.  Especially they go on court and they have nothing to lose.  So it's a little bit easier.  You just play your best tennis and just go for it.  And then it's just your day and looks like 50/50 match.  That's why we have a little bit more pressure and can be a little bit different. Of course, then you can see really long and tough matches from the first rounds.   Q.  Do you get to choose what time of the day you play or just schedule that comes out?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think this is Grand Slam, so you play every second day and of course how the schedule is.   Q.  What time of the day?  In the morning, do you have any say if you want to play in the morning, afternoon?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: To be honest, I don't really mind.  I'm already set up to go on court late, at 11 p.m. or something, but otherwise I'm okay with everything.   Q.  Just following on from all the seeds dropping out, do you think that the standard of play has increased in the recent years and that anyone can beat anyone on a given day?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, absolutely.  I think couple years ago it was a little bit different.  You could really see easy matches from the beginning.  I think now, like I was saying before, even lower ranked players can really play good tennis. I think everything can be change.  I don't think it's much of the players that are dominating tennis.  You go on court and you can beat everyone and you can lose also against everyone.  This is sport.  You just go on court and try to play the best tennis.  Doesn't matter who it is on the other side.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT