AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. RADWANSKA/K. Nara6-3, 6-0An interview with:AGNIESZKA RADWANSKATHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. That must be a very good result for you because she's in the top 40.  To win in one hour must be very pleasing.AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  I think I really played well today.  Maybe little bit slow start.  Otherwise I think everything was working for me today.  You know, very happy my game.Q. What do you think contributed to the slow start?AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't know.  I think couple things.  Different court, first match.  And, you know, just different the ball.  I just need, I guess, a few games to really play my game.Q. As the match went on, what do you think was the difference?AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, we played once in Cincinnati a long time ago.  I knew what to expect.  I knew she's the player that you really need to play aggressive to win the points, not missing much.  I was really trying play aggressive, go down the lines.  I think I was also serving good.  I think the key also was the beginning of the second set, first tight games, and then I was able to break twice.  I think I was really more confident and I was really, you know, feeling much better, playing much better, and was the end.Q. How much were you paying attention to results yesterday with all the seeds falling?AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I was watching everyone.  I like to watch, of course, check the scores.  Well, I think every Grand Slam you have couple surprises, even the first day.  Of course, it's always a surprise.  But other hand, this is tennis, everything can happen, even for the top seeds players.Q. Wozniacki was talking earlier about how it proves about the strength and depth in women's tennis at the moment, you don't get any easy games.AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Exactly.  I think now the tennis is really the game that doesn't matter who you play first round, you really have to play 100% to win the match.  There is no easy matches any more.  I think so many young girls also coming up and you need to be careful, as well.  I remember when I was beginning on the tour, those first couple rounds was sometimes, you know, very easy.  Now it's not anymore.  Everybody really playing really high level.  That's why I think women's tennis is changing so much.  We can see that from results from any other tournament.  Different players winning other tournaments, Grand Slam as well.  So, yeah.Q. Bringing Martina to your coaching team this year, one of your goals would be to get over the line at a Grand Slam event and win one of these tournaments.  How helpful has it been listening to her experience?AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, like I was saying, Martina is the person who won so many tournaments, so many Grand Slams.  I think with her experience that help me also win a Grand Slam.  I was close few times.  But never win seven matches in a row.  Of course, this is the goal for everyone.  For me, as well.  That's why I asked her for help.  We've been working for couple weeks now.  So far is going pretty well.  So, yeah.Q. Is there anything she said to you yet that has made you realize why you've brought her in?  Any particular sort of story or experience she shared with you?AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, we been working already on couple things on court.  We really focus on that.  So we'll see if that going to help.  So far it's really going a good way.  Well, also talking off the court about a lot of things.  I think, you know, altogether hopefully one day I can do it.Q. Does it make you more excited coming into a Grand Slam tournament to have a change-up in your coaching setup for the first time?AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think so, especially that I really have great team.  I'm really happy with all the guys, Martina as well.  So, of course, every match is exciting.  I'm really looking forward.  We really preparing for every match.  So of course.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT