APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 13, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. MUGURUZA/A. Radwanska
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Your opponent's gotten better over the last year or so.   She's getting pretty good, no? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I think she has really good potential, and I think every day she's playing really good tennis, better tennis, and definitely the tennis that we going to see much more of in the future.

Q.   You must be tired.   You were playing the last, what, nine days or something?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, a little bit, yes, especially that last couple matches was pretty long.   Plus the mixed doubles and not much rest and I was playing here the first round. 
So I think just everything in row.

Q.   So by the third set you were saying, I'm got to go to sleep.   It's too much. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I think the best chance for me was winning in the two sets.   In the tiebreak I think I just didn't really go for it.   She made couple of good shots and it was over. 
But, well, it's always good sign I have couple days still for to Australian Open, so going to rest and prepare for that. 

Q.   Is this your first match being coached by Martina? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, this is my first tournament, so yes. 

Q.   Hopman Cup?   I just wanted to ask what was that like?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, she wasn't there.   She was just here.   We practice in the off‑season, but it was the first match here.   But, well, I keep saying the goal is Melbourne, just to do the good result there, and so we focus on that. 

Q.   Is it good motivation having Martina as your coach?   Does to motivate and drive you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, of course, especially that I think she achieve so much in tennis, so many grand slams.   I think she has huge experience with everything, especially winning Grand Slams.
So this is our goal, and we're going to try especially to focus on that. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about why you picked her and how you arranged to work together?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, like I was saying, huge champion and being on tour so many years.   Well, I think she really the best for that.   I really hope and believe she's going to help me out. 

Q.   How did you two talk?   Did you approach her about coaching?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   We talk a lot in the off‑season.   You know, she was very happy to work with me, so I was glad about that.   She never work with anyone else, so of course I didn't know if she would agree to that.
I was very happy.   She agree right away, and there we go.

Q.   The crowd and the conditions today, how did that feel?   The crowd were quite vocal. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, conditions are a bit tough, very humid.   But well, they are for everyone the same.
The crowd, I think they were drunk or something.   But, well, I think this is the price playing on the outside court, I guess. 
But, well, happened. 

Q.   So no major changes with Martina because it just started a month or so ago?   Nothing major at this point?   Serving?   Volleying? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   We have couple things we really focus on and practice and really talk about it, but just really for myself.   So, yeah, we'll see how we can go. 

Q.   How much do you want that slam perhaps this year or next year?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think this is the goal for everyone, I guess, on tour.   I was close couple times but I never win the Grand Slam. 
Of course that's the one thing I didn't achieve yet, and I very really hope I will do one day.   I have couple more years to try, so hope one year I will do it.

Q.   What do you think will be the key to you getting one?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, winning seven matches I guess in a row.   I think it's not the key, because ‑‑ it's very hard to talk about the key, because otherwise everybody will win a Grand Slam.
It's a lot of things to have winning the Grand Slam:   Playing good tennis, being a little bit lucky, good conditions for yourself. 
Well, I think every match is different story, and I think you really have to keep the level very high for whole two weeks. 

Q.   You won here two years ago.   Great performance in the final.   Is there a message you want to say to the people of Sydney?   Will you be back?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course I want to be back.   It's always great to be here, especially the place that you won before.
Well, it's always been a really strong tournament here.   Every year you're playing top players almost from the first round, so it's never easy.
So I guess we can see every year winning different player.

Q.   Your fans notice that have realized that you changed from your ponytail to a bun.   Is that another win of Martina's tactics?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   (Smiling)   it was so humid and my hair was so curly.   That's why I put it up.   Oh, my God.   They realized that.   Oh, my God.   (Laughter.)

Q.   So it's not the first time ever up here? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, I play so many times, especially when it's very hot.   It's better for your neck a little bit when the hair are not really flying behind you.

Q.   Your ranking sort of dropped a little bit.   Do you think your results in slams weren't as good as they've been, was that physical or mental?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   About the ranking, well, I dropped maybe one spot.   If you call it dropping, okay. 

Q.   Well, 2014 wasn't as good as the year before.   Do you think it was more a physical thing or a mental thing?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think last year definitely I didn't a goodthat I wanted to, especially the Grand Slam in Europe.   Like in French Open and Wimbledon, there was those two tournaments that are of course the most points and the most important parts of the season.
I didn't do well, and I guess I miss so many points from those tournaments.   I think I didn't did do as well as usual in Asia. 
So those two things that I didn't do as good as the years before.   About the ranking, of course it's a little bit different if it's 4 or 5, especially in the Grand Slam when you're seeded 4th or 5th. 
I think so many players in the draw, so I think doesn't really matter in the beginning.   You really have to go through the quarter and semis just to talk about seeding. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT