APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 12, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/A. Cornet
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Aga, coming into this match you had some really tough battles with her.   Last week at Hopman Cup she beat you.   Was there some revenge in this match today perhaps?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   First of all, all our matches were around three hours, so I really prepare myself to really have another battle with her.   Of course it's tough when you lost someone just two or three days ago also after three hours on court.
But I think I was really playing solid from the beginning and I was really trying to keep my serve and really focus on that.   I think that everything works. 
Of course, the conditions were a bit tough.   It was windy and the wind was also changing all the time.   So it was tricky, but very good game.

Q.   So what was the difference today?   Was it perhaps that you played better than in the Hopman Cup match or was Alize not quite as strong?   How do you see it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think I was playing a little bit better.   I think what I didn't do there, I think I did not use my chances.   One break point that I didn't use, and then some point that I did not really finish the ball, didn't kill the ball, and then suddenly I lost the one important point and everything is just turning against you.   So that's what happened in Perth. 
And I think here when I really had break point I was using it, and when I had a chance to break her, I did.   I think that helps a lot.

Q.   How much confidence did you draw from beating Serena in the Hopman final?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think a lot, especially never beat her before.   Of course this is not WTA tournament, but still normal matches. 
So that, of course, gives me a lot of confidence, especially it's the beginning of the year.   So those first couple of matches always tough to play after off‑season.
So of course I was really happy with that.   It was the best match over there.   Even the mixed doubles.   That was also a very good game.
I really enjoy that. 

Q.   You always seem to start strongly in Australia.   You won here and you've done well at Hopman Cup.   What is it about Australia that brings out your best tennis?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I don't know.   I just like Australia.   I like Perth and Sydney Melbourne.   I just feel good here.   Crowd is always nice.   I think I like to be fresh, I guess. 
After tough off‑season I think I miss matches, competition, and I think when I am just going here, I am always looking forward for that.   That makes the big difference for example compared to the US Open, the last Grand Slam.   We had so many matches already in the legs.   That's huge difference.

Q.   You get a bit tired. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.

Q.   Muguruza next.   You played her once or twice before. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Actually, I played her last year in Melbourne.   It was fourth round. 
Well, she's very tough opponent, playing really big game.   Definitely not Spanish game.   Totally opposite.
Well, I think she this really strong tournament.   Always tough matches from the first round.   No easy matches here. 
But I guess it's another good challenge before Melbourne, so really looking for that match.   For sure not going to be an easy one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT