BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 25, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. HALEP/A. Radwanska
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tough end to the week, but still overall can you take positives from your experience here?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   I mean, it's always great to be here.   But of course nobody is expecting easy matches here, so unfortunately I have some tough ones as well. 
So, well, but hopefully, you know, that will give me some more lesson and experience for the next time.

Q.   Simona told us that she used to struggle against you, felt like she mentally struggled against you.   How would you say she's changed over the past year?   You've played here a couple times. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, that's actually weird, because we played two times this year and it was really good two matches.   It was actually 1‑All.
So pretty similar conditions:   play on hard court but outside.   So those two matches in the beginning of the year was pretty similar.
Well, I think she was just too good today. 

Q.   Is it strange to kind of lose three matches in one tournament?   Strange format, no?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, this is a tournament, like I was saying before, even if you're losing you can still going forward.
Of course in the beginning maybe my first time in the Champs it was always weird.   Now I think when you go here you can expect that. 

Q.   What was it about Simona's game today that perhaps you struggled a little bit against?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think she was very solid from the beginning.   No mistakes.   Everything coming back.   Changing lines.   You know, deep balls.   Serving very well.
I think everything was working for her today, I guess. 

Q.   The way the group wound up working out, you only got to the semifinals because you won second set against Sharapova from 5‑1 down.   So is that more of a point of pride now than it was maybe right after that match?   That was what you needed to, save all the match points and do this ridiculous comeback. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, well, of course I knew about that.   I was still fighting for that semis, even though I was 5‑1 down.   That's why to maybe happened like it happened.
So, well, it was good to be in the semis of course.   Always disappointing to lose, especially 2 and 2.   But, well...

Q.   You had a very long and tough match yesterday.   You talked about ice baths.   Did you feel tired today on the court?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, match more than three hours never help for the next day, that's for sure.
But, well, I think I did everything to be ready for today.   Well, that's tennis.   Sometimes you have easy matches and sometimes tough ones.   You just to have deal with that.
Of course I would like to have one day off, but this is the schedule.   So it's not really the excuse that I can have.

Q.   Obviously your season just ended.   Can you give some context of what you're feeling like at the end of the year in terms your performances this year compared to the last couple years?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Still very happy I can be very consistent and be in top 10 for couple of years now.   I think this is a really important thing, especially that I'm playing here for couple of years in a row.
Well, I think good season again.   And as I was saying before as well, maybe the Grand Slam didn't work that well as I wanted to. 
Definitely I can focus on that more next year. 

Q.   Off‑season plans? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, sun, beach, sunscreen.   (Smiling.)   Yeah.

Q.   Right away?   Will you go home?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, I go right away.   Home is far, so doesn't make sense.

Q.   Somewhere nearby here?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   We talk later about that.   (Smiling.) 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT