BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 24, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/A. Radwanska
  7‑5, 6‑7, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Did you know what the scenarios were for qualifying before the match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course I knew if I win that match I'm in obviously.   But now of course I know the situation, so, well, of course I'm shooting for Caro.  
   
 Q.   But in the second set, had Maria won in straight sets, then that would've obviously knocked you, I believe, out.   Did you know that?   And then did that kind of explain the fight back?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I didn't really check all the details exactly, but of course every set matters.   I kind of could think that if I would not win that set then I'm out.   
Well, about the second set, I don't know what was happening really there.   I was just fighting.   Of course it was almost impossible to win that second set 5‑1 down, so many match points.  
You know, I was just I think I guess playing till the end.   Well, now I still have some chance.  
   
 Q.   If this was your last match of the year, does the way you fought back in that second set, even though you lost the match, make it an okay note to end on?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   I think it was great match.   Three‑set battle.   Of course it's always disappointing when you win that kind of set and then you're losing.   Of course that's better than just lose 6‑1 in the second set.   
So still happy that it was good match.   Of course had my chances as well.   In the first set as well.   But, well, now we'll have to just wait for the results for that match.  
   
 Q.   If you do happen to make the semifinals, what do you think you would like to work on to be ready for that?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think it's more ice bath today.   I did already one, and I think just to be fresh.   Like you know the surface pretty sticky, so it's much more harder than the usual hard courts.  
I think I will do everything in my power to be fresh tomorrow.   That's the most important thing, I guess.  
   
 Q.   Your fate rests in the hands of your friend.   Did you give her an extra pep talk before she walked on the court?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, we talked.   When I saw her, she was already, I know, I know.   She knew what was going on.   She wasn't surprised.   
I think we just going to go shopping, but with my credit card.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to go out there and watch her?   There's probably space left in her box.   If she wins, you win, so might as well go out there.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   I have to do my things, and if it's going to be time, of course I will watch.  
   
 Q.   If it was your last match of the year, how would you sum up your season?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think, you know, I really had good season.   I mean, I'm here and I'm top eight another year, so I cannot really complain about that.  
Of course, like I was saying before, the Grand Slam was the biggest part on that season, so for sure I'm going to be more focused on that next year.  
And about here, well, I think I really played three great matches.   Of course was a little bit disappointing not to go through into the semis, but, well, we'll see.   
Still hope that I'll be in the semis and then we talk again.  
   
 Q.   Aga, obviously the round robin is specific to this tournament.   I'm wondering, especially with the white group there were so many different scenarios.   How did you view that?   Is it more exciting or nerve‑wracking?   How do you view the situation that the group is in today.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, this is only tournament that if you lose even two matches you can still go out from the group.  
So, well, I think it's pretty exciting, especially that every match is 50/50.   You're playing against other seven top players, and if you see and watch, I think every match is very exciting.  
You can even see until now that everything is open.   So it's good until the last day still doesn't know who is going to win and who's going to go out even from the another group as well.  
Well, I think it's exciting for everyone.  
   
 Q.   In the event that this is the last time that we talk to you, I have to ask the question, what are you doing for vacation?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure, as always, of course beach, sun, and I'm going to relax of course without racquets and without anything what means workout.   
   
 Q.   Aga, in the second set you were 5‑1 down.   What was going through your mind?   Did something happen to inspire the comeback?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, in that kind of place you pretty much know that it's over, so I think I was more relaxed.   I think she get tight a little bit.   
And then I think it was easier for me to play.   I think it was not so many nerves like in the beginning of the match.  
Yeah, then of course 5‑3, 5‑4, and then i just kind of knew it's almost there.   You know, fighting for every point, and it was point by point.   Every point matters in that second set.  
But, well, I think never‑‑ I think my career never had something like this before, so it give me more confidence of course, even I lost that set.   
   
 Q.   In that second set that you hit that overhead; you missed it badly.   Then after that, you completely relaxed and played as though, yeah, you had already checked out.   Was there a little bit of that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think I just maybe knew that I cannot have anymore shot than that.   Maybe that's why.  
But like I was saying, just point by point.   
Of course in tiebreak, you're just fighting for every point.   Everything was open.   
I came back from 5‑1, so I was really pushing in that second set to win, because I went so long way till that.  
So, yeah.  
   
 Q.   End of the season, compared to the previous few years, are you as tired year as you were last year, year before?   How would you compare how you feel physically at the end of this year compared to previous years?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it's hard to compare, because sometimes you're having really three busy weeks, for example in Asia ‑ or not really, like this year.  
So I think that really matters how we play in last couple of weeks and you're feeling here.  
But I think I was really feeling good this year.   Like I was saying before, I had my experience and my lessons what to do and not to do.   Not to do too much before the Champs.   
Of course I want to be prepared 100%, but on the other hand side, you cannot do too much because this is the end of the season.   It's ten months in the legs, so of course we all feel that.   I think I really prepared good for this one.   
But on the other hand side, of course it's the end of the season everybody are tired.   You really need to push yourself to play one more tournament, the most important one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT