BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 23, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/A. Radwanska
  7‑5, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It was a very close first set, and then seemingly she sort of pulled away near the end.   She got ahead and stayed ahead.   Is that what you felt?   How did you feel the match went overall?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, of course it was really tight match, especially the first set.   I really had some chances in the first set for 4‑1, and then the end of the set as well.   
Until 3‑All in the second set, it was pretty much game by game.   But then I think I just didn't serve good enough that match.   
   
 Q.   How much different a player is she right now do you think since Wimbledon?   So she's had a lot of wins and seems to be more aggressive.   You've played her a lot, so how have you noticed the changes in her game?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Now she's very, very solid.   Pretty much no easy mistakes.   Everything is coming back to you.   
So I think against her I really have to play aggressive tennis and work on your shots.   
Of course she's moving very, very well.   She can run whole day, so it's never easy against her.  
   
 Q.   Did you think the marathon helps with that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, we'll see how she's going to do, but I think she's going to do well.   
   
 Q.   For yourself and for all players, when you reach this stage of the year, is there a long‑term fatigue that sets in?   Are you still finding it difficult to get up the enthusiasm and the physical power?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course it's tough.   It's the end of the season.   This is one of the most important tournaments for us, so of course everybody want to do good here.  
This is also the tournament that if you lose, you can still go through to the semifinals.   
So I think this is the only tournament that you can really just go for it and still fight for that.   
   
 Q.   You had some incredible shots during the match.   When you play like that and still lose the match, what does it feel like?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think of course it was couple of amazing rallies and of course couple amazing shots as well.  
But just not enough, I guess, in that match.   I think those shots and the other shots, it all makes good match.  
But I think, just like I was saying, I think I just needed some more good serve as well in that match.   
   
 Q.   There are less and less indoor tournaments for you that you guys play.   I think you played maybe one other this year in Katowice and that was it.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Right.  
   
 Q.   Do you wish there was more sort of an indoor season where you got a chance to get used to the conditions?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always hard to say, because on the one hand side you don't want to play more because anyway the season is long.  
But on the other hand side you want to have something indoors.   
But I think is no time for that really.   I think when you put some tournaments‑‑ of course you can put some indoor tournaments Europe, but then you play more and you're not really fresh for here.  
Of course maybe there are some players that are doing that, but I think it's better to be fresh and ready and practice for this one.   
   
 Q.   Do you wish some of the biggest tournaments though, like a Premier Mandatory or Premier 5 that were indoor?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, actually I prefer to playing outdoors, so I'm happy with the schedule like that.   
   
 Q.   Given that Caroline is physically strong as you mentioned, how mentally tough is it to lose the first set for you?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, like I was saying, I had my chances.   I didn't really use them.   Of course, against player like Caro it's nothing for free.   It's also hard to come back.  
But, well, for sure even when I was up 5‑4 that was also the game that I could use to win.   But I think she really played very solid game in the end of the first set.   
   
 Q.   Maria next.   Thoughts on that matchup?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it's not going to be easy either.   We'll see how she's going to do here.   
But, well, of course this is my chance, the last match, a chance to go to the semifinals.   So hopefully I will really play well tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You've had some wins over her on some big occasions.   Miami final and the US Open.   When you have beaten her, what do you think is the key when you can win those matches?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, she's definitely playing great tennis right now.   It's going to be really tough.  
But I play her on clay court this year, so a little bit different story.   But I think it's going to be really good challenge to play her on the hard court.   Well, we'll see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT