CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 24, 2017
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/Peng Shuai
7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you feel going into the semifinal?  Are you playing your best tennis right now?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, first of all, I'm very, very happy to reach another semifinal here in New Haven.
And, well, another good match definitely.  Like I was saying on court, I didn't really have good record against her, so it was great to win that match.
Well, I think it was pretty similar, like in the first match, very tight two sets, every game pretty tight.  From the beginning till the end, was 50/50 match.
So just very happy I could close it up in two sets again.
Q. You haven't beaten her since 2011, I believe, in the Australian Open.  What was she doing in the last six years that you weren't able to combat?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, we play just few months ago in States, in Indian Wells.  That wasn't a great match from my side.  Obviously, we know each other for a long time.  I kind of know what to expect.
But definitely very solid player.  So I already knew I really need to work hard over there to win every point 'cause, you know, she's not making much of the mistakes.  You really need to push her to make a mistake.
Q. You made it to the semifinal.  That's one mission accomplished.  Have you made it to the Cheesecake Factory yet?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course, but not here.  I was in the Cheesecake Factory a few times in Cincinnati last week.  So that was good.
Q. I saw you are really involved in charitable efforts, the Noble Box, Habitat for Humanity.  Is that something you make a point of as a role model and international star, to give back to the community?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I'm very happy to do that, trying to use my name for the good things.  I think helping people is a really great thing.  Trying to show that to people, that everybody can be involved, even really small parts.
Q. You mentioned you have to push her to make mistakes sometimes.  Did you feel like there were things you were doing tonight to force her?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, that's what I was trying to do actually, from the return, really stepping in, you know, getting the ball faster and faster.  That's what I'm trying to do.  And that work pretty well.
Q. Your thoughts on your semifinal matchup?  Obviously somebody you've never played before.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I was saying it's always very exciting to play someone for the first time after so many years on tour.  You're playing the same people pretty much all the time.  It's nice to play someone like her, especially she can really play good tennis.  She's smart on court.  She can do everything.
Obviously, I saw many of her matches.  For sure is going to be interesting one.
Q. Do you know a lot about her game?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, that's what I saw the tournament.  Obviously she can really do everything on court.  Very good hands.  So we'll see on court.  I will see after a couple of games what I have to do to win the match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT