BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 21, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/P. Kvitova
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised at all by how well you were able to play today?   You hadn't had a lot of success against her, and today's match was pretty lopsided in your favor.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Going on court I really had nothing to lose.   Of course we played so many matches before and I really know what to do on court to win the match.   Of course it's not easy, but I think I really played a good match today.   
From the beginning I was feeling good on court.   I think I did everything well tonight, especially I think I was really good on my serve.   I think that was the key in that match.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever worn a dress with butterflies on it before?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, that was my first time.   
   
 Q.   Obviously we know you can win big tournaments, big titles, be in slam finals.   At the year‑end Championships you've struggled to play your best.   Why?   Is it because it's indoor, a surface you don't like?   Mentally at the end of the year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Like I was saying, this is always tough tournament because it's the end of the year.  
But I think I won the first match, so we still have far to go.   But I think I feel much better than last year actually.  
Didn't play so much matches in last couple of weeks, so that helped a little bit as well.  
I think I had my lessons from other years how to prepare for that tournament.   So I think I did everything right this year and I am really feeling good and ready to go.  
   
 Q.   Is there any mental component to it?   Some players go to a tournament they haven't done well at and automatically think they're not going to do well here.   Do you have any of that with respect to this tournament?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think this is too big tournament to think like that.   I think every match a big here and you're fighting no matter what.   Even when you have bad days you're still trying.   
I think this is tennis.   Anything can happen.   Of course it's tough because we're not playing indoor much, so it's a little bit different.   But the conditions are for everyone the same.  
   
 Q.   The wait for your match to start was quite long.   The match before you was three and a half hours.   How did you stay focused and what were you doing?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, warming up three times, so I wasn't bored.   But of course it's tough, especially that it's really late and we went on court pretty late.  
But I think we all used to that.   Of course for us it's both of us the same time.   Of course it would be better to go on court at 7:00, but sometimes those too‑late matches always happen.   
But I had some matches that I finish even later, so it's okay.   
   
 Q.   Probably play Caroline next.   She won today.   What's that matchup like?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course I saw that match.   It was an incredible match.   Well, we know Caroline 15 years, and of course every match is interesting against her.  
You always have long, good battles, and it's always a good challenge against her.   She's a very solid player and you really have to play your game and really have to run and fight for every point to win matches against her.  
So really looking forward for another one.  
   
 Q.   Seems like she's been playing more aggressive since Wimbledon maybe.   Had a lot of success on the U.S. hard courts and now here.   You played her in Cincinnati, too.   Did you notice a change in her game?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Well, I think she had couple really good tournaments last couple months.   Grand Slam final.   So I think she's playing good tennis right now.  
Not going to be easy.   
   
 Q.   You really dominated Petra's second serve today.   Was that a matter of you attacking it more or was she serving below her best?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think I was returning and serving today pretty well.   I think that opened the game for me very well.   I think she was still serving good.   Even her second serve was pretty okay.   
But I think that's what I was trying to do:   just play aggressive from the first point.   
   
 Q.   It was a convincing victory then.   You mentioned still a long way to go.   How good and how confident are you feeling moving forward?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, every match give me a lot of confidence winning here in the Champs.   So of course I'm just very happy with that win.   Hopefully I will play the same good tennis another two matches, and then we will see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT