BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 19, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ANDREW KRASNY:   Ladies and gentlemen, Agnieszka Radwanska. 
Questions?

Q.   Your record, you've played in the WTA Finals, this will be your sixth time.   You only reached the semifinal once.   What do you think about your record in this tournament, and what do you think of your chances this year?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think, you know, it's always another seven players, so you cannot have really a good draw or anything.   Of course I didn't do well last year, so pretty much no pressure, no points to defend.
So I really want to do well here.   I really practiced hard for that event, so we'll see. 

Q.   How would you characterize your 2014 season?   How would you summarize it? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it was pretty good season.   I'm here, so that means another good season.   Of course, I think Grand Slam was not that great as I wanted to be. 
I think maybe those ones are the tournaments for sure I want to improve the results.
Otherwise, not too bad. 

Q.   You're one of the very few players who have played here six times.   Must be very proud of your consistency.   What do you put it down to? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, of course.   I think making Champs now almost every year is really great for me.   The moment I realize that I'm in, it makes me feel so happy that I top eight another year and playing the Championships.   So I'm really excited for that tournament every year.
Of course about the consistency as well, that I can do every year pretty similar results and being in the top eight. 

Q.   My question was sort of similar:   How have you been able to stay so consistent?   I think you have one of the longest streaks of anybody, of the eight, in terms of being here year after year.   What's your secret?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I wish I knew.   I'm just very happy about that.   I think this is one of the most important thing in tennis.   I'm very glad that I'm top 10 for couple of years and top 5 for last few years as well.
You know, I don't really know, but every year I have couple of really good results to make me be here, so good for me. 

Q.   This year you mentioned earlier about Grand Slam results not being as you would've liked them to be.   What went wrong for you there that maybe hasn't so much in the past?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think of course Grand Slam are the most important tournaments for us.   Well, Grand Slam in Europe wasn't that great result for me.   Especially at Wimbledon.   I love grass and I really feel good on that surface and I really had good results before.
I always expect more there, and I didn't do that good this year.   So that's always disappointing.   I think it's good motivation for next year to be better. 

Q.   Speaking of the grass and liking Wimbledon, next year obviously the season will get a little bit longer.   There will be an extra tournament on grass.   For you, when you look at that schedule change, do you think, Okay, I'm going to play extra tournaments and more tournaments on this surface, or are you thinking, No, I would rather still just limit my schedule and go into Wimbledon fresh?   What's your thought on that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think all depends how you do the first half of the season, how many tournaments you play, how many matches.   I think all depends of that. 
Of course I want to play more on grass.   Like you said, I want to be also fresh for Wimbledon, to be ready for couple good matches in a row.
So I think all depends.   I will see in the end of the year. 

Q.   What would make you really happy at the end of this year and then all of next year?   What would make you super happy?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Win the tournament, of course. 

Q.   In general, what makes you happy?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course I think win Grand Slam as well.   I think this is the tournament that we all waiting for to get a title.   I didn't do it yet; I was close few times but still didn't get it.
So I think winning Grand Slam, that will make me really, really happy. 

Q.   Can I have your thoughts on the indoor Singapore stadium having played there?   In particular the surface and does it suit your game?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think the surface, it's all right.   I think it's hard court.   Of course it's a little bit different than usual hard court, but I think it's pretty similar also to the hard court in Istanbul that we played last three years.
Maybe a little bit faster for me, but I think they did really good job. 

Q.   You're the queen of the hot shot, so I'm just going to ask for this year, what was your favorite shot that you hit? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course it wasn't that tricky as last year.   Well, I have still few matches, so maybe I will do it here. 
I think I really liked that shot from Montreal from the semifinal.   The overhead backhand.   Maybe someone remember that.
I think that was my favorite one, especially because it was a really big moment. 

Q.   You are very close friend of Caroline.   Can you put a few words on how did you experience what she's been going through recently and how she came out? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, we know each other for 15 years, so it's pretty long time.   Of course practicing together, hanging out together, being really close friends for so many years. 
I think it's great to have someone like this on tour and playing the same junior tournaments, the same small ITFs, and now being top 10, both of us, for couple years.
So I think it's really great thing. 

Q.   Unlike the other competitors, you have played a match here because you played an exhibition a few years ago.   In such an elite field, are differences like that going to be the thing that gives you the edge over the others?   Do you think that's going to be enough, or what's going to be crucial in getting the edge over your competitors?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, the exhibition was few years ago and I think it was probably different surface back then.
But this is top eight players, and pretty much everyone is playing really good right now.   I think every match is kind of 50/50.   Doesn't matter who is on the other side of the court.   I don't know if somebody has advantage here or not, because conditions are for everyone the same.   Court is the same for everyone as well. 
You have a lot of questions.

Q.   I'm just so curious about you Aga, on every level.   What do you remember of the first time you played the Championships and how have you see the tournament change over the numerous times that you've played it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I remember my first Championships I was alternate, second alternate, so I was more at the pool than on the court.
But then suddenly I get the phone call that I'm on court the next day.   So I was surprised, but I had a good record.   I won those two matches being second alternate for both times.
But I think it's always improving, which is pretty good for us.   I think every year we all want to have really great and big event.   As we see this year, we have Rising Stars event and Legends and a lot of things going on.
I think it's really, really interesting for the fans and also fun for us as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT