DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 22, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. GARCIA/A. Radwanska
  3‑6, 7‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You seemed to be playing quite well in the first set.   Just explain what happened in the second and third sets.   It was a very hard battle.   Just explain what happened after that.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, well, I think it was tough match from beginning to the end.   I think it was very tight game, and I guess, well, I was just worse today in those two points in the end.   
Of course I had my chances before that, but I think that match was game by game and point by point, a lot of good rallies.   Definitely I could do better in the moments that I should really step forward.  
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   How do you think the difference between Wuhan tennis court and any other tennis courts you played before, the difference?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think the courts are typical hard court.   I think they are similar to Beijing courts, so they're good.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   You got some chances in the match, but of course you waste a few opportunities.   What do you think the most trouble your opponent make to you during the match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, she was very consistent whole match and hitting the ball very hard and serving very well, especially in the really important moments.   
I think, you know, she was keep going and really I think playing on her really high level.   I guess today I think she was playing really, really good.  
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   Your opponent is even younger than you.   Probably she was born in 1993.   How do you think of the rising young generation?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure she's one of the young players coming up and playing really great tennis, and I think we are gonna see her more in the future, that's for sure.   
I think this year shows a lot of good players, new names, and, you know, young kind of players.   Definitely I think she's one of them.  
   
 Q.   You could have confirmed your place in Singapore during this tournament.   Did that pressure play on your mind at all?   You have the China Open after this, so you're looking to build on those points?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, well, of course I knew that I almost there but not yet.   But, you know, when I go on court I don't really think about it.   So of course, you know, the tournament makes a huge difference for me going to Singapore, but, well, hopefully in Beijing I will have better results.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   Your ranking is obviously higher than your opponent.   Did you anticipate this was a tough game before the game?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Well, I knew her, and we played actually a few months ago in Madrid.   Of course it was different surface, it was on clay, but I won that match 6‑4 in the third.   
So of course I knew it was going to be very difficult match today.   Her ranking I think didn't really show how good she's playing, so I knew I really had to expect good tennis from her.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   How do you make adjustment after this kind of game to prepare the China Open?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, probably tomorrow I will have day off.   And then, you know, just practice and prepare for the China Open.   
This is the last chance, the only big tournament left, so I will do my best, you know, to play my best tennis there.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   You played with Li Na several times.   Which game do you remember impress you most, the game between you and Li Na?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, we played a lot of matches against each other, but I think the one I will remember I think forever is the quarterfinal in Wimbledon.   We played that match I think almost three hours.  
I remember I couldn't finish.   I was leading in the third set, and I had so many match points, and the games were actually‑‑ you know, every game was 10, 15 minutes.   I won that game, but I think it was one of the best matches we had.   You know, Centre Court at Wimbledon, altogether, you know, it was huge match and on very high level.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT