U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. PENG/A. Radwanska  6-3, 6-4   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  How disappointing is this for you?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, it always is, especially in the Grand Slam your first week.  But, well, I think here is not really the new thing for me.  Unfortunately.   Q.  What can be so tricky about her game?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, first of all, she's very solid player, very consistent from both side, playing very good from the back. Very consistent, yeah.   Q.  Today it was two straight sets.  What went especially wrong for you?  Your game?  Or how you were feeling?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think every game was pretty tight and a lot of rallies.  Even the serve wasn't really the big in the weapon in that match, so every game could go either way. But I think in the important moments I think she was just playing a little bit better.   Q.  For you this tournament has not always been where you played your best tennis.  Is there a correlation from year to year here, or is it just the way the draw has worked out?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, you know, it's a good question.  I want to know the answer for that question, as well (smiling). Of course also depends who play, that's for sure.  But draw is the draw.  You have no choice. But, you know, I didn't play bad today.  I think it was just her day.  Of course I could do something different maybe or try something else, as well, but I really try my best and I was fighting till the end. I just couldn't do it.   Q.  You had the semifinal in Melbourne.  Maybe it was a bit more complicated for you this season.  French Open, Wimbledon, here, a relation?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't think so.  French Open was long time ago and different surface and just different tournament.  I don't think, you know, it goes together especially...   Q.  Confidence building?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think it's more about last couple of weeks than what was three or four months ago. So of course the most important is the Grand Slams of the year.  It's last Grand Slam of the year, and of course when you lose first week it's disappointing.  I didn't lose here because of the French Open or something.   Q.  What will you do now?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I will probably go home.  The last trip is going to be in Asia.  I'm playing Seoul, Wuhan, and Beijing.   Q.  Is there something about the US Open that you don't particularly like or doesn't particularly suit your game?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: It's the question from the lady here.  I really want to know the answer.  Then maybe I will find a way to play better here and just try another way to be in the second week. There is just something here that I can't really pass those rounds.  Well, I have couple of years to try.  Hopefully one day I will do it.   Q.  Did you feel you played as well this season as you have played last one or the one before?  Did you feel at your best this year?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think my season was not too bad.  Couple of really good results, especially in the hard court. So, you know, I'm still fighting for the chance.  I have, you know, still big chance to go there, so it means the season was not too bad.   Q.  When you see the US Open coming every year, as a competitor, what goes through your mind knowing the luck that you have had here?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's always a good sign that I don't have much points to defend, so it's always the good side the next year. That's why I think it's maybe a little bit less pressure.  But the other hand, it's more pressure because I really want to do better. But, well, not this year, I guess.   Q.  How did you feel coming in?  Did you feel like you were in top form and really kind of looking forward to a long run here?  If so, does it make it all the more disappointing?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, it's been good.  I was practicing here a couple of days and I was really feeling fine. Nothing was wrong.  Played some good matches also on the way coming here.  Of course it's disappointing, especially that I really feel good.  I thought I was really -- I prepared good for the tournament.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT