WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/A. Radwanska
  6‑4, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Tough match there.   Talk about what happened there in the second set.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, yeah, it was good, tough match.   I think I was just, you know, worse maybe few points today.  
Of course I had my chances, especially in the second set.   I didn't really finish couple rallies that I supposed to.   
Then it's tough, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Similar situation at the end of the first set.   You were serving and take that to a breaker.   Take us that you that part of the match.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, well, actually I think we serve pretty good in that match.   I think I didn't really start that well in that game.   I think she felt more confident, and couple good return and it was set down.  
   
 Q.   You both have been playing so well lately.   Obviously coming off Canada for you, and she's been playing well in the last couple months.   What did she look like today?   Anything different in her game?   Anything that she looked more confident in today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I think she's playing much better since couple of months and really feeling better on court.   You can see she is hitting the ball better than before and very deep.  
She is very solid player, so it's nothing for free.   It's the matches that you really have to work hard to win.   I think she's very consistent as well, so it's always tough.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about your game right now with the US Open just a little over a week a way?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think my game is pretty good.   I really had a lot of good matches last couple of days.   A lot of matches.   
So I feel very good going US Open.   Now I'm just going to have a little bit of rest and then practice over there and be ready to go.  
   
 Q.   You played the maximum number of matches last week.   Congratulations on the title.   And you got deep here as well.   How much different are these back‑to‑back weeks when you know you're going to play every day as opposed to a major when you have some time off.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, it was a tough two weeks for me, especially different conditions, different balls.   I play eight matches in probably ten, eleven days.   It's a lot.  
But anyway, I think it was great preparation before US Open, and good that I'm going to have couple days now just to rest and practice.   I really played good tennis, so this is the most important thing.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about playing FedCup for Poland.   What does that mean to you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, means everything.   I'm playing Fed Cup for so many years now.   I can't even remember from which year.   I didn't miss any.  
So always very happy and proud to play for my country.   Now it's going to be interesting match in February against Russia.   I'm really looking forward.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the US Open and New York and just I guess kind of the uniqueness of the tournament.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think this is a little bit different Grand Slam than others.   New York is a bit crowded, busy, loud.   It's a Grand Slam.   For us this is the most important tournament, so we all want to do the best.  
I didn't do the best results over there compared to other Grand Slams, so hoping this year that I might change that.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like it takes a little bit of time to get used to the surroundings and everything?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think now I'm going to have at least a week over there, so just adjust everything and practice on site.   Hopefully that will help me get through at least to the second week.  
   
 Q.   I thought it was ironic that in this particular quarter, you, Sabine, Caroline, and Angie all have Polish heritage.   It's pretty unique how the draw happened that way.   Did that jump out at you, the fact that you were all in the same quarter?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course because this is the bigger draw so we could play on different quarters.   But we are all playing on the same level and playing the same tournaments for years now and we are the same age almost, so sooner or later we going to play against each other.  
Sometimes a little bit earlier in the tournament; sometimes a little bit later.   So actually this week we are all here in the same part.   
   
 Q.   I saw your sister playing qualifying here.   Talk about her game.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, she was struggling a little bit with the injuries last couple of months.   Now actually she's coming back.   She drop a little bit her ranking, but I think now she's in a good way to come back.  
Hopefully she will do it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT