ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 9, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/E. Makarova
  7‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Did you go into the game with a clear game plan to slice, mix up the pace, put your opponent off her rhythm?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think so, especially that she's a player that also can do everything on court.   Pretty much everything is coming back.   No free points in that match.   That's why I think two sets over two hours. 
Very tight games.   Point by point.   I think I was just better few points today. 

Q.   Did you have fun today?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I think it was a great match.   Of course, fun.   It's a good way for fun that I really could tell my very good level.   But happy about that. 

Q.   She said you got lucky at times.   What do you think about that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it was couple of points that, yes, I got lucky.   Maybe two, three, yeah (smiling).   Maybe important moments, yes. 

Q.   Tomorrow facing Venus, what do you need to do?   Will that same game be enough to beat her?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, she's definitely on fire.   I was actually playing few times after her, so I was watching a little bit of her matches.   Definitely she's playing amazing tennis this week.   Beat a lot of good players on the way to the final, especially today Serena. 
Well, it's not going to be the easy one.   I think good challenge.   We didn't play for a while.   Well, I really looking forward. 

Q.   How do you approach tiebreakers? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, of course, it's the set and it's every point matters.   I think I just trying to be double focus in the tiebreaks. 
I started very well both of them, so that was very huge difference. 

Q.   It was only the sixth time you faced Makarova.   Do you feel a rivalry coming on between the two of you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, we played couple times.   I just knew it's going to be tough one.   She's always the player that fighting from the beginning till the end.   She's very consistent player. 
I knew it's going to be lot of running today, as well.   I could feel that as well in my legs.   But, you know, I'm happy really with my game today. 

Q.   What does it mean to you to be in the finals here?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Means a lot.   Especially that I've been here before in a couple of semifinals.   Finally final.   I'm very, very happy about that, that I achieve this year that. 
Of course, tomorrow I think, you know, nothing really to lose.   Is the final.   Trying to play 100% or even better to win that final.   We'll see. 

Q.   What do you do to get lactic acid out of your legs to recover for the next day?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, first of all, ice bath.   I just finished my ice bath.   It's not fun.   But I kind of used to it. 
Then, of course, massage treatment.   Of course, depends how long are the matches. 
But I think the ice, it's really the best recovery. 

Q.   You're still looking for your first title this season.   How important is it to you to get one?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It's very important.   I really going to push myself tomorrow maximum to win that match.   I think also because of that.   I've been in a big final in March in Indian Wells, and I didn't use that chance.   I'll use that tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT