ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 8, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/V. Azarenka
  6‑2, 6‑2 
   
 Q.   What is it about your game you find that fits really well with the hard courts?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, uhm, I guess, you know, playing pretty well from the both sides and I think I running good.   I think combination of couple things.   
But, you know, it's also the thing that most of the tournaments are hard court, so you kind of used to it.   Just practice for that surface.   
In the beginning was much worse, so now after couple years being on tour I really like hard courts.   
   
 Q.   Which part of your game are you most pleased with?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it was a good match.   I think everything was working for me today from the beginning.   
I think playing opponent like Vika, I think you really have to be focused from the beginning.   You know, there's no free points.   
I think I was really focused on my serve and trying to return good, as well.   You know, I think when I broke her, I was really focused on my serve like till the end.   
   
 Q.   You're going to play Makarova next.   Last time you played it didn't go so well for you.   Can you tell us what you need to change?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, well, we played couple times.   Yeah, the last time I lost.   So here is different story, different surface as well.   
She very tricky player.   Left‑handed, so it makes it even more difficult.   Well, I hope I'm going to play the same good tennis I'm playing today and we'll see.   
I think I'll have to play aggressive tennis against her.   She the player that also consistent and moving very well.   So, yeah, we'll see on court what I can do.   
   
 Q.   Is there something about your game that you would like to improve or are you satisfied with all aspects?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think no one's perfect.   I guess there's always something to improve.   You know, when I'm going on court and practice is always everything, not just one shot, one thing, it's always everything.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you want to improve everything.   Is there something you could pinpoint that you don't like as much, or no?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think I really have good two matches.   I didn't feel like something was really bad, that I really have to practice whole night, for example, think about it whole night what I have to do to make it better.   
Like I saying, I just hope I'm going to also play on a really high level tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Your game is built on defense.   Do you work on trying to improve your attacking game?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course, I am.   But I think, you know, every player's different.   Everybody playing different tennis.   Of course, depends also who is on the other side of the net.   
But I think I'm not really that powerful player like the others.   Always have to find a way to win the game, but not serving 200 per hour.   
   
 Q.   You did well.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Trying (smiling).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT