THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 8, 2017
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/T. Bacsinszky
3-6, 6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A really good win for you.  First win over Timea.  Talk us through whether you're feeling this is a good run now after Eastbourne.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course I had a great match, especially she's a really tricky opponent.  She can do everything on court.  You can expect everything.  Playing aggressive and then also slices, mixing up all the things.  I think it was a great match from the beginning till the end.
I think after the second set I just found my game and I was trying to be more aggressive.  I think I was serving as well better in the third set.
Well, here we go.
Q. How much more comfortable are you feeling now that you've got a couple of matches under your belt?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I think on every match I was playing better and better.  Obviously it wasn't easy again, but I think those kind of matches give you more confidence, especially they're great top players.  You know, all matches helps, for sure, here and also in the end of the season, as well.
Q. Playing Bacsinszky the way you described her sounds like the way people describe you, someone who can do everything.  Do you enjoy those sort of matches where both of you get to show a full range of your tennis and you sort of have to think maybe more than your average match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, and definitely she's also playing tennis that it's a lot of going on and you have a lot of long rallies, is not only about serve and first shot.  I knew what to expect, and I knew it's gonna be running, as well.  I guess those kind of matches are very entertaining for the fans, as well.  You can see everything on the court.  But, well, on the other hand side, you really have to work hard for those two or three hours.
Q. Do you feel like the third set would have been closer if she hadn't been struggling with an injury?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't know.  I guess you have to ask her.  I think I was feeling better and better actually on court.  I have couple of up and downs, especially in the first set I had a lot of chances there pretty much on every game and just slip away.
And then I guess I was really feeling better and, you know, just do every shot I could.
Q. Did you change your strategy as the match went on, do you think?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really.  I was trying not to play in the middle, and just makes her run, as well.  Also from the first shot, trying to be aggressive.  But, you know, it's hard sometimes when the ball gets old and the court is not that fast.
Well, I think I was really doing better and better.
Q. Do you think tennis is tougher now in early rounds than it was years ago when you started?  If so, how?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, definitely.  I think a couple of years ago those first two rounds when you didn't play against seeded players, it was easy.  I think you were just looking up on third round who was seeded, because those first rounds was really, like, you know, like you're there but you don't have to play 100% and you're gonna win.
Obviously it's not gonna happen anymore in tennis right now.  You can play first round those players that you really don't want to play in the first round, and that's why I think we can also see a lot of upsets in early rounds.  Today in tennis it's in the stage that you really have to play 100%, because otherwise you're in big trouble.
Q. You've got a familiar face in the next round.  Do you think playing on grass will work perhaps to your advantage this time?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think we played on every surface against Svetlana.  We have played so many matches, so many good ones, so many three-setters.
Well, playing her is always very challenging.  You know, every ball is going to go to your side over and over again.  You're not gonna have any free points.
She's tough opponent, and also, she can do everything on court.  She really playing good tennis on grass.  Even she's more like a Spanish player, but still doing good job here.  We played couple times here, but we didn't play for a while, so really looking forward.
Q. When you're down a set on Centre Court at Wimbledon yet you're very composed in that situation, which suggests the mental side of the game is strong at the moment, is that something you have worked on or is that just the way you are?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think this is a Centre Court of Wimbledon.  You just fighting till the end.  Obviously, like I said, it was couple of games that I didn't really have the right timing and good decision on a couple of shots in the first set, but it's still 50/50.  Just the first set and you keep going.
I have been on the Centre Court couple of times before, and I really was feeling all the time very good and playing really good matches.  So here, as well, today I think was a great match.  When you're there, you're fighting till the last point.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT