WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/C. Dellacqua
  6/4, 6/0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   What does it feel like to get back on Center Court, first of all?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It's always great to be out there, especially here what I really have the best memories on the Grand Slam.  
So of course I was really looking forward to being in the Centre Court again.  
   
 Q.   Compared to other tournaments, because there is so much history at that particular court, how much more important is it to be on the main stadium at Wimbledon than maybe another tournament?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think especially for me, Wimbledon is the only Grand Slam I did the final, so of course I had the best memories from here, from that Centre Court.   
That's what I always happy to be out there.   
   
 Q.   What is it about Wimbledon that brings out the best in your game, do you think?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course I think surface means, you know, a lot here, especially that grass is the surface I really like from the beginning.   I was playing here from 2005.   
So I just love the surface.   Unfortunately, just season on the grass is not long.   But, you know, that's why I really wanted to do good here.   
   
 Q.   You won in quite emphatic fashion, and the crowd were really gasping with excitement at some of the shots you were playing.   How much does that give you as a player when you know the crowd are behind you and like the type of tennis you play?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course that means a lot to me that the people likes my tennis and they really like to watch my game.  
So, you know, comments like I made tennis entertaining and they really love watching me, it's the best I could hear.   
   
 Q.   Wimbledon only schedules one women's match for Centre per day and two men.   What do you think about that?   The women get fewer chances to play there.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think that the rules here, so many rules out here that are different than other tournaments, other Grand Slams.  
But they wanted to do that, and we have to stick to that, I guess.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT