AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 16, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. PAVLYUCHENKOVA/A. Radwanska
  6‑4, 3‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on that?   Tough one. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, right, tough one.   Well, as you can see, it was a really good match, actually.   Very good three sets.
I think in the first set, you know, it was a little bit difficult for me.   You know, first match on the grass.   Actually, centre court, I think it's a little bit faster than the practice courts.   I really had to play one set to get used to it. 
It was a really great match.   Of course, I had some chances, some break points, and, you know, the serve was really important in this match.
I didn't use the break points I had.   Then unfortunately I lost.

Q.   She's a very, very good grass court player.   Is it just adjusting, getting used to the surface again?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I remember she was always playing good on grass, actually since we were in juniors.   Of course I knew it was going to be a tough match and was a very tough first round.
The first match is always tricky.   Well, I think it was a great match before Wimbledon to get used to it, but, well, the last one. 

Q.   You have lost your first match in Eastbourne the last two years, as well, but then have gone on to do very, very well at Wimbledon.   Is one match on grass all you need?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, if we see last two years, probably, yes (smiling).   I just hope I can do the same good results this year.
We'll see.   But of course, you know, matches are always different, but obviously I was playing points, as well.   So, you know, I'm saying hopefully I can still do great at Wimbledon.

Q.   What will your preparations be now?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, maybe tomorrow a day off probably.   I'm really going to be very sore and tight.   So maybe tomorrow I will just take a break.
Of course then practice, practice, and practice, you know, just to do the best I can, you know, to play my best tennis on the grass.   Yeah. 

Q.   Where will you practice?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I don't know really when I'm going to go to London.   So probably maybe Wednesday. 

Q.   What do you like to work on most for grass?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think on the grass, the bounce is very low, so I think legs are very important in that surface.
So you really have to be quicker than the other surface.   I think just the first point, you know.   Return and serve, I think those are the really most important shots on the grass.   I'm going to focus on that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT