ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. TOMLJANOVIC/A. Radwanska
      6‑4, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Tough luck today.   Can you talk about your feelings out there on the court?   What do you feel wasn't really working for you today?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, yeah, I don't think was my day today.  
    Well, I think I just start too slow.   I was 5‑1 down, and I guess I was a little late for the first set.   I was still trying, almost come back, but didn't work out well.  
    But, well, she definitely played good tennis today.   I had my chances.   I didn't do them.   I think that cost me the match.  
   
 Q.   Did you know much about her going in and what in particular is difficult about her game, do you think?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely she's serving very well.   Even with the heavy balls she can still serve pretty hard.   So, you know, I think she served pretty hard today as well.   
    Solid game from the baseline, as well.   She's moving pretty well, and, you know, mixing up a lot of dropshots, slice, you know, pretty much everything on court.  
   
 Q.   You haven't had a lot of success here like you have in, say, Wimbledon.   How do you feel about this tournament?   Did you think you had an opportunity to go far this year, considering everything else that had happened?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, of course, but it's ‑‑I was saying yesterday that it doesn't mean if first and second seed lost, doesn't mean the third one is going to win.   It's stupid to say that.   
    So, you know, of course it's always opportunity.   Doesn't matter who is in the draw, you know.   
    If you play good and, you know, when you're doing, you know, the thing that, you know, it's really working for you well, and, you know, playing the same level, then you're gonna win.   Doesn't matter who is in the draw.  
    I just didn't play good enough today to win the match.  
   
 Q.   But in a different way, when the top two seeds come out, does that affect your serves at all or anything in like a negative way rather than thinking, I'm going to win?   Does it play in your head at all?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think the draw is so big, and it's still, you know, third round.   I think it doesn't really matter if, you know, someone is out or not.   It's still a lot of matches to go, still the first week.  
    Maybe that matters a little bit later in the second week, but doesn't matter now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT