ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/S. Zhang
      6‑3, 6‑0 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   In the first set, it was a little bit difficult, first eight games.   What was the cause of that?   Was it the slow court?   Was it a little bit nerves?   First round?   What's your opinion about that?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure, first round as well the first match is always tricky.   Like you said, slow court.   I think it was very wet court.   I think the courts are not always dry, it's raining every day, so it makes the courts much slower.   
    I don't know there is really any explanation why there was eight breaks in a row, but I guess happens sometimes.   But I think when I just broke myself in the end of the first set I think was more confident, and then I think I start to play much better.  
   
 Q.   I know you like faster courts better.   On the slow surface and looking at the weather forecast this week, a little bit rainy, a little bit slower, is it something you go out and practice a little bit on, or can you do something in your game to make you feel more comfortable on the slow, wet clay?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course, but you never know when you're gonna play, and of course what the weather is gonna be.   But, you know, the court is the same for everyone.   Of course I'm just very happy that I won this match in two sets and pretty quickly.   Just one hour on court.   Still fresh and ready to go.   
   
 Q.   How do you change your game when it's slower?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think you just have to hit the ball a bit harder.   Of course I think serve is really not the powerful weapon as on the faster courts.   I think also return of serve is also important.  
   
 Q.   A lot of people were enjoying your dress.   I know you wore it in Rome, too.   Any reactions you've gotten to it so far?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, everybody loved that dress.   I really had a lot of good opinions.   
   
 Q.   Do you consider you as one of the favorites or one outsider?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, I'm third seed here, so I can't really say outsider, but, you know, clay is not really my favorite surface.   But, no, I'm trying.  
    Last year I did my first quarterfinal, so hopefully this year I can do even better.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on your section of the draw, if you've looked at it?   There is a few interesting lower seeds there, but none of the big players who have done really well at this tournament in the past.   So maybe some opportunities?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   To be honest, I didn't really look at the draw, so I have no idea who I'm playing next round, to be honest.   
   
 Q.   Of some of the young players that have been coming up and doing well this year, who, in your mind, sticks out as someone really to watch?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's a lot of really good young players are coming up.   But I think the last one I saw was Bencic I think in Rome.   I think that she can play really good.   I think we can, we are gonna see her much more often in the future.  
   
 Q.   What do you like about her game?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think she can do really everything on court.   You know, going down the lines, playing aggressive, and, you know, good serve, as well, and she's still young.  
    I think, you know ‑‑I think she can be really tough.  
   
 Q.   Last year you have good sensation here, more good than usually?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   What?   
   
 Q.   Sorry for my English.   Last year you were in quarterfinal, and you feel better for the first time in your life at the French?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   You know, having first quarterfinal in the Grand Slam here, of course, you know, it was success for me.   I think the quarterfinal is not the last thing I want to do here.  
    Of course I have couple years to try to do better and better here.   So, well, I'm going to do everything in my power to do that and actually this year my clay court season was not bad, so hopefully I can do also good here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT