MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 8, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/R. Vinci
  6‑1, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   You played today against a player expert on clay, but you were impressive, especially in the last few games match.   How did you see your level today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Today I think I was really playing very good.   I think I really start aggressive.   I start really fast and really going for every shot.  
I knew it's going to be tough one, especially I played her two weeks ago.   I knew she's really typical clay‑court player.  
So well, what I was trying to do is play aggressive.   Especially yesterday I was playing almost three hours; today playing the same thing wouldn't be fun, so I think I was trying to play aggressive and try to hit the ball as‑‑ finish the ball as soon as possible.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   How do you face the next one for the quarters?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I don't know who's next one, to be honest.  
   
 Q.   I think we don't know yet.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think it's Errani‑Garcia, right?   I played a couple times against Errani, but I think never against Garcia.   
So, well, we'll see first who's going to win that match.   I think it's going to be a good one.   I think they're on court right now.  
We will see.   But I think they are both playing very good on clay as well.   We will see.   
   
 Q.   Bouchard, Kuznetsova, and Vinci and you're in the quarterfinals.   It's one of the toughest draws you have ever played?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You mean toughest draw at a tournament?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, definitely.   I think it's very tough draw, especially from the first round, playing first round Bouchard.   I think it's one of the toughest draw I ever had, especially with no byes, of course.   
And here it's very strong tournament, so every match you're playing somebody very good.   I'm very happy that I could play very good and win those three matches already.   
Hopefully I can keep going.   
   
 Q.   How do it feel to play in that court outside?   There was some noise.   Do you prefer to play there or in Manolo Santana?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course you want to play on a big court.   I'm not really making the schedule, so if they put me on Court 5 I have to play on Court 5.   
There is no choice.   
   
 Q.   Do you prefer to avoid any contender on your way to the final or it doesn't matter who you face?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think this is tennis, and everything can happen on the way.   You know, even seeded players can lose first round.   
I think I never really look in the draw.   I'm just looking who I'm playing next and that's it.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you're more confident now after yesterday's win against Kuznetsova?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, of course.   I think those kind of matches give you a lot of confidence.   Of course I wasn't that fresh today, but I think still feeling good.  
I think more happy with those kind of matches, very close and tight matches.   Of course I was really happy, and I think today I was just more relaxed.   
I just won the match that I almost lost, so, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT