MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/S. Kuznetsova
  6‑3, 4‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   It was really a difficult match with Kuznetsova, a thriller, really.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Well, we didn't play for a long time, and I think it was a great challenge, especially that she is really playing great tennis on clay.   She had some good results already on clay.   
Of course, match was very good I think from the beginning until the end.   Of course, I mean, winning the match from three match point down, it's always good.   I mean, I think it gives always a lot of confident afterwards.  
Of course I'm very, very happy that I could win that third set, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Shoulder watch.   Looks okay.   No strapping.   It was quite a heavy day.   How are you feeling in yourself now?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, so far I'm good.   Of course, it was almost three hours match, so it's never great the next day.   
But, well, hopefully I'm going to have very good recovery today, and, you know, do everything I can do to be fresh tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations for your winning.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   I would like to know if your back hurt you.   I noticed you were holding your back after every hit.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It's different movement than on the hard courts, so it's more sliding and the court is very slippery.   So, yeah, I think the back always hurts a little bit.   
   
 Q.   Svetlana is one of those players that has historically dominated you.   What's the feeling after this victory?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I'm very, very happy that I could win a really great match.   I knew it's going to be really tough one, especially I was telling them that she's playing really good tennis on clay.   I think she's playing really much better than on hard courts, so it's much more difficult to beat her on clay.   
I think it was a great win for me.   Hopefully I can still play the same good tennis tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You're going to face Roberta Vinci next.   What do you expect from this match?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think that's she's typical clay‑court player.   Well, we played two weeks ago, also on clay.   A little bit different clay.   Much faster than here, so a little bit different.   
But, well, I think I have to play aggressive to win that match.   From her side everything is coming back, so it's never easy.   Not much mistakes.   
So I think in this kind of match I really have to take control and try to do and have‑‑ take a shot.   
   
 Q.   You have saved three match points today.   In any moment you thought you were out of the tournament?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think until shaking the hand you're still in.   Of course, 6‑3 down in the tiebreak, it's never great situation, especially that she was serving twice.   
But, well, like I'm saying, this is tennis.   Everything can happen.   You can always turn around the match.   Just I think fighting until the end is the most important thing.  
So that's what I was trying to do today, and it worked.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT