SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 26, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. CIBULKOVA/A. Radwanska
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously very disappointing, I'm sure you are, especially with the four match points in the second set.   What was it like to think you had the match won on that return of serve, and then the challenge system changes everything?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it was so close, the second set.   But I think, you know, in those matches you have to play good and you have to be lucky.
I was just playing good and she was both (smiling). 

Q.   Did it kind of sap your spirit a little bit after the second set going into the third?   Because it looked like you had it. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.   Well, especially all those changes, we all saw how close it was.   Mine was just tiny bit out, and for her was everything in.   It was just one point.   I was away from one point.
Of course if you're not using those kind of chances, then it's really tough, especially I played a lot of matches the last couple of weeks.   Well, I just couldn't win that match in two sets.

Q.   I imagine the wind was just crazy out there.   Nobody was holding serve.   There were like 19 service breaks.   Was that mostly because of the wind, you think, or the return of serves weren't very good?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, I think conditions today was very tough.   The wind was really strong, and like you could see like we were just winning returns, and most of those games were on the side was with the wind.
So, yeah, it was really difficult.

Q.   Would you say it was an advantage to return today?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think so, because I think most of the time we just won the return games.   It was just hard to just break ourself to win the serve.
So I think, yes, it was easier to return.

Q.   She reached the Australian Open finals.   I know she beat you, I guess, in the semi, I believe.   Do you feel her confidence level is at an all‑time high?   Do you sense she's a confident player right now?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think so.   She's really playing good tennis, she's consistent, reaching pretty much each week quarterfinal, semifinal. 
I think she's still playing a really good level last couple of months.   I think she must be very confident about that.

Q.   Your court sense and your movement, you're just everywhere.   Have you worked on that?   Is that something that you saw early in your game, or is this something that's just naturally come to you and you've honed your game to that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I don't know if you can practice that.   I think it's natural, you know, serve to higher power.   It's just not my body, not my shoulder, so at least I can just run a lot because of that. 
Well, I think I was always the player that really run a lot and always a lot of good, long rallies.   So, yeah. 

Q.   But, I mean, you can run a lot but not get to the right spot and, you know, overshoot the ball.   I'm talking about something that looks quite mysterious to me, you know, like how you can just be so consistently there, like your anticipation is so keen. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, it's always tough, especially when you play so many matches.   I'm really, really happy I can play really consistent tennis with my game, and, you know, be in really high level, top 5, top 10 for a couple of years now.
Well, but of course I do a lot of fitness, as well.   You know, this is really hard work, especially doing it so long.   Well, really working hard on that.

Q.   Did that one point kind of sum up the match, you did that like behind‑the‑back shot?   She won the point on the let cord pass?   Does that kind of sum it up for you today?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I think with the wind and all these things on court, yeah, you can see a shot like that. 
Well, I think it was no choice, so I was just trying whatever I could to hit that ball in, and so then it was like that.

Q.   You had one of those points here last year, too. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, on the same court, huh?   (Smiling.) 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT