BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. PENNETTA/A. Radwanska
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It was pretty emotional out there for you.   What were you feeling?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it's just the worst thing for a player, you know, to not giving the 100%, especially in the final of the big event. 
And I just couldn't run as much as I normally do.   And, well, just bad luck.

Q.   Pretty frustrating?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Exactly.

Q.   Did the injury just occur today, or is this something that's been bothering you for a long time?   What happened?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Actually since few days, but I just didn't expect it was going to be much worse today.   Unfortunately it did. 
Well, of course I tried everything today to, you know, push myself to play really 100%.   Unfortunately, it was too much pain.   I tried because this is the final, and I thought, you know, maybe in one game was going to be better and I would just keep going, but that didn't really happen.

Q.   Was it immediately when you came out on the court was it hurting?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.   Pretty much.

Q.   Can you describe what the situation is?   What was preventing you?   Was it the pain?   The knee was locking?   Can you explain?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I mean, you know, this is the sport that you're always playing with some pain or injury or sore muscles.   But when the pain is so big that nothing is working, no painkillers, no tape, that means it is bad. 
Today nothing was working.

Q.   Aga, is it the disappointment that you feel from having to be injured in the final?   I mean, this is still, you know, the first final that you have made here and a positive week.   Is it hard to focus on the positives, or right now do you just feel disappointment?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think disappointing feeling always comes first, I think, especially when you really, really, you know, have ambition to win the tournament. 
Of course still good two weeks.   First final here.   Big event.   And, you know, still good result.   But it's always disappointing that, you know, I really couldn't play my 100% today.

Q.   How are you feeling in terms of Miami?   You have a few days off because you have a bye.   So some time to recover.   Are you worried about that at all?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Like you say, it's still couple days to my first match, so of course I will have a few days off.
Then we will see.   Of course I will have a lot of treatment and do everything, you know, to be ready for Miami.   It's big tournament, so I will really want to try.

Q.   What is the specific diagnosis?   Is it a tendon?   Is it a ligament?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   To be honest, I don't know yet.   I'm going to check today.

Q.   Above the knee?   On the knee?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I'm not the doctor.   I didn't really finish medical university.   I wish I could say, but didn't.
So to be honest, I will check everything today, tonight, and we'll see.   Hopefully nothing serious.

Q.   It just hurts a lot?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Exactly.

Q.   Do you think compared to some of the other players who maybe hit bigger than you do that it takes more mental focus and maybe just more effort for you to get through, you know, the first four or five rounds of a tournament?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, I still just play one three‑setter this tournament, so usually it's much more than that.
So still couple of good matches so I get to the finals.   So I was feeling good.   Otherwise I was really good and fresh and I was ready to go.   It's just one thing that you can't really control, and, yeah.

Q.   When was the first day you felt it?   Was it at this tournament?   The knee. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, yeah, few days ago.

Q.   Happen during practice or a match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Practice. 

Q.   When you were in pain, during the match did you ever think about retiring, or you just hoped like to push through?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course you always have that feeling, but I think not in the final really.   I always had the hope like maybe it's going be better the second set or in a few games.
So I think in the finals you always try until the end.

Q.   What makes you want to do that?   I mean, obviously you have to know early second set it was going to be hard to win the match.   Did you still have hope it was going to get better, or did you want to give a complete show to the fans?   What was the decision process?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, well, I thought it was going to be a little bit better.   I had the tape stronger and stronger every changeover.
I thought that gonna help, but not really.   Didn't work. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT