BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/S. Halep
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How were you able to get through that match?   It looked like a few times she would start to make a bit of a push, especially in the second set. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I played her a couple weeks ago, so I kind of knew how she's playing.   Obviously she had really great results for the last couple months. 
First of all, she's very solid player.   A lot of things come back and she's really playing deep balls.   What I was trying to do was playing aggressive from the beginning of the match and just trying to go for my shots.
I was lucky.

Q.   When you say you wanted to play aggressive, is that just from the baseline or just hitting ball the ball harder?   What does "aggressively" mean for you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, exactly.   Just going forward, going to the net if there is any chance.   Of course I think I was serving better than other days, so that helped today, as well.
I think also from the one side was against the wind, so I think we were both struggling with that. 
But otherwise, I think it was a pretty good match.

Q.   Do you want to talk about those really long rallies you had several times?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Well, I think we were both really good runners.   I think we both like to run.
Especially it's really hard to play against the wind and trying to just finish the ball playing against the wind.   I think that's why a couple rallies were pretty long.   Pretty much all the games, doesn't matter who was serving, it was really tight games. 
I think I was better just a few points each set.

Q.   Having played her a few times, how do you rate her as a tactician?   How good are her tactics?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, to be honest, the match in Doha I don't remember really those matches from before.   I think she was a really different player at that time.
But I think those two matches were pretty similar.   I mean, obviously I had 5‑2 in Doha in the first set, so I didn't take my chances.
But she really I think maybe improved from last year.   So many titles, and of course she will be top 5 next week, so I think that tells everything.
So, yeah, I think we have another name in the top 5. 

Q.   So are you going to bring us all cheesecake if you win the title tomorrow?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No problem.   You have it.

Q.   Promise?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes (smiling). 

Q.   Talk about being in the final.   First one here, so has it always been a difficult place for you to play.   Like the conditions are maybe not the best for you. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, yes.   I mean, I did a couple of quarterfinals here and semis, but never the finals so of course I'm very happy to reach the final here finally after couple years trying. 
But, yes, definitely hard condition.   I think especially during the ball is really flying a lot.   I think we can see that from the other scores that so many other seeded players are out ‑ even in the men's draw that we never really see that often.
I think in the night session, late in the day, I think it's a bit easier.   The ball is not flying that much.
But, yes, I think those conditions are pretty hard compared to the other tournaments.

Q.   Simona said she wasn't surprised how you were on the volley.   Talk about your tactics.   You talk about being aggressive, but serve and the volley and coming to the net more often?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, well, I was trying to really be aggressive.   Especially I was trying to do with ‑‑ also use the wind, and of course come to the net.   Sometimes was really hard to finish the ball, so I was really trying to go for it.
It was working.   Yes. 

Q.   Do you think when you go to the net, when you find yourself at the net more often, that you're playing your better tennis, or does it just depend match by match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course it depends.   Every match is different.   Of course, different opponent, different conditions, and also different rallies.
So I think you cannot really compare matches.

Q.   So talk about your potential opponents.   Li Na, talk about her right now. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, we have really a lot of good, tight matches.   Well, another challenge for me, I guess.   Of course, she's very good player and, you know, champion of Australian Open.
So I think this is the final, so pretty much nothing to lose.   Hopefully I can still play the same, best tennis I was playing today.

Q.   Tactically she can hit a lot of unforced errors.   She can go off a lot.   When you prepare for a match like that, are you more thinking, Okay, maybe I sit back a little bit and see what's coming off her racquet, or are you thinking, No, I need to be aggressive no matter what?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Like I was saying, every match is different.   Of course we will see after a couple of games how the match is gonna look like, and then I will try to think about some tactic.
I think of course with the players like Li Na it's always hard to say about tactic.   She's also very solid and consistent player.   Well, I think we will see on court. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT