THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2017
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RADWANSKA/C. McHale   
5-7, 7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How does it feel to come through a match that tough?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it was very tough, especially it was pretty hot, humid.  So I'm very happy to manage to come back from the score and turn around everything in that third set.   
So, well, just so glad I came back and win another really good match.   
 Q.  You faced match points in the second set tiebreak.  Where did you find the strength and the resolve to come through those points and get through?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, to be honest, whole match was so tight.  It could go either ways.  Just one point, so...   
I think after that tiebreak, I felt a little bit more confident.  I was playing I think more aggressive in the third set, as well.  That was a tiny bit easier.   
But from the first point to the last point of the tiebreak, everything was just so tight.  I was happy to come back in the tiebreaker.   
 Q.  Were you impressed with McHale's performance against you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I am, especially with her serve.  She was serving unbelievable, especially in that first set.  I think her first-serve percentage was pretty good.  You know, serving 113, 114 all the time.  It's impressive.   
 Q.  Did you feel like her self-belief went a little bit after you won the second set, after you saved the matchpoints?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, you have to ask her.  But it's not fun, you know, mentally to play another set that you almost win that match in two sets.  So it's really tough mentally just to still have that motivation and fight, again, from the beginning.   
So I guess it was a little bit easier for me that I was almost at home, and that was another chance for me in that third set.   
 Q.  How great does it feel to still be in Wimbledon in the third round?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I'm so happy.  I'm so glad that I could -- I played another great match.  I think those two matches was not the easy draw.  Now it starts the draw with the seeded players, so of course not going to be any easier.   
But I think that's the minimum that you want to do.  Now we'll see what's going to happen.   
 Q.  It could be Bacsinszky next.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, I think she has a great season, playing really good tennis right now.   
Well, just going to have good rest tomorrow and today and hopefully I can play even better than today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT