QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 15, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. HALEP/A. Radwanska
  7‑5, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   If you could just talk about the game, how did you leave it inside the central court, and what happened?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure the first set I should win.   I was 5‑2 up.   It was just one break, but still I think that first set was really mine.  
She was playing really good tennis today.   Everything was working for her.  
I think I was still playing good.   I think I didn't serve good enough, and I think that was the problem.  
   
 Q.   Can you say that you came back in the second set?   You were fighting?   You were aggressive?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I was trying, but I think she was really playing unbelievable tennis today.  
In some moments she was making unbelievable shots from nowhere and from both sides moving very well, and, you know, in the one point I didn't know what to do to end the point, because she was everywhere.  
   
 Q.   You had a little bit of success when you came to the net a couple of times.   Did you think about doing that, or was there anything else you could have done differently?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, you have to have a good point, you know, to go to the net.   You cannot just go there (smiling).   
Of course I was trying, I was trying to be aggressive and finish the point, because from her everything just comes back to my side.  
Well, I was really pretty much trying everything, but, well, she was just too good today.  
   
 Q.   What's your sort of emotional reaction to that?   Do you feel disappointed or do you feel that when an opponent plays as well as that it's inevitable?   How good do you think she is?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure I'm disappointed, especially after that first set, you know, 5‑2 up.   It's a set I should have won.   
Of course, you don't know what's going to happen second or third set, but still, I think she's a very solid player I think from the baseline, doing very good job.   Especially here, the surface is not too fast, so you can't really finish the point in one or two points.   You really have to work every point to win.   
For sure she was really playing another good match here, so we'll see in the final.  
   
 Q.   Would you go away and think about playing her differently next time?   Is that something you'll do?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course, but I think, you know, every match is different, especially with these kind of conditions, different surface.  
I think, you know, playing another match with her I think is going to be a little bit different, anyway.   But it's hard to say what I should do different, because I was really trying everything today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT