QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 14, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/Y. Wickmayer
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   If we take the four semifinalists from the Australian Open, you are the one, the only one which reach   semifinal here.   Is there maybe an explanation?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Why the first time this year?   Or what's the question? 

Q.   Cibulkova was eliminated in the first round.   Bouchard was eliminated in the first round.   Li Na was defeated.   And you are the fourth semifinalist. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think this is tennis.   I think every week it's a different story and different matches.   I think in that level, you can see different scores, and, you know, different conditions here than Australia.
But, you know, I don't think this is any ‑‑you know, it's not going together.   Australia was few weeks ago, and that was different tournament.   Well, it's just, you know, probably a little bit slower surface than Australia.   Maybe some different players play a little bit better on that.
But I think it doesn't go together.

Q.   Until now you had an easy tournament.   You have won easily your game.   Is it a problem before the semifinals or not?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I have easy scores, but, you know, it doesn't really mean I have easy matches.   I played great tennis, especially today. 
I think, you know, Yanina is a really tough opponent.   Every time we play I have to really push myself 100% to beat her. 
I think today I was playing really, really good tennis.   I cannot complain about anything today.
Of course I think it's much, much better if you have easy, short matches, especially when you play every day.   So you are still fresh in the end of the week, so I'm very happy about that. 

Q.   Can you just look at your semifinal matchup and talk about her?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I played Simona a few times, last time in Rome on clay, so a bit different conditions, of course. 
But, well, I think she really had great season last year, having some really good results, and as well here I saw her playing a couple of matches, also.   Today she was playing unbelievable.
Well, for sure tough match, but it's a semifinal, so I think there is a little bit less pressure, because, you know, this is a really good score, and now I think everyone is going to play good.
I'm really looking forward, and for sure it will be tough one.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT