AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. CIBULKOVA/A. Radwanska
  6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Were you flat?   Was it just a bad day at the office?   Were you not fully fit?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think I feel like in slow motion today.   I had a couple tough matches, especially yesterday. 
Yeah, well, I think I was not fresh enough. 

Q.   She played well, but was there a sense that you could get into it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely she did play well whole tournament, but I think I spend twice more hours than her on court.   I think that's it. 

Q.   Did you know you were feeling a bit flat going into the match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Well, when I played very tough match, very high level yesterday, you know, playing the next day is always tough. 
Of course I knew I was the second half playing so of course I wouldn't have a day off.   In that case, that day off would be really a lot for me. 

Q.   You've played a semifinal before in a Grand Slam.   How did that help you prepare for today?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, well, I think every match at a Grand Slam is a very good experience, of course. 
I mean, I feel good.   Like, you know, of course it's always a little bit pressure because it's the semifinal of a Grand Slam.   But I didn't feel nervous that way. 
Of course I wanted to win.   It's very disappointing, especially that I didn't play, you know, the top‑5 player.   It's a little different as well.   I think she have one of the best tournament that she's play in her career. 
Well, good for her. 

Q.   You do sometimes start slowly.   Did you ever get a sense that it was starting to come and it just didn't develop?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I feel real slow today.   I was late for pretty much every ball.   I could really feel that it was not really my day. 
Of course I was trying, especially in the second set, to come back, but I think just I wanted, but my legs not really. 

Q.   Maybe this is a difficult question, but is this loss tougher for you than the one at Wimbledon? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always hard to compare.   It's so different, two different matches. 
But was similar, I think.   Well that I have I think bigger chance even when I was like, okay, half mummy. 
Today I think she was playing very well and I didn't really feel, you know, like suddenly I can really do well. 
So of course I try really, but I think she didn't let me really play. 

Q.   What lesson will you have learned in this tournament that can help you in the future?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Playing shorter matches, two‑set matches.   That would be great.   Less than one and a half hours (smiling). 

Q.   Is this a positive tournament for you as you leave?   Do you consider it a good one?   Are you considering it a bad one?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course, I mean, still a good result.   Semifinal of a Grand Slam is still a good result.   I've never been semifinals here.   I'm still happy that I did it. 
Well, uhm, I cannot complain about that. 
But on other hand, of course you want even more. 

Q.   You've had a lot of long matches.   The way you play means sometimes you have to wear your opponents down.   Does that mean an area you have to work on is not fitness, but the ability to recover from a three‑set match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.   Well, of course.   But I think it's not really happen to me.   I'm not the only one.   I think even the fourth‑round match against Muguruza she was playing unbelievable tennis, but suddenly I think she had no power in the end. 
She had really tough matches before, especially against Caroline and some tough matches before. 
You're always going to feel that.   We are just human beings.   We are not machine.   Sometimes happen; sometimes you, you know, just exhausted.

Q.   Did you get a chance to see any of the highlights from yesterday's match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I saw it a bit on TV.   Yeah, actually I was watching tennis.   Was something, yeah. 

Q.   Did you see a favorite shot that you hit yesterday?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I don't know.   There was couple nice volleys.   So I think those. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT