AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/G. Muguruza
  6‑1, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How did you rate her game?   Another young player coming up on the tour.   What did you see that was promising?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I play her two years ago in Miami, so actually there I beat her easy.   I mean, with easy score, but I knew from there that's she's going to be very tough opponent in the future and for sure we going to see her more often on the center court. 
And also I saw a bit of her last match against Caro.   Well, she played great tennis here.   I really was prepared for that.   I'm happy that I played my 100% today. 

Q.   Is it weird having a match that the first four games lasted 37 minutes?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, well, I just saw that as well myself.   I was thinking that I'm going to spend on court for sure three hours today. 
But suddenly I think, you know, the one break in the first set was the key, especially in the first set.   Really was playing good from the first point to the last one, really aggressive. 
I think there was a little bot more mistakes from her.   I think I was really focused on my serve, as well. 
So, you know, happy to close that match in two sets.

Q.   Did you talk to Caroline at all about how to play her?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, I didn't see Caroline afterwards.   But I played her before, saw her matches, so I knew.

Q.   You have Azarenka up next.   What do you have to do to beat her?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think I have to even play better than today to beat her.   Obviously, she's playing great tennis, especially here, defending champion.   I think I have nothing to lose.   Hopefully I can really play my best tennis and will fight. 

Q.   What have you been most pleased about with your game over the course of the first four rounds?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think I was really playing every match better tennis.   I think I was a little bit struggling in my first match, and also with the heat. 
I think last two matches were pretty good.   Especially today.   I can't really complain about anything.   So, yeah, good. 

Q.   Do you think today was the best match of the four you played?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I think so.   Everything was working.   I was playing aggressive.   Serving good.   Moving well. 
So, yeah. 

Q.   With Serena and Sharapova out, does that change the mood at all?   Did you watch them?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, whenever I'm at the hotel I'm watching tennis.   I saw a bit of the matches. 
Well, I think this is sport, tennis.   Especially a Grand Slam you really have to be prepared for a lot of good matches. 
Sometimes, especially here, it was really hard conditions, so sometimes one match costs you a lot of power. 
Well, I think it's not really that much surprising, of course.   It always happen that not all the seeded players are in the quarters or the semis. 
Anyway I'm playing Vika, so I don't really have an easy draw. 

Q.   Had success earlier; in the last few she's gotten you.   Do you think something has changed in this matchup?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think, uhm, you know, what I have to do for sure is playing good, just not really think about anything else, and just trying to play my game. 
Like I'm saying, I'm really having nothing to lose now.   She's defending champion.   She won her twice.   Well, just going to go on court and try. 

Q.   What is the toughest thing about her as a player? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Uhm, I think she's very consistent.   She's really playing on the high level all the time.   She's not really an up‑and‑down player.   Always playing on a good level. 
You really have to win the match by yourself because she's not giving you any free points.

Q.   After all the coffees you had, the post‑match adrenaline, are you going to be able to sleep?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   For me, no chance for me to fall asleep until four hours after the match.   Now some treatment, massage.   I think I will just watch some TV series and try to fall asleep.

Q.   No boring book?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Boring book is good to fall asleep.   But I think after the match, it's not going to work.   I tried.

Q.   What TV shows are you watching?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I'm watching Revenge. 

Q.   Do you know who shot her?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No.   Don't tell me (smiling). 

Q.   Did you and Vika ever talk after the match in Doha or did you just leave what happened in Doha behind you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think we just leaved the thing behind us.   I think was long time ago.   We played so many times after that, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT