AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/A. Pavlyuchenkova
  5‑7, 6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   That game was similar to the final in Korea Open last year.   Would you explain the moment.   How do you feel about the play of today?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, well, definitely a similar match than the final in Seoul last year, but I think that was even 45 minutes longer match.
Well, but, was very happy that I could come back in the second set.   Of course the first set was pretty close, and I think I just slowed down a little bit in the end of the first set.
So, well, but I'm thinking, you know, I still was playing my game in the second set and was a little bit easier.

Q.   It's looking like there is a chance you could play Caroline.   Obviously you guys know each other well.   Is that tricky to play a friend?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, we know each other I think 15 years from now, so pretty long time.   We played everything together, tournaments under‑10, 12, till now.   Now we are both top 10.   We played of course many times against each other.
So of course this is the thing that sooner or later you're gonna play against each other.   Of course we know that.   So, you know, we are okay to play, to be on‑court opponents, and after the match we are still friends.

Q.   And you know everything there is to know about the other's game?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think so.   We practice also a lot together on the tournaments, so, yeah, we pretty much know each other. 

Q.   The junior tournament is starting today.   Does that bring back good memories from your junior years?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think so, especially that when I was in the juniors of course I was watching a lot of tennis on TV and most of those players are still playing now. 
So it was nice feeling seeing the same players on TV and then suddenly in the same tournaments, and sometimes also like opponent on the opposite side of the net.
So it was a huge step.   But I always have good memories from the juniors times, yes.

Q.   The junior players today, do you know some of them?   Do you give them maybe advice or... 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I don't really know them, to be honest.   I think we just can see them just in the Grand Slam, so just four times a year. 
But otherwise just see some really young players coming up with wildcards.   Then you see them more, but otherwise it's hard. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT