AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/O. Govortsova
  6‑0, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What do you think was so challenging about that second set compared to the first?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, uhm, I started really well today.   I think then she tried to play more aggressive in the second set and I think I did step backwards unfortunately.   Suddenly I was break down. 
But just very happy that I could manage to win that second set and finish the match. 

Q.   How about your right shoulder?   Usually you don't tape things in the beginning of the season.   This season there is some taping on your right shoulder. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Actually I had a lot of good and long matches in Perth, in Hopman Cup. 
After it was a little bit worse, but actually it's pretty good now.   Not going to complain about that. 

Q.   The weather obviously is a huge topic here.   You played indoors today.   Do you have a take on how hot it is before it becomes impossible to play?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, today for sure I was lucky to play indoor.   I saw a lot of matches in the morning that they were not very lucky than me. 
Today was really, really hard.   Even indoor was ridiculous.   Well, of course, everybody talk about it.   So we kind of trying to prepare for that weather and doing everything we can to survive those matches, but it's tough. 

Q.   Given that, can you get lucky in the draw to play indoors, find yourself in the second week, and the bad conditions haven't hit you in a way?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure.   Today I was lucky.   But, for example, in the first round it was the same weather and I went off court at 2:30 and it was outdoor.   I had to play two and a half hour in 42 degrees. 
Sometimes you lucky, sometimes you not.   Well, you just have to fight with yourself and then with your opponent.   The weather push you to do it. 

Q.   What has the conversation been in the locker room?   What's the mood right now with respect to the heat?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, I think it's everybody saying that sometimes it's even too hot.   Some of the girls can't even talk after the match or practice.   You can see who played a match, you know.   Just so red. 
I think, you know, the ice bath, it's the thing everybody does this week every day. 
So, uhm, well, it's definitely tough for everyone. 

Q.   Must be good to hear it's supposed to be cooler this weekend and next. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Well, I think tomorrow is the last day.   I'm lucky that I'm not playing tomorrow.   So just soft practice indoor and that's it for me. 
I think on Saturday it will be normal, so that's good. 

Q.   Physically how are you doing with the shoulder strapping and everything?   Is it the same shoulder that ends up bothering you towards the end of the year every year?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Well, but now it's pretty good actually.   It's really doing better.   So, uhm, it's okay.   Hope it will be like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT