APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 7, 2014
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







B. MATTEK‑SANDS/A. Radwanska
  7‑5, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously not a great day out there for you.   Was your shoulder giving you problems? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   A little bit.   Well, wind is not helping, so it was a little bit tricky out there.
But, well, also on the other hand she was really playing good today. 

Q.   Obviously she gave you a lot of problems at the Australian Open last year with three‑hour match I think you said yesterday.   So you knew what it would be like to play her today.   What was it that you were unable to do today to get the match done? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think she was really playing aggressive today.   Didn't matter if it was my first serve, second serve, or anything, she was really going 100% for every ball. 
It was most of the time in, so I think that it was the key for her is that she was really having to one two, shots and was not much rallies. 

Q.   Obviously you had such a great run into the Australian Open last year, a big winning streak.   Totally different this time around.   How is the sort of confidence levels now heading to Melbourne? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, I really had a lot of good matches last week.   It's not like I'm playing bad.   I'm not worried about that.   I just think not my day. 
Well, I think just one day will help me here to play better, but of course it was impossible.   Well, sometimes you have to lose. 

Q.   Still believe you can contend in Melbourne then, contend for the title?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, of course.   I think every week is different story.   You start over and over again.   I think every tournament isn't the same thing.   You're not winning every week every match.   I think just couple of guys can do it. 
Normally you just to have to start again, not really think what was happening in the last week. 

Q.   Will you need any treatment for your shoulder?   I'm not clear, did it bother you at all today?   Is it still a bit sore? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Maybe a little bit, but I have good painkillers. 

Q.   What will you do between now and the start of the Australian Open?   Go to Melbourne and start practicing?   What's the plan for the rest of week?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I think I will go tomorrow.   Tomorrow will be a day off and I start practice there, yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT