THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2017
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RADWANSKA/J. Jankovic   
7-6, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be back at Wimbledon, winning?  This is hopefully a happy place for you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course it's great to be back.  Especially that I have really rough couple of weeks before I came here.  You know, I think every match that I can win makes me happy.  Yeah.   
 Q.  It's been a tough year for you all the way through so far.  Do you feel like a good run here could really turn it around for you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course.  I really struggling this year with foot and I have couple viruses on the way, as well.  So yeah, it wasn't really a great couple of months.  I'm struggling pretty much with myself than with opponents.   
So like I was saying, every match matters.  Of course grass is the surface I really feel good.  Hopefully I can really do good here even without the preparation.   
 Q.  Are there any ongoing issues at the moment that you're struggling with?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, like I was saying, I didn't really do much before I came here, but Eastbourne, which I probably shouldn't even play, I was there.  So every practice I have before here, it was a lot.  Yeah, just coming back to the 100%, but I think it's still far from that.   
 Q.  Have you changed your preparation at all from beginning of the year with injuries but also your mental preparation?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, it's hard to even talk about preparation.  Before Paris I was really struggling with the foot.  It's still going on, and it's something that I cannot take care of 100%.  It's coming back.   
And the virus right after Paris that I have.  So I wanted to play more on the grass.  I couldn't.  So I think this year the most important thing is to be healthy and trying to get rid of all the stuff that is going on this year.  That's the main goal.  Then we will see what's gonna happen.   
 Q.  How hard is it, or do you think it would help to take time off to heal?  How hard is that actually to do just with the schedule of tennis?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's always hard decision if you're skipping more and more tournaments.  It's always really hard decision.  On one side, you want to be healthy and you really want to have a rest and good preparation.  Other hand side you don't want to miss something, especially a Grand Slam.   
So sometimes maybe I just make a wrong decision I shouldn't play something and just really have a rest.  But it's really tough.  I'm just very happy I'm here and I'm playing, and of course that match cost me a lot of energy, but at least I won.   
 Q.  Are you still feeling the viruses or are you sick?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No, it's fine, but just kind of still come back to my 100% and needs definitely more time.   
 Q.  Given the way that you're feeling and the lack of preparation, do you find that you're going into matches at the moment not expecting to win like you used to, or is it different?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, actually, it's fine because when you go on court you kind of forgetting what was going on last few weeks, and you expecting exactly the same where you were healthy, which is good, because that's supposed to be.  But on other hand side, I don't think it's good.  I shouldn't expect that much from myself, and I'm getting tight and nervous, and I didn't really do much the last few weeks, and I played a couple of practices and I'm here.   
But when you go on court, adrenaline and everything, and you kind of forget about that.  So I think also I have to think on court that at the moment I don't have much to lose and trying to enjoy myself and just fight for each point.  Maybe I can play a couple of good matches here.   
 Q.  That must be a relief when you get on to court and you feel the competitive spirit still there, desire and will to win?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course.  If you're healthy and you can play, it's good.  I'm saying that that match cost me a lot of energy.  I feel like I just played five sets.  That's not a good feeling, but at least I won.  So, you know, now I know how it is to play without the practice.  That's for sure.   
 Q.  On the general topic of injuries, there were just two retirements on Centre Court.   Were you aware of that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No.   
 Q.  There is always a lot more men's retirements at Grand Slams than women's.  I don't know if you think best of five is a part of that or how much do you think women are less willing to quit?  You're saying now even if you're not feeling great, you just don't know how to stop sometimes?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for sure it's tough for the guys, physically and mentally, to be prepared for at least three sets on the court.  When you know you're not 100%, it's very hard to win three sets, especially someone who can play really good tennis on the other side of the net.  So I guess it's that.   
But yes, I think the girls are really, really tough.  We still want to fight and just not give up.  Of course there are times it happens, as well.  I think the mentality is different, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT