TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 24, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/A. Radwanska
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Not your best night.   Were you a little bit tired?   I realize you played well, but that wasn't your best performance all year. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, well, I think she played really well, and I think, I don't know, definitely this is not my favorite surface to play on, but I think it's no excuse.   Everybody has the same court, you know, to play on. 
Well, I guess I was really, I think, tired from whole season, not about just here.   And, yeah, I guess there was just no power for that match.

Q.   Azarenka was saying yesterday that she's finding it difficult coming here, mentally that she feels tired and it's hard for her to get motivated and to dig deeper.   Do you feel that way?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, especially that I really played a lot.   It's always good problem to have, to play in the deeper tournament and have a great run in Asia.   You know, I played 13 matches in 18 days, which is, I think, a lot.
Well, I thought, you know, I'll have few days off, and then, you know, practice and prepare for this one, but I think it was not enough time.

Q.   Is it also just hard psychologically playing in a round robin when you are 0‑2?   It's not something you have to do a lot in tennis, where even if you win maybe you don't have a great chance of moving on in the tournament.   Is this a different psychological experience for you tonight?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, it's definitely a different event, because even when you lose you still have chance to go to the semis, even if you lose two, actually.
So it's sort of different.   And in the one hand it's a little bit easier, and on the other hand it's still difficult, especially because it's the end of the year and you're playing against the best players in the world.
I think, you know, I just think that I never played I think indoor this year, and I think, you know, just I think the court is not really my thing.   I really tried, and I came here before and practiced and tried to stay fresh and ready for that, but it's not my year.

Q.   A bit of a change in topic, but not a lot of male players talk about women's tennis or women's tennis players.   But Andy Murray has always been a pretty vocal supporter of yours.   I saw you guys going back and forth on Twitter.   I was just wondering what you thought about that.   It must be kind of cool. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, of course.   I'm really happy about, you know, that some of the best male players are interested in the women's game and watching, as well, and the commentating.   I think this is a great thing.
Of course, I love to watch men's tennis.   I think, you know, it's great, you know, for example, if it's a mixed tournament, I think it's great for the fans to see women's and men's tennis together.
Of course, Andy Murray is one of my favorite players, too.

Q.   How do you deal with the loss in general?   You forget it quickly or look back and regret it a lot? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think depends.   I think every loss is a little bit different.   You know, you feel different when you lose, I don't know, semifinal of a Grand Slam or second round of the international tournament.   I think this is different losses.   You deal with this differently. 
Yeah, some of the losses are really painful, especially when you have some match point or, you know, you play for the big title.   Some losses I think it's just good lesson, you know, and good experience to have in the future.
But actually I don't have a problem with that.   Of course, you know, I think next couple of hours will be not great, but, you know, this is sport.   You're not winning all the time.   One hand you have to know how to win and other hand you really have to know how to lose.
This is not last tournament I'm going to play, so you have to deal somehow with that.

Q.   How would you assess your year overall, 2013, for you?   Good, bad, middle? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think it was good.   You know, still top 5.   I'm very happy about that, especially that I really played consistent tennis pretty much whole year.   Even did the quarterfinal of the Grand Slam on the clay. 
Of course had some tough losses, as well this year, but altogether I will say good year.

Q.   Talking about tough losses, that Wimbledon semifinal, is it safe to say that's maybe the toughest loss of your career when you look back on it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You know, it's always hard to say, you know, the best match or the worst match or the tough loss.   But for sure it was one of the toughest, definitely.

Q.   Are you relieved that you are at the end of the season, you can have a break?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, of course.   I'm not going to practice tomorrow, for sure.   (Smiling).   
Yes, of course two, three weeks off, depends how I'm going to feel.   It's not a big rush.   Actually it's ‑‑ I think we finished a little bit earlier than last year.
So, you know, I'm very happy that I can have, you know, long break.   Then, you know, come back on court, playing Hopman Cup already 28th.   On the other hand it's two months, but then after three weeks it's almost December, and you really have to be getting ready for the Australian Open.

Q.   Do you feel like a young player anymore, or do you feel like you have been playing forever, decades and decades?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I mean, I'm not feeling young anymore, no, especially with my body after all those matches.   No.   (Smiling). 
Especially also that a lot of 16‑ and 17‑year‑old girls are playing really, really good tennis.   I think this year there are a couple of names that we are going to see more often in the future.   I will be 25 soon, so I think I'm not young anymore.

Q.   So when you go on vacation with your sister, can you really put tennis aside and not think about it for a long time, or does it come into your mind?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I can, I think, forget, especially when I'm lying on the beach and doing nothing.   I think this is not the spot where you think about tennis maybe because, you know, I will just be checking the score of the Polish guys still playing, but this is the thing, you know, just checking all your friends, how they are doing.
But is not about that I think about tennis.   I think it's just I'm curious.

Q.   What are your vacation plans?   What beaches will you be lying on?   Any other exciting travel coming up that you have been looking forward to?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, yeah.   As I was saying, vacation, for me, it's always hot weather and beach, and, you know, just relax.
I picked a spot already.   I'm going to tell you about it afterwards.

Q.   Who are the 17‑, 18‑, 19‑year‑olds, 20‑year‑olds who you think will make an impact next year or soon?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, to pick out, I would for sure say Keys, Bouchard, Robson.   I forget... 

Q.   Sloane? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, Sloane.   Definitely, yes.   She's here.   Yeah, she's already ‑‑she already make the top 10. 
But I think, you know, who else?   A lot of actually American players like, you know, Hampton, as well, and a couple of others.
I think those players... 

Q.   Are you just being nice to us? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I didn't even know you were American, to be honest (laughter).

Q.   How does a tennis player unwind in the off‑season?   Can you be unhealthy and go crazy, or do you still have to remember you're still an athlete?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course, tennis is always a priority, and even in the off‑season the practice always goes first.   Tennis is always in the first spot. 
Of course you're doing everything to be the best in the sport that you're doing, but of course off‑season is the thing that, you know, in the weekend you can go out, you can go party, and, you know, my sister is always doing the huge party for her birthday in December.   You know, it's a big party at home, as well.   This is the only time that you can do something else.   But I'm always saying tennis is always the priority. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT