TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 23, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/A. Radwanska
  6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It looked like a good match from you tonight.   That was what it looked like from where we were sitting.   How did you feel about tonight's performance?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, definitely much better match than the last one we played in Beijing.   You know, I think, you know, I was playing all right.   But I think like I was talking about her yesterday that when she is really, you know, on fire, it's tough.  
   
 Q.   A couple players have been in here today talking about how it's difficult to stay motivated during this tournament even though it's one of the biggest ones of the season.   You know, you're only a few days from vacation and the end of it.   Mentally how are you at this tournament this year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think, you know, when you're just practicing and just walking around, you feel tired.   You know, you know that it is the last one, and you think about your vacation.  
But I think everyone and also me when I go on court, you know, you just want to win and you're fighting for every point and, you know, everything to win the last matches in the year.   
So I think the adrenaline, it's one of the biggest motivating things.  
   
 Q.   We were talking yesterday about you're thinking about what works against Serena and what doesn't.   So what were the things that I guess did work today against her when you did have success, and what are the things that just did not work?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Today?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I was serving quite good today, but, you know, I think she still, you know, had this good return that was still, you know, pushing me away.   She was still going for it and even after my first serve.   
But like I was saying, it was not a bad match, and I was really trying and I was in the game.   Especially in the second set of course I had a couple of chances that I wasn't able to use.   There were a couple of points of course that maybe wouldn't change the whole match but maybe a few games and maybe a set, but it's always easy to say after the match.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever tried to share your thoughts with other players in the locker room how you can actually beat Serena?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Actually, not really.   We were just actually laughing with Jelena Jankovic that, you know, we lost to her a couple of times, and we were just saying I think now is impossible to beat her when she's on fire.   
And of course we try and try, but, you know, maybe one day is gonna be the day that we can beat her.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you'll feel when you do beat her some day?   What do you think it will feel like when you do beat her some day?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think just that you beat the best players in the world.   I think she just achieve so much and won pretty much everything.   She was No. 1 for so many weeks, and she's definitely one of the best players in the world.   So beating that kind of player, I think, gives me a lot of confidence.   
   
 Q.   Do you think it's going to be a very worse situation for the women's tennis if all the other top five players lost Serena at least for ten times, including you and Li Na maybe?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Say again?   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like it's the very worst situation to women's tennis that maybe the other top five players, other than Victoria and Maria Sharapova, you and Li Na all lost to Serena at least ten times?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, she's definitely really dominating now and beating everyone.   It doesn't matter if someone is No. 2, 3, 4, or 10, she's winning sometimes, you know, playing that good that she's beating so easy even top five players.   
I think whole year she was really playing unbelievable.   I think for her it doesn't matter who is standing on the other side of the court.   She's just playing her best tennis.   There you go.   
   
 Q.   Looking forward to not tomorrow's match but vacation time, do you typically go to like a beachy hot area, or do you go home?   What are you looking forward to?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, for me vacation is always beach, sun, nice weather, and just lying, doing nothing.   I think, you know, traveling and doing and playing for so many months, I think doing nothing on the beach is the best thing.   
Of course after that I go home as well to have some, you know, days off, and then, you know, back on court.  
   
 Q.   Are you going on vacation with your sister or your friends or...   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, always with sister and friends, yes.   
   
 Q.   After the last match it was guaranteed that in the end of the year you will be higher than Maria Sharapova's ranking.   Does it mean something for you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I never finished No. 3, so of course it's just another thing that, you know, I achieved being No. 3 in the world.  
So of course I'm very happy about that, but, you know, on the other hand she didn't play till the end of the season.   She missed a couple of big tournaments, so it was a little bit easier for me to be No. 3.   
But still, you know, happy to finish for the first time at the top 3.  
   
 Q.   Li Na still can be higher than you.   So it's not yet.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Okay.   Well, yeah, so we'll see about that.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT