TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 22, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/A. Radwanska
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   She served very, very well today.   You broke her there once in the second and had a couple chances in the last game.   Seemed like it was hard to get into her service games?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, and also had some chances in the beginning of the first set, as well, but definitely she was serving very well today.
I think, you know, she really use her left, you know, served from the left hand really well today.   I was really in trouble, and of course I had a couple of chances.   Not much, but, you know, I definitely could win the last game even and maybe that would change the score.

Q.   It was hard to get her into long points too.   She seemed to be wanting to end it fast. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think she was really playing very good today I think from both sides and keeping the ball in and, you know, playing aggressive.   I think, you know, what I saw she didn't really have problem with anything tonight.
Well, you know, good day for her.

Q.   What is it about Petra's game that is, you know, difficult for you?   Is it the left‑handedness?   Is it the power?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think the combination of both, I think.   It's very good mix.
She's very powerful player, and when she's really on fire she can really be, you know, an opponent that is really hard to beat.
I didn't play her for a little bit, and today she was really playing good from the beginning till the end.   She didn't really have any, you know, like bad games.
Of course, maybe in the end of the second set, that might change a little bit, but still, you know, I think she was playing just too good today.

Q.   A lot of the players were talking about how slow the court has been here.   Do you feel like it makes it harder for you to play your game in terms of keeping the ball low or slices?   The slow high bouncing is not ideal?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, well, I think the courts are always a little bit different on‑‑ the courts are built just a few days before the event.
Definitely it's very slow.   Also, the ball, it's getting old very fast because of the surface.   That's makes it even slower, because, you know, after one rally the ball is really, really slow. 
So, yeah, I think ‑‑ I guess I prefer a bit faster surface.

Q.   You have a tough turnaround for tomorrow's match, just one day.   Next year when the Championships move to Singapore, the tournament is going to be expanded.   You'll have a few more days and you might have time to rest between matches.   Do you prefer a more compact Championships like they have here, or do you want it kind of extended to give more time between matches?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think this is a good idea to have some rest between matches, especially that all the matches most of the time are long and tight, and I think it's good, especially in the end of the season that we all are a bit tired. 
I think it's good to have one day between all the matches, so I think it's very good idea.

Q.   Other than playing with your left hand, any new ideas you're going to bring out against Serena?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   (Smiling).   Well, I don't know.   I have a whole night to think about it. 

Q.   You have played her fairly close, but do you feel like if you play aggressive and maybe take control of some of the points that you actually have a chance of maybe winning?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, well, I think against her I will have nothing to lose, so, you know, I'm just going to go on court and try.   I think pretty much sometimes it's just all depends on her, when she really starts to play her best tennis.   It's really, is very hard to do anything.
Maybe on that surface maybe that will change her, but I have played her a couple times in Toronto and in Beijing, as well.   I think here, indoor is a little bit different story, so, yeah, we'll see.   I will try to play better than today, and maybe, you know, that will change something.

Q.   Obviously you have played her a lot recently, Serena.   Is it something you think about a lot while you're practicing or just in general?   Like what to do differently?   Or is it something you only think about when you have to play her?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I think it's just when I know I have to play her.   I mean, tournaments are every week, and you're playing a different person all the time.   So you're not really thinking about one player and one opponent and one match.
You know, just now I'm going to think, you know, about this match because I know I'm playing her. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT