CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/M. Keys
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Your opponent today had a powerful serve, but it was hard to tell when it was coming.   How did you manage that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Well, I played her at Wimbledon few months ago, so I kind of knew what to expect, especially the big serve.
We really played a really long three‑set match and she was serving unbelievable, so you really knew that I had to stand even two steps backwards to reach that serve.
But I think anyway I think her percentage of the first serve was not as good as the matches before.   I guess.   I don't know.   I don't think it was not so much first serve.
I think it was a little bit easier for me today. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about your impression of Madison?   She's sort of a very promising youngster in the tour.   Do you think she's someone others need look out for in coming years?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, definitely.   I think she's one of the youngest talented players coming out.   I think I had a that question already last year.   They asked me to make one name, which of the players, you know, can be dangerous for the top seeds.
I actually told that it's Madison Keys, because I really saw a lot of her matches this year.   She can really play very good tennis.   I think in couple of years we going to see her more often definitely. 

Q.   Also, about your own performance today, seems like your movement is much better than it was in Tokyo; do you feel that way? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, maybe.   Well, in Tokyo I was really coming from Seoul.   I played five matches, and maybe I was a little bit tired as well. 
Here are a little bit different conditions, different surface.   I mean, here I really feel good.   Just ready for the next match. 

Q.   When it comes down the end of the season, obviously the goal is to try to finish as high as possible.   What's the goal for you right now?   You want to do well in China Open and the Championships? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I mean, in that stage I'm already in the Champs.   This is I think the goal for everyone, to play the Championships in the end of the year. 
I'm in in few weeks, so I think I have just less pressure now here. 
Of course, like you're saying, I think the goal is also to reach the highest ranking, and I'm really trying to do that as well. 
Of course, you know, winning here also is going to be great, so I'm going to do everything in my power to win the title here again. 
THE MODERATOR:   Chinese questions? 

Q.   Have you ever thought of participating in doubles with your sister? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, we played before actually for so many years since the juniors time till few years ago.   But then I was injured; she was injured. 
Since two years actually I'm playing less doubles because I'm playing a lot of singles.
I'm not getting younger, so I think I just had to stop for a little bit.   But I love doubles, so hopefully I can maybe try play doubles a little bit more than now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT