CHINA OPEN
September 28, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You didn't have the results you would have liked in the hard court season, but you had the title in Seoul.   How does that affect your confidence?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Every title makes you better, give you lot of confidence.   I'm just very happy with that win. 
We had lot of good matches before I came here, so ready to go here. 

Q.   You have a tough draw being within Serena's half, potential matchups with Ivanovic and Kerber.   What are your expectations going into this tournament?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, here is always very good tournament.   Everybody is playing.   Pretty much from the first round, we have to face good players, so it's never easy. 
I didn't expect to have easy matches here.   Definitely will have to play my best tennis from the first round. 

Q.   This week you lost a match against Kerber in Tokyo.   You may meet her again this week again in the quarterfinals.   How do you prepare for this match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Actually, it's still long way to that match.   I have first round.   If I face her again, then we can talk about it. 

Q.   You have changed back to the dark hair again. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You don't like it? 

Q.   It's much better than the blonde hair. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Appreciate it. 

Q.   What is the story behind this?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I just changed for blonde for a couple weeks to change something, try the different hair.   Came back from my dark hair.   Now is just half and half, really in the middle (laughter). 

Q.   Talk about your first‑round match. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I never played her, but I know her for many years.   We played together all the junior tournaments under 12, 14, 16.   We know each other for so many years, just didn't play against each other. 
I think it's always a good challenge to play someone you never played before.   So really looking forward. 

Q.   What do you attribute your loyal fan base here in China?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I'm always very, very happy that I still can be one of the top seeds here.   Like I was saying before, it's never easy here.   Just really trying not to think about any pressure, especially that I made the qualifying for Istanbul. 
Just going to try to play my best tennis here and trying to win again. 

Q.   You are very much welcome in China.   What kind of performance are you supposed to show before the Chinese spectators?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I go to tournament always trying to play my best tennis.   Especially here in Asia, I always have good results.   So I'm very, very happy about that.   At the end of the season, after a lot of tournaments, a lot of matches, I can really still play on the good level. 
Here is always great to see a lot of fans, even on the practice courts.   Always playing in a crowded stadium.   Really enjoying playing here and looking forward to my first match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT