U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/M. Torro‑Flor
      6‑0, 7‑5 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Are you pleased with the match today, the way you played?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   The first set definitely.   I think it was really great for my side.   Everything was working.   Serve, return, everything.  
    And then I think she started to play a little bit better in the second set.   I think she really stepped forward and could hit the ball.  
    And, um, you know, 5‑3‑up and I didn't took my chances.   But anyway, I'm just happy to close that set, because, yeah, before the rain, you know, I could finish in two sets.  
   
 Q.   How much of a relief is it to get your match in?   You have been through rain delays in the past here.   How relieving is it to get that one under your belt?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always great.   Played first match and then I'm done.   I can just relax, you know, watch others and do treatment and do whatever I want.  
    Sometimes it's good to play first even when I have to wake up really early, especially, you know, it's always traffic so we have to really leave early from the hotel.  
    But is it very good.  
   
 Q.   How did you bounce back from the Wimbledon disappointment?   
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, of course I had some time off.   It was really a long two weeks for me on the grass and I was really exhausted, so I really needed like one week off just to come back and feel good, feel normal.   After one week, of course back on the court and practicing again.  
   
 Q.   The shoulder?   Seems the shoulder is bothering you on and on.   Is it something you can get rid of at some point?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Actually it's much better.   Of course sometimes it's worse when I play a lot of matches and sometimes really heavy balls, but so far it's good.   So we just have couple of tournaments left, so the shoulder is doing really good.  
   
 Q.   Do you find this the most difficult of the Grand Slams?   You have not had your best results here in terms of the depth, how far you have gone in the tournament.   For you, is this the most difficult of the Grand Slams for you?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, looking at the results, I think so.   I didn't do quarters here yet.  
    Really working on that.   Hopefully I can do that this year.   If not, I have still couple of years to try.  
   
 Q.   Petra said the other day she finds it very difficult to deal with, you know, the crowds and so forth.   Many others do.   Just every one of the four have their own atmosphere and so forth.   This one is known for being a bit rowdy and with crowds.   Do you thrive off that or do you find that a bit distracting?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Actually, I really like the crowd here.   There is a lot of support every match.  
    So I think for me it's more the surface, I think.   I really like the grass.   That's why I think I have the best results is at Wimbledon.   
    I like the hard court at Australian Open, as well.   It's a little bit different than here.   I did four times quarterfinals.  
    Well, clay, it's not my favorite, but I did the quarterfinal this year for the first time, and I will try to do that here.  
    Yeah, we'll see.  
   
 Q.   And beyond quarterfinals?   Would quarterfinals be enough?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, no, of course not, but this is the first step.   Then of course hopefully I can, you know, do more, definitely.  
   
 Q.   Sorry to hear about your grandfather.   Can you just talk about your relationship with him, his influence on your career?   It was your father's father or mother's father?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   My dad's father.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about your relationship with him and, you know, how well you knew him growing up.   The other day you were talking about he was a big sportsman.   
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, we were really, really close.   He was always supporting us.   I think he was our biggest fan, and also playing tennis.   When we were little kids, we played together, as well (smiling.)  
    You know, we were really close and he was really fit all his life, you know, doing lots of sports.   Was always, you know, into the sports.  
    Also helping me a lot through my whole career.  
   
 Q.   So you would talk to him?   When you would come home he'd talk to you about all your matches?   Did he watch as many matches as he could?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, yes, both my grandparents watching my matches, don't matter middle of the night or early morning or afternoon.   It doesn't matter.   
    Actually now also, you know, my grandma is watching every one, all day or all night.   They are so into tennis because of us.  
    I think it's cool.   So of course whenever I was home I would visit them, yes.  
   
 Q.   Did he offer you a lot of advice about your tennis?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think it was more my dad did.   My grand dad, he was just supporting a lot.  
   
 Q.   You pulled out of Cincinnati and went back home and came back again.   How was that whole experience?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, like I was saying in the other press conference, I think this was the thing that‑‑ couple things in life that are more important than tennis.   
    Of course tennis is always a priority, but in this case I just had to go home.   It was easy decision, because it was the moment I had to be with my family.   I owe him to be in the funeral.  
    I came back for one day and I just came back Sunday.  
   
 Q.   I know you had great success and you have had disappointments.   Did it put things a little bit in perspective for you?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   In perspective, meaning you have had great triumphs, you have had disappointments, but then there are things that come up in life.   Did it give you a certain type of perspective?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course it's always tough to make those kinds of decisions, but I think in that case I was ‑‑I was really wanting to go home and be with my dad and just spend at least just one day over there.  
    But of course this is the job that I have been doing all my life, so of course I came back here and trying to play my best tennis again.  
    You know, it's sometimes tough.  
   
 Q.   A few years ago your father was here when you and Urszula were playing back out on the far courts, before you became Aga.   Can you talk a little bit about his influence, and since he's not around quite as much as he used to be?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Actually, he was coaching me since I was a kid, about five years old.  
    But then two years ago we just decide to, you know, to split.   I think it was something after like 17 years traveling together and practicing together, I think we had enough.  
    We had to change something.   I have different coach, and he's home and watching it on TV.  
   
 Q.   Do you talk to him about your tennis, or do you now talk to him, as you said, whether about your grandfather or about life?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, I mean, my dad is always is going to be in the tennis, of course.   I talk to him after every match; sometimes also before the matches as well.  
    He's always going to be the person, you know, into my tennis, yeah, definitely.  
   
 Q.   Fashion question.   I'm sorry.   How do you pick the outfits you're wearing for Grand Slam?   Do you have a say in what you're wearing?   And what is the key for when you're picking it out?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, Lotto gives me the great outfits.   I really like the dresses.   They are very nice, comfortable, and always nice and bright colors, as well.  
    I really love the dresses.  
   
 Q.   Do you ever say, I want this color or I don't want this shape?   Do they decide or ask you what you prefer?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Sometimes is, but is really small details.   They are doing really good job, so I didn't really have to change a lot.  
   
 Q.   It's a very long season and this is the last Grand Slam.   Do you come in here feeling mentally fresh?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, it's always hard to, you know, to be fresh after like eight months playing.  
    But I think, you know, even few days without matches, you know, it always feels like I had good rest, good practice, and I'm ready to go.  
    Of course it was really busy season for me ‑ a lot of matches, a lot of tournaments ‑ but I really feel good.   I'm really happy about that.   I think healthy is the most important thing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT