U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/S. Espinosa
  6‑1, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Is that a great start for your US Open campaign as far as you're concerned?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, I think so.   I think two‑sets match for the first match is always good, yeah.   
   
 Q.   For people who are playing tennis recreationally and want to train like a professional athlete, what are one or two of your favorite exercises that you like to do when you're playing a tournament to get ready or practicing?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, well, um, when I play a lot of matches of course you're changing everything.   Everything is really fast.   
So when I'm on the court just practicing I like to have some target.   For example, when I'm serving, I put some cans on the other side and try to hit them.  
Well, I think a lot from the box.   I think when you play a lot of matches then, you know, you're playing everything.   But then you just settle down and just to feel the ball and not run too much, and then you play box, yeah.   
   
 Q.   What about working out in the gym?   One or two things?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think everything depends of the schedule and how many matches I'm playing the same week.   But I run a lot on the court, so I run a lot in the gym as well just to be prepared for that.  
I think pretty much everything for my legs, shoulders.   It's not just one thing.   I think it's everything just to get my whole body ready for the match.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about the way you're playing coming into the final Grand Slam of the year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I really had a lot of good matches coming here.   From Stanford to Cincinnati a lot of matches, and it was really a good run.   Especially that every week it's different conditions and different balls, different courts.   
So it's really tough period I think for the players, and I think that I prepared very good.   I'm ready now to play here, and hopefully I can play same good tennis.  
   
 Q.   Each Grand Slam has its own character, atmosphere.   Some people really thrive in NewYork and playing in this type of atmosphere; others find it distracting and don't always play their best.   Where do you come in on that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely every Grand Slam is a little bit different.   Yeah, here is for sure I think very crowdy, loud, and especially when you go to the courts it's traffic all the time and we have to leave very, very early.   For me was 7:30 today to be on time everywhere.  
But I think we all are used to it, and coming to NewYork we know what to expect.   So I think I'm okay with that.   I think every player I think knows everywhere is a bit different.  
   
 Q.   It's a bit of awkward leadup for you, and unfortunate having to go back to Poland.   When did you make the decision to go back and be with your family and when did you arrive here for the slam?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I come back to Poland just for one day, just for the funeral on Saturday.   I leave on Sunday morning, so I was here in NewYork Sunday afternoon.  
Well, I think that sometimes there are some things more important than tennis.   It was something like that, and it was really pretty quick choice.   Of course this is the situation that we have to be home for the family, and I think I owed my granddad to be there.  
   
 Q.   Did your sister go with you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   We went together.  
   
 Q.   With all the traveling that you do and long flights, how do you plan your travel schedule?   Will you look at flights at a specific time, or will you choose to fly business on longer flights and economy on others?   How does travel work into your schedule?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course depends where you go, but I like night flights so I can sleep.   If I can't, sometimes I'm usually going for the sleeping pills just to not be too jet lagged when I go somewhere.   
Of course if it's long flights it's business, yeah, of course.   I think for our backs and to be ready I think to practice next day I think is no choice.  
   
 Q.   Did your grandfather have any influence on your tennis or anything?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, he used to play tennis, as well.   He was a hockey player and a hockey coach.   He was really a sports guy.   
He was working in sports school until he was 79, so pretty, pretty late.  
He was very fit and skiing as well, playing tennis, everything.   So, yeah.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT