ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 10, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/A. Radwanska
  7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   The match tonight was much more competitive than the last two times you faced Serena.   What do you think you were able to do tonight to give her more trouble, and what do you think is still missing maybe to get that victory?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, well, yes, definitely much better match than for example in Miami.   It was really close and I had my chances but wasn't really taking them.   It's always turning against me, especially when you play a top player.
Well, um, definitely she played very good, especially in the tiebreak, so I really, you know, could win that a little bit earlier.   But I think good match.   She really start to play much better in the end of the set, especially in the second set, and playing very aggressive and very deep balls. 

Q.   Is there anything you wished you tried differently to change that result?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I was really trying to play aggressive and going forward, but she's really playing deep and strong balls.   Is really hard to do anything.
But I think today, you know, especially maybe in the serves I had some break points, as well, and I didn't take them.   Yeah, that's why I maybe should do that next time.

Q.   You were able to get her into some very long rallies, but in some of those long rallies she responded pretty well, no?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, yes, she was moving very well and running a lot of good rallies that I think we didn't have before.   Yeah, I think she was really playing great match today.

Q.   So I would think, since you played her before, you sort of expected in the tiebreaker and at the end of the second set that she would show you her top level?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I think, you know, this what's make her No. 1 in the world, playing unbelievable in very important moments and, you know, just very powerful shots.
Yeah, I couldn't do anything, you know, about that.

Q.   Did you notice how frustrated Serena was getting with how low you kept the ball.   A few times she kept going lower and lower and lower?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I kept trying to do everything in that match.   I think I was really playing good and just happy, you know, that I could play very tight two sets against her where I didn't before, especially in the last couple times.   So, well, next time. 

Q.   Your game is pretty complex.   What would you improve for the next tournament?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely one‑day rest.   I have a couple good matches here.   So I think, you know, it will be tough, different conditions in Cincinnati, different balls and different courts.
So is very tough, especially when you have one or two days to adjust. 

Q.   Seemed like you shared a few words with Serena at the net after the match when you shook hands.   Can you share what you guys said to one another?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Maybe she will tell you (smiling). 

Q.   Safe to say that you guys have a pretty friendly rivalry/competition between the two of you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   We are good and always playing, you know, good and very tough matches.   I think it's, you know, always nice to play someone that, you know, is very good person off court and on court.

Q.   Today was a pretty close match.   What do you think needs to happen for you to actually get the win, be able to close it out?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, today was close, but I think, you know, just couple points each set, I guess.   But definitely, like I was saying before, I had a couple of break points as well in that match, and I didn't really take them.
But anyway, she really served good in that important moments.   Maybe I could serve a bit better, especially in the first set.   There's always something I think, but I think it's ‑‑ I think no one can really play a perfect match.

Q.   Would you say Serena is the toughest player you have ever faced, and could you sort of talk about exactly why?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think so.   When she's really playing her best game, definitely she is.   I think here the courts are not that fast and the balls also not that fast.   That's why we could play a lot of long rallies and long games.   That's why I couldn't really do something more than the other matches.
But I think for the next time around I would have to play even better to beat her. 

Q.   She started off maybe a little off.   She had that medical timeout.   Did you kind of expect her level to rise as the match went on, and do you think it affected you maybe in those break point chances?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I don't think that medical timeout it's do anything with the match or from my side or from her side.   It was quick, anyway. 
But I think, you know, in that match, you know, is no free points.   When you're out there winning by yourself, then it's tough.   Maybe I could, you know, put some more risk in some of the break points or other shots, but, you know, I didn't do that.   So it's always easy to say afterwards, you know, what you would change.

Q.   What sort of things are you saying to yourself when you're playing Serena comparing to the other players?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Say again, sorry? 

Q.   What sort of things are you saying to yourself throughout the match when you're playing Serena, when you're facing her, comparing to other players on the tour?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   What I'm saying to myself? 

Q.   Yes, like just to help you stay in the match. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, well, I think definitely not easy points.   We always have to, you know, play aggressive because, you know, anything in the middle of the court or a bit shorter, then it's over.   I think it doesn't matter what score it is.   You really have to go for it all the time.

Q.   Was this maybe the first time you thought within the match I can beat her, or was that similar feeling at Wimbledon?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, I wasn't really thinking that way on court.   Of course I'm going on court and trying to win.   Doesn't matter who is on the other side of the net, but definitely today was close, especially I had a break up in the second set, so, you know, it was tight match from the beginning till the end, so, you know, I think much better than the match in Miami.
Well, looking forward for the next one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT