ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 8, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/S. Stephens
  6‑1, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Just assess your performance today.   Talk about the match in general and just playing her and what you think of her talent level. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely a good match today.   I think I played really good, much better than before in the first match. 
About her, I played her a few times before.   Always long and tough, three‑set matches.
I knew it was going to be tough.   She's a very solid player, very consistent.   She's not giving any free points.   So lots of good rallies and, you know, quick first set, but then I think she start to play much better.
I had a couple of chances in beginning of the set.   I didn't really use them and suddenly 1‑4, but then I think I just tried to play more aggressive and especially in the end of the set, in the tiebreak, as well.
I think I had a couple of good shots in the important moment and I could come back.

Q.   Other than you just being a better, more experienced player than her, what couple things do you think she's missing?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think she's playing a lot of good matches against tough players.   I think experience, it's a lot.   I think, you know, she's very young, top‑20 player, playing really good.
I think she can really be in the top for so many years.

Q.   I just wanted to talk to you about the ESPN body issue.   Just wondering what the reaction is from other tour players, like John Isner also appeared in it and Serena and Vera have appeared in the past.   Have you received any reaction?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Well, the girls love it.   I think I had really good reaction from the players, so it's nice. 

Q.   There was a Toronto Maple Leaf player who also appeared in it, and he said his reason for doing it was to show all the hard work that he puts into his body, all the training he does.   What was your reason for posing?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Exactly.   I would say the same thing.   Just it's a sport magazine, and it's all about sport, tennis, injuries, you know, practice.   Yeah. 

Q.   What do you think about how a tennis player's body differs from other athletes?   What would you say is maybe the biggest misconception, or what do you think stands out with a tennis player's body?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think every player looks different.   Every sport's athlete is different.   You can see a lot of very cool pictures over there. 
I think, you know, you can't really compare other sports to tennis.   I think every sport is individual thing.   I think it's good that we can see all the athletes around the world in a magazine.

Q.   Because of that, the comments or criticism that you received, was it hurtful in that regard?   It seemed like you went in with different intentions than they seemed to think you went in with. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Exactly.   I think that was it.   I think they didn't really know what is ESPN about. 

Q.   John Isner was in the issue, but if you had a choice of which tennis player, male tennis player, you would like to see... 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Everyone.   (Laughter). 

Q.   Everyone?   Two years ago when you were here you had things on your shoulder and everything like that.   Are you healthier now?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I feel good, healthy.   A lot of treatment, of course.   Actually this year I played really a lot of tournaments, a lot of matches in a row and actually have been okay.
So far, so good.

Q.   You weren't in very good shape in the Wimbledon semifinal.   How long did it take you to get back to normal health?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, well, took me exactly a week to feel normal, okay.   A lot. 

Q.   If you had been feeling normal, okay, in the semifinal, you might be the Wimbledon champion?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I don't know.   But for sure I will have bigger chance, yes.

Q.   Two‑and‑a‑half weeks in you played a number of matches.   Do you feel like your game is where you want it to be?   Some sets have been good; some not so good.   Talk about that. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely different conditions here.   I mean, first two tournaments, different balls, different courts.   Every week is different story. 
But definitely I feel very good, and I think every match I have been playing better.   Of course you never know how many matches you will play in those few weeks, but I think, you know, playing a lot is a good problem to have, so hopefully I will have that problem.

Q.   Can't always be easy to stay mentally fresh, but do you stay mentally fresh?   At Stanford you seemed a bit mentally tired.   Do you feel mentally fresher now?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, every tournament I have a bye in the first round, so it's not like I'm playing really every day.   And actually at the moment I feel really good.   I will have one‑week break before the US Open.   It should be okay.

Q.   You're looking to play like three‑and‑a‑half hours against Errani again?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Three hours is enough, yes.   (Smiling). 

Q.   Just talk about that match, because the two of you, you know if you both play well it's going to be lots of long rallies, no?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, we always play long matches, especially in the championship.   I think we were playing a bit similar tennis.   That's why a lot of running, a lot of long rallies, and that's why I think our matches are always very long.   And, well, for sure this one not going to be short, either.   Yeah. 

Q.   Besides recovering physically, kind of the mental freshness, what did you do after Wimbledon just to recuperate?   Did you go on vacation or... 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think what I did is just rest.   So it was just ‑‑ I did a lot of other things except tennis, of course.   But it was just one week, and then of course I had to come back on court.
I was home.   I didn't go anywhere.   I think, when we are traveling so much, I think it was enough for me to just to stay home.
And also I was in other cities and Warsaw to see my friends, so I think just enjoying life.

Q.   The women's game has become such a power game the last several years.   I'm just wondering how much time do you spend in the gym?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it depends, but when I'm at home, pretty much every day almost.   Of course in the gym you're doing a lot of different stuff.   Of course depends on the schedule.
But when I'm playing matches, especially every day, then kind of skipping the gym.   (Smiling). 

Q.   Are you one of those people that has to be dragged into the gym, or do you enjoy that part of it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   If I have to choose go on court and go to the gym, I always say court.   Other players prefer to go to the gym.   I think when I'm playing a lot of tennis, then I think I have, just for me, is enough of a workout. 
So sometimes there are tournaments when I'm playing till the end I'm not even once in the gym. 

Q.   Just your thoughts on Tomic and Lopez playing exhibition during a WTA premier level event. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I just heard about it.   I think it's pretty cool, especially for the fans.   They can see different tennis and mixing up woman's and men's tennis in one tournament I think is really entertaining.

Q.   Do you think the women should be playing in Montreal too, though?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Sure, if they want to.   Of course.   Why not? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT