WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. LISICKI/A. Radwanska
  6‑4, 2‑6, 9‑7 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It was obviously a great match.   I guess that's no consolation to you.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Not really.   I mean, I rather to play bad and win the match than losing after that one.   
I mean, definitely good match, but I had a lot of chances, couple of easy mistakes.   It cost me whole match.   
   
 Q.   At the end you left court very quickly.   Was that just because you were disappointed?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Should I just be there and dance?   What could I do?   
   
 Q.   Sometimes you see people really congratulate the opponent after a match that's as close as that.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I mean, I didn't feel like that at that point.   
   
 Q.   Where do you think the match turned for you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Uhm, well, I was break up in the third set.   But, you know, it's just one break.   You know, she was serving very well.   So the one break on one side was a lot, and on other hand was not really.   
Like I was saying, I had a lot of chances.   Just, uhm, two points from the match.   You know, then she serve second serve like 100 miles per hour.   Then, you know, it just turn the other way.   
But it was close, definitely.   
   
 Q.   What do you think you'll remember most about this tournament?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   A lot of tennis.   A lot of three‑set matches.   A lot of running.   
   
 Q.   You seemed to hold up okay physically in this match.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, well, I was trying.   But, you know, still, I think I wasn't quick enough.   I could feel that, you know, every part of my body.   
I think, you know, if we play in two days from now I think it would be definitely different match.   
   
 Q.   When Serena went out, do you think all the players fancied their chances?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always hard to say because, anyway you have to win all your matches.   Even if someone is beating Serena, still has to win other matches, as well.   
I mean, but anyway, for sure on one side it's a bit easier, because when Serena is playing her best it's really tough, especially on grass.   
And, yeah, for sure in the beginning of the tournament no one, I think, expect those names in the semis or in the finals.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to hang around and watch Jerzy tomorrow?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I don't know yet.   I think I'll go home.   I watch him from TV.   
   
 Q.   Is the disappointment because the match was so close and it's just a tough loss, or is it kind of the lost opportunity of what could have happened if you won this match with Marion in the final?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think both.   When you went that far to the semi, no Serena, Maria, Vika.   Those girls are still playing great tennis, but it's a little bit different.   
So, yeah, I definitely am disappointed.  
   
 Q.   Is your plan now to go back to Poland and rest, and what does your summer hard court season look like?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, definitely a couple days off.   Back on court, practicing on hard court.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT