WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/N. Li
  7‑6, 4‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You had some tough battles against her in the past.   How proud are you of winning this one?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, definitely.   It was a bit bad schedule for me that didn't have the day off today.   Uhm, and, yeah, last two matches was pretty much very similar too.   2:40 I think on court.   It's very a lot, especially on grass, that everything comes to your legs. 
As you can see, I was really struggling with that today, as well.   But, you know, this is the quarterfinal of the Grand Slam, so I was really pushing myself, even 200%, to play till the end, fight till the end. 
Just very happy that I did it. 

Q.   How is your injury?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You know, a lot of tennis last couple days, so, uhm, it's been really tough.   But I'll do everything in my power today and tomorrow to rest and, uhm, just put everything together to be ready for the next one. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on your style of play versus Sabine's and what the match will depend on?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, uhm, I saw her matches, and her results on the grass always good.   So, uhm, you know, I think we didn't play for couple years I think now.   And I think we didn't play on grass yet. 
So I think, you know, will be good challenge.   We know each other since the juniors tournaments, so, you know, is always a good challenge to play someone like Sabine ‑ especially this is a semifinal of a Grand Slam. 
Well, we going to fight, for sure.

Q.   How would you describe the differences in your styles of play?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, she's, for sure, a big serve, so I will have to be careful on that. 
I think, you know, everything we'll see on court.   You play a little bit different when it's different opponent, as well. 
So, uhm, yeah, I will see a couple of games to see what I have to do to win that match.

Q.   How did you see your opponent Li Na's performance today?   She had changes today. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Changes? 

Q.   Her style. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I wouldn't say that, to be honest.   We played so many times before on every surface.   And today, for sure, that match was really, really good.   I think on a really high level. 
I think this was the match that we proved, you know, top 10 players are playing really good match. 
I think from the first point to the last point it was really great battle.   She was really playing very well today.   Just so, you know, I'm even double happy I could beat her playing, you know, very good tennis. 

Q.   I think you've said before that when Serena is playing her best, she maybe is the one player that no one can beat.   So when you found out she was out of the draw yesterday, I guess it opened it up pretty much for everyone, no? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Uhm, I think so.   Especially on the grass she's very powerful player.   But I think this is sport.   Uhm, of course, I think she might have, I don't know, worst day or something.   I didn't really see the end of the match.   I was playing by myself at the same time. 
So, uhm, but, you know, anyway, she for sure must be good match to beat Serena anyway.   I think in this part of the tournament, which is in the end of the second week, I think they all playing good tennis.

Q.   But for you, you reached the final last year.   You were talking about maybe defending that, a little bit of pressure.   It gives you a great opportunity now to move through all the way. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course, I think, uhm, the pressure's‑‑ I think the bigger pressure is I think in the first week.   You see the player, and I think the quarterfinal is the minimum for everyone, especially when you seeded.   I think now I'm just more relaxed.   I think semifinal, it's already great result. 
I think I will just go on court and try my best again without that big pressure. 

Q.   Last year when you went all the way through to the final it was a new experience.   Does that make it easier this time around now that you've been through it all?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, definitely.   I think, uhm, being in the final of a Grand Slam, this is very good experience, especially that I'm in the semifinal of the same Grand Slam.   So I know how it is, what I have to do, you know, to be in the final again. 
But it helps, for sure, it's not the first time. 

Q.   Did you feel extra pressure today because of your Grand Slam quarterfinal record? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Not really.   I didn't really feel that way.   I was happy to make the third quarterfinal this year.   But, yes, I've been stopped so many times in the quarterfinals.   It's always disappointing because, uhm, all those matches in the quarterfinals were pretty close and it was always tight. 
Actually, I lost to Na Li in Australian Open.   I think it was very similar match, really good level.   So I was just happy to revenge. 

Q.   You almost missed the final last year because you were ill.   How worried are you that this injury you have might prevent you from playing the next match and the final, if you get there?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, uhm, hoping one day will help me a lot.   We'll see about that.   It's not really the injury.   My legs are a bit overused.   A lot of treatment and massage tomorrow and I will be ready for the semifinal.

Q.   How much pain would it take for you to give it up?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think if it's the end of a Grand Slam you don't really think about the pain or anything else.   You just fight until the end.   That's what I was doing today. 
And I think I don't know how much pain I have to have just to give up.   I think there's no limit. 

Q.   You move very easy on grass.   You never slip, while the other players, they are slipping and having lots of problems with that particular surface.   Did that come to you naturally, or you also struggled and had to work specifically?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, that's good question because, yeah, I saw the players slipping, and I didn't really did it this year. 
Well, uhm, I don't know.   Just good shoes (smiling).

Q.   Janowicz said the other day that Polish tennis really started with you.   Can you talk about the effect you've had on tennis in your country and how things have changed since you came up. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I was the first top 10 player in so many years.   I kind of started it.   You know, it's great to have now guys doing very, very well.   Especially Jerzy.   He's a young, great, upcoming player.   I just believe he's also going to be top 10.   This is for sure not his last quarterfinal of a Grand Slam. 
Uhm, definitely the tennis now, I think it's much bigger than it was before.   So I think, you know, I'm just very happy about that. 

Q.   Do you have any explanation for so many players suddenly coming through?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   The Polish players? 

Q.   Yes. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I don't know.   I think we all like grass.   Now we going to have for sure one guy in the semifinal, as well.   I think it's really huge thing, you know, going on for Poland.

Q.   You mentioned what a big thing it is for Poland.   Could you give us a little bit of scouting report of what you expect tomorrow, and also what you expect to be happening at home?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I don't know.   I don't want to really think about that, just about my next match. 
But, uhm, I think, you know, it's going to be, you know, a lot of attention, especially that it's me and one of the Polish guys.   Never happened that before, so definitely that's big thing. 

Q.   Can you talk about your memories of Lisicki from the juniors.   Did she hang around with you and Caroline and your sisters?   Did you play her when you were really little?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I remember, and actually we talk about that also not so long time ago that we played some teams championship in Poland that I think was under 10 or 12.   So it was really long time ago.   You know, the time flies, and suddenly we all here playing semifinal of a Grand Slam. 
So I think this is great to face someone that you know for so many years, playing all these tournament under 10, 12, 14, then juniors as well.

Q.   So who won?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I can't remember.   I can't remember.   But for sure we played against each other so many times at the time. 

Q.   You mentioned that the men's quarterfinal, the all‑Polish quarterfinal, that match is going to be very big for your country.   Can you describe what type of people both those guys are and what type of players they are. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Definitely they playing a little bit different tennis.   Jerzy, it's a huge guy with a huge serve.   Really powerful tennis. 
I think Kubot, it's more like a grass player.   You know, serve and volley, very good touch. 
So it will be very interesting match.   So I definitely going to watch that.   I have a day off tomorrow, so will be I think good fun to watch.

Q.   What kind of guys are they?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Very nice guys.   I love them both. 

Q.   Who is your biggest rival in your mind in Wimbledon?   Is it Li Na or Serena or somebody else?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Now it's hard to say because there were so many surprises this year.   But I think Serena.   I thought she was doing very well last couple months, winning pretty much everything, and especially all the Grand Slams and all the big tournaments. 
So I think it was huge surprise for everyone, I guess. 

Q.   Have you ever talked or trained with Martina Hingis?   Was her name ever mentioned in your family when you grew up?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I was watching Martina when I was a kid.   She was my idol.   I was watching so many of her matches. 
Then we played once.   It was few years ago in Miami.   I think it was the third round, I guess.   It was really good match.   I think she was top 10 again after the rest. 
I really have great memories from that match.   I think she's a great champion playing so smart tennis. 
So when I heard they were comparing me to her, it's a very big compliment. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT