AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 18, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. HAMPTON/A. Radwanska
  7‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How did that happen?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, well, I think playing her in the first match on the grass I think was ‑‑it was tough, and I think, you know, the fact that she played three matches before helped her a little bit.
Yeah, well, especially the first set was pretty close, but I had a lot of good rallies and also lucky shots, as well.   Suddenly, you know, went the other way. 

Q.   Getting that set point would have made a difference, wouldn't it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, definitely, but also weird point.   I think, you know, what I felt is like I was playing good.   It's just I think I was a little bit scared to move. 
First match on grass.   Of course, I was practicing here a couple of days, but I think matches are a little bit different than practice.
Yeah, I think it was ‑‑yeah, I wasn't maybe ready for that.

Q.   It was slippery or you were cautious because it's grass?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think it's because it's grass.   It wasn't slippery.   Maybe a little bit in the back, but, yeah, scared.   You know, it's always in the head.
Especially that, you know, on clay court you just, you know, the sliding, it's much easier, and here you have to be careful.

Q.   You have played Jamie quite a few times now, and the matches have been pretty close and competitive.   Can you talk a little bit about her game, just what she does well and what makes her a difficult opponent for you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, we played I think in Tokyo and Auckland and a couple of matches before, as well. 
Well, she's a very powerful player playing really aggressive tennis and serving very well, as well.   I think, you know, she can really play good tennis on grass, as well. 
Like I said, when we played it was always pretty close, never easy.   Today was the same.   Just the other way, unfortunately. 

Q.   You lost here first round last year.   Went on to make the Wimbledon final.   Do you hope that's a good omen?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, hopefully I will do the same.   (Smiling.)
Well, now, I can just hope I can play the same as last year and, you know, and was not bad last year.   You know, lost in first round here but still playing great tennis in Wimbledon. 
Well, you never know, but what I can do now? 

Q.   Does the extra days' rest, now that you're not in the tournament, does that sometimes help?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Sometimes, yes, especially here when the grass is really ‑‑you can really feel on the body even a couple of days just in the practice, and I think every match costs you more than twice than on hard court. 
I think a couple of days of easy practice, it's always good, you know, good to be fresh, for sure. 

Q.   Are you going to stick around Eastbourne for a few days or go straight to London?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I'll probably go tomorrow, after tomorrow, yeah. 

Q.   Planning to go to the WTA player party on Thursday?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes. 

Q.   Have you picked out a dress yet?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Not yet.   (Smiling.)

Q.   You're going to go shopping in London?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   If I have a little bit of time, yes, why not? 

Q.   Did you feel the pressure being the top seed?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always a little bit of pressure especially when you're top seed, but, well, it's not for the first time, so I'm just trying not to think about it, of course. 
It's a little bit harder expectation, you know, a little bit higher than others, but, well, it's always disappointing losing first round.   But, well, it's tennis.   Sometimes happens.

Q.   Serena, what do you have to do to knock her off her perch, as it were?   What do you have to do to sort of get yourself to the top and knock her off?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think she's having a lot of points now and is going to be really hard to reach her next few months, for sure.   She's playing really great tennis on every surface, as we can see, and she's really on fire. 
So, you know, I think, you know, I think it's about her.   When she's playing her best tennis, you go on court and doesn't matter what you do.   You're going to lose anyway, so...   (Smiling.)

Q.   Looking at the four different Slams, do you think at Wimbledon that the draw is actually probably more important than maybe at the French or U.S. or Aussie in terms of running up against a player who maybe is really good on grass, you know, in the first or second round?   You know, at this tournament you drew Jamie who was the top qualifier who had a lot of matches under her belt, which is tough. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, we can see some different results, as well.   I think a lot of players prefer ‑‑ you can see the different scores.   Of course, draw is always important, you know, but if you play someone good on grass and someone who prefers hard court or clay, I think, you know, you can't do anything about it.   Just pray to have a good draw.

Q.   Do you think there is more luck involved, then, in winning Wimbledon than maybe at the other three Slams?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You always have to have a little bit of luck to win something.   First match, quarterfinals, whatever, it's always a little bit of luck always. 

Q.   How did you find playing at Eastbourne?   Sun was out.   Sometimes it's wet and windy. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Actually, this year was not bad.   I mean, there were some days with a lot, a lot of wind and it was very, very hard to practice.   If there is no rain, then it's good.   I think we all can practice and not, you know, waiting for the matches for days or hours. 
So this year was actually pretty good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT