ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2017
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/A. Van Uytvanck
6-7, 6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Talk us through that match and how you managed to get through it.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely I start a little bit too slow.  I think she made really good shots in the important moments.  Of course, I had my chances in the first set, but just slipped away.  I had to start from the beginning the second set.
I think I was playing better and better through the match, and I think that was the key from my side.
Then second and third set was much better.
Q. Obviously you've got a lot of experience and this is your first back-to-back win in a while.  So for you, how long does it take to get that confidence back?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I'm just very happy to win those two matches.  Especially today was not really easy.
And of course after a couple weeks struggling with health and not much of a practice, every match, it's important.  Just very happy with that win, and hopefully next one will be even better.
Q. I haven't seen you since Madrid.  Physically, how are you feeling?  Is the injury still bothering you or is it fine now?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, there is always something there, but it's much better.  I feel 100% on court.  That's the most important thing.
So of course I still need to take care of the foot a lot.  I'm always saying, spending more time on the table than court, but that's the part of the day and the preparation, so, yeah.
Q. You were playing so well here first week of last year's tournament.  Then you had all the rain that came.  Wondering if you feel you have unfinished business here from last year in the Paris sunshine?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, you called it very good, unfinished business.  Well, hopefully that weather stays like that.  But, well, you never know.
But, yes, I'm really feeling good in this heat, and of course it was not easy, it was really hot and two-and-a-half hours on court.
But, well, yeah, for sure it was better that way than for sure it was last year.
Q. I know you had mentioned before you didn't really want to miss a slam because you're on this streak with slam appearances, but was there ever any thinking for you to skip here and just focus on the grass?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, to be honest, if you're talking about the Grand Slam, if I make that kind of decision, it would have to be so bad and I wouldn't even walk normally.  And of course I would wait till the last minute to make that decision.
Of course clay, it's never been my favorite surface.  I'm not expecting, you know, miracles here, but I will try my best.  I'm playing really what I can do this year on the clay, this is also Grand Slam.  So it's as important as Wimbledon or Australian Open.  That's why I really want to play here, and do my best.
Q. Did Alison surprise you in the first set, for instance?  Her level and so on.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, we played so many years ago, so it's really hard to compare those two matches.  But definitely she started very well, and I think on clay she can really do a lot of things on court.  She was mixing up a lot of shots and good serve, good kick.  You know, she can really hit the balls well.
So, yes, after this first set I really knew I had to play my game, not wait for her mistakes, because, you know, didn't come much of those.
Q. There's quite a bit of anticipation just from the general public about the possibility that Rafa might win 10 Roland Garros titles.  I was just wondering, are you curious at all if he would do that?  What does the No. 10 mean in tennis?  I guess it hasn't been done that many times.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, that's something for sure unbelievable.  I believe he can do it.  He's playing amazing tennis this year on clay, winning all those tournaments on clay already.
Well, that's really interesting two weeks for him, but I believe he can do it.
Q. You've got Alize Cornet next.  Your thoughts on that matchup.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for sure on clay she's much better opponent than other surface, I guess, a very tricky player opponent, especially here in French.  She really feels good, with all the crowd behind.  It's going to be an interesting match, for sure, and a good challenge for me.  We'll see.
Q. You skipped almost the greatest part of this clay season.  Obviously it's not your fault, but would you consider maybe in the future to pull a Federer and skip the whole clay season to preserve your body?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I wish.  It's not that easy, especially comparing me to Federer, let's come back to reality.  You know, I have a different position.
But, well, I think it's hard decision, also for him just to skip one Grand Slam to do good, to do other one.
I don't think I can do that, especially skipping Grand Slam, but I could skip Rome and Madrid.  I had to.  But anyway, for me, it's only four tournaments on clay.  It's still not much, but sometimes even too much for me.  Well, I'm really trying to play all of those every year, but there is always something happening exactly at that time.  That's why I'm skipping it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT