SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 25, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/S. Stephens
  4‑6, 6‑2, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What did you do differently after dropping that first set?   Did you have a different approach or did you just try and dig in?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely I started to play much better, I think more aggressive than the first set.   I think I was a little bit tight in the first set, and, well, she really start very good.   
I think I was just too defensive.   I couldn't do much in the first set, but then I think, yeah, started to play much better, you know, point by point.   I think, you know, it was better and better until the end.  
   
 Q.   Can we get your thoughts on Sloane as an opponent?   What did you think of her game today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, she's very good, young player and always difficult to play with.   I remember our match from last year.   I won 6‑4 in the third, so I knew it wouldn't be easy today.  
Yeah, that's why I'm happy, you know, to win that match again.   
   
 Q.   You're going to be facing Kirsten Flipkens next.   I guess you played her once before four years ago in Fed Cup.   Do you have any thoughts about playing her?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely she had a really good couple of months right now and playing really good tennis and beat some good players.  
This is the quarterfinals.   Well, I really have to play 100%, you know, to win that match.   Of course, you know, she's playing a bit different tennis than those players I was already playing against.  
Well, we'll see.   
   
 Q.   There was that point in the second set where she had the ace and it looked like she was ‑‑you were leading by a game.   She had the opportunity to tie it.   You were able to battle back from 40‑15.   Did you start to sense maybe there was a shift in the momentum there a little bit and that you were able to, you know, to kind of take control there and you beat her on that point?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Which game are you talking about?   
   
 Q.   It was the second set when she had the ace that made it 40‑15, and then you were able to rally back and take the point.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Okay.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember?   It was the sixth game of the second set.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.   Well, definitely, like, I think middle of the second set was very important.   I think we had like one or two games were really tight and long.  
I think it was the key in that match.   I think I was‑‑ after that moment I was playing much better and much more aggressive.   
Yeah, I think that was it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT