SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 21, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/Su-Wei Hsieh
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel out there first match coming back to defend?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, just very happy, you know, to have a quick match.   The first match is always a little bit tough and tricky, especially in Indian Wells we have a little bit different conditions.  
So, yeah, just happy, you know, to be in the third round and have two‑sets match.  
   
 Q.   You have not ever defended a title, if I'm correct.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I was close in Tokyo.   
   
 Q.   Close?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.   And I was also close ‑‑no, I was in the final and I ‑‑Carlsbad I was also twice in final.   
Yeah, I don't think I did.  
   
 Q.   Is that something you'd like to achieve?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, of course.   That's why I'm here.   Yeah, I will do everything, you know, to hold the trophy again, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What do you like about this tournament?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it's a great place to play tennis.   I think when you come here you can see that the people here love tennis and this is a great city to play tennis.   It's always great weather.   
You know, Miami is Miami.   So I think, you know, it's always a big and strong tournament, everybody playing it.   
 Winning this kind of tournament, it's almost like winning Grand Slam.  
 Q.   Your memories from last year from the final with Sharapova?   How special was that in your career?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it was really special tournament for me because I was really playing a lot of good matches against top players and not even losing a set.   Definitely great memories from here.   
And also the final was, I think, you know, a very good match.   Well, hopefully I can play the same tennis this year.  
   
 Q.   Could you describe the type of tennis you like to play the most and the type of tennis that maybe is most frustrating for your opponents?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, I think every match is different, every tournament is different, especially the conditions also can change the match a little bit, and the opponent, as well.   
I think you really have to switch a little bit your tennis depends who is on the other side of the net.  
But I think, you know, here it's a little bit faster than Indian Wells, so I think playing aggressive tennis is always working.  
   
 Q.   What did you do well today specifically?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think, you know, I was really trying to focus on my serve especially.   You know, against the wind it's a little bit difficult.   Really tried to stay close to the baseline to be strong, as well.  
And I think that was the key, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you could talk about playing on the purple courts here?   Do you think that kind of is a symbol of the Sony Open, and does the color of the court have any impact on anything?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think since I remember the courts here are purple.   I'm good with that.   I think, you know, I like purple very much, so I'm good with that.   Yeah, I have no problem.  
   
 Q.   Last year I know when you won the final you said you did not have time to go shopping.   You were a little upset about that.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, yes.  
   
 Q.   Did you make plans to fit some in this week or next week, or have you gone shopping already?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I did, actually, a little bit.   I definitely will do some more.  
But I'm already overweight so much, so I think I will just go to the shopping mall without my wallet.   I think it will be better for me.  
   
 Q.   What's your favorite mall here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think the biggest and the nicest one for me ‑‑I think even Sawgrass Outlet I think is huge.   Everything is there.   Yeah, is for sure like half‑day trip or even all day long.  
   
 Q.   Did you go there with your sister?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, of course.  
   
 Q.   When did you go?   Couple days ago?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Couple days ago but just for like two hours.   We didn't have much time.  
   
 Q.   Does she like to shop as much as you do?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Is always very fun especially that you go together.   So yes.  
   
 Q.   What did you buy?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I bought a couple of things and also a couple presents for my parents.   Yeah, some shoes, as well, boots.   What else?   
Not that much, but I'm going to come back there some more.  
   
 Q.   You like handbags, right?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, yes, I do like handbags.  
   
 Q.   Did you get any handbags recently?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Not here.   I have to win this tournament to buy a nice handbag.  
   
 Q.   I read that you still go to school.   Yes or no?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I am studying in the Polish University in Krakow.  
   
 Q.   Tourism?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Tourism, yes.  
   
 Q.   Why is that, and what about tourism?   Why and when would you ever like to do anything with tourism?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, this is sports university, and I think this is the profile that really I can do it.   Because otherwise, for example there is also like the physio profile, so I think it would be a little bit too difficult.  
I think tourism is, you know, very nice profession, especially that we are learning everything there:   Law, finances economics, everything.   I think, you know, it's great to do something like that.   But I must say they really, really helping us that we can do exams whenever we are ready.  
So whenever we go home, we go to the university and then we study our exam, and we are ready we are coming back there and having our exam.  
So without that, without any deadlines, like this I think it's impossible to study.   I'm very appreciative that they are helping me that way and I can do my exam whenever I want.  
   
 Q.   So it's like an online courses?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, no, no, it's not online.   Nothing online.   I just go there myself whenever I'm home, so I'm not doing anything online.  
   
 Q.   So you have the books or whatever?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, exactly.   Exactly.   I'm talking to my professors and trying to, you know, find a good time to have exam and then we do it.  
   
 Q.   How long have you been doing it?   When do you graduate and with what kind of degree?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, it's pretty tough.   I did my third semester in offseason, and since then I wasn't there.   Because actually my beginning of the year was so busy, so I didn't have time to come back there.  
So, yeah, we'll see.   It's good that, you know, like I say, I don't have any deadlines.   I may be even studying eight years, I don't know, but I think it's no rush.  
   
 Q.   So you have done three semesters?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, so I'm on the second year.  
   
 Q.   Urszula does it, too?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   We were studying together.   I was waiting for her.   I was finish my high school and was waiting for her so we can study together.  
   
 Q.   It's so nice you can travel ‑ and she won her first match.   How nice is that and how much do you cheer for each other?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think that's great, especially that we are traveling ten months a year.   So I think it's much more easier when you have family with you.   
You know, since we were doing everything together whole lives, like school, practicing together also for like 19 years already.   
I think playing the same tournament and the same tour, you know, I think is much more fun.   We are always supporting each other and always cheering.  
I think it's, you know, it's much, much better.  
   
 Q.   Was she here today watching you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   She was just upstairs watching from the shade, so she wasn't on the court.  
   
 Q.   I read that you carried the flag ‑‑   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   ‑‑ for the London Olympics.   How special was that, you know, in your life?   How does that rank as far as special moments?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, yeah, it was very special.   I was very, very excited before, and, you know, I had phone call two weeks before Olympics if I wanted to.   I was like, Of course.   It's a big honor to carry the Polish flag, especially I was the first woman doing that in the Polish history.   It was a big day.   
I'm really going to remember that day for a long time definitely.  
   
 Q.   Is your father here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, not this year.  
   
 Q.   Do people recognize you at all?   Maybe here they do at the tournament, but just in South Florida, in the United States?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, yeah, sometimes.   Yes, yes.   When I go out...   
   
 Q.   How do you decide what to wear for a match?   What goes into your head?   This is what I'm going to wear today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, I have new collection from Lotto for this tournament.   It was just new collection, so I was wearing that outfit for the first time.   It's the Miami outfit, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it's kind of tough for Urszula because you have always done better?   Have you guys discussed it?   I know my sister and I don't get along, that's why I ask.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, there is no jealousy between us.   We always support each other, always stay on the same side.   We are not really discussing anything like about tennis.   
I think, you know, our whole life is about tennis.   So when we're together, we're talking about everything except tennis.   I think it's good to separate those two lives.  
   
 Q.   Your goal for this year, for your career in tennis?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, I think the goal is pretty similar.   I think every year I think like for everyone is to win a Grand Slam and be No. 1.   I was really close to both of those last year.  
So I'm going to try this year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT