DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 21, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/A. Radwanska
  6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Just an assessment of your performance overall?   How do you feel you played?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I played okay, but, you know, I think it was just not good enough.   She's top‑10 player, so you really have to play very good to beat those players.   Good is not enough.  
Actually, it was a little bit different condition.   Yesterday I was playing during the day, and it was much slower.   The ball was flying everywhere.   So in the beginning I didn't really know what was going on.   Then in the second set unfortunately it was too late.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that Petra is a favorite to win this tournament this year?   Is she the favorite to win this tournament or somebody else?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, I don't know.   You know, it's hard to say.   Every match is different.   But especially here, you can see all the top players in quarterfinals, so I think every match is 50/50.   
   
 Q.   Were you disappointed with the way you played tonight?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, but she really start very aggressive.   She was really hitting the ball very well and pretty hard pretty much from every point with my serve or return.   I was just too late, especially in the first set.  
   
 Q.   You seemed to struggle against the Kazak.   If you look at this tournament at least what would you say was wrong ‑‑you talked about the surfaces, but what about your game?   Why weren't you able to kind of compete a little better than you'd like?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, those were two different matches, but today definitely she started very well and I just couldn't find a way, you know, to win the points.  
Of course I had my chances, but if you're not really using them against a player, it's not giving any ball for free.  
   
 Q.   She had a lot of winners.   The forehand seemed to be very effective for her.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.   Well, that was the thing.   She was very aggressive.  
It was very fast today compared to yesterday.   The beginning it was just, you know, like a different pace than yesterday.  
   
 Q.   You're regarded as quite a tactical player.   Is it difficult to adapt your game to someone who is such a power hitter?   The rallies are quite short and you don't really‑‑ you know, you don't have the time to find the rhythm and get, you know, work out a strategy against someone like that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, for sure.   It's definitely different tennis than it was, for example, yesterday.   It was just two short balls and it's over.   It's a bomb coming from the other side, and I just could turn around.   Yeah, I was just trying to play low and aggressive.  
Especially returning, every return was coming already very deep, and I was already in the back.   She was really going forward pretty much all the time.  
   
 Q.   What can you improve upon going forward ahead of, you know, the American stretch, heading into Roland Garros?   What do you want to get better at?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always room to improve, but I think in this kind of level, you can just have everything better.   This is sports, so nobody is perfect here.   Every tournament is different challenge and different matches.   Even if it was the same opponent it's still a different match.  
Just gonna rest a little bit.   I already had three busy weeks.   Just going to do everything to prepare good for Indian Wells and Miami.  
   
 Q.   Can you compare Kvitova to last year's Istanbul?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it was different matches.   There it was indoors.   It's totally different tennis.   The surface, it was much more slower, and this surface was very sticky.   You can't really compare that.  
But definitely I was, I think, playing there better than today here.   Especially serving better.   That's why the score was opposite today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT