DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 20, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/Y. Putintseva
  7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   She was tough to get on top of, wasn't she?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Well, it's always tough playing someone that you don't know.   You know, also for me the first match is always a bit tricky.   Like I was saying on court, every center court is tricky, so it was a little bit different court than Doha.   It always takes me a little bit of time to get used to it. 
But, well, even when I didn't play my best tennis today, anyway, I was really fighting for every point and just happy especially about the first set that I could come back and then win that match in two sets.

Q.   When you play someone that you're not familiar with, do you try and work out how they play, or do you just want to continue playing your own game every match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely, no, I don't see much players mixing up everything like she was doing today.
She can I think do everything on court, you know, spin and playing aggressive and slice and dropshot, pretty much everything.   So, you know, it's very nice to see some young player playing like that.

Q.   Did you watch the previous match, the match with Robson, just to sort of get an idea about her?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I saw it a little bit on TV last night, yes.

Q.   Seems like one of the keys was you were able to convert your break points and she just wasn't when it came down to it.   Was that experience, or what do you think it came down to?   She's a young girl, 18. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   To be honest, yes, I think so.   Especially when I was 6‑5 up in the first set and she was serving and she just did like three easy mistakes and also double faults.
So I think in the very important moments I think a bit of experience is always good to have. 

Q.   You were saying you liked her game.   What are her prospects?   She just broke into the top 100.   Do you sense she's someone that will move up the rankings this year?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think so.   She's very tough to play and moving very well.   She can really play good tennis.
Yeah, I really want to see her, you know, in a couple of months, how she's gonna play and what her ranking is going to be.

Q.   Who do you think are the best of the players, age about 18, 19, 20 now?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I forgot her name.   Young, a tall American. 

Q.   Sloane Stephens? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No. 

Q.   Keys?   Madison Keys?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I saw her couple of times, and I think this girl can play very good tennis.   I think that girl will be, you know, I think top 20, top 30 very soon.

Q.   Would she be the best of that generation, do you think?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's a lot of young players coming up right now, and but I think I saw just few of her games, and she can really hit the ball very good.   She can really feel the ball and playing good tennis.
For sure, I think very soon we can also see some new names coming up, because now we know a lot of 16‑, 17‑even‑years‑old girls coming up.   I think the new generation is coming, yes.

Q.   What does it feel like to be defending a title?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always a bit of pressure, but obviously it's always a strong tournament here.   So I'm here in the quarterfinal and now I'm going to play top 10 or top 15 players.   It's never easy.
So I think, you know, anyway, I'm defending the title, but every match I will have nothing to lose and playing all of the good players right now.
Of course, you know, I'm going to do everything in my power to hold the trophy again and have the title.   Yeah, we'll see. 

Q.   There were a lot of service breaks in the first set.   Why did you struggle with serve today?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, to be honest, I didn't hit on the center court here this year, and I was just practicing outside.   It was actually much faster.
I was kind of surprised that the ball is just not going anywhere, and it was tough for me that I just ‑‑I was expecting something faster like last year, and I think they paint the court and it's a bit slower.

Q.   Did the rain break help you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I don't know.   I was hoping, because I didn't play well, so I was hoping, yeah, the rain can come at least for an hour.   (Smiling.)
But, well, it didn't happen.   But, yeah, sometimes, you know, you pray for the rain if something is not going your way, but obviously it didn't rain, but... 
Well, I don't know if it helped, but at least I won the set.   So it was good.   Maybe that helped.

Q.   Yesterday Wozniacki said the ball was flying.   You find it's different. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, she's playing night session.   It's always a little bit different playing at night.   Yeah, well, might fly in the evening.   I don't know about that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT