QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 14, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/A. Ivanovic
  6‑1, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You have to play smart in conditions like that, don't you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, definitely, especially the wind is changing all the time.   In one side it's like against the wind, and then I'm changing the side, and it's against the wind again.
I think, you know, in these kind of conditions you have to be really patient and really focus on each point, because the direction of the ball is always different.   It's really tricky to play.

Q.   So in those conditions is the result always more important than the way you play?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think, you know, sometimes it's a lot of crazy rallies and some different, weird shots.   So you really need to be ready for those. 
But I think, you know, anyway, it was good match today with those conditions, so I can't complain.

Q.   She came back very dangerously at the end, didn't she?   How important was that phase of the match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, yes, she really start to play much better in the second set, and I think, you know, she didn't make any easy mistakes in the second set.
I really need to just play my game.   She didn't give me any free points in the second set.   It was really close. 
But I'm very, very happy that I could close this and win in two sets, because, you know, in the third set you never know what's gonna happen.

Q.   It's Valentine's Day.   Did you receive any Valentine's messages or presents or anything?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, couple messages, yes, I did.

Q.   Anyone special we should know about?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Not really.   I don't think so.   (Smiling.)

Q.   You're sure?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No. 

Q.   Just messages?   No presents?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, no presents.

Q.   Did you buy anyone a present?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I was kind of busy with the match, but I didn't buy anything, no. 

Q.   The year isn't very far advanced yet, but can you feel how well‑placed you are this year compared with your very good year last year?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think I continue playing my game, and I really had great season last year and obviously the start of the season, as well. 
So just very happy that I could play my best tennis from the beginning of the year and having two titles in a row in the first two tournaments.   Never happen before, so I'm really happy with my performance.
I had already a lot of matches this year, so it's been busy, but I think it's a good problem.

Q.   To build on last year, what do you need?   More options in your game or just small changes?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always hard to say about changes.   I'm trying, you know, working hard and especially in the offseason, a lot of fitness, as well.
Well, I was really close to be No. 1 last year, so definitely I will try to do this this year, and we will see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT