QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 13, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/A. Rodionova
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Talk a little bit about how you felt out there today. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I was really feeling pretty good out there.   But for sure the conditions today was not easy at all.   It was really windy, and the wind changed every couple of minutes.
It was very tricky, but I'm just very happy that I could play my really good tennis in the important moment and I finished this match in two sets.

Q.   You have had a good start to the year.   You won Auckland and Sydney and then pretty well quarterfinals at the Australian Open.   Talk a little bit about that kind of good start.   Do you feel it will give you momentum for the rest of the season?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely was a great start of the season.   I didn't really expect, you know, to win so many matches in a row.   Two titles in a row I think is always great thing. 
Well, for the first time I was playing two tournaments before Australia, so I think it was really good idea.   For sure I couldn't complain about that. 
Here I just hope I can still continue playing good tennis.   We will see. 

Q.   After reaching the finals at Wimbledon last year, how hard has it been for you to maintain your level as a top 5 player in the world?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always a little bit of pressure, but I think this is the dream for everyone to be in the final of a Grand Slam and of course to be No. 1 in the world. 
I was really close to that last year, and definitely I'm going to try to do it this year.   I hope I can have some more opportunity to win the major final.
But of course it's hard especially being top 5.   It means that we have to play a lot of good tournaments, not one or two tournaments.   You have to play on a good level pretty much whole year and try to be very consistent.   That's what I'm trying to do.

Q.   Has things changed for you after reaching that final in terms of sponsorship deals, expectations from your support team?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think the most expectation I think is I'm expecting the most from myself.   Of course, you know, Grand Slam final is always the best thing that happens to the player.   After that, you think you can do it in pretty much everywhere. 
So definitely doesn't matter where I go to the tournament, I'm always trying to win.   Definitely change the thing that you can win every tournament.

Q.   The results might affect the rankings here, talking about the rankings.   Are you concerned about that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Here? 

Q.   Yeah. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I'm not really thinking about that.   It's just second day of the tournament, so I just play one match. 
Of course everything can change.   Especially in the women's tennis, I think every week it's changing, and now a lot of players play very good tennis. 
I think I'm just really have to focus on myself, on my tennis to stay there, to stay on top.   Then we will see what happened.

Q.   You played Fed Cup last week.   We have seen on YouTube the video with you doing the press conference, and you seemed pretty mad about something.   Did something happen in particular during Fed Cup?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, to be honest, I think I was really disappointed.   I didn't really expect something like this happen on the tour, especially that I think a lot of teams were there and a lot of top players, and, yeah, a couple of things happened.
You know, it's always sad and always unfair, as well.   I think it's not a responsible way to behave.

Q.   I think that Poland drew Belgium.   Talk a little bit about facing them to stay in your World Group I. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure it's a very tough draw, especially Yanina and Kirsten are playing very good tennis now, so for sure it's a hard draw. 
Actually, we played them once two years ago when we lost against Belgium that time.   Well, we just gonna try to revenge, and we'll see.   I just hope we will have some good matches out there, and, yeah, looking forward. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT