AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/A. Radwanska
      7‑5, 6‑3 
  
    An interview with:  
  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA  
  
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What was the difference from today to when you last played her a week or so ago?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think she played better than last week in Sydney.   Definitely she was very solid from the beginning of the match.   She was really playing good tennis.   
    Some of the games she didn't let me do anything.   Very deep balls all the time.   Good serve.   She was really playing good tennis today.   
   
 Q.   She is someone who has played well against you.   What is it about her game that makes it a tough matchup for you?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think she's a very consistent player.   She's always playing on the same level.   It's not like up and down like the other girls.   She's always playing solid tennis.   
    She definitely play very good today.   Of course, I had my chances.   But when you're not really taking them, it's really turning around and it goes away.   
   
 Q.   In the first set it seemed very tough to hold serve.   Was that due to the conditions on the court?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely in this match the serve was not the biggest weapon, that's for sure.   Lot of tight games, lot of breaks.   
    Of course, wind, the sun, it was very tough to serve against the sun.   So I think, you know, a lot of good rallies.   I think the serve, yeah, wasn't that important in that match.   
   
 Q.   Before this match you had some of the best serving stats of anybody in the tournament.   How much have you worked on making that part of your game better?   
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, well, I didn't know that.   
    Well, I'm happy, you know, to hear that.   Of course I think it helps, especially when I won so many matches in a row against top players.   Definitely that helps.   
    But I think today it wasn't that good.   I mean, it was not good enough.   
   
 Q.   Is it something you've been focusing on, your serve?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I mean, the serve was always the thing I was practicing a lot, serving a lot, you know, just hitting the box and just serving and serving.   Of course.   It's very important shot in the game, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You played 13 matches to start the year, winning them all.   Did you still feel fresh today or do you think maybe there was too much tennis before the Australian Open?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   To be honest, of course I could feel I was playing already a lot of matches.   But of course playing every second day helps a little bit that I could rest between the matches.   
    But definitely I think I wasn't fast enough today.   Especially from the beginning of the match, I was really running a lot.   It cost me a little too much power in the beginning of the match.   
    To be honest, I think she played the same matches, also a lot of matches before here, so it was really pretty similar thing for both of us.   
   
 Q.   You have battled several times.   Since Carlos joined her team, do you feel she has different tactics?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   To be honest, I think they're working already one year or longer.   I don't know.   I'm not sure.   I think she was always playing great tennis.   She know what to do on court.   
    I think even tactic, no tactic, I think she can still be herself on court and she know what to do.   
   
 Q.   People have been talking about Li's improvement on her emotional management.   She seems more composed on court.   Can you feel that change in her game from the other side of the court?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Not really.   We played a lot of time a couple years.   I think our matches are similar.   It's always tough, tight, long rallies, long games.   
    But I didn't really feel any difference from one year or two years, no.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like Li Na's forehand is much more consistent compared to previous matches?   
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, to be honest, I think both of her shots, forehand and backhand, are pretty similar.   You know, the conditions sometimes can be a little bit different.   
    So I don't think any of the shots is worse or better.   I think she's a top player and with all the shots pretty much the same.   
   
 Q.   What is your schedule from here on out?   You take a little bit of time off and then regroup?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, I'm going to go now and practice, to the gym, running.   
   
 Q.   Today?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, I'm just kidding (laughter).   No, please.   
    No, of course I'm going to have few days off definitely.   I go home for a little bit.   Then the next thing is Fed Cup, Doha, Dubai.   
   
 Q.   When she served the ball into the crowd way over your head, what did you think?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It was definitely the sun.   It was very tough to play against the sun.   I know about that because I played so many matches around noon.   Around 12:00, 12:30, the sun is exactly to your face.   Doesn't matter how you toss the ball, it's exactly to your face and it's very tough.   
   
 Q.   Can you give a prediction about the semis?  
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   In the girls?   
   
 Q.   Between Li Na and her next opponent in the semis.   
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Who is the next opponent?   
   
 Q.   Should be the winner between Sharapova and Makarova.   
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think Maria's on fire, so I think she's going to play her.   
    But then I think, you know, it's 50/50, to be honest.   They're both playing very well tennis this week, definitely.   It's hard to say, to be honest.   For sure it's going to be good match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT