AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/A. Ivanovic
      6‑2, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you feel like you played out there tonight?   How do you feel about your performance?
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think I play very good, especially that I think I was keeping the same level from the beginning till the end. 
    That's why I was able to close this match in two sets. 

Q.   Do you feel like you've hit a different level these last few weeks?   You haven't lost a match or a set.   Everything looked seamless out there. 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, what can I say?   I'm just very happy that I can play on the very high level.   Already 13 matches not even losing a set. 
    Well, I hope I can keep going three more. 

Q.   How do you feel about your next opponent, meeting Li Na?
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, we played so many times in the last couple months.   Well, it's never easy playing against her.   She's very consistent player and moving very well, serving well. 
    Well, for sure I really have to play my hundred percent to beat her. 
    We played in Sydney.   It was really tough match.   We'll see how it's going to be here. 

Q.   With the performance you showed in all these matches, do you think maybe in small parts of your heart you're unstoppable? 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think no one is unstoppable, to be honest.   This is sport; this is tennis. 
    But like I'm playing, it's just great feeling I can really play my best tennis from the beginning of the year.   It's been a great three weeks so far. 
    So, well, you know, playing on the really high level is always good, especially in the Grand Slam. 

Q.   Do you feel like your run at Wimbledon, when you made it to the final, that that gives you that confidence that you really can win those next three matches?
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely.   I think, you know, a major final is a little different final than any other tournament, so it definitely is. 
    Of course I have a lot more confidence after two titles that I won last two weeks, so definitely, yes. 

Q.   I recall reading that you did some interesting training in December in Poland in very cold weather.   Could you tell us about that. 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, to be honest, always practicing in Poland at home in Krakow.   Of course November, December is winter for us.   Sometimes it's zero, sometimes it's minus‑20, but it's always very cold.   So I'm practicing indoor. 
    You know, doing a lot of fitness all the time in the off‑season.   I think it was good preparation. 

Q.   Were you training outside, too?
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, I was staying inside.   It was too cold.   I don't want to get sick. 

Q.   You have been very successful in Tokyo.   I don't know if you know it or not, but that tournament will be replaced by China.   Could you give us any comments on that. 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely I was really playing good in Tokyo a couple times.   I think that surface there was a little bit faster and I was enjoying it, playing also great tennis every year there. 
    But, well, for sure it's also good thing that we can play in different city.   But, well, it was always good memories to go back there.   But now there's no choice. 

Q.   Speaking of the next round against Li Na, will you approach that match with the same strategy?   Seems last time it went down very well.   She's also on a very good momentum at this time. 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   We played I think like 10 days ago.   But it's always tough against her.   She's always playing very solid tennis.   I think I really have to play aggressive against her, definitely serving good, really playing my hundred percent the best tennis; otherwise I'm not going to win, for sure. 

Q.   You and Li Na don't have very strong serve.   In your mind, who got a better one?
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Okay, what was the question again? 

Q.   You and Li Na don't have very strong serve obviously.   But in your mind, who has the better one? 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think in our matches it's not about the power on the serve.   I think we both have other shots, other type of games that we are good at. 
    That's why, you know, even against the players that's serving 200 per hour, we still can be able to beat. 
    You know, tennis is not about the serve only. 

Q.   Can you just tell us a little about your coach.   You used to be coached by your father.   What has your coach brought to you and your game?
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I'm still practicing with my father at home.   Whole off‑season I was practicing in Krakow with my father, but now I'm traveling with other coach.   It's been like that one and a half year already and it's been working pretty well, so I think we just keep going like that. 

Q.   About the Tokyo tournament moving to China, do you think it's going to be easier for you guys to prepare for two important tournaments in a near city?
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Anyway, I don't think Tokyo was that far to Beijing.   But I think it's always good to play in a different city.   Well, we'll see.   For sure I can be able to talk about this tournament I think after the tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT