AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/H. Watson
  6‑3, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You haven't dropped a set all season.   Is this the best start to a year that you've ever had before?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think so.   I never played two tournaments before Australian Open.   It was my first time I played Auckland and Sydney.   I think it was a good start.  
Well, I can't complain, for sure.  
   
 Q.   What's made it so good?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   That's a good question.   I don't know.   I didn't really change anything.  
Of course, I was practicing hard in the offseason, a lot of fitness.   But just feeling good on court.   I'm very confident from the beginning and just happy that I can play really my best tennis from the beginning of the year.  
   
 Q.   Did you do anything different during the offseason than you didn't do before?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, not really, no.  
   
 Q.   Where do you do your fitness work in the offseason?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I'm practicing in Poland, in Krakow, where I live.   I was practicing indoor.   It was winter, minus 10.  
   
 Q.   How many weeks did you take off at the end of the year and just not pick up a racquet?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I had almost three weeks without anything, yeah.   
   
 Q.   When did you actually start preparing for the new year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think it was like around 15 or 16th of November.   Yeah.   
So six weeks' preparation before I came here.  
   
 Q.   You have practiced indoors obviously because it's too...   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, of course everything indoor.   It's not even hard court.   It's something a little bit faster than hard court.   
So, yeah.  
   
 Q.   So it's only really practice?   You don't do any work in a gym?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course I did a lot of fitness, as well.   Of course.  
But a lot of different stuff, yes.   
   
 Q.   Would you have maybe preferred a tough three‑set match along the way to guide you exactly with your game, or are you happy to just keep doing it quickly?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think it's much better to play just two sets; much fresher for another one.   Especially that I think those 12 matches almost in a row.   
Of course now it's a little bit better because I have a day off after every singles, but it's always better to play short than three hours out there.  
   
 Q.   What did you do well today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think I was really solid from the beginning, trying to be focused.   Especially in the beginning of the first set I was really tight, and I think that game when I was serving when it was 2‑1, I think it was really important game.   
I think then I start to play better, and of course in the second set I was trying to, you know, to start good as well and not to lose my focus.  
That's it, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel that you're stepping up your intensity with each match at this tournament?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I really had a lot of good matches against top players this year, and I must say I'm really playing good and everything is working.  
Well, I just hope I keep going.   Of course now is gonna be harder and harder playing against seeded players.  
We'll see.   
   
 Q.   Do you think there is improvement though with each round?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think so.   The first matches are always tough, especially every tournament is a little bit different, different tennis, different courts.   The first one or two matches they're always a little bit different, a little bit tricky.  
Here the showcourts, center courts, are almost indoor, and then you're playing outside and it's outside with wind.   I think you have to be prepared for everything here.  
   
 Q.   Is this your best winning streak of your career?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think so.   I think I never win 12 matches in a row, no.  
   
 Q.   Is 13 an unlucky number in Poland?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   There is.   I didn't say that.   
   
 Q.   Are you superstitious?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, not really, no.   Not at all, actually.  
   
 Q.   What did you do between the end of last season and getting ready for this season?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I had vacation for almost two weeks.   Then I came back to Poland.  
   
 Q.   You got away to the sunshine?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Exactly.   
I did my third semester in university, so I was studying for one month like very, very hard to finish that.   Also practicing, as well.   I was pretty busy.   
   
 Q.   How do you discipline yourself to study when you've been traveling the world and playing in front of huge crowds?   It's two different worlds.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   As I was saying, it's good to know something more than just play forehand, backhand.   Of course it was really tough to studying and being professional tennis player.   
I must say they really help me out and I can do my exam whenever I'm ready.   So when I'm ready, I'm just calling them and I'm going to university and having exams.   
Without a doubt for sure it's impossible to study.  
   
 Q.   What are you studying?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Tourism in the Polish University in Krakow.  
   
 Q.   Any thoughts only your next opponent?   They're playing now.   It's Jankovic or Ivanovic.   Will you watch?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I have a couple of things to do right now, but I know them for long time.  
Actually, it's very hard to say who's going to win today.   But I have played them couple times, both of them.   If I'm going to have chance, I will watch as well, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT