APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/D. Cibulkova
  6‑0, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Were you as surprised as us with the score? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   Definitely I didn't really expect that at all.   She's also great player, top player, and I saw her playing whole week pretty much.   She really had some great wins this week, so definitely didn't really expect that score at all.

Q.   Did you get to speak to her afterwards?   Was there an injury we weren't aware of?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, I didn't see her afterwards.   I was just doing my things.   I think on my side that I couldn't really see what was going on on the court.   In the beginning I think she wanted too much.   Then I think in the beginning also a little bit nervous. 
This is a final, so it's always a little bit different than the ones before.   I think in the second set she really didn't know what to do.   I think I was just playing at same level whole match, and that's it. 

Q.   It seemed like in the second set that you sort of knew she was going to miss if you got enough balls back in the court, no?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It's always a little bit different because in your head it's just like, I just lost set 6‑Love and I have to win the game.   It's always tough to play with this feeling.   I think she also had those thoughts in her head and it's always a little bit harder.
I was really serving good in the second set, so it was better.   Well, for sure a little bit too much mistakes from her side, yeah, definitely.

Q.   Did you feel bad for her at all?   I know you're supposed to have killer instinct in tennis, but like in the last game when she missed an easy overhead did you start feeling like, oh?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, this is tennis and this is sport.   Sometimes things happen like that.   But of course I feel bad.   This was the final, so it's always supposed to be tight, long match.   It was 6‑Love, 6‑Love.   She didn't deserve that score.   Definitely not. 

Q.   How are you feeling?   The last two weeks couldn't have gone much better for you heading into the Open. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I'm extremely happy that I won two titles in a row not even losing one set.   Really been amazing two weeks. 
So, yeah.

Q.   Australia is a land of punters and people that like to bet on sport.   Would you ask anyone to put money on you for the Australian Open? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I don't know.   (Smiling.)   Australian Open is a different tournament, different story, and I just have to start from the beginning.
So, well, it's different tournament.   I just hope I can play at same level out there as well. 

Q.   Had a chance to look at your draw?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I heard something, but I didn't see the draw.   Before the final I was just trying to be focused on this match today and didn't want to really think about Melbourne.
So for sure I will check now, after. 

Q.   You've had some good winning streaks before.   Is there any special feeling when you start going that you feel like, I'm just not going to lose the next couple weeks? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, every match is different story and different opponent.   Today definitely I went on court and I was really feeling good.   I really felt the ball and everything was working, so I can't really complain.
Even I had already eight matches in my legs in a row.   So definitely I was really a little bit surprised that I was really feeling good, and especially that I went on court to warmup at 5:00 and it was so hot and so humid and I was like, Oh, my God.   That was going to be disaster.
I was even warming up shorter than usual because it was so hot.   Then I went on center court and everything was perfect, so......
(Smiling.)

Q.   Is there any improvement left you can make to your game?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think if I'm going to play like that, like today, in Melbourne, I will be very happy.   So we'll see. 

Q.   Anywhere in particular you think you can make the next step? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, it's always something to improve, so I'm still going to work hard.   It's not like it's going to be easy and I can just stop practicing and it's going to be fine.
Of course now it's not much time to rest because I'm playing Monday already in Melbourne.   Tomorrow I'll just go there and Sunday practice once and have a tournament to go.

Q.   Where is your belief at going into Melbourne?   Do you believe you can win that Grand Slam? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course now wherever I go I just always think I can win it.   I think Melbourne is also that kind of tournament. 
I think being top 10, top 5 already for a couple years, I think it means that I can also win the Grand Slam.

Q.   So two titles in a row.   Do you have time to celebrate even for five minutes, or just got to think, Oh, Grand Slam?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, we said with my coach if we win we going to go, but of course not drink, not party, just to have a huge piece of cheesecake.   So at least that.   (Smiling.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT