APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 9, 2013
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/R. Vinci
  6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What a difference a day makes. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, yeah, today feels like it was freezing compared to yesterday.   I think it was perfect weather to play, around 25 degrees, but for sure wind was also kind of tough today.
But I think I was playing quite good with that wind.

Q.   This is the seventh win so far for you this season.   Almost won your own Grand Slam. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, that's right.

Q.   Perfect start for you leading into Melbourne? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I think I already had a lot of good matches already before Australian Open, so I'm very happy about that, that I could play my best tennis from the beginning of the year.
I can't complain. 

Q.   Do you feel you had to really fight for today?   There were some critical moments, particularly at the end of the first set and the end of the second set where it could have gone either way. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I knew that she's playing great tennis and she's very consistent player.   Pretty much she's not missing.   Everything goes back to the other side.   She's not give up any free points.
So I think the thing was today that I was really trying to play more aggressive and coming to the net more often and even serve and volley sometimes.   I think that was the key of that match.

Q.   How did you identify that you needed to play more aggressive?   Was that just in homework studying her or just in general in your game?   Is that the key to making the next step?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think against those players that she's playing a lot of slice and tennis that she's not missing, then I think I just need to play more aggressive and trying to win the points by myself.
So that's what I was trying to do today. 

Q.   How do you prepare a strategy for a match?   Do you and your coach work out a plan, or do you just go on court?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   To be honest, when I'm playing against someone that I really know and I played couple times before, I know what I have to do. 
Of course this is the different situation when I'm playing against someone that I don't know and this is the first meeting.   Then it's for sure a little bit different.
Otherwise it's just of course every match is different.   The surface also makes big different.   So pretty much after few games I know what I have to do to win the match.

Q.   Looking back on your Wimbledon final appearance, has that changed your outlook or your game or you as a person? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course it was like the dreams come true to be in the major final, definitely, but I think nothing changed.   It's just that for sure I really have more confidence that I can be in the final of a Grand Slam and I can win it as well.
So I'll try to do that.   (Smiling.)

Q.   You had such a great year last year.   What do you want to achieve this year?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It's always pretty similar goals every year:   to win the Grand Slam and to be No. 1. 
Last year was pretty close to both of them, so, well, I will try this year, definitely.

Q.   What will you do differently or try to add to take that next step? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure win some more matches, especially in the Grand Slam.   (Smiling.)

Q.   If you had to choose between being No. 1 and winning a Grand Slam, can you tell us which one you would choose and explain why?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   This is always a tricky question.   I want both so I can't choose.   (Smiling.) 

Q.   Men's draw had another two withdrawals with injury today.   It must be a real juggling act working out how many tournaments to play before a Grand Slam in Australia, especially coming out of the European winter.   It's also so early in the year.   You've played two tournaments now, so you're one of the believers that you should get as much match practice as possible?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Everyone has different schedule.   So far I feel good, and I'm very happy that I can play good matches, already seven in a row. 
Well, I think this year I did first time that I played two tournaments before.   I never did that before.   So far it was good, so I'm happy with my performance and still feel good.   I'm going to keep going. 

Q.   What would it mean for tennis in Poland if you could succeed in your goal of winning a Grand Slam?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure that would be huge.   Tennis is not that big sport in Poland.   We didn't have much tennis players.   So for sure that would be huge, yeah.

Q.   Do you have a preference as to who you would play in a semifinal here?   Would you like one of them to win tonight over the other? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Doesn't really matter.   I think it's going to be Na Li.   I think she's really in good shape.   Saw her playing a little bit before.   I think it will be her. 
But you never know; it's tennis. 

Q.   Your injuries that you had last season, did you recover from those during the break, and how do you feel generally physically?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I had a lot of treatment and rehab in the off‑season.   So far I feel good and still one piece, so it's good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT