TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 27, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/A. Radwanska
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How tired were you out there today, and when did it really start to hit you? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, actually yesterday.   (Smiling.)   Those last two matches really killed me, especially that I didn't have the day off.   I really need that.
And especially that surface.   You know, it's very sticky, so three and a half hours is a lot.   I'm really tried today and I really wanted to run, but my legs didn't.

Q.   With your game you need to be able to move well to have chance against someone like Serena, don't you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   In this kind of tournament when it's just eight of us you really have to be fit every match to win.
It's not like 10% or something is really not enough.

Q.   What did she say to you afterwards at the net?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   She was surprised that I really tried after those kind of matches.   I'm like, Yeah, this is a tournament that you just fight until the end.   Of course I knew that I'm not that fresh like I was before. 
I was trying, but of course Serena played too fast.   I just couldn't do anything. 

Q.   Looking back on the year, starting the year ranked outside of the top 5 and now inside the top 5, a chance at No. 1, did you believe that you could be this high ranked at the beginning of the year?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, to be honest, not really.   It was really great year, especially that was really close to No. 1.   I was couple of weeks No. 2 and first Grand Slam final.
You know, it's been a great year, and hope I can reach those things next year.

Q.   What did you prove to yourself this year that you maybe didn't realize about yourself as a player? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, I've been couple of years top 10, but never that close to be No. 1.   I was really working hard.   You know, I won some big tournaments, but never that good at Grand Slam.
You know, I was saying to myself, If I can win Miami or Beijing I can do also good in a Grand Slam.   So I was really looking forward for the Grand Slam and trying to reach at least semifinals. 

Q.   How does the Australian Open suit you as a Grand Slam as the next one?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I really like Australia and I always looking forward to go there.   Of course it's a little bit tough.   It's beginning of the season. 
But I really had great games there ‑ two quarterfinals ‑ so I really like the tournament.   I like the Grand Slam, so, yeah. 

Q.   Your father was here for the week.   Was he here to help coach or just for support? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think pretty much both.   I was here before with my other coach and he just came for matches. 
But my dad is always going to be my dad and coach, and I'm practicing with him at home.
So I can say that I have two coaches.   If they are both here, I have two coaches.   (Smiling.)

Q.   And vacation plans?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, yes.   Can't wait for that.   Yeah, for sure I need it, especially now.   For sure not going to hold my racquets for next couple of days, that's for sure.
Then after vacation, back to reality and practice again.

Q.   Do you know where you're going yet for vacation?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I know.   (Smiling.)

Q.   First of all, can we know where you're going? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   How do you think?   (Smiling.)

Q.   Can you say us?   Can you tell us? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It will be hot.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Secondly, do you think it was unfair that she had a day off yesterday just before the semifinals? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, the schedule for sure suits Serena better in this case.   But, you know, you never know how it's going to be.
I was also lucky to have the day off after my second match, though, so, you know, it was actually no chance to have another day off.
It was just bad luck for me and a little bit lucky for her.   But you never know how it's going to be and how you going to play matches. 
Here unfortunately this tournament is not that long.   It's just six days, so...
When you play all the time someone from top, it's tough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT