TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 26, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/S. Errani
  6‑7, 7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What's your overall feeling at the moment?   Relief?   Exhaustion?   Excited to make the semis? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think altogether of course I'm exhausted.   I never played so many hours last three days, so was a lot of tennis.   Now for sure it's going to be hard; no day off. 
I really need to be ready for tomorrow.   But I'm actually really happy that at least one of those marathon matches I could win and made for the first time semifinal. 

Q.   In the second set she had that really long game to hold to 5‑4.   I think you had four break points, and then you came off your chair and you just ran through the next three games.   Talk about what were you thinking on the changeover, and how did you ever manage to do that? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think when I'm playing for so long already I was just thinking, You know, just pretty much fight until the end.   It was good game with my serve when it was 4‑5.   Actually, you know, it's always more confident after these kind of set.
I was happy to come back.   Actually I start pretty good in the third set, but obviously she's a big fighter so she didn't give up as well.   So I really had to play my best tennis until the end of the match, because every game was the big fight. 

Q.   You hadn't had too many problems against her before and beat her I think easily in Madrid.   Were you surprised at her level tonight? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, to be honest, not really.   I saw that she's playing good here; especially I think the surface well fits her.   You know, it's slow and the bounce is pretty high.
So I think it's good for her.   I knew that it's going to be a lot of running today, but I didn't know that we going to play for three and a half hours. 

Q.   You had very long games in this tournament.   Do you think it's going to be a problem tomorrow? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I will do everything in my power to do as much treatment as possible and to go on court tomorrow in one piece. 
Pretty much I have nothing to lose playing Serena.   She's a great champion and playing great tennis last couple weeks or months.
So I'm just going to go on court and enjoy.

Q.   When you look back at the Wimbledon final, what's the general emotion that you have?   What's the thing that you remember, that sticks with you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure when I was going on the Centre Court it was different feeling than usual final.   It was amazing.   Just the dream come true when you go on Centre Court on the last day of the Grand Slam.   It was the great experience, so for sure I will remember that moment for a long time. 
Here is a little bit different story, and especially that I really need that day off tomorrow.   But no choice.   Well, like I'm saying, just going to go on court and try and play my best tennis. 

Q.   At the end of the first set after that long 34‑shot rally and you missed the backhand on set point and you threw your racquet, have you ever broken a racquet before other than that one time at the Australian Open?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, I never broke the racquet.   Never in my life. 

Q.   The crowd were fantastic today, if you would agree.   Did they help you in this win? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Say again.

Q.   The crowd, the supporters, did they help you in this win?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I can't...

Q.   The fans, did they help you? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   The fans are great.   I can see a lot of Polish flag and Polish voices as well.   So, you know, you can really see that the people really loves tennis here and really enjoying, especially when we playing long and tight game. 
They really love it and really getting excited.   Hope they enjoyed that one as well. 

Q.   Two things:   The Wimbledon final, did you take out of it, even though you lost, that, yes, you can play with her and beat her on a good day?   And number two, on this surface here ‑ you've never played her on hard court ‑ is that more of an advantage to you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I don't know.   It's hard to say.   She's playing also very good here, and especially I think she's more fresh than I am right now. 
So, well, will be tough for sure, but the surface is for sure different than last time we played.
For who's going to better, we'll see tomorrow. 

Q.   Errani hits a very different ball from both sides.   The forehand have more topspin and the backhand is more direct.   Is it tough to adjust to these kinds if differences? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, not really.   I mean, all the players playing different tennis.   I knew that Sara is playing a little bit also like Spanish, so not everything is really flat and also a little bit of spin as well.
I played her before couple of times, so I knew that she's mixing up and really playing smart tennis. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT