TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 23, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/P. Kvitova
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That was your first win over Petra this career.   What was the difference today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I saw the statistic before the match and I thought it would be nice to change.  
But it's always tough, especially for the first match.   Every week is different surface, especially here.   It's really hard to adjust.  
Just very happy that I could play really my best tennis today and close that match in two sets.   
   
 Q.   This is a round robin format where if you lose you can still keep going in the tournament.   How important is it still to win your first match here and get the week off to a good start?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure it's a good start.   It's always better than love, zero, so that's why it's very important that from the beginning I really can play my best tennis.   
But it's not over yet.   Every match is very important, especially that everything can change pretty much in the last minute.   
   
 Q.   You talked about having to make adjustments and change different surfaces and all that.   How is the court playing?   Is it quick?   Slow?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's actually slow, slower than the usual hard court, so for sure it was a good move that I was here a little bit earlier and trying to adjust to that surface for couple of days before.  
I think was the good move.   
   
 Q.   What is your first impression about the atmosphere here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It's always great.   I remember the crowd last year.   We really can say that they really love tennis and they really supporting.   
For sure I really enjoy playing here, so I'm happy to be back here.   
   
 Q.   I know it's been a long year, but where is your motivation level to come through and win the tournament?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, in this tournament I think it's easy to have motivation because this is a tournament that I'm working pretty much whole year to be here.  
It's not just about one tournament.   To be here, you really have to play whole year good.   It's just eight of us and it's the last tournament, so I think we all trying to push ourselves to play the best tennis.   
For sure we are all tired after ten months playing.   
   
 Q.   So because it's just the eight of you and you're the eight best players this year, do you say to yourself, This year I want to show my best tennis because this is the best group?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course it's never easy here.   You're playing against top players pretty much like every day, so not even time to rest.   That's why I'm just also happy that I could play my first match in two sets.   
I was close last year to make the semifinals, so that's why I really wanted to do it this year.   For sure I'm going to try my best, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You've been on tour from before the WTA Roadmap was put into place obviously to now.   Can you talk a little bit about how different it feels now that the Roadmap is in place for two, three years, kind of the difference in commitment to tournaments, the pressure to play?   Is it better?   Worse?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It's always a good and a bad side.   For sure it change a lot, especially for the top 10 players.   We have a lot of commitments and tournaments to play.  
But I think it's also a lot of good things.   It's much more bigger tournaments, so it's a little bit more to choose.   They are trying to make it a little bit easier for us.   But I think I can't complain right now.   
Pretty much I know all my tournaments for next year, and that's why I think I don't have a problem to choose the tournaments.   
   
 Q.   How do you rank the importance of this tournament in comparison to Grand Slams and Olympics and stuff like that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It's hard to compare because every tournament is different.   For sure it's one of the most important tournaments for us.   It's the last one.   It's just eight us, eight of the best players this season, so it's always going to be very important for everyone.  
So it's closing the season, and we all now are fighting for the best ranking in the end of the season.   
   
 Q.   You are playing against Maria Sharapova tomorrow.   What would you like to say about this game?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, we played couple of times.   Well, what can I say?   For sure she's playing well last couple of months and really had great season as well.  
So, you know, just hope I can play at least like that or also the best tennis like I played in Miami final.   
   
 Q.   You said you already know what your schedule is going to look like next year.   Would you want more flexibility in choosing where to play?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always a tricky question, because it's all the good side that I'm playing just the big tournaments.   
But about flexibility, for sure sometimes it's hard because you never know if you going to able to play because of the injury or something.  
But, you know, so far it was good for me.   It was okay.   I can't complain so far.   
   
 Q.   Did you think she played very nervous today?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   For sure was a little bit up and down, especially with the serve.   Was a lot of breaks.   I think she didn't really use her serve like was really always her big weapon.   
I think today she wasn't serving that good, that's why I could really break her a couple of times in the set.   I think it was the key for me in that match.   But, you know, the first match is always tough.   I think we all might play different the next matches.  
   
 Q.   So when you play someone like her or Sharapova, do you say to yourself, First I'm going to see if they're on and I'll play consistent, or I know they're great players and I have to push myself more and not just play consistent?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Every match and tournament is different, especially on the different surface.   Here we playing indoor.   It's never going to be the same.   
So I think it's always good to see after a couple games how it is and how the opponent is playing, and then I'm trying to think about a tactic, what should I do to win that match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT