TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 22, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Agnieszka. 

Q.   It's your second time for the Championships in Istanbul.   I would like to know what is the representation you said you have you had of Turkey in Istanbul before coming in here?   What did you know about the politics and what did you learn since the first team you came here? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   First time in Istanbul was few years ago.   It was a small tournament going on here before the French Open.   So been here already couple times, and I really had great memories from here winning the title in singles and then in doubles.
Of course now it's I think the goal for everyone to be in the Championships here in Istanbul, so I was really working on that since the beginning of the year.   So I'm just very excited to be here again.   I'm just going to try to play my best tennis here again. 

Q.   You got drawn into the same group as Maria Sharapova.   You've had a lot of matches against her that have gone both ways.   You won the most recent match in Miami, but lost a lot before that.   What do you think about the state of the rivalry or matchup with her now?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think every match is different story.   Of course it's different time, different surface, different tournament.   Of course I lost much more than I won. 
Like I say, it's a different match.   I think it's going to be another great challenge. 

Q.   Just talk about your overall year, what you're happy about, what you thought you could improve, and just what the season meant to you. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, definitely was my best season in my career being first time No. 2 in the world and being in the major final.   I think this is the thing that I was working on when I was a kid.   I just hope I can play some more major final. 
I think it was a day I'm going to remember for a long time.   Of course I'm still trying to be No. 1.   I was close this year, but just going to try next year.   Hopefully I will play the same good tennis. 

Q.   When you got close to No. 1 and you were unable to achieve it, was it very frustrating for you, or did you just say, I'll put that aside today and next year it will be mine? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always a little bit disappointing, especially that it was very close in couple tournaments and I had opportunity. 
But, well, being No. 2 is also not a bad thing.   (Smiling.) Just going to try next year, and hopefully I can make it. 

Q.   Can I ask you, outside of rankings, if you were given a question who's the player of the year for this year, how would you decide that?   Ranking?   Number of titles?   How big the titles are?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think Serena is for sure this summer the best player in the world winning two Grand Slams and Olympic Games between. 
So I think for sure she's on fire. 

Q.   Aga, how often do you get to go back to Poland?   When you're there, can you sense how big your profile has gotten after this year? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, always trying to go home after the tournament if I have a few days off.   Now I was almost two weeks at home after Beijing, so it's always good to be home.   I'm just feeling good at home.   I'm practicing at home not somewhere else. 
For sure now tennis is more popular then before.   Just very happy to see more kids playing tennis.   Tennis now is more popular than few years ago.   So just very happy to be part of the Polish tennis history now that tennis is bigger than before.

Q.   You and your sister have been on tour together for a long time.   She's had her best results this year by far, and you both will probably be seeded at the Australian Open now.   How much do you think your success this year has helped to raise her level, too? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I hope so, but for sure she's really playing well this year.   She had some good run last couple of months, so just very happy for her.   She really deserve it.   She was really working hard for that.
So I'm very happy for her that she's for the first time top 30.   For sure it's great for her. 

Q.   What would you like to say about the tournament, the atmosphere, and who do you think is the toughest one?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Here? 

Q.   Yeah. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   We're talking about top eight players in the world, so I think it doesn't matter who you play against, it's not going to be easy. 
Those seven players are the best this year.   I play against them this year and it was always very tough matches, so I'll just try to enjoy.   Hopefully I can make better result than last year. 

Q.   Can you talk about playing Petra, what is difficult about her game, what's it like to face her and that type of power and what you can do to turn that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, she's very powerful player and big serve and she's lefty.   She's always a little more different.
Of course she's playing well here.   She's defending champion.   So, you know, for sure I really to have play my best tennis to beat her here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT