MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 22, 2017
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  First question:  When did you arrive in Miami and how are you feeling physically and health and all that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I arrived Thursday evening, so I been here a couple days adjusting to new conditions.   
 Q.  What are some of condition differences you find between Indian Wells and Miami?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely the ball is not flying that much.  As we know, in Indian Wells it's very tough and it's really dry.   
Obviously this year it's not as humid as always in Miami.  Seems like a really perfect weather to play:  not too hot, not too cold, not cloudy, not rainy.   
Definitely just the air is different and the ball is behaving totally different.  That's why it's always good to be here a little bit earlier.   
Well, that is why I think I just hope I can really adjust good and play better tennis this week.   
 Q.  At this point of the season is it too early to assess where your tennis is?  How do you assess the first three months of your season?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, it's really early.  It's March.  Definitely couple good results in the beginning of the year.  Obviously it's always disappointing when you lose in the first week in a Grand Slam, that's for sure.   
But, well, sometimes you just playing the player that is the best tournament in the life and what you can do about it.   
But, well, I think it's still early.  There is a lot of tournaments still there, the big ones as well, so we'll see how it goes.  I'm focusing on this one.  I really like to play here.  I really feel good.  I just really hope I can play the best tennis.   
 Q.  Does having that experience help you have that kind of perspective at this point even if your results haven't been as amazing as we know you can get?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think every tournament is different story.  You just have to start from the beginning, and doesn't matter what happened last week or two months ago.   
You just go on court and try and play your best.  Sometimes there is your day and you can play your best; sometimes not going your way.  When you work hard and when you doing your things, sooner or later it's going to come, even when there is couple of weeks that's it's not really going your way.   
 Q.  Few of the players yesterday were talking about the Indian Wells final and feeling like it was a win for the locker room and maybe going to inspire some players.  Curious if you had a chance to watch it and what you made of it.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually, I didn't see the final.  I just saw the men's final.  Then I saw some highlights, and obviously I saw a lot of Elena's other matches.  She was playing really great tennis.  She was hitting the ball really well from the beginning of the tournament and confident and very solid.  Bit-hitter game.   
She really deserve that title, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT