CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/S. Zhang
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you make comments on your opponent?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I actually just realized today that I played her before.   I think all those Chinese names are pretty similar, and I get confused.   (Smiling.)  
Well, it was my first match, so it was a little bit tough, especially when I came from Tokyo, which is so different courts, different balls.   Here it's much slower.  
I'm just very happy that I could win that match in two sets and play a good game.  
   
 Q.   You are defending champion, and last year when you win the title, you dance on the court.   Yesterday when we interviewed Djokovic, he said he's not minding dancing together with you.   I'm not sure whether you have the similar ideas as what he did.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, yes, I had the question that I dance last year with Andrea.   I say, Of course, it's no problem.   I can dance after the final if I'm going to be in the final, of course.   Somebody just has to remind me.  
Novak, of course, for sure he's a great dancer, so for sure he's gonna be also do fine.   I would love to dance with him.   It would be fun, for sure.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   The result of a tennis game can be changeable, and especially today it's a tough game.   Everybody was cheering for Zhang Shuai.   How do you make justifications in your game?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always a little bit tough playing against a player from the country, especially here that the crowd are really excited and really cheering for the Chinese players.   
When I go on court, I kind of prepare for that.   It's obvious that of course they're gonna support their own player, but I actually was happy because I think I have also some Chinese fans, as well.   It was not like all of them against me.   It was not that bad.  
   
 Q.   You are the defending champion here.   I assume you spend a lot of quality time in players' area last year.   The tournament upgrade the players' lounge and the player restaurant this year.   Have you noticed difference?   Can you have some comments on that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I think it's very good, especially that everything is in the one place.   It's very close, the restaurant and players' lounge and the media and everything.   I think it's good.   It's much better.   Everything is I think easy‑going.   It's good.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk a little bit about your strategy going into the match that you just played?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, like I say, the first match is always a little bit difficult, especially that we have to adjust the court, which is much slower than the last week.   
I was just trying to play aggressive and, you know, some kind of points she was playing unbelievable.   I really had to be careful, especially in the second set, that she really start to play really good.   
I'm just very happy I could come back in the second set and close that match in straight sets, because every match, you know, it's tough, especially here that you're playing almost every day.  
   
 Q.   The eighth game of the second set, do you think that game is the key point that make you to win this match?   Because this game last about 16 minutes.   So how did you break her serve finally?   The second question:   Do you think that the opponent is potential player and also have some talent if she want to, like you, big achievement, what should she do to improve herself?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, that game for sure was the key of the match, especially that it was very long game on very important moment.   4‑All, 5‑3 is a huge difference.   It was a lot of good rallies.   
I was for sure really relieved after that game that it was 5‑3.   She was really playing unbelievable points at that game.   Of course for sure maybe if it were 4‑All maybe it would be a third set.   You never know.  
About her, for sure she's a very talented player and moving very well and hitting the ball very well.   So if she's gonna really work hard and for sure she can be on top, yes.   
   
 Q.   You just mentioned the court here is pretty slow.   Do you think that if you have advantage over other players because your game use the court here pretty well?   You won last year.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course I was really playing very well last year, and even I played also in the end in Tokyo, I didn't have much time to adjust the courts, but pretty much every tournament is a different story, different opponent and different game.  
But I think, you know, it suits me last year, just so hope for the same this year, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT