CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese, please.   
   
 Q.   For next round you're going to fight against Zhang Shuai.   Did you play with her before?   Did you have a better understanding of her?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think I didn't really play against her before, so I don't really know her.   So I think just after a couple of games I will see how it is, and then I will see what I have to do to win that match.  
   
 Q.   You are used to being good friends with Azarenka but actually have some unpleasant experience this year.   Will you bother to make a further explanation to that unpleasant experience this year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, actually, we're still okay, we are still friends, so I don't know really what is the question about.   
   
 Q.   In this Wimbledon this year you have make a breakthrough.   Last year Asian tour you made a lot of achievement in China Open and Tokyo tournament, the title.   You just lose in Tokyo tournament.   In that case, what do you have for this year in terms of the expectation for outcome of China Open?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure last year I already have a great run, especially Tokyo and Beijing, winning both of them in a row.   This year I could make the final again, which was still great thing last week.   I was really happy about that.   
Of course it's always disappointing to lose in the final, especially when it's tight and three‑set match.   Nadia was really playing good that day.   Here, I still have one more title to defend, and I will do everything in my power to defend the title here.   
But for sure it's not going to be easy.   A lot of top players are playing here.   It's never easy.   Of course I came here to win.   
   
 Q.   Your sister have a good performance in this season this year.   Did you help trying to communicate with her, or did you give guidance to her before?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure my sister really have great season this year, and for the first time ranking around 30.   I'm just really happy for her that she's playing much better this year.   She had a great season and great matches.   
Well, I'm just looking forward to, you know, to be both on the top and playing the same tournaments, yes.  
THE MODERATOR:   English questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Generally, how do you feel about China Open?   I mean, last year you were champion, and this year you have to defend your title.   Do you have any memorable experience in China Open?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's a big tournament, so since the first round I am playing against some good players.   So for sure I really have to play my 100% to win that tournament again.   
Like I'm saying, it's never easy.   It's a big draw and always coming from Tokyo, which is also have some good matches there.  
But like I was saying before, for sure I'm going to try that, and we will see how it's gonna be.  
   
 Q.   So this season you made it into your first Grand Slam final.   Looking ahead to next season, what are you looking to improve on, and what are you looking to do with your game to win a Grand Slam maybe next year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure I really had great season this year for the first time No. 2 in the world and for the first time a Major final.  
Of course I will work hard to win the Grand Slam.   And improving, I think there is always something to improve, everything.   This is a sport that, you know, we can always improve something, and, you know, to win a Grand Slam final is what I need for sure winning seven matches.   I will try.   I have four chances next year, so we'll see.   
   
 Q.   Last year you and Andrea Petkovic played a good game in the final.   After the match, you danced with her on the court.   So this year, if you are able, if you will defend your title, will you dance again on the court?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I promise if I win that tournament I can even dance more.   You remind me if I will be in the final.   (Smiling.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT