U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/J. Jankovic
  6‑3, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It was a tough one out there today.   Maybe you were the most solid player on the key points?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, for sure she's very consistent player.   We played couple of times against each other, and it was always long and tough matches.   I was prepared for that.  
Especially with the hot conditions, you really have to fight more yourself than against the opponent, because today was really hot.  
   
 Q.   You are the kind of player who won't ever beat herself, like the player won't take the victory from you with winners or your level, making easy mistakes or something.   Do you feel that on the court that you're solid?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I'm trying.   Of course I think it's also one of the keys that, you know, I'm on top 10 for a couple years.   I think because of this is it, as well.   And trying to mix it up of course depends who is on other side of the court.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel a little bit today especially that you're playing against a mirror image of yourself?   You guys have such similar games out there.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, for sure.   I think we are playing a little bit similar.   So that's why I think we always playing long rallies, long games, long points.   
We always have to run a lot, you know, in our matches, for sure.  
   
 Q.   What is the difference now that you're up in the top 5 and J.J. has kind of dropped a bit.   Is it just that consistency, or what do you see it as the difference maker?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, she was No. 1 and she was in top 4 a long time.   You always have couple bad tournaments or worse tournaments.   You know, this is tennis, so you can't really play all the time amazing.   
So I think now I think she's coming back.   She really was playing good today.   I think if she's going to play like that, she will be back soon.  
   
 Q.   Do you look at her and say, I have to be careful because the same thing could happen to me as happened to her, you know, she goes into a bad period?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it might happen.   I don't know.   I'm just trying to avoid that and, you know, trying to play my best tennis every tournament.   
So far I'm, you know, not really dropping more than top 10, so actually I'm happy about that.  
   
 Q.   You're asked about this regularly, but how is your shoulder doing?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's quite good.   I can't complain.   Playing pretty well.   Not really bothering me at all, actually.   It's good.  
   
 Q.   Your next round, Vinci?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think she's another tough opponent.   No mistakes at all.   A lot of slices, spin, and then suddenly some strong hits.   I think against her I think I just have to do everything.   
The last time we played, I think it was Madrid.   It was clay.   But this clay I think was faster than the hard court here.   (Laughter.)  
I think it was even better for me to play there on the clay.   But, yeah, we'll see.  
   
 Q.   You seem to handle the conditions much better than she did today.   She had a pretty important point and she missed the overhead completely.   Few other times she lost them all in the sun.   How much did it bother you and why do you think you were able to handle those conditions so well?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure today was really, really hot and humid and also windy.   It was tough.  
But, well, I came prepared for that.   I was practicing here before the match and every day was like that.   I'm trying to use the ice in the first changeover and trying to, you know, stay calm and take the shade as well as much as possible, because it was really hot.   I was feeling like I was melting there.   (Smiling.)  
I survived the match.   In the second set I was just better for a couple of points.   I think she was also doing good.   After some rallies of course it was some worse moments I think for her and for me, as well.   But, you know, you have to keep going.  
Yeah, sometimes, like I said, you really struggling with yourself more than against opponent because of the weather.  
   
 Q.   When you have a player like that whose confidence is maybe a little bit shaky because of her recent results and things, do you tell yourself, Well, I just have to stay in there and be patient; at some point I'll get the error or mistake and she'll mentally lose it?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   Especially today it was a lot of breaks.   I think everything could happen today.  
So what I was trying to do, just fight till the end.   Was a lot of the games that was like 30‑All, 30‑Love, and then suddenly I was winning the games.   It was a lot of weird points.  
So I think I was, like you I said, just fight till the end, and even sometimes it was great rallies and some few mistakes.   I think I'm just very happy I could close this match in two sets, because in these conditions it's big difference to play three sets.  
   
 Q.   Going back to Vinci, why do you think it is that some of these players are having success later in their careers?   We're seeing fewer younger girls come up and be in the top.   Is there something in the game that sort of changed in the last five years in your perspective?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   That's a good question, actually.   Because in the top you can see some young players and also some players around 30.   But I think everybody playing different tennis in the women's tour, especially some Italian or Spanish, different than some powerful American girls, for example.   
I'm 23 and I thought I'm still young, but I'm not anymore.   You can see there are some 18 year old girls coming up and playing some good tennis here.   Like I said, I think everybody playing different tennis.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT