U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/C. Navarro
  4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk about the match.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure the beginning was a little bit tough.   She's a very tough opponent.   You know, a lot of spins, some slice, I think a lot of different shots.   
I think I just make a bit too many mistake in the beginning.   
Then for sure I just start to play much better and make her run.   I just feel much better later on, especially in the third set.   So happy that I could come back very well.   
   
 Q.   What does it mean to come in here as the second seed?   Is No.1 on your mind?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Being No. 2, for sure, is a great thing for me.   So I'm just very happy that I could be first time that high.   
Of course, you know, being on top is not just because of one or two tournaments.   It's at least 10 good tournaments.   So it means it was really great season for me.   
Of course, I'm not that far from No.1, but I still far anyway.   Of course, I'm going to do everything, you know, to be No.1, as well.   
But, you know, for sure I know I have chance, especially that I didn't play that well last year in US Open, so I don't have much point to defend.   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   Is that an ambition of yours, to be the top player in the world?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think it's the dream for every player that play professional tennis, to win the Grand Slam and to be No.1.   Yeah, of course.   
   
 Q.   Jelena is who you will play next.   Talk about that.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, we played a couple of good matches.   I think the last one was in Dubai in the semifinal.   Pretty much the same surface.   But it's always different challenge, especially this is a Grand Slam, so everybody play best tennis.   
You know, she's for sure playing very consistent tennis.   It's going to be tough.  
   
 Q.   Didn't seem like in the first set you were playing with a lot of confidence.   Is that because the last few weeks have been tough on you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, uhm, a little bit, yes, especially that I think this year I really needed more matches on hard court just to get used to it.   
Actually, uhm, today I was feeling not bad.   She was just playing a little bit uncomfortable tennis for me.   Then I get used to it a little bit.   
But then I think what I tried to do was play more aggressive in the second and third set, and it was working.  
   
 Q.   When you were down a set and a break, what were you thinking?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, and especially with the breakpoint for 4‑1, as well.   
Well, I think especially this is the Grand Slam, so you fight until the end, you're not giving up.   Of course, this is tennis, so everything can change very quickly.   Especially in the women's tennis, the serve is not that huge weapon.   
That's what I was trying to do, just to fight, play more aggressive.   Then I just won 11 games in a row.   
   
 Q.   Did you see, after a while, her confidence level go down?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think what I saw on my side that she was playing tennis with no mistakes.   She was running a lot.   Then I made her run a lot especially in the end of the second set.   
I think that was the key, that she was a little bit tired, getting tired every game.   I think she didn't have that much power in the third set.   That's what I saw.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your shoulder.   Since Wimbledon your results have not been what they were before that.   Is that injury, or are you just feeling a little bit mentally you needed a break and maybe now you'll get back to where you were?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Uhm, well, I mean, my shoulder is not that bad.   I mean, it's still on the good side.   I'm serving and my shoulder is not going with the ball, so is good.   
But I think those tournaments before US Open are very tough for me.   Different conditions, different balls, not much timing in those places where we play.   I think now I kind of feel the ball more, and hopefully I can do better here.  
   
 Q.   Mentally do you feel fresh enough to be able to do what you did at Wimbledon, or do you feel the season has been so long that you just need to relax now?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course it's a little bit tough, that this is the last Grand Slam.   We all playing eight months already pretty much every week.   It's always a little bit more difficult than the beginning of the year.   
But, uhm, still try my best to go forward.   I'm just hoping, you know, that I can play another major final, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Did you realize when you were down 1‑3 and you had that breakpoint against you, you hit the huge forehand winner, did you realize you were taking a big risk at that point?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   Actually I remember that point.   Well, I think I was angry that I couldn't finish the ball.   I just hit as strong as possible.   Thanks God it was in.   It would be 4‑1, I don't know how would be the end of the second set.   
The good thing is that I was in, and then I think I just feel more confident on court.   I think I was just hitting much better then.   
   
 Q.   For you at that moment maybe moving to a more aggressive standpoint after having all those errors in the first set?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I mean, for sure in the beginning of the match I did some mistakes that I shouldn't do.   But then I just know that I have to play more aggressive.   She's playing some different balls, all those spins, slices, which is difficult.   Especially when it's odd balls, you cannot hit the winners right away.   
I think we played a lot of good rallies.   I think I just was more consistent in the end of the match.   
   
 Q.   Do you play more aggressive when you take on Jankovic in the next round, or do you kind of hit out with her and wait for her to make the errors?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You always have to see what is opponent doing.   Every match is different.   Even if it's the same opponent, every match is different.   
So I'm just going to see how it's going to be.   Then I will think about the tactic.   
   
 Q.   Do you ever notice what your opponents do across the net?   Jankovic has a lot of facial expressions.   Can you see that, or is it just you on your side of the court?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think I'm just focused on my game, not pretty much really watching what the other player's doing on the other side of the net.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT