U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/N. Bratchikova
  6‑1, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Obviously it went well today for first round.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, actually I'm just very happy that I could give it my best in the first match.   It's always difficult for the first match.   Every week it's different surface, different balls.   
I was very happy I could play my first match on stadium.  
   
 Q.   Were you afraid to see if the shoulder was going to be okay?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, it's sometimes worse, but it feels better right now.   That's about it.  
   
 Q.   How difficult were the conditions today?   It's very humid.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, actually conditions this year are very tough, especially last few days was very humid.   Yesterday was raining, and today humid again and windy.   
It wasn't that easy, but I think I'm kind of used to it.   Especially on center we always struggling with the wind.   I think I was prepared for that.  
   
 Q.   How was your shoulder bothering you exactly in New Haven, and what have you done since?   Have you taken any time off after that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always different when I'm playing matches or I'm just practicing and not pushing that much.   Of course I had some rest before.   I'm really taking care of it right now.   It's really better.  
   
 Q.   Coming in as a second seed, what are your expectations for this tournament?   How would you define success here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always a bit harder because the people expecting you to play well and go far in the tournament.   
But just trying not to really think about pressure.   Just doing my best.   Not really have much point to defend from last year.   At least this is the good thing.  
You know, I'm really trying to do better results than last few years.  
   
 Q.   How much does your final appearance at Wimbledon inspire you for here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's different, different surface.   Well, I think I really have good results on hard courts, as well.   If I could win Miami, why I cannot play well here, as well?   
I'm just gonna try to play my best here and we'll see.  
   
 Q.   A word on your next opponent, Carla Suarez Navarro?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think we didn't play, well, for a long time against each other.   It was long time ago.   It's always another challenge.   For sure she's playing different tennis than my first opponent.   I think now I will have to be prepared for more spin.  
   
 Q.   A lot of players talk about, especially when they first come to NewYork, the difficulty of the surroundings, the conditions, the distractions there are.   What was that like when you first came here, and has it changed over the years?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, New York is New York.   It's the traffic, the city, the conditions.   Also the night sessions as well, playing till late and then another match next day.  
But I think we all have to prepare for that.   This is the tournament that every year is the same thing.   We know that New York not gonna change for that, so of course more difficult.   
But I think I will handle it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT