WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/A. Radwanska
  6‑1, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How is the shoulder?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It's okay.   Could be worse.   
   
 Q.   How long has it been bothering you?   We have seen it taped up.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, well, it's on and off since actually last year, to be honest.   But here it's almost near the end of the season and I played a lot this year and changing the surface very often and the balls as well, so it's always not easy.  
   
 Q.   You're the top seed in New Haven next week.   Do you still plan to play there with your shoulder problems or are you thinking about resting more for the US Open?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think I'm just finish my match.   I didn't really think about it.   
But, well, I have a bye there for the first round so I still have a couple of days.   I think I want to try to play there, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Is your body feeling a lot of the matches?   We talked to Angelique Kerber, and she was saying she was feeling a lot of the matches just in her body.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, for sure especially that first couple of matches on hard court, it's always tough, especially when you're going from grass, which is very soft, and then suddenly it's a hard court and playing two big tournaments.   
First round playing a player that you really have to play 100% and long, tough matches.   For sure it's not easy.  
   
 Q.   With respect to today's result, how do you feel about your game?   Yesterday was a little bit of a struggle, as well.   How do you feel about your game at this point in time?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure those two weeks on hard court wasn't my best weeks, that's for sure.   
Well, I was really trying to adjust for those couple of days on hard court, but it's so different.   And my last tournament was in March and, you know, this is just huge difference from the grass.   
So I think I just need some more matches, some more practice on hard court to play better.  
   
 Q.   What is it that Li Na does well?   You played her last week and you played her this week.   What does she do well that could cause you problems?   What were you trying to do to kind of change the match a little bit?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think she's really on fire.   She's really playing great tennis right now, and pretty much ‑‑I mean, I didn't play my best those two weeks for sure, so I couldn't really expect, you know, like huge results.   
But she was just playing really well tennis.   Last week and actually today, as well, even when she's playing two matches in one day, she's still playing great.  
So I will try it, but she was just better.  
   
 Q.   Your results at Olympics weren't what you wanted, but take away good memories from London?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, for sure the first London was much better for me.   (Laughter.)  
The second, not really.   But of course carrying the flag for Poland, it was the great experience.   For sure the Olympics are different tournament, so it's always great to be there and playing for the country.   
Of course losing the match is always disappointing, especially when it's first round or second.   
But, well, I'm just gonna try in four years to get a medal, and for now I can just have experience, you know, in those two Olympics that I just been there.   I tried and I fight until the end, but hoping the third one will be better in more lucky.  
   
 Q.   Did you stay in London for a while?   Did you get to see some other events?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Not really.   First thing the next day I just came here, of course, because of the surface and hard court.   So I didn't really have chance to see others, unfortunately.  
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about you and Urszula talking about maybe an opponent coming up, a common opponent you've both played.   How much dialogue do you have back and forth and talking strategy?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, pretty much every matches that we playing we saw.   We keeping like watching each other.   
But of course it's always easier when you can tell your sister, especially when you played someone couple weeks before and she's playing the same opponent, some strategy and some things that you think it's gonna work.  
But most of the time you just have to go on court and see how it is, because every match is different.   Sometimes some things are working; sometimes it's not.  
But for sure it's always good to talk before the match, yeah.  
   
 Q.   She's done very well recently.   Is this what you expected?   Are you a little surprised at what she's been doing?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I'm not surprised.   She's really working hard for that.   She was struggling with her back for a long time before, so now she's fine.   She's really feeling better and I think playing better, as well.   I think she's more confident, as well.  
I'm just happy for her that she's, you know, playing better and improving her ranking.  
   
 Q.   The other day after her match with Urszula, Serena was talking about how nice it is to have another pair of sisters on the WTA and to see you guys in the locker room and the fact that she sort of identifies with the younger sister.   Do you think about Venus and Serena as comparisons to you guys just on the sisters front?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   I mean, there isn't that many siblings on tour, so it's always great to have a sister on tour.   Especially that, you know, we traveling a lot, our season is 10 months, so it's always great to have sister on tour.  
Actually, she was playing against Serena I was with Venus in the locker room and we were just, you know, watching together first set, so it was fun.  
So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to play doubles or mixed at the US Open?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, probably doubles.   I don't think I'm going to play mixed.   I think it's gonna be too much.  
   
 Q.   With Urszula?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I'm not sure yet.  
   
 Q.   Li Na is working with Carlos Rodriguez.   Did you know this, and what are your thoughts on that, the coaching?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, to be honest, I didn't know that.   I saw him for the first time today.   
Well, for sure he's a great coach.   They might be really a good team, yeah.   
   
 Q.   You're really close to No. 1.   What do you have to do to get there?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think winning some more matches.   That would help, don't you think?   (Laughter.)  
Q.Was today's win, Kerber over Serena, a big surprise for you?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, to be honest, not really.   I think Serena also it was not really her best week.   I think we could see that she was also struggling a bit on court and she didn't really play her best tennis this week.   
She really tried out there, but I think, you know, Angie was more consistent today, for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT