WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/S. Arvidsson
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How did you feel in your first match here as top seed?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, the first match is always the most difficult, especially, you know, every week we play on different surface and different balls and different conditions. 
But I just happy that I went through, especially in the two sets, because today was really, really hot.
Hoping I can play better tennis tomorrow.

Q.   Your sister has been playing really well.   Probably a career high ranking.   How much of that do you think is partially how well you've been doing also?   Do you think the family feeds off each other at all?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think so, but I'm just very happy that, you know, she's playing very good and have some good results last couple weeks.
Actually, I think she's on court now, so I really gonna cheer for her maybe from the locker room because it's really hot out there and I need to rest after my match.
But I think it's great thing to have a sister on tour, especially that we are very close.   I just hope she can be also, you know, maybe not No. 1 but No. 2, because I want to be No. 1.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Are you focused at all on how close you actually are to No. 1 right now?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I know that I am close, but it's, I think, it's still a little bit, you know, far from No. 1.   I'm just going to do everything in my power to be No. 1, at least for a week, so I know that I have chances this year to do that. 
We'll see.

Q.   What are your expectations for the US Open?   Are they changing?   Are they getting higher as you go along?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think at this level, especially I know that I can win big tournaments like Miami or Dubai, you always expecting, you know, to be at least in the semifinals. 
So, I mean, I don't have much points to defend from last year in the US Open, so we will see.   But, well, I just hope I can play my best tennis that I had played at Wimbledon. 

Q.   How were you feeling out there today?   Looked like it was really hot. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, it was really hot out there, but I kind of prepared for that.   I remember from last year that here is very, very hot and humid. 
But, yes, I think playing first match or second match is really tough.

Q.   There has been some talk after the Olympics, which is a best‑of‑three tournament for both men and women, about possibly making Grand Slams also best‑of‑three for the men, as well.   Being on the women's side, how would you feel about that change?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it's pretty much men's tour, so I don't know if I can really talk about it, because they are playing their own court, and I think you really have to ask them.
I think in my opinion, you know, playing best‑of‑three, I think it has to be more time like on the Grand Slam.   Has to be two weeks' tournament, so it's really tough I think every day five‑set matches. 
So, yeah, I think it will be great idea, you know, to play Olympics in two weeks.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT