ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 11, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/A. Radwanska
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It was the same story for Na Li.   How tough is it to be playing twice during the same day?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I think it's a little bit too much, two singles in one day.   It's definitely a lot. 
I think the first match cost me a lot of power.   It was very hot conditions out there.   Two hours later I was playing my second match.
But anyway, of course she had the same situation.   She was just playing too good.   Na Li was just playing unbelievable tennis today.   I really couldn't do anything.

Q.   It was possible for you to be No. 1 with a victory here in Montreal.   Maybe a little bit tougher to accept now that you have been out of the tournament?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, it's always a chance, you know.   I just hope, you know, I will have more opportunity, you know, to be No. 1, and of course I'm going to fight for that every week.   We'll see.

Q.   Do you head to Cincinnati next week?   Are you playing there, as well?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, yes.   I'm going to Cincinnati probably tomorrow.

Q.   There has been numerous tournaments.   The schedule is really, really tight.   Do you think by any means the WTA could or should change anything, especially the years of Olympics?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, Olympics are once every four years, so it's always going to be tight because in tennis our season, it's 10 months, and we playing almost every week.
So I think it's a different situation than other sports.   But in tennis, we have a lot of other big tournaments.   You don't want to miss it.   That's why I think even this week pretty much all the top players are playing because it's still a big event even after Olympics.   Everybody wants to play.

Q.   Which one do you prefer?   Would you prefer to be the winner of a Grand Slam or No. 1 in the world?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always a tricky question, but I want both.   (Smiling.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT