QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 12, 2017
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tell me, what have you been up to since Australia, how you feel physically heading into this tournament?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, after Australia, I had couple days off.  Then, obviously, go back on court.  I had good I think it was two or two and a half week practicing.  Pretty good.  A lot of tennis.  A lot of fitness, as well.
That was a good time at home.
Q. Would you consider this part of your preparation for the rest of the season?  It's quite a big block.  Do you now go into November and December thinking, I also have a block in February?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, it depends how you do in Melbourne.  I wish I have that gap, but...
Two weeks in our season is quite a long time that you can do something.  Of course, I had it, so I used it well, I guess.  I hope.  Well, we'll see how it goes here.
Q. When you look back at Australia, now that you've had time to think about it, what did you make of the loss there?  What kind of context and perspective do you have of it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, as we can see, Mirjana had the best tournament of her life.  She played unbelievable tennis till the end of the tournament.  Wasn't only one match.
So, well, it's always disappointing losing first week of the Grand Slam.  Doesn't matter who you play.
But, well, I think I also was a bit unlucky.  That's kind of a lesson, you know, that those players still can play really good tennis, without any pressure, you know, just hitting the ball as hard as they can.
You really have to be careful on those ones, as well.
Q. Did you watch the final between Venus and Serena?  If you did, what did you make of it?  A lot of people thought we weren't going to see many of those.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I did.
Well, it was a very good match.  Of course, reminds me those times when I was a kid and I was watching them playing finals.  That was kind of, like, comeback for the beginning of the 2000s years.
It was a really good match and exciting final.  Actually, I watch both the finals.
Q. You're still young, but you've been on tour for quite a long time.  In your mind, how old do you feel you are?  Not everybody necessarily feels their age.  How do you feel?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Mentally, I feel much younger.  Physically, I feel much older (smiling).
It's hard to say, generally just to put everything together, how I feel, what year.  Like you saying, I've been on the tour 11 years now.  It's quite a long time.  Physically, for sure, I'm not feeling so young.
Q. I know you changed your racquet this season.  I wanted to ask you about that.  It seems that you got used to it right away.  Am I right in saying you're kind of hitting the ball a bit harder than usual?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I'm trying.  Of course, it was a tough decision, changing the racquet after so many years playing the same racquet.
But, well, I think this is kind of the last year or the last kind of timing that I can change something.  So, yeah, I was really thinking about this for long time.
Around Christmas, I said, Yeah, why not?  Let's change something.  Yeah, I did.
Q. Did you look at the draw?  Do you know who your possible opponents are?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I did the draw, so...
Q. You've never played Kiki, as far as I can tell.  Obviously Caroline, a long history.  You seem to play her a lot in recent tournaments.  Do you consider you have a rivalry with Caro?  I know she's your friend, as well.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, is not easy draw.  We'll see after that match who's going to win.
Caroline is playing good tennis at the moment.  She's definitely starting to be more confident.  Playing really better than before.  I guess it's going to be her.
Yes, we played couple times the end of the last year.  That was really three good, long matches.  So we'll see.
Q. You won again the point of the month for the WTA.  Are there any of those points, do you surprise yourself still?  When you do that, are you, Okay, I can do that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Sometimes, yes.  When I'm on court, I want to do something, I'm doing it, pretty much thinking it's not going to be in because it's just impossible.  Then suddenly it's in.  I'm like, Okay.
Then, yeah, I can see I'm winning the shot of the month or year, which is very nice.  I just happy just to make those shots, that people love it.  Always comment on my tennis that it's entertaining.  It's always nice to hear, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT