LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
July 29, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. GOERGES/A. Radwanska
  7‑5, 6‑7, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Do you think the roof being closed had an effect on the result of the match?   Did it favor her more than you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Uhm, you know what, it's always hard to say after the match.   I don't know how the match will play without the roof.   I don't know.   I would like to know that, but I don't.   
   
 Q.   And how big a disappointment is it for you?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always disappointing, you know, to lose the first round, so...   
Well, it was a tough job, but still felt there's a chance.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel good going into the match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I was fine.   I'm good.   
But it was a couple important moments that, you know, uhm, didn't really play my best tennis.   So that's why the score is like it is.   
   
 Q.   How are you going to react and lift yourself for your doubles?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I'm not in singles, so I just hope, you know, we can do better in doubles, and also I'll play the mixed doubles.   
   
 Q.   Are you particularly interested in any of the Olympic sports?   Would you be interesting in viewing any of them in particular?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I would like to see the volleyball guys, how they're playing.   If I'm going to have any chance to go there, I would.  
   
 Q.   Any athlete, in particular?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Uhm, not really.   Just I think the guys are pretty good, what they doing.   It's nice to see someone else, especially live, because on TV, it be different.   So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   What tournament will you play next after here?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I'm going to Toronto right after here.   Cincinnati, maybe New Haven.   We'll see how it goes.   And US Open, of course.   
   
 Q.   Can I ask about the US Open.   You've lost I think second round there the last three years.   Is that a tournament where you think you should do well?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's good thing that I don't have much points to defend.   
But, well, of course, pretty much like the same.   In New Haven, is normal hard court.   Is something that I can really do well there.   So have some years, you know, to try.   So we'll see.   
   
 Q.   Is it sort of like a love/hate relationship at the moment with Centre Court?   Things were so wonderful three, four weeks ago, now you have this disappointment on the same court.   Is there that type of a relationship at the moment?   If you had to pinpoint one thing that made the difference between three weeks ago and now, what would that be?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, the court is different.   When we were practicing here outside, it seems like the same court, the same grass.   But when you go on the match court, it's totally different.   It's so slippery.   
The court, it feels like it's already used for two weeks, in the end of the court.   A lot of bad bounces.   Of course, everybody have the same conditions.   But for sure it's not the same court that it was three weeks ago.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT