WIMBLEDON
July 7, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/A. Radwanska
  6‑1, 5‑7, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Put your experience out there today in your own words, please.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Like I said on court as well, these are the best two weeks of my life.   When practicing and playing tennis all your life, I think it's a dream for everyone to be in the final.   
So basically for sure I'm just very happy.   Of course it's always disappointing to lose, especially after a tough and good match.   But so very happy about my final.   
   
 Q.   As big and strong as Serena is, is there ever an intimidation factor playing somebody like that?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, uhm, of course every player plays different.   But, of course, I mean, she was serving very well today.   So many aces and I couldn't do much about it.   
I really had my chances, and I took the second set.   Then I think she was just too good in important moments in the third set, so it was too hard for me to come back.   
   
 Q.   How were you feeling physically coming in?   You had some problems the other day.   Did it affect you coming into the match?   Also, after the first set, what were you telling yourself in terms of putting it all together and getting back into the match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, uhm, first of all, I was a little bit nervous in the beginning, especially being in my first final.   I think I just wanted too much a little bit.   I think the break was better for me just to cool down a little bit.   
When I was going on the court the second time, I just felt like a normal match.   Didn't seem like a final anymore, so there was not that much pressure.   
But then I was just trying to do everything, you know, to play good tennis.   And I think was a great match.   She was really playing well today.   
   
 Q.   The second set, it appears like you fought hard.   The third one was like you gave up.   Did you give up at any stage, it's over?   Did you feel like it was over before it was over?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, this is the final of a Grand Slam, so you fight until the end and you're not giving up.   Even when you're 6‑Love, 4‑Love, you're still fighting for every point.   There's always a chance to win.   This is tennis, this is sport, so you always can come back and start to play better.   
So I was just fighting till the end.   And I really tried.   But in the end, I think she was starting to play much better.   She starts to be very focused each point, play some good rallies.   But she really did some great shots in the end.   
   
 Q.   When you went in for the rain break, what was going through your mind and what did you do to refocus?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   There was not much break between those two sets.   But, you know, just change.   I think I relax a little bit, like I said before.   I was a little bit nervous in the beginning.   So I think was just couple minutes of the rest, just to cool down and start over again.   
   
 Q.   How surprised were you by that dropshot?   Then how tough is her serve?   She had the four aces.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   For sure, she was really serving well today.   This is the thing I can't do anything about it.   
I mean, second set I think was a little bit more windy, she didn't put that much first serves, and I could have my chances to break her back.   I did it, so was good.   
But I think, you know, it's her weapon, you know, the serve.   That's why, you know, she won the tournament five times already.   
   
 Q.   Just on the dropshot, were you surprised as everybody else?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, she has good hands, as well, so she can do those kind of things.   Of course, always a surprise because there was not so many dropshots in this match.   But she picked a great moment for that, for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT