WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/A. Kerber
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What was your assessment of the match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, uhm, first of all, just very happy that it was my first semifinal.   Of course in the beginning also a bit nervous, of course.   I think we both were. 
But then, uhm, after a couple of games I was really feeling good, of course.   I really had tough quarterfinal, so it's always tough to rest for just one day and come back and trying to play the best tennis. 
But I think I really did great job today. 

Q.   You know what it's like to hold up a trophy from the juniors.   What do you think it would be like to hold the real one?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   That would be great, for sure.   Yeah, I remember 2005, of course.   It's been like one year and it was seven years ago. 
Of course I will try everything in my power to hold the trophy again. 

Q.   We don't know for sure who your next opponent will be but Serena is up a set and a break in the second set.   She seems like the type of player that many other players would fear.   When you play her, how do you approach that? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Uhm, well, I played Serena a couple of times, but it was long time ago.   I didn't play her I think in last two years. 
But, well, uhm, it's always tough.   She's a very tough opponent and hitting the ball very well.   Of course she's playing great tennis on the grass. 
I think, uhm, doesn't matter who I'm going to play in the final.   I think I don't really have anything to lose, so just going to try my best.

Q.   How do you avoid fearing a player who is so powerful?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, uhm, of course every player is different, but most of the players are very powerful.   You know, I'm just going to try to mix it up everything.   Of course every match is different, so I'll see after tomorrow how it's going to be. 

Q.   You've got a lot of experience here.   You mentioned the grass.   How are the courts this year?   Have there been problems?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, to be honest, when I start to play here couple years ago, I think the courts were faster, much faster than now.   I think now the courts are getting slower and you can see a lot of rallies.

Q.   How about the bounces?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Uhm, I think I would say bounce, it's similar, but I think it's a little bit higher than before. 

Q.   Do you have any bad bounces? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, uhm, of course in the beginning of the tournament the grass is much better so it's a little bit easier.   Now the courts have already like two weeks, a lot of matches already, then you can feel that not every bounce it's okay. 
Especially in the end of the court it's pretty old grass, and you really have to be careful because the bounces are really tricky. 

Q.   Any slipping?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Actually, I didn't even slip once this tournament, so...   It's okay. 

Q.   What do you know of Jadwiga Jedrzejowska?   Is that somebody you knew about through your childhood?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think Jadwiga Jedrzejowska. 
Well, I know that she was the finalist here many years ago.   I don't think I can remember the year for sure.   I'm just very happy that I can be the second one here in Wimbledon being in the final. 
I think she lost in three sets that year.   But I will try now and we will see. 

Q.   Is she somebody you grew up knowing about or not really?   Is she famous like Fred Perry here?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it's different between us.   I didn't really see her playing.   So, yeah, just I know her name, yeah. 

Q.   Given the length of time since she did win and the fact that you would be the first Polish woman in the Open era, what would it mean for you to hold the trophy?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I was the first player who win in a semifinal for many years, so I think this is already a big success.   And now here in the final, so it's even bigger. 
For sure this tournament is already one of the big part of tennis history in Poland.   I'm happy to be part of that. 

Q.   How important is the chance that you could go for the No.1 ranking?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, uhm, I will do everything in my power to be No.1. 
THE MODERATOR:   I'm very sorry, everybody.   Agnieszka needs to get her rest back.   We will finish it there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT