WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/M. Kirilenko
  7‑5, 4‑6, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   That was a very long day, hard‑fought match.   Talk about the process of starting, going off, finishing. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.   I felt like today was at least 25 hours for me.   It's always difficult.   It's always tough because you really have to stay focused whole day, going on and off all the time.   It's never easy, especially that it was really long match and very tough one. 
Finally we switched the court for the indoor court.   Felt so different.   Without rain, without wind, it's really just different tournament. 
But I'm just very happy that I could win it. 

Q.   She wins the first game when you get back on Centre Court.   Are you feeling a little nervous because things can go so quickly before you get rhythm. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, it's always tough, especially you go on court it's 4‑All.   It's not really time for some mistakes because is no time to come back.   That's why I was trying to really be focused each point, especially on my serve. 
It was very close in that game.   So after that game, I was saying to myself, It's been a long day, tough match, I just have to try this game.   I was really playing good.   After almost three hours match I was playing good and happy I could close it. 

Q.   Whose idea was it to finish the match on Centre Court?   Did you talk between the two of you and request it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No.   We just finish on Court No.1.   I'd been told already by the way they really wanted to try to finish that match today.   It means waiting after Vika's match.   From the beginning, we knew we gonna wait. 
But they told us we have time till 11:00.   It was 9:30.   I said, oh, my God, you really want us to play till 11? 

Q.   What are your thoughts about playing Kerber?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   We played a couple times each other.   Always went three sets, always tough.   Never on grass.   It's just going to be another challenge.   I just hope I can still play my good tennis and we'll see.

Q.   What are the differences and similarities between your games?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, every match is different.   Every opponent is different.   Of course, different condition and everything.   But she's really playing solid tennis and really playing great tennis this year.   She really improved her game this year. 
Also I saw her matches here.   For sure, never going to be easy.

Q.   What do you think she does best?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   She's very consistent.   She's really hitting the ball very well and moving well.   Just very solid.   You really have to be also patient and not trying to finish the point in one ball. 

Q.   US Open last year you went in there playing very well.   Kerber was not a big name.   When you came off the court, were you surprised she beat you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, that's true that I didn't really play my best tennis that day.   But then she won a couple more good matches afterwards. 
If I was surprised?   It's always disappointing if you're losing, especially in the beginning of the Grand Slam.   It's never good.   But I could feel she was playing better.   Actually since US Open she's really playing much better tennis and she finally is top 10.

Q.   It's taken a while for you to reach your first Grand Slam semifinal.   You've been asked about it so many times. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I'm very happy that first time I could reach a semifinal, especially after a match like that.   I'm just very happy, especially here.   I really like grass.   I was here two times already in quarterfinals.   I'm just very happy that it's here. 

Q.   How would you describe Serena Williams' career and how the other players on the tour look at her?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, Serena is just great champion.   When she's on fire, I really don't want her on my part of the draw.   That's for sure.   But I think she's still in shape.   She's still looking good on court.   She's playing still a good tennis, running like 18 years old.   Well, she can really play great tennis now. 

Q.   Do you consider her one of the great players of all the time?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think so.   She won so many Grand Slams, so many tournaments.   Even after a couple months of not playing, she can go and win the tournament. 
I think of course she's a little bit older than me, but I don't think she's going to finish soon because she's still in good shape.

Q.   Do you look at this as a very big opportunity now? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's always opportunity.   Doesn't matter who you play, to be honest.   This is the semifinal, so it means that we both played already couple of good matches, also against seeded players.   It means she's also playing great tennis this tournament. 
Really I have to play my hundred percent to win that match.

Q.   How would you describe playing under the roof? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   For sure no rain and no wind, like I said before, so it's a little bit easier.   It's also a little bit humid, that's for sure. 
I think it really seems nice when you go from Court1, which was hard conditions.   So we felt good under the roof, for sure.

Q.   Your mother came. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.

Q.   She looks very nervous. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Maybe.

Q.   She doesn't come to too many tennis matches, no? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, not really.   Before she was traveling more.   Now a bit less.

Q.   Does she get more nervous than your father does watching?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I don't think so, no. 

Q.   They both get nervous?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes. 

Q.   Centre Court is slower than Court No.1?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think Court2 is the slowest one.   I had a chance to play on every court.   I think 2 is the slowest court.   Between 1 and Centre, there's no really big different. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT