WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/C. Giorgi
  6‑2, 6‑3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 
Q.   What are your thoughts on reaching the next round and on the match that you had today?
  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I'm just very happy that I can play another quarterfinal here at Wimbledon.
  Of course, about today's match, it's always tough to play someone you don't know.   Never really even saw her before, but I must say that she was really playing good and she's a very good player.   I think she can really play good tennis and should be on top, yeah.
Q.   What do you think her future might hold?
  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, she's really playing quick tennis and serving very well.   You know, she's not very tall, but, you know, she's really hitting the ball very well.   She can really play good.
Q.   What are your thoughts on the state of your game as the No. 3 ranked player in the world, knowing that now Maria is out and you have just one person ahead of you in the rankings who is still in the tournament?
  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I'm not really looking that way.   Even if someone is No. 4 or 8 or 15, still can play good tennis.   So I'm just thinking about my next round and then we'll see.
Q.   Can you describe what the challenge is in facing Kirilenko?
  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   We played a couple times against each other, but I think never on grass.   So I think it's gonna be another challenge. 
  Of course, she's very consistent player.   I think, you know, I really have to play good tennis because this is the quarterfinals.   Everybody is playing very good.
Q.   What are the biggest strengths of her game?   What do you try to neutralize with her?
  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Her tennis is very tough, I mean, especially moving very well.   She's very good fighter, as well.   It's never easy.
Q.   When we get to these stages of tournaments, the pressure increases.   The matches are really high stakes.   What is your personal approach to pressure?
  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I'm just trying not to think about pressure.   Of course, it's always somewhere, you know, in back of my head, but I'm just trying to go on court and playing my best tennis.   It doesn't matter if it's first round or quarterfinal or final. 
  It's always tough, especially when you play someone lower ranked.   Then it's always the thing that you have to win that match.   Of course on the other side that other players who are lower ranked, they don't have nothing really to lose.   It's advantage for them.   
  But now in the second week of the Grand Slam, it means they are playing good tennis, because it means that they really had to play couple good matches.   That means that also you beat some seeded players.
Q.   What is the best part of pressure and what is the worst part of pressure?
  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   The worst?   I think sometimes the hand is shaking and cannot really do your best shots because you're so tight that it's tough.
  And about good thing, I think it's just motivation that makes you, you know, fight till the end and just trying to play the best as possible.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT