AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. PIRONKOVA/A. Radwanska
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   As a former champion here, I think from 2008, you looked really uncomfortable on the court today.   Anything bothering you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, yes, I think it wasn't my day today.   That's for sure. 
I think I was really playing a lot of matches this year, and I'm kind of like a little bit tired.   Of course I was trying everything, but, you know, she was really playing good and she's really playing good on grass, I think much better than other surface.   That's for sure.   I played her couple times before, so I could compare.
But, yes, for sure not my day.

Q.   It's two devastating losses in a row, I think at Roland Garros.   Anything bothering you from the last little while that we don't know about?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I don't know if losing against Svetlana Kuznetsova and Roland Garros champion a couple years ago, I don't think this is something really like surprise.   Of course her rankings are a bit worse than mine at the moment, but that just really doesn't matter pretty much.
But, well, I think I just prefer hard court.   That's for sure.   (Smiling.)
I'm really trying my best on every surface, but, yeah.   I mean, I really had good season on clay court, much better than last year, for sure.   Just the Grand Slam, it's something that it just kinda go through it.

Q.   You say that you've played a lot of matches this year.   Do you think a bit of a rest before Wimbledon is going to help you out, then?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, for sure ‑‑I mean, it's not much time till Wimbledon, so I can't really have a lot of time off, but for sure, one or two days off, that will be good for me, for sure.   So I will do that.

Q.   When you take two days off, do you actually not pick up a racquet or just practice?   I mean, what to you is two days off?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Day off means no racquet at all.   (Smiling.)   Not even sports shoes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT