AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 18, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Must be nice to be back on the grass?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, it's actually always nice to be back on the grass.   I mean, the season is not that long, but it's always nice to be on grass, yes.

Q.   How are you feeling about your game at the moment?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, last couple of weeks or months, you know, I was really playing good tennis.   I just hope I can play the same thing on grass season, for sure.

Q.   It's more than just a couple of months, isn't it?   You have been playing well for six or eight months now. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, pretty much I was doing good since the beginning of the year, so on hard, and I already have much better clay court season than last year, so it was good.

Q.   Why the difference?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   To be honest, I didn't really change anything.   Of course, you know, I was really working hard in the offseason, a lot of fitness.
But that's it.   Didn't really change anything.   Just enjoying my game and match by match.   I was really just feeling good.

Q.   Can you talk a bit about how much you like grass and how you have to change your game for it?   It's such a short season. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, exactly.   It's always tough, because it's really short time between clay court and grass court season.   You know, especially here when it's first practice, you know, first matches, it's always tough.   The bounce is very low, so really have to bend your knees all the time and stay low.   It's a bit faster, and different running, as well. 
So just, you know, looking forward to my first match.

Q.   It always seems to me that you kind of have a real challenge when you play some of the really big power hitters, because you're physically somewhat smaller and you play a lot with precision.   There have been some great players, Hingis and Henin, who have managed to play well, but do you find it a particular challenge and how do you think about it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course every player is playing different tennis, and of course sometimes it's always maybe which surface and weather, balls, pretty much everything around.   But, well, today's tennis is really powerful, so we really have to be ready for the big serve and, you know, very big shots. 
So just ready for it, and I know that it's going to be, you know, fast game.

Q.   Actually, a couple of years ago, Petrova, I asked her who had the best hands of anybody, of the active players she played.   She first mentioned Henin, and then she said she was retired.   Then she mentioned you.   I wondered, is that something you came by naturally or is it something that you think can be coached?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think, natural.   I don't think you can just practice that.   Well, I was always playing tennis like that.   I never could serve 200 per hour, you know. 
I was always like pretty much running and mixing up everything, slices and then different serves, some kick, and then I think every shot is pretty much different than the other ones.
But I think it's just natural, and of course I'm trying to do everything in my power just to win the point, but the game is so fast, so maybe one second, not even, to hit the ball.   So you can't really think what you're doing. 

Q.   Are you enjoying Eastbourne?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, always.   I mean, sometimes the weather can be tough, especially with the rain and wind, but it's always good preparation before Wimbledon.   Since couple of years I'm playing here, and I'm really enjoying.

Q.   Have you seen any parts of the town apart from the tennis areas?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, not really.   Just very good Italian restaurants in the end of the road.   It's very good, especially that they are Polish there. 

Q.   Polish‑Italian?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, the people working there are Polish.   So, yeah.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Because you've won so much this year, you're probably playing a lot more matches than you're used to.   Is that difficult to adjust to, or is that actually beneficial to your game?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It's always a good problem when you have a lot of matches.

Q.   It's like not having enough garage space for your yacht. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   (Smiling.)
This year I was really playing a lot, and of course was good problem that I was playing pretty much every tournament till the end.   It was great, but sometimes really can feel that you are tired, but always saying, you know, I'm going to have some rest maybe November.   I'm just going to keep going, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT