SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/M. Bartoli
  6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Was that one of the stranger matches you've ever played?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, for sure one of the weirdest matches, for sure, especially the lights, you know.   You know, you suddenly‑‑ you know, you're really focused on the match and really wanted to finish in two sets.   Suddenly, you know, the lights go off.
It was kind of weird.   But, you know, I'm just happy that I just in the locker room stayed focused. You know, I was really like trying to be warm and ready to go any minute.

Q.   Against Sharapova, how do you feel it for the final?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, first of all, I'm just very happy to be in the final for the first time here.   It's great tournament, big one. 
You know, um, I really played a lot of good matches here.   So I just hope I can still play one more after tomorrow.

Q.   When you watch tennis on television and the commentators who used to be tennis players are announcing, they always say that it's very difficult to play a player who's injured.   Do you agree with that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I agree with that.   Of course, especially ‑‑um, I know, um‑‑ I know how to be playing with injury and playing with the pain, but it's always weird that you see someone, um, struggling with something and being in pain.
But actually today she was still playing very well.   She was still moving very well.     So I really had to do my 100% in the end.

Q.   I take it you switched your coach last year.   I take it that's when you started playing really well.   Did he give you any special advices or something?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.   I mean, I start working with Tomasz more.   He was also traveling with my father, you know, for many years, as well.   He's a Federation coach, Fed Cup coach, and he was also traveling with us for like since I was a junior. 
But now for sure, you know, I'm just traveling with him, and it's for sure much more than before.
But my dad is also here but is like a tourist.

Q.   Oh, is he here?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, he's here.   But like I'm saying, he's just a tourist, you know, like watching my matches.   But when I'm practicing, I'm practicing and doing everything with Tomasz.   So, you know, it's good and nice just to separate those things like being a father, being a coach. 
But, you know, at home I'm still practicing with my dad.   So is not a really big change, to be honest.   But, you know, it's working, so it's good.

Q.   How does your dad find that?   Does he find it difficult to keep out of things when he's at a tournament?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, you know, for sure, I mean, it's a bit different situation than before.   My dad was traveling with me all my life and we practice together for 17 years, almost ‑‑actually 18.   I'm 23 already.   So it's pretty long time.   It's always tough to change after, you know, those kind of times. 
But, you know, I think it's working, and he's happy that, you know, I'm playing well.   So I think this is the most important thing. 
Of course he's here.   Maybe he's gonna travel a little bit more.   You know, we'll see.   But first of all, for sure, I'm gonna travel with Tomasz, as well.

Q.   Against Maria you've won one out of the eight meetings with her.   What have you learned from those defeats?   What do you remember?   And what do you take from the victory?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It's always hard to play against her if she's really in the good shape.   It's really tough.   She's really hitting the ball very hard and going for it since the beginning.
So, you know, I'm just gonna try to also play aggressive and, um, you know, pretty much mixing everything.   We'll see what is gonna work.

Q.   You got some boos after you attempted a couple of dropshots.   Did that bother you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, I was trying pretty much everything today on court.   I mean, she had really good answers for some of my shots that I thought was good.
So also, you know, trying to slice and some dropshots, as well.   Yeah. 

Q.   Speaking of playing against Maria, I think you beat her in 2007 US Open when you were 17 years old.   What do you remember from that match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it was long time ago.   Now is, you know, is different tournament, different match.   Everything pretty much different.
Yeah, of course I remember that match.   I think I was ‑‑I think my ranking was around 30 at that time.   Of course, center court, and she was defending champion at the time. 
I really had great memory from that match, but I thinkis nothing to do with this tournament unfortunately, so, you know, I just hope I can have some revenge for last couple of meetings that I lost.

Q.   Were you surprised when you walked out and saw that she was wearing the same dress that you were?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, she was wearing skirt and shirt.   I was wearing dress.   (Smiling.)   So we looked different. 

Q.   Tonight was your 25th match win of the season.   How much pride do you take in establishing consistency, getting to the latter stages of so many tournaments this early on in the season?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You know, I didn't really expect that, you know.   I'm just very happy that I can play my best tennis since the beginning of the year and winning a lot of great matches against top players, and, you know, just losing against Vika till now.
You know, also I'm just very, you know, happy to be for the first time also top 6, then top 4.   And, you know, what can I say?   I'm just gonna work hard still and, you know, step by step and trying to even go higher. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT