THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 4, 2018
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
L. SAFAROVA/A. Radwanska   
7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I wanted to ask you about your memory in the past of the walk that leads to Centre Court here at Wimbledon.  I'm just curious, and I'm trying to ask players who have had that experience, if they wouldn't mind recalling the emotions you feel on that walk.  Are you conscious of anyone wishing you well or saying anything?  Is there an emotion when you first pop out on that stage that stays with you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think it all depends when you go on Centre Court is because you're in final.  So that's different walking.  That corridor even looks different and feels different.   
Well, I mean, when you go to the corridor for the first time you kind of remember that, and then when you go in, then you remember the other ones that you were walking in the past.   
Of course it's always nice to walk at the main court or to a center court, and obviously every stadium has a little bit different way and different corridors.   
So it's always kind of looking around.  Always nice pictures or with the past champions or legends.  So actually sometimes I'm not even, like, not thinking about the pressure that I'm going to the Centre Court.  Trying to look around what's happening on the walls.   
 Q.  I believe in the ladies final, part of the tradition is to give each finalist in advance a bouquet of flowers.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think so.   
 Q.  Do you remember anything about that and kind of what I would imagine is a special moment to carry flowers on to the court?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, but I think it's also happen a couple of times in different tournaments.  So it's not like it's I think it's only here.   
But I think not really thinking about the flowers.  It's just walking in and the stadium is full and it's silence when you go in.  It's, you know, loud and then it's all about you over there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT