AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2017
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/T. Pironkova
6-1, 4-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Got probably a little more complicated than you thought after the first set.  Talk about the second set.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely that first set was kind of quick.  I play very well.  I just start very aggressive.  So I think I just step back a little bit in the second set.  Obviously she start to play a little bit better.
Well, I think I was just too slow a little bit, as well.  Well, I think always end up like that.  But, well, just really glad that I could play again good tennis in that third set and win whole match.
Q. You finished with an ace.  With your serve, for years, it's gotten to be more of a weapon in your game.  When did you decide or think your serve could become a big part of your game?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think with my serve, it's up and down pretty much all the time.  Well, I think I just have to kind of really focus on my serve.  Sometimes, of course, it's not going my way.  The percentage is not that good.
But in some of the matches it's helping a lot, save me a lot of times.  So, well, I think I guess it's just the thing that I really need to focus on more, just to, you know, serve good, especially in the important moments.
Q. Can it be easy to forget to focus on it and start tapping it in and not use it as much as possible?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I think especially sometimes it just goes automatically.  Even the placement is not great, the returns are coming back faster and deeper on your side.  You kind of making up being behind the sign 'Melbourne' so you're in a bit of trouble.  So yeah.
Q. Can you talk us between that tweener shot.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, I had no choice.  Just had to make the tweener.  Well, I did it well, I guess.  I was saying on court, I watching a lot of men's tennis.  I think that helps, as well.
Q. You talked that you watch a lot of men's tennis.  Is it also something that you care about, showing your game that you mix creativity and skill?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, I mean, playing entertaining tennis is great.  It's nice to hear my tennis is entertaining tennis.  You want to win the point, it doesn't matter how.  There are also some points that you don't have a choice.  You are so late, so either you play from the front up.  But then, you know, the ball is just going very high to other side, or you go between your legs, then it's going pretty fast.
In that case was no choice.  I just wanted to win the point.  I just thought that's the best solution.
Q. Obviously you switched your racquet company.  Do you think you still need time to get used to the new one?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think I'm feeling the same.  Of course, that was a big decision, big change obviously after couple of years.
But so far it's going good.  I guess I have same feeling.
Q. Do you have a favorite men's tweener hitter?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I guess, like I said on court, I think Nick is doing this pretty good.  But also Roger.  I think Roger is always very impressive because he knows where to go.  He can see where the point is.
When I was doing it, I just wanted to hit the ball and that's it.  I don't know where the ball is going at all (smiling).  I have to still work on that, yeah.
Q. When you watch someone like Nick Kyrgios, he hits crazy shots, do you think, I can do that, not impressed?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I wish.  But I was lying to myself.  Doesn't make any sense.  But definitely I think Nick is one of the most talented players on the tour.  This guy can do anything on court.  These kind of hands, well, you cannot really see everywhere.  Yeah, what this guy is doing on court is very, very impressive.
Q. A boring question.  Speed of the court, how did you find it tonight?  Some players are saying it's playing fast, some say medium.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think also depends what time you're playing.  I guess it wasn't fast at all today.  Actually I was thinking it was slow.  So, of course, depends of the temperature.  I think tomorrow it's much cooler.  For sure that's going to change something.  And also depends if you're playing second match in the sun or almost midnight.  That also matters.
For me today was pretty slow.
Q. With the off days and everything, with all of the matches that you've played before this tournament, do you plan to hit the practice court tomorrow or is it a day off?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, this is beginning of the year.  I'm practicing in the day offs.  The practice desk is closed, so I need to work on my practice tomorrow morning (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT