SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/V. Williams
  6‑4, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   So when was the last time you hit a service winner and two aces at break point down to win a set?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, yes, actually especially when you play against top players, you really have to be focused on these important moments, and I'm just very happy that I was playing very consistent today and especially in the tight moments.   You know, I did some great shots.  
   
 Q.   What was the difference today?   You met her six times before, lost five consecutive times.   What was the strategy going into this match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I remember that, you know, in our first meeting it was couple years ago, but, you know, didn't really think about that.   I mean, this is the past.   This is a different tournament, different match.   
So I was just ready for it.   I mean, she's a great champion.   Of course she had some time off last couple of months, but, you know, she's still a great player.   I really had to play very well today to beat her.  
   
 Q.   Did you notice that she looked a little tired?   If so, at what point in the match did you notice?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, um‑‑ well, about that, you really have to ask her.   I was just focusing on my game, and pretty much I was ready for every shot.   I was just feeling very well and pretty much everything was working.  
   
 Q.   But from your perspective, did she look tired?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I don't know.   I mean, the conditions are also very tough today.   It was pretty hot out there.  
I don't know.   Maybe that was a bit ‑‑I mean, that's why she, I don't know, didn't look that good, like you said.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   I know you play a very all‑court game.   Seemed like you were drawing her into net with a lot of short balls even more than usual.   Was that part of your strategy against her weapons today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think against pretty much top players you really have to mix it up, you know, pretty much each shot.  
That's what I was actually trying today, you know, just to mix up everything and not playing any one point and just using whole court and trying to make her run.  
   
 Q.   She changed her strategy very dramatically in the first set.   She started to attack almost like she thought, well, I'm not gonna win this if I stay back.   I have to come in.   Did you consider that kind of a moral victory for you at that point?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, Venus is always playing aggressive tennis.   I was ready for that.   But also, you know, in the one side it was really windy, so with the wind and outside against the wind, so it was kind of tricky, as well.   
Yeah, for sure, she had some points in all games that she really was going for it, and I was really in trouble.  
But I'm just very happy that I could close this match in two sets.   And especially that, you know, the conditions were very hot, tough today.  
   
 Q.   You guys kept breaking each other in the first set.   Then she started serving and coming into the net.   Everything went past her.   Did you find she was a little desperate, or...   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, she's tall, and, you know, it's very tough to even pass her.   Especially with the overhead, she was pretty much everywhere at the net.   So, you know, if it's working, why not?   
I mean, in the beginning I couldn't really win that point that she was going to the net.   But then I was a little bit better on my side, and, um, doing some passing shots.  
But, um, about if it was desperate, also, I think it's question for her.   But I think she was also trying to do and trying to mix it up because, you know, when you're losing, you're trying to do something else.  
   
 Q.   I know you're very close friends with Caroline.   Have you two talked about that you're both playing Williams sisters here in this round and now you both managed to win?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.   Actually we talked about actually yesterday and today.   But, you know, it's always good and always happy that, you know, you're beating someone like Williams sisters.   I mean, great champions, winning a lot of tournaments, a lot of Grand Slams.  
It's, you know, it's always a great feeling, you know, to beat such a good player.  
   
 Q.   What did you two say to each other?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, that it's going to be tough.   It's never easy.   Just we'll see what's gonna happen.   Pretty much nothing to lose.  
   
 Q.   Caroline also served extremely well, and her backhand was little stronger.   I noticed in your game also today.   How do you feel overall how you played today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Me?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think I was playing really good today, since the beginning to the end, and pretty consistent.   I think everything was working.   And, um, I was also focused on my serve just, you know, also to break her.   If I needed break points just to take the chance.  
So, um, I cannot, you know, really complain about anything.  
   
 Q.   Why did you feel you had nothing to lose when you're No. 5 in the world and she's No. 134 and 31 years old?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, but I don't think, you know, we can really look at the ranking when somebody's not playing for a couple of months.   
Of course she's not No. 134 in the world.   She's for sure top 5 player, and disadvantage when she won more tournaments than I do, than I did, and the Grand Slams.   
So, um, she's grand champion.   Doesn't matter the ranking actually this week.  
   
 Q.   How much do you work on your fitness?   You look so fresh out there.   Anything special?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, not really.   I mean, of course I'm doing a lot of fitness when I'm not playing tournament and matches, but, you know, when I'm playing matches, especially when I'm playing singles and doubles, then I'm doing this much less.   
That's why, you know, I just want to stay fresh and not doing too much.   But of course when I'm out of the tournament, then, yes, of course.  
   
 Q.   Are you as calm inside as you look to us when you're out on that court?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, you know, depends.   (Smiling.)  
Well, for example, 5‑2 up and then suddenly you're 6‑5 down, then you're not really calm at that point.  
But, yes, you know, I'm trying to just stay calm and just to be focused, because this is tennis.   Everything can happen, everything can change, you know, pretty fast.   Just, you know, trying to, you know, fight till the end.   
I have some like experience and a lot of tight matches, and I know that, you know, you just have to fight till the end.   It doesn't matter what score it is and who's on the other side of the court.  
   
 Q.   Is that calmness something you've always had?   Because in here you're very smiley, but on court, totally nothing.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I think I will just ‑‑I don't know.   I just always like that.   Um, I think I was just born with this, not that nervous on court.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   I know you said at Indian Wells if you did have to play Victoria you wanted to be in the final.   Here it could be in the semifinal, which is not too bad, I guess.   What are your thoughts going into another match with her potentially?   Are you hoping that maybe you don't have to play her?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, well, they both great players, so pretty much doesn't matter who I'm gonna play against tomorrow.   But, you know, playing the same player almost every week is not that fun, right?   (Smiling.)  
Yeah, we'll see.   But, you know, at least it's not, like you said, not the second or third round.   It's the semifinal of the big event.  
So sooner or later, we're gonna play against each other.   But, yeah, if we're gonna play fifth time and it's still March, I think, then it's a lot, yeah.   
   
 Q.   What would you have to do differently to beat Victoria if indeed it's her you have to face?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think I just really have to play my best tennis like I, for example, did today.   I think play more aggressive and trying to go for it.  
Um, you know, every match is different, and especially when you're playing during the day or night session.   You know, anyway, she still have one match to go, so if she win, I'm gonna think about it.  
   
 Q.   How is your shoulder feeling?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Not bad.   I'm not complaining.   I mean, sometimes when I really have a lot of matches, then it's a little bit worse.   But at least here sometimes I have day off.   That's okay.  
   
 Q.   There is a distinction here this year with the top players.   You see Azarenka doing well, and Maria and Petra.   I think you guys are playing really strong.   Do you feel like you belong to this group, that you feel like your aspirations and dreams, it's your moment right now?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think, you know, every player is playing a bit different tennis and looking different, playing different.   For sure, practicing a little bit different, as well, off court and on.   
Especially with the women's tennis, every week it's pretty much the ranking is changing.   So, you know, if I'm gonna, you know, play on really good level, especially on the big event, um, and also Grand Slams, then, you know, I hope I can, you know, stay there or go even more.  
So, you know, we'll see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT