BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/A. Radwanska
  6‑0, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Are you sick or did she just play great and you didn't play quite how you would have liked?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think she was playing very well today.   I think just way too good.  
   
 Q.   So was there ways you thought you could get into the match and she just got every ball in the court?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I mean, like I think if somebody was watching the match, you just saw that she was really hitting really well and pretty much no mistakes and making the winners, that, you know, from those shots I didn't really expect.  
Of course, you know, I had some chances, but when you're not really taking those chances against good players, then you're going down.  
So, of course, you know, could be some different score, but it's just‑‑ I think it was just her day.  
   
 Q.   How big a difference was it for you to get those two games?   You seemed very excited.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, first thing, I wasn't excited.   (Smiling.)  
Either you can cry or laugh, right, when you see that it's just not going your way.   Pretty much the match is almost done.   What you can do?   I said, Either have fun or cry.  
   
 Q.   That's what you were thinking at 6‑0, 5‑0?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, the match is over pretty much, right?   I mean, of course, you know, you fight until the end, and, you know, it's never over until when you lose the match point.   
But, you know, it was really getting very fast, and I just‑‑ I was just happy that, you know, I played a longer match than the warmup in the morning.   So it was good.  
   
 Q.   You played her now four times this year.   In those matches against Vika, is she getting better?   Are you seeing that her game is actually improving as the year goes along, or it's just kind of the same level and kind of depends on your level more?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You know, every match is different, different country, different balls, different surface, different conditions.   I think every week is different and different tournament and different match.   
But for sure, you know, I think she was playing the best match in those four matches that we played this year definitely.  
   
 Q.   Were you close to crying?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No.   I think, you know, pretty much I was pissed, yeah, in the first setespecially‑‑ you know, losing 6‑Love, you know, is not fun, right?   Especially when you expect that you're at this kind of level that, you know, you can beat anyone, right?   
But then, you know, I was seeing that she was playing just too good.   And of course I tried, but it was just not going my way at all.  
   
 Q.   You've only lost four matches all year but all to the same player; is that frustrating for you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I mean, it a little bit frustrating, but it's not every player, you know, to have this No. 1 in the world.   So, well, I think, you know, she's really on fire right now and playing very good tennis last few weeks or months.  
So, you know, if she's gonna play like that she's not gonna lose any match soon, for sure.  
   
 Q.   For any good player, just hearing the ball come off the racquet is important.   You learn a lot just from hearing the sound.   In Melbourne I think you said her sounds were just too loud.   Do you think that in any way that's a hindrance, and do you think anything should be done about it?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I heard that WTA, you know, want to do something about that.   But, you know also I can hear the people, you know, in the crowd, you know, making some sounds, you know, between the points, which is I think more frustrating for her than for me because it's like they're copying her.  
But what can I do about that?   I'm kind of used to it.   I really am, like, you know, focusing on my game and I don't really hear, you know, those kind of noises anymore.  
   
 Q.   So you don't think it's a hindrance?   Is that what you're saying?   Or you're just dealing with it?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I'm just dealing with it.   You know, every player is different.   Like I said, you know, I'm just focused on my game.  
   
 Q.   This match feel more personal to you today than before?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, not really.   I mean, why?   
   
 Q.   Because you two had disagreements about what happened in Doha.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, but like I said, you know, it was the past, and, you know, now is a new tournament, new match.   You know, everything from the beginning.  
Like I said, you know, she was just, you know, playing for sure one of the best matches against me, for sure.  
   
 Q.   Are you positive that you can close the gap between you and her?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   What do you mean?   
   
 Q.   Can you find a way to get back to where you're playing her even?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, well, you know, for sure, I mean, we're gonna play again sooner or later, right?   
I mean, I hope maybe not next week.   Maybe in the final, then, you know, it's okay.   (Smiling.)  
But, you know, I don't know.   I just don't really think about it right now, you know.   We just play the match 20 minutes ago, you know, so just want to go and not think about it.  
   
 Q.   You said you can laugh or cry when things aren't going your way.   Tennis is such a mental game.   You're out there with yourself.   What goes through your mind when you're having a real tough situation?   What kind of talk?   What kind of talk to yourself goes through your head?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I mean, of course, if something is not going your way you're trying to do a lot of different things, try to fight and change something.  
Sometimes it's just not going‑‑ not really going your way at all, and sometimes you just have those days that it's just not your day.   And even doesn't matter what you try, it's just not good.   
So I think this is tennis that, you know, everything can change.   One day you're playing unbelievable and the next day somehow it's not even half how you played the day before, so...   
I know about that, so I have my experience already.   
   
 Q.   She's undefeated this year.   I mean, can you say anything that's separating her from the other players right now?   What do you think she's doing that's keeping her above?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Like I said, she was really on fire the last few months.   First of all, she's very, very consistent.   I mean, playing very good tennis from the first to the last ball and really, I think, feeling confident right now.   
You know, moving very well and hitting the ball very good.   You know, it's just really hard to play her, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Is there anyone on tour right now who you think can beat her if she plays her best?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I mean, you know, I think pretty much when you go on court you have always some chances, right?   Doesn't matter who is on the other side of the court.   
You know, I think, um, like when ‑‑ she almost lost in the first round, right?   Vika?   Every match is different.   Like I said, doesn't matter who she's playing against.   
But it's also actually good to play those kind of matches that are really down and then you're winning, because this is when you feel very confident that you can win those matches that you almost lost.  
So I think, you know, in that she's feeling much better and playing much better.  
   
 Q.   Even though today was not a great day for you, next ranking you move up to No. 4.   Is that your highest career ranking?   Does that keep you feeling good about where you're headed?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, of course.   Didn't really expect that.   From the beginning of the year, you know, first time No. 6, then No. 5, and now No. 4, and it's March.   
So didn't really expect that, you know.   So I'm just very happy about that, of course.   I'm just hoping that I can play, you know, some good tennis, you know, especially in the Grand Slams.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel bad that you passed Caroline?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think she's gonna forgive me.   (Smiling.)  
I still love her, so it's okay.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT