BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/J. Hampton
  6‑3, 4‑6, 3‑0 (ret.)

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Today was obviously a tough match with Jamie.   What are your thoughts about your game and her game and how they matched up?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, actually, you know, she had really good matches before in this tournament.   I knew that she's playing good tennis.   I was really ready for that. 
So, yeah, of course, she was playing very good today.   Was really in trouble actually in the second set, but I think, you know‑‑ I mean, benefit for her.   I think she had kind of tough match before maybe and (indiscernible). 

Q.   What about her game kind of troubled you in that second set?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think she was really hitting the ball very well, I mean, very consistent, you know, good serve and moving very well.
I think, you know, the game was pretty okay today and the match was good.   So I was just very (indiscernible) without her cramping.

Q.   Did you see her cramp, or what were your thoughts when you noticed that she had fallen to the court?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I just noticed when she fall down.   You know, I mean, there was of course obvious that she was cramping.   But, you know, it's always tough especially that you can't really have medical timeout for that and losing points or games like today.   So, you know, when somebody is losing two games, it's a lot.   It's really a lot.
It's tough to come back, especially that‑‑ you know, she wasn't cramping in the end of the match, just in the beginning of the third set.   So it's tough to finish the match with still one set to go.

Q.   Has that ever happened to you, someone playing you or you had surrendered two games just to get a medical timeout?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I was also a bit cramping but not that much.   I could handle it. 
Then actually I had some before also cramping.   Never happen that I had two games extra.   It never happen to me this way.
So I was actually very surprised, to be honest.   I knew that she can't have medical timeout, but also I thought maybe, you know, she gonna lose point or something but not so the next changeover. 
I mean, for example, it would be, for example, 1‑All and she would just lose one point, so like almost two games‑‑ like I said, two games, that's a lot.

Q.   Looking ahead, what are you going to work on as the road gets tougher ahead, especially after a tough match like this?   How are you preparing for your next match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, the next match is tomorrow, and I almost played three sets.   But, you know, like pretty much nothing really special.   Go for some treatment, massage, and, you know, good rest, and, you know, ready for the next one.

Q.   Have you looked to see who you're playing yet?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I just heard Azarenka or Goerges.

Q.   They have relatively similar game styles, hard hitting from the baseline.   What are you going to do to combat that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, I played Goerges two weeks ago in the Dubai finals and also Azarenka three times already this year, so pretty much know them both. 
I don't even have to really watch the match, to be honest.   I'm not going to do that. 
We will see.   They're both playing very well.   We'll see who's gonna win.   It's gonna be interesting match, for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT