DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 25, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/J. Goerges
  7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How does if feel to be the champion?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Just great, especially that I really had tough matches since the first round.  
So, you know, I was pretty close to lose the first round, so I'm just extremely happy, yeah.   
   
 Q.   What made the difference between you tonight?   Why did you win and she didn't?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, I think I was just better couple points, to be honest.   Two tight sets, and, you know, I think it was just pretty close and tight.  
But I think in the important moments I think I was just more consistent.   I think that's it, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Is it difficult to play someone who is hitting so many errors in between really good points?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.   Actually, you know, her forehand it's a very big weapon.   You never know what to expect from this forehand.   It's just going so fast, and sometimes, you know, I couldn't even like move to the right way and the ball was already behind me.  
For sure it was tough, especially that the conditions were also a little bit difficult today.   It was windy.   But, you know, I'm just so happy that, you know, I just stayed calm until the end and was focused actually on my game.  
   
 Q.   You finished last season well, but why this several moths of great success?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, I don't know.   This is a good question.   I'm just very happy that I can play the same good tennis that I play in the end of the last year.   
But to be honest, you know, first couple practice here and first few matches wasn't that great.   You know, I didn't really feel the ball that good.   I mean, I played in Doha and it was a little bit different surface, different balls, different conditions.  
So it was really help me to just feel the ball and really like play my game from the beginning.   But I think I was just playing every match better and better.   I'm just, you know‑‑ it was just great that I could play my best tennis against the opponent that I really needed to play good.   
   
 Q.   What do you like about coming to Dubai, apart from winning the tournament?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it's always great hotel and great facilities.   You know, even great shopping that we can always go somewhere.   
Actually I didn't have really much time, which is actually the good problem, right?   But, you know, it's just good to see something around as well.   
But like I said, not really much time, especially that I have maybe in three or for sure hours I have a flight to Kuala Lumpur.   So everything pretty much in the last minute.  
But I think this is a good problem.   Also, I wanted to play golf, but also no time.   Maybe next time, next year.   
   
 Q.   You are already the No. 5 in the rankings, your best position.   Do you feel you can reach the top one very soon?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, yeah, I'm 5, but it's still far from being No. 1.  
Looks pretty actually close, but it's still far, you know.   You know, of course I'm going to play my game and I'm really going to keep my good tennis, especially in the big events like this one.   No, I just hope I can finish like that and even better.  
But, you know, I'm not really think about it.   You know, I'm just trying to go on court and just enjoy my tennis and winning the matches.  
   
 Q.   How encouraging is that there is no fixed No. 1, there are a lot changes in the top position?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, actually in women's tennis everything can change pretty fast, like we see every week or every weeks the rankings are a little bit different.   Everything can happen, so...  
Like I said, I'm just going to try playing my best tennis every match sure, every tournament, and we will see.  
   
 Q.   You always seem very calm on the court.   What was going through your head when she was staging the fight‑backs in the middle of both sets?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I knew that she's playing good tennis this week.   She played great match against Caro yesterday.   I knew it was going to be tough, especially that this is big event.   
And when you play someone in the final, for sure someone is playing good tennis.   So doesn't matter what is her ranking, right?   
But I think, you know, it was a little bit difficult, especially in the second set.   I was like 4‑1 up with the two breaks, but then she start to really play better.   She was just fighting until the end.  
It was pretty close actually in this last game.   It's hard to stay calm, especially that you know you have already advantage in the second set and you're serving for the match.   
But, you know, it's always difficult.   I think I had some experience that it's better to stay calm.   Even if something is not going your way, it's better to just, you know, fight actually until the end.   
Everything can change any time.   
   
 Q.   What parts of your game do you think you can improve on for the rest of the season?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think nobody is perfect, so what you can improve?   You can improve everything.   When I'm practicing, I'm practicing on every shot for everything, not only one thing.  
So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Your play style is pretty unique.   Does that give you some extra satisfaction and pride?   I may not hit ball as hard as you but I have skills and I can defeat you.   Do you feel that way?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I'm not really thinking that way.   I think of course it depends who is on the other side of the court.   But you're playing a little bit different tennis.   I think I'm just trying to enjoy.   
Like I said, I'm just trying to mixing up everything.   Sometimes, you know, when something is just not working I'm just trying something else just to mixing up everything.  
   
 Q.   Obviously there was a big field here, high class, high quality.   I know obviously Victoria and Petra had to withdraw.   Does it give you confidence that there was such a strong field and you've come out on top going forward?   That must give you confidence.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, of course.   Winning big tournaments is always, you know, great for the confidence.   Even if those two girls pulled out, it's a lot of other great players playing.  
Especially when the draw, it's pretty small, the cut off is pretty strong.   From the first round you're playing against, you know, good players, so it's nothing easy here.   
   
 Q.   You didn't get a bye either.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Exactly.   So actually it was‑‑ I was really disappointed because I supposed have to a bye.   But, you know, it was kind of complication and complicated rules, and finally I didn't have a bye.   
Actually I was asking supervisor every day, Do I have a bye?   Do I have a bye?   Even before the semi or finals.   Maybe today I'm going to have a bye.   
Unfortunately I didn't have a bye this week.  
   
 Q.   Obviously this year is an Olympic year.   Are you targeting that as well?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You know, Olympics are always very important event for everyone.   Actually it's going to be just tough season because we going to change the surface couple of times in very short time.   So for sure it's going to be very busy season.   
But, you know, I'm just ready for it.   We'll see how it's going to be.   But, you know, the Olympics are on grass, so for sure it's going to be a little bit different because I think it's for the first time.   
I like grass, so I just hope I can play better than in the last Olympics. 2  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT