DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 22, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/S. Peer
  7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It was a bit tight.   What do you think of the game?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.   Actually, first of all the court is a little bit different.   It's a little bit faster than the center court.   I couldn't really feel ball in the beginning.  
But then I think we just both fighter so we just fighting for each ball.   Maybe it was not the greatest match ever, but I think we were just fighting.  
You know, of course it was very, very tight in the both sets, game by game, point by point.   You know, I think I was in trouble in both sets, you know.   First set 4‑5 and she was serving for the set.   
So I think, you know, each game was pretty long and tight.   And also in the second set, you know, one break up, but, you know, it was just the one break.   So, you know, I didn't win the last game when I was serving for the match, so, you know from 5‑2, 5‑4, and she was serving.   
So a lot of match points before, so it's always a little bit scary.   Like I said, I was just fighting until the end.   I'm just very happy that I could win this last game, because then might be even bigger trouble.  
   
 Q.   Is the wind different from Court 1 to center court?   What's more difficult?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think today it was a little bit better, the wind.   But still, you know, the wind is very tricky.   It's like sometimes with the wind, sometimes against the wind.   The wind is really changing, so you really have to be careful each time.   
   
 Q.   Azarenka pulled out today.   She's the only one who beats you this year.   Do you feel a bit confident, that like the one person who beats you this year is not in the draw anymore?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, I don't really think that way.   You know, it's hard decision to withdraw or not, you know, and don't need to really to comment that.   
   
 Q.   It's only the second month of the season, but already a lot of the big players, top players, they're pulling out with injuries.   How do you think you can explain that?   Do I feel that in the second month you guys are all exhausted?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Actually was talking about same with my coach yesterday.   You know, it's February and a lot girls are injured.   But, you know, I think it's also explanation that sometimes in the off‑season the girls are doing too much.   Because you think you have two months off and then you know can work hard.   
But then suddenly then you have some tough match in the beginning of the year and then it's too much for the body.   In the head everything is fine, but for the body not really.   You cannot really cheat body.   If it's painful, it's painful.   
So I think because of that, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the next match?   It's either Lisicki or Benesova.   Just tell me each one how your game matches up with them.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I supposed to play Lisicki first round, so that will be very funny if I will play her because it was supposed to be our first round.   (Smiling.)  
But just the rules are not really clever, because I think I supposed have to a bye, right, like a fifth player not her.   But rules are rules.   They're not really great, unfortunately.   So I had to play since the first round.   But I cannot just change the rules, right?   Unfortunately.   
But we'll see.   Both playing good.   You know, this is a big tournament, especially the quarterfinals.   If somebody is in the quarterfinal, you know, must play good.   So for sure I have to play 100%, you know, to beat each of them.  
   
 Q.   There was an article about you online calling you the quiet achiever.   Do you like being out of the spotlight, or do you feel that you are out of the spotlight?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, you know, well, it's hard to comment that.   But, you know, it's like I really like have to my private life and to live like a normal girl with the friends, family, and not being in the highlight all the time.  
So I never talk about my private life or never be in this kind of like, you know, newspapers kind of like you know, tabloids or somewhere.   Always stay far from those kind of things, so maybe that's why.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT