DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 21, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/A. Wozniak
  6‑1, 6-7, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tough match. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, especially, you know, she start to play much better in the second set.   So, you know, the first match is always, you know, the toughest, you know.   Different condition, different court, and different balls, so...
Actually, the surface is here a little bit faster than in Doha.   So the first match is always the tricky one, so I'm just very happy that I could come back in this third set and win this match, yeah. 

Q.   What makes her difficult to play?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You know, I think last time played a long time ago, so, you know, I just saw, you know, she just pass the quallies and that's it.   I think she was just running very good and moving very well and being very consistent in the second and third game [sic.]   Especially with the wind today it was really hard to finish the ball. 
So, yeah, you know, sometimes the wind was very strong, you know.   You know, it was very hard on one side.   I'm just happy that I, you know, I just, you know, got through and win this match. 

Q.   How difficult is it to play a qualifier who obviously has played three matches in the conditions and knows what it's all about and is match hardened?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, exactly.   I mean, you know, sometimes it's good to play some matches before. 
So, you know, and like I said, it's a little bit different court than in Doha.   So, you know, and especially here the quallies are also very strong, so you're not playing someone that is very far, you know, top 100 players, so from the first round it's tough. 

Q.   Are you pleased with your year so far?   You've only lost to one player, haven't you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I think, you know, I was really playing and having really couple of good matches, you know, especially against top players. 
So, so far I'm happy about my performance.   You know, first time I'm being in the top 6, so, you know, so far I'm good with that. 

Q.   How is the shoulder?   Obviously it's heavily strapped. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, you know, worse and better.   But, you know, actually when I played Fed Cup I played a lot of matches and four days, six matches in four days, so was a lot of tennis there.   So was a little bit worse after that.
Now it's getting better, so it's okay.   I'm not complaining. 

Q.   Are there any more besides Victoria Azarenka that you have to be careful of?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think, you know, all the top 10, top 20 players are playing very well.   Actually, this is not like in men's tennis that you have two or three players on top and the others are a little bit further, I mean backward.
But, you know, in women's tennis everything change and the scores are different every week.   So I think all of top players are on the same ‑‑ top 20 players are playing on the same level. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT