QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 18, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/A. Radwanska
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Maybe you could talk about the match.   Like you said, you're very good friends, so it must have been very difficult to see her go down like that and then have to keep playing when she was in so much pain. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Pain? 

Q.   No, you and Victoria are very good friends.   What was your reaction when you saw her fall and get injured?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, actually, I didn't really see that in the beginning.   Then afterwards, you know, she was just, you know, laying down.
But, you know, it's happened.   It's tennis.   You know, it's a lot of running, a lot of matches.   And, you know, injuries are normal things here.   So, you know, sometimes happen on the court during the matches.

Q.   When she got injured, I was thinking, well, maybe now you could ‑‑you won the next game, and I thought maybe you'd win the set.   What happened?   Why weren't you able to win the set or keep the match going?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You know, I was actually tried till the end, but, you know, she was really playing good, you know, hitting the ball very well.   You know, it was close, but, you know, I didn't use really my chances.   And, you know, especially against the top player, when you're not using your chances then it's hard to come back.
So, yeah, it obviously happened today.

Q.   One of the things you struggled with it seemed was you were getting your serve in but you weren't winning a lot of points, like I think they said 50% on your first serve and only 28% on your second.   It seemed like your serve was a bit of a challenge today. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, a little bit, yes, for sure.   Actually, she's very good about returning.   And actually, you know, I also was trying especially, you know, to put the first serve, but then I was trying to, you know, just win the point right after the serve.   But sometimes I think I just pushed too much and then, you know, you miss.
Well, you know, it just was not my day, I think. 

Q.   Just to sum up, you had a pretty good tournament, but to finish like this, I mean, how do you feel now?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course, I mean, you know, semifinal is not a bad thing.   Big tournament, being in the semifinal is always great. 
Of course, you know, it's always close and always, you know, disappointing when you lose the match, but, you know, she's top player, so, you know, everybody playing good here, especially when you go through semifinals.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT