QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 13, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us something about your goals in 2012?   What do you want to achieve this year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, to be honest, I'm not really thinking about like to be someone like top 2 or top 3 or win specific tournaments.   Just, you know, working hard and, you know, try my best every tournament.   
If I would be top 5 this year I would be very happy, but, you know, I'm not really thinking about this.  
   
 Q.   Is that because you don't want to put pressure on yourself?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, yeah.   You know, I think, you know, when you are just doing what you are doing and just, I think, enjoying more, then you don't put some pressure, because I have to be, for example, top 5.   
So like I say, you know, when I go on court, you know, I just want to win matches.   Doesn't matter if it's first round or final, you know, playing the same tennis.  
You know, of course the goal is for sure like chance to play in the end of the year; that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   Are you happy with the form you showed in the first six weeks of 2012?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   I was feeling very well.   You know, actually in Australia I lost to Vika twice.   I could see she's playing pretty well this year.  
And, you know, I win all my matches in Fed Cup.   So so far, you know, I was very happy with my performance, yes.  
   
 Q.   Do you think there are any gray areas of improvement?   Particularly have you found out something?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, I'm just working on everything, you know, not especially a shot or something, you know.   
And, you know, I already have very good in the end of the season last year, playing a lot of good matches against top players.   I think, you know, like I say, I'm just working on everything and try to do one step forward.  
   
 Q.   What about the Olympics?   Have you thought about the Olympic medal, especially since Poland is going to host the Euro Cup, so this will be coming after that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes.   I mean, of course it will be very actually busy year for us, because, you know, Olympics are kind of very important for us, and also is just two weeks after Wimbledon.  
But, you know, I'm very excited and I'm looking forward to it, happy to play in my second Olympics, yes.   
   
 Q.   You played Victoria a couple of times this year.   How different is she playing from last year?   Is there any difference, any noticeable difference other than confidence and stuff like that in her game?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, for sure.   She's very ‑‑ you know, I think she's more consistent, you know, playing very good from the first ball, you know, to the last one.   You know, just fighting, you know, every point.   
You know, I think hitting a bit stronger, you know, and balls are very deep, so it's very hard to do anything with those balls.  
But I think the most important thing is she's very consistent, actually playing very well each match.   Doesn't matter who's on the other side of the court.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT