AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/A. Radwanska
  6‑7, 6‑0, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You started well.   Can you talk a little bit about that first set. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, to be honest, it was very good match, especially the first set.   It was very tight.   On the other side it was kind of weird because a lot of breaks, you know.   I think whole set was just breaks.   Service was not the big weapon in this case. 
But I think it was very good one.   Then I think she just start to play very aggressive and much better.   I was really in trouble. 

Q.   After that tiebreak, you must have been going into that change of ends before the second set feeling confident. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You know, it was just one set, so it's never over.   Especially when you play very good player, you know.   So after one set, of course, I was trying to focus, you know, trying to play my game.   But she start to play, you know, very aggressive, hit the ball very hard and good. 
So I was trying.   But, you know, obviously in the second set I really I think just didn't make it.

Q.   Was the heat much of a factor?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, to be honest, it was pretty hot out there.   But, you know, I kind of used to it.   I was playing all the tournament first or second match, so I was always playing in that heat.   Wasn't really first match like this, but it was pretty hot, yeah.

Q.   What do you think Azarenka's chances are of going all the way?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You know, for sure she have big chance to be in the final, especially if she going to play like today.   She's very consistent.   I think this is her big opportunity here, of course. 

Q.   There's been a lot made of the noise of some of the female players.   What are your thoughts on that? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   To be honest, I'm kind of used to it, you know, especially with Vika.   We know each other for many years. 
About Maria, I mean, what can I say?   For sure that is pretty annoying and it's just too loud.   Yeah. 

Q.   The WTA is looking at it.   They're possibly going to review their rules.   Do you think they should?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes. 

Q.   What do you think they should do about it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, I mean, of course everybody can make some noise.   This is tennis.   It's really hard work over there.   But I think, you know, it's just too loud. 
I don't think it's very necessary to scream that loud.   So if they want to do something, why not? 

Q.   Are you amazed they do it every point? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Who, sorry? 

Q.   That they do it every single shot. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, exactly.   I don't think this is very nice to watch, you know, those kind of players that scream so much all the time.   So that's why I think the WTA wants to change something. 

Q.   After a tough match like that in terms of the heat and the temperature, what do you do physically to help you recover?   Have you been in the ice bath?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, actually I was 10 minutes ago.   Actually, I had a lot of tough matches in last two weeks.   In Sydney and here, from the first round, actually ice bath almost every day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT