AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/J. Goerges
  6‑1, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   That looked pretty easy for you today. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, actually, no.   To be honest, I really expect much longer match, you know, much tougher.
But I think, you know, I was just playing very good from the beginning, you know, until the end, and, you know, I was just focused on my game from the first point, you know.
And I think, you know, I was just playing very well today, and very happy about that. 

Q.   Were you surprised at her performance as well? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, yes.   Actually, no, especially, you know, after my first round.   I really have, you know, a tough first round.   I almost lost in the beginning of the tournament. 
Somehow, you know, I have some easier matches in the fourth or third round.   So, but, you know, it's of course, especially in this heat, it's good have to those kind of matches. 
Just ready for the next one. 

Q.   This is a tournament where you've done well.   It's the first place you reached a Grand Slam quarterfinal.   Is this a particularly favorite place for you to play?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Actually, no, I love playing in Australia.   I really had very good week as well in Sydney.   I played also couple good matches over there against top players.   As well actually I was playing Vika as well over there. 
So, you know, just hope, you know, I can bring the same tennis like did I today, and, you know, just try again, you know, against Vika.   Of course she's play very well, unfortunately.   (Smiling.)   So I'll try my best for sure.

Q.   What did you learn from the match in Sydney?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I know Vika for I think ten years.   We played juniors together.   We're the same age, so we played a lot of matches against each other.
You know, I think it's always three sets, always tough ones.   For sure I have to play my 100% to beat her.

Q.   Can you compare where you were last year when you came here off the injury, right, didn't know if you were going to play, pulled out that crazy win against Date, to where you are now game‑wise and personally? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, um, the last year was pretty tough, especially that, you know, the last thing is I didn't know if I'm going to be able to play. 
This off‑season was without any surgery finally, so I'm very, very happy that I could be in the quarterfinal again.
You know, now of course just the top players are there.   So, you know, I think I did already what I had to do.   Now of course, you know, everything is open.
But, you know, like I said, you know, Vika is a very tough opponent, so I really have to do, you know, do my best.

Q.   If you look from Wimbledon to now, you probably had maybe one result that you didn't like so much against Kerber, right?   Played pretty well every single tournament.   Why do you think that is?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, yes, I really have good‑‑ best season last year, winning three tournaments, especially big ones:   Tokyo and Beijing. 
You know, I finished like 8 and playing the] chance for the first time with the top 8.   You know, I was thinking, you know, working hard for that, you know, and really looking forward, you know, to having, you know, just have the step forward, you know, to be top 8, top 5, and even better.
So I'm just very happy that, you know, since the beginning of the year I can play some good tennis and really beating top players as well, and, you know, playing and the very high level. 

Q.   How about personally for you?   How much has your coaching change helped your turnaround?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, um, yeah, actually last year was‑‑ I had some changes in my team.   My dad, I mean, he was coaching me and traveling with me for 17 years.   Now we just practicing at home together. 
So I just have some other coach with me right now.   But I think, you know, it was a little bit better for me.   I have some very good results since then.   I think feel more relaxed.   It doesn't matter if it's some changes, sometimes it's for the good.
So I think, you know, going to keep that way, because I feel good and I'm playing good.   So I think I'm not going to change that.

Q.   You've never made the semi of slam before.   How much would making your first one soon mean to you? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, yes, I did some quarterfinals.   That's why, you know, for sure I'm going to do my 100% after tomorrow, you know, to be the first time in the semifinal.
But, you know, like I said, it's not going to be easy for sure.   So everybody is playing very good, every day I see the players, so, you know, we will see. 

Q.   Aga, do you feel like your game and Victoria's have changed over the last ten years a lot, or is it almost like playing the juniors again?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You know, it's actually, you know, very good feeling that, you know, you can see the same faces, you know, like under‑14 and under‑12, and now actually in the top 10 and in the quarterfinals in the Grand Slam.
So but I think this is big different, huge change.   It's actually massive different between juniors and playing on the tour.   Actually, you know, when I was just, you know, passing by on the practice courts I can see junior players, and just reminds me when I was playing Grand Slams. 
Actually it feels like they're close because they are playing already Grand Slams, but actually it's very far away.   It's a huge difference.   I remember I was playing some small tournaments like a junior, and this is just different tennis. 

Q.   Do you remember your first match against Victoria as a junior?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I have no idea.

Q.   Any of them?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Nothing. 

Q.   No? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I just remember Sydney, Tokyo last year, and then before I can't remember.   So just two meetings. 

Q.   But there is no secrets between you two, so when you go on court it's not like you can fool her, right?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I think when you play someone a couple times you already know what to expect. 
So, yeah, I think it's not going to be any surprises there. 

Q.   Aside from the tennis, how difficult is it for you to play a friend?   Obviously you're a professional.   Do you have to approach the match differently, think about it differently? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I mean, like you said, of course we're friends, but we are both professional.   So when you go on court, we are just doing our best and everything to win the match. 
And of course after the match we shaking hands and friends again.   You know, of course when you traveling like ten months a year, it's sooner or later your playing your friend or your sister or someone else.   This is the obvious thing, yeah.

Q.   What will you do for the next day and a half in preparation?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I have the doubles probably tomorrow, so just going to be good practice.   So looking forward. 
And of course I have singles after tomorrow.

Q.   Anything to relax? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Um, well, I think my sister just book some dinner for us with the friends, so just going out today to hang out a little bit.   Pretty much that's it.

Q.   Can I ask you about Caroline.   If she loses tonight I think she loses No. 1.   I know she's one of your best friends.   Do you think it might be better for her for a couple months not to have to deal with the whole, Are you a legitimate No. 1?   Should you have won a Grand Slam?   It might be easier on her emotionally? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think, you know, I think she's pretty much handling everything very well.   You know, I think she's playing some good tennis.   Of course everybody keeps saying that, you know, she didn't win the Grand Slam.   She's still No. 1.
But she was playing unbelievable some other tournaments and she had so many points.   You know, that means, you know, everybody can be No. 1 even without the Grand Slam. 
But I don't think she's going to change because she's going to be No. 2 or 1.   I don't think it's any less or more pressure about that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT