APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 12, 2012
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/A. Radwanska
  1‑6, 6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Today was obviously not the result you wanted, but it's been a good tournament.   Looking forwards to next week there will be more positive than negatives. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, for sure.   You know especially here, you know, I had touch matches.   But, you know, I'm happy with my game here, you know. 
I think it was great tournament.   You know, semifinal is not bad, especially that you're playing against top 10 players since second round.   So, you know, it's not easy. 
And obviously Vika was playing very good today, and, you know, I really had I think two tough match against Caroline.   You know, I finish very late.   You know, you cannot just go right to sleep after, so, you know, I really had long day yesterday.   Actually until 4:30 in the morning. 
So I don't think the rest was, you know, enough.   4:30.

Q.   4:30 this morning is when you got to bed. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.

Q.   What happened in the four hours after the match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Just no chance that I fall to sleep until four hours after the match.   So of course trying to cool down, but just no chance.
So, you know, I was trying to sleep a little bit longer, but, you know, I'm not the person that's sleeping until 10:00 or 11:00.   It's not really so.
You know, I think, you know, it was just not enough time.   But, you know, especially that, you know, I was really running a lot yesterday and it was very tough match. 
Especially for the first tournament it's always a bit more different.   The body is not really ready like in the middle of the season, you know.   So it's just preparing. 
But like I was saying, it's semifinal in a very good tournament, so I will not complaining.

Q.   Does it feel like the tournament in Melbourne is very open, like there could be eight, nine, ten women who could win it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think last few years is like that.   Especially you can see that last year, you know, four different players won a Grand Slam. 
So I think everything is open, yes. 

Q.   At the start of the week you said when you drew your sister‑ you were obviously in the too happy about that.   With the draw in Melbourne tomorrow, are you a bit nervous about what might happen?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   You know, we were always playing when she was playing quallies and I was playing against qualifier.   It was four times like this, and four times we were playing against each other.   So it's, you know, it's just such a bad luck. 
But, you know, this draw is for 128, so I just don't believe that we're going to play in the first round.   That would be just ridiculous. 

Q.   If it does work out like that, what would be your reaction?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I don't know.   I just don't want to think about it, you know.   Of course it's some chance.   Like in US Open played against each other in the first round.   Of course it's the same draw.
But I don't know what I will do.   I think we will just play left‑hand, you know. 

Q.   Rock, scissors, paper. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Exactly. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT