TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 27, 2011
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/V. Zvonareva
  1-6, 6-2, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Could we have your view about the match you just played?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Sorry? 

 Q. Your view, your thoughts about the match you just finished. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, yeah, I'm just so happy, you know, that I could come back. And, you know, obviously it's very -- it's great just, you know, to win matches like that, especially against top players. 
 You know, Vera is a very great player, very consistent, and she was playing very well today. So I just so happy that I could come back and win this match and still have some chances, you know, to be in the semi.

 Q. Well done. Great game. What do you think about the atmosphere in Istanbul and the audience of Turkish tennis game?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I always think that tennis is not very popular here, but actually I'm very surprised, you know, because the crowd is great, and I think they're really enjoying tennis here.
 So, you know, I must say I think the atmosphere is great. You know, I hear a lot of support, and I just hope I'm gonna have the same thing tomorrow. 

 Q. (Through translation.) What was the most important part of the match which was a crucial turning point for you?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Um, well, when you have few match points down you're not really thinking anymore. You just fight until the end, and, you know, this is almost over, and I was actually -- I was actually trying to do that. 
 Actually, when I served those two match points I was still, you know, in the game. So I said to myself, you know, It's the Championships. So just fighting to the last point and still have chance to win.
 So of course the third match point was the toughest one. But I think she was a little bit nervous in the end, and that's why, you know, I just had opportunity to go for it, and, you know, to come back. 

 Q. I'm not sure, but I think one set will be enough for you advancing for semifinals tomorrow. What do you think about the game tomorrow?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, first of all, you know, I had really tough two long matches already, and I just gonna do everything possible to be ready for tomorrow. Of course, you know, Petra playing really well the last few weeks, and she's showed some good tennis here, as well. 
 So for sure it's going to be very tough. I'm gonna do my best tomorrow. I'm gonna fight like hell, of course, but for sure not gonna be easy. 

 Q. (Through translation.) How is the injury on your shoulder?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually, my shoulder is pretty good. I'm not complaining.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT