TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 25, 2011
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/A. Radwanska
  5-7, 6-2, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Agnieszka, please. 

 Q. It's a tough loss, but it's not like a real loss in a tournament because you're not out. You still have two more matches to play. So we saw Vera before, and she didn't seem as down as you guys usually seem when you lose a match in a tournament. What state of mind are you in right now? Are you very, very disappointed like you would be normally, or because of the round robin you feel a bit different or you're not sure?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Um, well, you know, I lost against No. 1 in the world. And actually was good match till the end. 
 Of course, you know, I had my chances. And, you know, the first match is always not that great, so, you know, it was a little bit too much mistakes sometimes, you know, in important moments.
 And, you know, like we said before, the surface is a little bit weird. You know, it's pretty slow. And, you know, so you really have to be used to it, you know. 
 So I just hope, you know, I can play better in the next match. I mean, I didn't say I played bad, but, you know, I think, you know, when you have like one match, you know, you really feel more comfortable and, you know, of course there is the next match.

 Q. Tell me about your shoulder. What's the latest?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Um, I didn't really change much, you know, since actually San Diego. So, you know, when I'm playing a lot, even one long match like I played in Moscow, it's -- you know, the pain is coming back.
 So it's not a serious thing. You know, I can play. But, you know, here it's so humid, you know, inside, so, you know, the tape just coming off, you know. So that's why. 

 Q. You had your chances in that match, so what was the difference? Can you just talk about Caroline's mental toughness? 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, you know, she's very consistent player, you know. She's running very well, you know, hitting the ball, you know, pretty deep. It's hard.
 And, you know, it's really hard to finish the ball here. It's very slow surface, so you really have to play long rallies, you know, to finish the points. 
 And, you know, for the first day it's tough, you know. So I think I'm have day off tomorrow, so, you know, I think is better for me because, you know, two-and-a-half hours for the first day, you know, is always tough.

 Q. Is it tough to play a friend?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Um, you know, when you are playing 10 years already the same tournaments, we know that sometimes we have to play against each other. But, you know, I think we are both professionals, so of course when we go on court we do our best. 
 It doesn't matter if you're friends or not. Of course when you go on court we are opponents, but off the court, you know, we are pretty good friends. We talk about it in the locker room, you know. It's normal thing. Someone has to lose and someone has to win, right? 

 Q. On the surface, it's described as Rebound Ace, which is the same as Australia, but does it play anything like Australia, this court?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: The court? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Oh, you kidding? Of course not.

 Q. Nothing like that?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No. I mean, you know, the courts are always much different when you just -- it's especially that, you know, it's indoor and they making the court like brand new. Just, you know, few days ago I think it was basketball match here. So it's always gonna be different.
 It's pretty slow. It's weird bounces, and surface very sticky so it's hard to run, as well. Yeah. 

 Q. When you guys shook hands at the end of the match, it was almost like a little conversation that lasted a long time. What did you guys say to each other?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Oh, this is already our secret. I just hope there is no microphone there so nobody can hear that. 

 Q. Or read lips?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah. Exactly. It was in Polish, so... (Smiling.)

 Q. On her game, I mean, she's consistent, but mentally do you feel like she's one of the best competitors out there?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Um, I think so, you know. Even when she was 40-Love up, you know, in the first set, and actually I won the set, you know, she was really -- like I think she didn't really think about it. She will just keep going and fight till the end.
 So I think -- I think she's really ready and she really play good. So, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT