CHINA OPEN
October 9, 2011
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/A. Petkovic
      7-5, 0-6, 6-4 
  
     THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Congratulations, Agnieszka.   
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Talk about how big it is for you to win a tournament like China Open.   
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, this is my biggest title in my career, so actually means a lot for me. I'm just very, very happy that we could first of all play an amazing match today with Andrea today. Both of us, I think we played unbelievable today. I think, you know, I was just really better couple of points, so, I mean, it was I think the best final I played.  
     So I think for this kind of tournament, I think was the best final.   
  
  Q. Could you tell us what happened in the second set? You seemed to have lost your form there and managed to get it back. What kind of mustered you for the third set?  
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, it's always hard to come back, especially when you lose the set 6-Love. I think she just was killing the ball. You know, actually she killed me in the second set. Of course I had some chances. I think couple games I was 30-Love. But, you know, it just went so quick.  
     You know, just turned around and it was already Love-6. Then I think I just tried to focus on my game, and, you know, playing a little bit more aggressive. I think, you know, like in the first set, you know, it was very, very tight, you know, game by game. Actually, a lot of breaks also, so long rallies, long games.  
     So it was very, very tough.   
  
  Q. How do you make it to win back-to-back two championships? How do you put together for your mental and the physical?  
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Like Tokyo and here?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, actually, if someone will say I'm going to win those two tournaments I would say that you're crazy because it was two big tournaments, all the top players were playing. I was I think playing every match better and better, especially in Tokyo.  
     So, you know, after Tokyo, I was like so happy, you know, that I won my biggest title then, and I just came here, you know, really with nothing lose. Of course it was always in my head that I have still chance to go to the Championships and everything, but playing all those matches in a row is pretty tough.   
     Also I was playing doubles here. I think I was just keep going, not really thinking about anything, how sore I am. I was just fighting every point, and, you know, I was really playing my best tennis here.   
  
  Q. Would you consider these back-to-back wins something like a turning point in your career where it'll boost you up to the very top ranks? Also, how will you be rewarding yourself for winning twice in a row?  
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, you know, never happened before, especially that those tournaments are my biggest title in my career. So, you know, I really didn't expect that. I was just going to Asia to play a tournament. I didn't really have any expectation.   
     So I was just like keep going and I didn't really think about anything. Just, you know, actually in Tokyo I really have very touch matches. I think even more tough than here. Just the final was unbelievable today. It was really like very, very tough. She was playing very, very good.  
     But, um, I was just -- I'm just so, so happy that I could will play this many matches in a row.   
     I thought I'm not going to be able to do that, because, you know, actually I'm not physically that strong like others. So that's why, you know, sometimes, you know, on court I was really, you know, feeling not that good. You know, my body, you know, was already sore after Tokyo and everything.  
     But, you know, of course I have, you know, couple of tapes and really was spending lots of time in the physio room and massage room just to fixing my body every day. You know, I think it was worth it. And here we go.   
  
  Q. First of all, congratulations to win the China Open. I want to know can you talk about the performance of this year?   
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, um, you know, like, I think everybody know you sometimes have, you know, better tournaments; sometimes worse. You know, good days, bad days.  
     But, you know -- well, for example, like in the beginning actually I was playing pretty okay, especially that, you know, I had also foot surgery. So beginning of the year was very tough for me, but actually I really had good result.  
     But what I think what I'm not really happy about is the Grand Slam this year. I think I didn't do good enough. At least I could won here, you know, a tournament almost like a Grand Slam.   
     So for sure in the next year I'm going to be focused more on the Grand Slams and trying to step, like step forward, being top 8, top 5.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT