CHINA OPEN
October 8, 2011
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/F. Pennetta
      6-2, 6-4

     THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Comment on this match. Do you have special tactic for Pennetta?
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: If I have any tactic? 

 Q. I mean comment on this game. What's your comment on this game, and do you have a special tactic for Pennetta? 
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, actually, you know, when you play a player from the top actually it's hard to say about tactic. You know, you just have to play 100%, to be focused from the first point until the end, and trying to play aggressive and just fighting for each point. 
     I think against Flavia we didn't play in a long time, so... 
     You know, actually, you know, I just knew that she's playing well, you know, last couple of weeks, so I was really, you know, just focusing on my game from the beginning. 
     Just very happy that I close this match in two sets.

 Q. (Through translation.) Last week in Tokyo you won the championship, and in the China Open you reached the final. How do you maintain your top level at the end of the season?
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Say again.

 Q. How do you maintain your top level at the end of the season?
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, to be honest, coming to Asia I didn't really think about anything because I was far on the race so I didn't think about the chance or anything. I just knew that are big tournament, you know, and it's going be nice to play here good, you know, and have some more points in the end of year. 
     Actually I am feeling pretty well. You know, I'm playing actually every day very tough matches against top players.
     What can I say? I'm just very, very happy that I can reach final again second week in a row. 

 Q. Can you talk about the final a little bit. 
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, we played actually in U.S. two times against each other; I won those both matches. But I think doesn't mean anything. I was playing very well also in those matches. It was actually 6-4 in the third, and then again we played such a long match.
     It's always very tough and very tight against Andrea. She's playing well, very consistent player. So I think, you know, I have to play even better than today to beat her tomorrow.

 Q. Congratulations. First, just before the conference, Petkovic told us that if she won tomorrow she will show the Chinese dance to the fans. Do you have any plans to show to the fans if you win the title? Because if you win tomorrow, it will be the biggest title you have ever held. 
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, but I just finished my match ten minutes ago, so I didn't think about tomorrow pretty much.
     Well, if you show me some Chinese dance, of course I will dance if I win. Not a problem. (Smiling.) 

 Q. For this China Open we have a lot of top players disqualified. Do you think you reach the final, and the Andrea Petkovic, and it's because you're age gave you a special advantage?
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, um, it's hard to say. I mean, you know, in every tournament, you know, some top seeded are really losing very early and it's not really surprise. But, well, I think we are -- I don't know. Maybe we are young, we are still fresh, so maybe in the end of the year we can reach the finals. 
     But I think every tournament, each tournament is different, so, well, it's just I think we were just playing very well here and we could easily be in the final. 

 Q. Congratulations. I have two questions. The first is: Have you discovered something new in this year's China Open? The second is: in what aspect do you believe that China Open need to improve to be the fifth Grand Slam? Thank you. 
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, good question. What to improve? Well, I mean, so far I didn't have any problems here, so I cannot say anything bad about this tournament. I'm in the finals and it's the second time I'm here in the finals, so I think it's one of my best tournaments in Beijing.
     So, yeah, maybe if I will have any problems I will let you know. (Smiling.)

 Q. Have you discovered anything new in this year's China Open?
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for sure, you know, it was very nice new players' lounge, of course new center court, bigger gym. You know, this is like some details, but, you know, important for the players. 
     So I think improves a lot from last year. 

 Q. Do you enjoy the joint events more than the regular WTA events, or do you like a combo? How do you feel on that? 
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's hard to say if it's different or not. You know, it's big tournament like couple of others, but... 
     Well, like I said, I'm really feeling good here on the center court. It's been, again, good tournament for me.
     But, you know, it's hard to -- I mean, for the players I think each tournament is kind of the same. You know, the same players, kind of the same matches, center courts. I cannot really say that it's a little bit different than others. 

 Q. Now you're one step closer to the year-end championship. Will you play Osaka or Moscow after Beijing?
     AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I will play Moscow. I'm going to go home for a couple days after this. You know, I think I need some break after those two weeks. So I'll take some time off and practice at home and go Moscow, and hopefully I can go to Istanbul. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT