APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 13, 2017
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. KONTA/A. Radwanska
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Last night when Genie lost to Konta, she said she got whooped.  Did it feel like that tonight for you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I think so.  Well, she was just playing unbelievable tennis from the beginning till the end.  And normally you're thinking on the court that she can't play like this whole match and it's gonna be even game or two that, you know, you can go forward because she's gonna have some, you know, worse couple of games.  But she didn't.
She was just playing whole match so aggressive with pretty much everything in, and I couldn't do much.
Q. Does that make it less disappointing?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think so, because I think I was doing everything right.  I was serving good.  I was hitting the ball well.  But just everything was coming better and better, each shot.
I cannot be even angry on myself, because I think I was even playing better than yesterday.  Just end up a little bit differently.  (Smiling.)
Q. When your coach came out, I can't understand Polish, unfortunately, but what was the tactical discussion there of how you tried to change what was happening?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, well, he was saying the same thing.  It was just what she was doing, it was unbelievable, just to change sometimes maybe to slice or something.
But it was too fast sometimes.  Of course, I try so many other things, but even when I was, for example, serving stronger, the ball was coming even stronger to my side.
So, well, definitely that was her day.  And, well, well done.
Q. From our side, would it be correct in summing up that she was playing 90% and you were a little bit off your game?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think I was playing good.  I was really feeling good out there, and from the beginning I was hitting the ball very well, serving good.  You know, much better than the first two matches that I was playing here.
So I was saying before that I couldn't really say that I did something wrong.  She was just playing amazing tennis tonight.  She just went there.  She was playing so aggressive from the first shot.  Very deep.  I couldn't do much.
Q. You have faced a lot of hard servers.  How does her serve rank among the top 10 you've played?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I think that it was -- I can't remember playing someone like this on that level that consistent, whole match.  You're always waiting for the smallest moment that you can come in and change the score a little bit, but here, you know, she was just too solid.
Q. So 18 months ago she was ranked outside the top 150.  She's not exactly young.  What do you think has been around her rise?  Have you kind of watched her and noticed her improvement, or...
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think the age, as we see, doesn't really matter.  But, yes, well, that's surprising, because normally you can see those girls playing good tennis when they're 17 or 18 years old.
But, well, I remember her from two years ago from grass, and she was getting everywhere the wildcards.  Then she was really starting to play good tennis, especially on the grass.  She was really doing well.
And then, suddenly, she was going deeper and deeper at the tournaments.  Then you notice, you know, she's gonna play good tennis.
But like you're saying, she's not young, but definitely now she deserve to be top 10.
Q. Is it something maybe about that she's changed in her game when you played her two years ago on the grass, or is it more a confidence thing?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think I didn't play her.  I was just watching her.  I was just there.
But, well, you have to ask her what she change and where was she five years ago.  But, well, now she definitely is playing out of experience and very smart and going so fast from the bounce.
So everything is pretty quick.  Today, as well.  So, yes, definitely she can be very dangerous.
Q. Looking at the next couple of weeks in Melbourne, can you speak about that.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, couldn't be any better.  I'm here in the last day of the tournament, so it's still a great week for me.  I'm happy to have a couple of good matches on this kind of level, like today.
So, well, I feel good.  I feel confident.  Just gonna have one-day rest and ready to play on Tuesday.
Q. And Konta, you expect her to be challenging again?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course.  It's always great to play players like that and that pushing you 100%.  So, yes, why not?
Q. Pironkova in the first round.  What do you think of that matchup?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely a tough draw.  We played so many times against each other.  Couple of really long, tough battles.
So, yes, I'm expecting really good match in the first round.  Well, we'll see.
Q. Have you ever been heckled by Polish before in a presentation ceremony?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  Polish are loud.  They're always into a game.  So, yeah, they're good fans.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT