ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 13, 2011
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STOSUR/A. Radwanska
  6-2, 5-7, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you just talk about the flow of the match a little bit? You know, you seemed to pick up your game in the second set. Did you feel kind of a difference between the sets in your level?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Um, well, I think I was -- yeah, I obviously was playing better in the second set, and I was able to broke her I think twice.
 But then I think that she starts serve much, much better. You know, I think serve was very important thing in this match.
 You know, and with my shoulder, you know, I couldn't really hold my serve. That's why, you know, I think there was a little bit of trouble especially in the beginning of the third set already.

 Q. How big a factor was fatigue in this match for you?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, yes, it's very hard, you know, playing so many matches in a row, especially good matches on a very high level.
 You know, I was fighting till the end, and of course, you know, this been a very busy three weeks. So I'm just very happy that, you know, I could be here in the semifinal. 
 So anyway, you know, it's good tournament for me.

 Q. You'd be the best judge of this: Stosur will have to play one of two very in-form players. How do you like her chances tomorrow?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, it's very hard to say, but I'd say 50/50, you know. It's very, you know, hard to say who's gonna win the second semifinal today. I'm not sure. It's very hard to say.

 Q. Can you give us some specifics about the shoulder? Is it something where you just need a little bit of time off before the US Open? Is surgery something that you'll have to do after the season?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Um, oh, no, don't say that. (Smiling.)
 Last two off-seasons I had two surgeries, so, you know -- no. I mean, I hope so. But well, yeah, I think for sure I need some time off, couple days off.
 I just hope it's nothing serious. Yeah, we'll see. 

 Q. And despite the loss today, how confident are you feeling heading into the US Open? Do you feel like your game is as strong as it's ever been before a Grand Slam?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes. You know, I think I'm playing very good tennis. I had a lot of good matches.
 I'm ready for the Open, you know. It's been very good experience last three weeks. I think -- you know, I just hope I can do well, as well, in the US Open.

 Q. I saw in practice that your back was also taped. Is that another injury, or is that to support the shoulder?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No. Actually, my back, it's now pretty sore because of the matches, you know, so much matches in a row.
 So in this tournament -- you know, it's just too much tennis. Just I was falling apart now, but, you know, I think I just need few days just to fix it.

 Q. Today I believe if you had won you'd be back in the top 10. Is that something that matters to you? Do you think about that during the tournament week?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Um, well, I didn't really think that way, but for sure, you know, it's great to be top 10. I'm very happy that, you know, that I'm coming back, like you were saying. I didn't even that --

 Q. If you had won. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Oh. I didn't really think that way. So if I be 11 or 10, it's no big different, but for sure, you know, being in top 10, it's of course much better. But I think most important thing to be top 10 I think at the end of the year, so I still have some time to do it. 

 Q. It sounds like you're not going to play any other tournaments between now and the US Open, right?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No, actually...

 Q. Are you playing Cincinnati?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes. 

 Q. Do you think that's a good idea?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, you know, obviously, you know, I will just go there, and, you know, I go there and I will see how it's gonna be. 

 Q. Your dad hasn't been here these few weeks coaching you, right?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No.

 Q. Can you talk about is that a different feeling, you know, the relationship with a coach who is not your father? Is there anything you can kind of do that you wouldn't be able to do like if your dad was around off the court?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, not really, you know. I think, you know, I'm not 13 years old anymore. I just do what I want to do. 
 But, you know, yes, of course it's different feeling, especially that my father has been like 17 years already coaching me. But, you know, it was couple tournaments before that I was just with someone else. 
 But, you know, I was practicing my dad before I came here, and he was in Stanford for a little bit. You know, sometimes it's good to have some breaks, you know, from each other. You know, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT