ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 12, 2011
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/A. Petkovic
  6-4, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Does it feel a little bit like deja vu this week again?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Um, yes, a little bit. But anyway, you know, a little bit, yes, because I'm playing against the same players. But, you know, every match is different. You always have to play the best tennis, you know, winning against those players.

 Q. Can you just talk a little bit about how your shoulder is doing?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Um, it's still okay. I mean, for sure playing every day is not very help with my shoulder. Still I can handle it, and for sure I will do my best tomorrow. And, yeah, we'll see. 
 I mean, for sure I need some couple days off before the Open, but now I'll do my 100%, you know, to win tomorrow.

 Q. After the win last week, I'm just wondering how you're feeling about your game, because obviously you're rolling through this tournament, as well. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, I'm very happy with my game, with my performance. I had a lot of good matches against top players. I think, you know, the best that I have the confidence and a lot of experience against top players.
 So I think, you know, I already have a lot of good matches like a good warmup before the Open.

 Q. Very dangerous opponent today. How is it you've matched up so well against her thus far in your career? I think it's four straight wins against her. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes. Well, she's very tough player. I mean, you know, not missing much. You know, moving very well. Playing deep balls.
 You know, she's very consistent. So is very tough to play against her. I just have to be focused since beginning to the last point. She's, you know, huge fighter, so I really have to close this match, and, you know, just fight till the end.

 Q. You were 3-Love up and then it was 3-All and then it was Love-30. Did you feel then it was slipping away a little bit?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, a little bit, yes. But I had something of this before actually against Vera, as well. It was like, you know, first set was 3-2 -- or 2-3 and then Love-40, and then in the second set I was 4-Love down. 
 So it's always up and down, you know, in the matches. So like I said, just point by point, and, you know, just fight until the end, because this is, like I said, anything can happen. Yeah, like I said, doesn't matter if 4-All or 4-Love. You just have to play your best all the time.

 Q. Does it make it harder with the shoulder to really believe you can come back?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, because, you know, I'm trying to not, especially not serve that strong like I always do. 
 So it's always a little bit harder, but anyway, I can still do it, you know, without the serve, so it's okay.

 Q. Do you know exactly what it is with the shoulder?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, I think the most important answer is just too much tennis, so... 

 Q. You have a new coach. Do you think that played a role in your recent wins? 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, you know, of course, you know, I have a coach coaching me here, but also my dad in Poland before I came to U.S. , so you know, couple of guys, hitting partners hitting balls. So there's been a couple of people that you have to thank, you know, for being here in the semifinal and winning last week.

 Q. Do you feel that your ranking is a bit misleading right now just with the way you have been playing?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: My ranking? 

 Q. Do you feel like you're a better player than what your ranking is showing?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, it's hard to say that way. I think, you know, all the top 15 players are pretty on the same level, you know. 
 It's not like in the men's tour that, you know, there are like two or three, three players now that are on the top all the time. In the women's ranking, everything is changing all the time.
 I just hope that I can be back on the top 10 after U.S. tournaments, that's for sure, and still fighting for the chance. 

 Q. Is your goal to win a Grand Slam or to be No. 1? Is that what you're always thinking about?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course. I think this is the dream for every player. So, yes, for sure.

 Q. Which of the Grand Slams do you think you might have the best chance at?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's hard to say, but, you know, for me, doesn't matter which Grand Slam I win first, but I like grass. I got to quarters there. It's very hard to say, but, I think, yeah, grass or Australian Open, I think.

 Q. Can you just talk about playing Stosur tomorrow and how that matchup looks to you?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Um, well, we played couple times before, but I don't know the statistics, to be honest. I can't remember. But for sure, you know, she's very great player, great champion. 
 You know, playing her is always tough. So, you know, I just have to play again my best tennis to beat her tomorrow, so for sure it's going to be completely different match than today. But, you know, I'll try. 

 Q. What's special about your game?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think you have to, you know, ask my opponents than me. 

 Q. You must know what you do well, what you think you do well. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, I think what I do well is I'm mixing up everything. You know, my tennis is not -- doesn't look the same. You know, depends who is on the other side of the court. Pretty much doing everything.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT