MERCURY INSURANCE OPEN
August 6, 2011
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/A. Petkovic
  4-6, 6-0, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. (Question regarding managing the shoulder during the match.)
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, it was pretty similar like yesterday. I could handle it again today. I'm very happy that I could close again these tough matches. 

 Q. Have you ever been involved in anything like this, where a player ran off the court in the middle of a game?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I saw a couple times. But I think it happen sometimes. Sometimes you have to really go off the court during the game.

 Q. Did it throw off your rhythm at all?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I was just trying to be focused on my game. And of course, I mean, it's a question for her, but she probably felt that bad that she really had to go off the court, so... 

 Q. What makes your game work better when you can't serve as well? Do you concentrate more or do something differently knowing you can't serve as you might want to?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, it's always worse because this is kind of shot that you really using and sometimes you can really serve well and winning the match because of the serve. 
 I have opposite thing, you know. It's kind of hard. But, like I said, those courts are not really fast, so you can really -- the serve is not the biggest weapon on those matches. You know, I can just really play with my forehand and backhand. 

 Q. Starting the second set, you win 10 games in a row. What changed during that period of the match?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think I was just more relaxed. I had some chances, of course, in the first set as well. But I just thought I really have nothing to lose. She's playing well. This is the semifinal. You know, I'm just gonna play till the end and fighting till the last point. 
 I was really starting playing much better, playing aggressive, pretty much no mistakes. I really felt very good second and third set. Obviously she was start to play incredible in the third set. 
 I think I didn't really change anything. She was just playing unbelievable. 

 Q. So when she got back to 4-3, were you thinking, No way she maintains this level? Or were you thinking, Now I might have to raise my game even more?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Like I said, 4-3, I didn't really change anything. She was start to play so much better, really like no mistakes, she was like going for it. Every game was very close. Even when I won those 10 games in a row. It looks like the same in the first set, but those games were just going to my side. 
 But, you know, also was a good game on my side when it was 4-3. I had a couple good shots. It was pretty close in the end, yes. 

 Q. One, it doesn't look like you get very tired. Only a couple times when you were running. Number two, it looked like you were playing inside the court, trying to push her back. You were dictating a lot of the points. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I was trying to do that. She's also a good runner. She's really going for it. I was actually trying to do the same, just playing aggressive, try to make the winners, as well. I think that was the key of this match. 

 Q. I could hear you joking with the crowd afterwards about Starbucks. Can you talk about that. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, you know, when I came here the first day, I was very sleepy and tired. I don't know why. It was the middle of the day. I could feel like it was already in the evening. 
 I'm not the coffee person. I don't like coffee. But I really had to have one because I was so sleepy. So I went there to have mocha. Actually, like iced mocha. I really loved it. It was really a good one (laughter). 
 I won the match the next day. So I said, Okay, let's go for another mocha. It was so good. Then I won again. Then, okay, again mocha. Till now I had those couple mochas. Actually I'm going to go today, as well. 
 Like I said on the court, I think I need a double mocha today. 

 Q. Are you working on a new sponsor?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, probably (laughter).

 Q. In the final game when you were serving for the match, she started playing really well. Did you feel any pressure that you needed to really serve that match out then because she had found herself again?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, even when she was feeling a bit worse, she was playing unbelievable, especially in the end of the match. I didn't really could feel there's something wrong with her. So I had to do my best to win this match. 

 Q. Did you feel like you played a good service game? You weren't nervous at all? 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, I was nervous. You know, this is the worst thing, you know, when you have so long match, then you have this one chance that you're serving for the match. Yeah, it's kind of stressful. Especially with the new balls, it's always a little bit harder. 
 But, yeah, I did some good shots. I pushed the serve more than whole match. But, like I said, every game was so close. So, you know, I mean, when she was serving, was just long rallies, everything was so close. Yeah, didn't really matter whether I was serving or she was serving. 

 Q. When did you make up your mind that you could actually play today? 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Like I said, this is already in the end of the tournament. I really doing everything to go on court and play my best tennis. This is just the thing that you try to do everything, the painkillers. Even if you had some couple long matches before, you know, just keep fighting. 

 Q. You've won other events. Do you count this as the biggest victory of your career? I know you won Eastbourne. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, this is the only tournament that I've been two times in the final. So for sure it's one of my best tournaments. 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about what different challenges either Vera or Ana will provide tomorrow? Will you have to play differently depending on each one of them?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, you know, for sure I'm gonna watch today how they're playing. 
 But Vera is obviously top player right now, playing some good tennis. Ana is coming back also, not playing not bad last couple of weeks. I think it's going to be very interesting match today. Really hard to say who is going to win.

 Q. Are there different keys to doing things well against Vera as opposed to Ana?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think, you know, playing against top players, you just have to do hundred percent and be focused since the beginning. I'll just play my game point by point. 

 Q. You haven't won a tournament since 2008. You've gone deep in a lot of tournaments, beaten a lot of good players. I would think winning another tournament would be important to you mentally?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course. It's always good to have a title, of course. I've been in a couple quarterfinals, semifinals and finals. But, you know, of course it's good to have a title. So for sure I'm going to do everything tomorrow, you know, to have a title.

 Q. So you feel ready physically, mentally, the whole thing?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Uhm, yes. Pretty much yes. You know, today and yesterday I really had very tough matches. I had a couple hours in my legs running on court. But, you know, I'm going to have some good treatment today. 

 Q. Can you talk about how the court surface compares to the one from last year. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think they're pretty the same. I don't know, they feel exactly the same. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT