MERCURY INSURANCE OPEN
August 5, 2011
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/D. Hantuchova
  0-6, 6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the first set, how much of an effect your shoulder had in the first set. You called for the trainer.   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think she started very, very well. She was so aggressive I didn't really do much in the first set. You know, it was so quick.   
 And, yes, my shoulder wasn't better after those set. But I'm just happy that, you know, I try something different later on in the second and third set. It was actually good match afterwards.   
  
  Q. What kind of treatment did you have on it after the match? Are you confident you'll be able to play tomorrow?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I hope so. Well, of course, you know, playing two hours, it's not really helpful for my shoulder. But, of course, I'll try my best tomorrow. Like I was playing yesterday and today, not really very much serve, just fighting till the end.   
  
  Q. After you received treatment in the first set, you played much better coming out. Did that actually have an impact on how you felt out on the court?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, you know, after you lose 6-Love, you really have nothing to lose because then just something change. So I start to play more aggressive. In my mind, was like just to play, win some games. I just feel like more relaxed.  
  
  Q. With as busy as a schedule that you played, when you lose 6-0 in the first set, did you give any consideration to pulling out at that point?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: A little bit, yes. Especially that my shoulder, it's sore. I have couple more tournaments, especially US Open, very soon. Yes, it's always the choice, you know.   
 But then I had some chances. So I said, Okay, a couple more games. I was still going, going. Then it was actually, you know, 50/50 since the second set. So I was just fighting till the end.   
  
  Q. Is it kind of a relief to play the early one? You're not playing tonight. You'll get six or seven more hours, do treatment, let it rest for tomorrow.   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I actually prefer it that way, that I have a couple hours' rest, not like dinner at 11 p.m., treatment at midnight. So this is actually much better.  
  
  Q. Does the competitor in you naturally come out when you lose 6-0, and you don't want to come off the court being embarrassed like that?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Exactly. You're playing Daniela, of course who is a great player and I could lose this match, but not 6-Love, 6-Love, or 6-1. Okay, sometimes it happens. But I think, you know, I was playing too good in this tournament to lose so quickly.   
 I think this just push me to keep fighting.   
  
  Q. So you figured even without your first serve, you were playing well enough to where you believed you could win the match, change things up, even without the serve?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes. Actually after my third round when I was playing also without the serve, it was actually a quick match. The courts are not very fast so you can really easy break the opponent. Like the serve is the most important weapon here. So, you know, you can always come back.   
  
  Q. Were you surprised almost when you won the second set, considering how your shoulder felt, just how far behind you were? It almost seemed like you surprised yourself by coming back and winning that.   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, actually I was surprised. I want, of course, to play. Of course, I don't want to retired. I want to finish this match.   
 But, yes, of course, it was kind of surprise that I won this match.   
  
  Q. Given what you went through at the end of last year when you couldn't get up, you couldn't play, then you came back in January, do you feel like you can deal with pain very well, that you can put it aside?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I think I have at little experience of the pain, of the injuries. I really took a lot of painkillers before the match. I'm kind of used to it, yes.  
  
  Q. You know when there's a danger zone when you think you should not go past a certain point?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, exactly. I think I know where is the line, you know. So far it's the pain that I still can handle it. So I didn't cross the line yet, yes.   
  
  Q. Your shoulder may have been hurting, but in the third set you won your first three service games at love. How surprising was that?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, actually little bit surprised. But, like I said before, serve was not the most important thing in this match. So I think just a lot of rallies when I was serving, when she was serving. So, yeah, serve was not the most important thing.   
  
  Q. At the start of the second set, Daniela seemed to come out mixing up her shots, throwing some high balls at you. Do you think she was trying to test your shoulder a little bit?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think this is the question for her.   
 But, yes, I think she was trying to do some things. She was playing more aggressive. But then she kind of played high balls. I think she was also trying a lot of other things.   
  
  Q. You had talked about your shoulder. You said it's some sort of a nerve issue in your shoulder, correct?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.   
  
  Q. So you've had some tough three-set losses this year. Must be nice to win a difficult three-set match. Does it do something for your confidence?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, actually it was very nice feeling, coming back, especially from the first set. Also in the third set I was in a trouble. 3-4, I was a break down. It's always hard to win those kind of matches.   
 Of course, it's a good feeling winning that match, especially against a top player.   
  
  Q. You brought up the point that you seem uncertain concerning whether you will continue in this tournament. As you sit up there at the moment, what do you think it will be? Do you think you'll be able to get out there or do you think this is it?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, it's two more matches. I'm going to try, of course, my best. Now I think all top players are there. I have nothing to lose. You know, it's 50/50 I think. It's hard to say if I can do it or not, but for sure I'll try.   
 I'm in the semifinal already, so I think it's already good result. I think Petkovic next, I'm not sure yet. She's playing very good couple last weeks, so it's going to be tough, for sure.  
  
  Q. As I understand the WTA rules, you've now qualified for the semifinals. Whether you play or not, you'll get paid as a semifinalist. Might that have any bearing on your decision?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't understand the question. What was that? Playing for what?   
  
  Q. It's a complicated question. But you have now qualified for the semifinals, right?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.   
  
  Q. As I understand the rules, having qualified for the semifinals, you're going to be paid as a semifinalist regardless of whether you play.   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Correct.   
  
  Q. Would that have any bearing on your decision whether you play or don't play?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I'm just not thinking that way, you know. I just want to play and I will do everything to do that. The money's not the most important thing here.   
  
  Q. How long has the shoulder bothered you and have you been told you can't damage it more by playing?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for sure, you know, playing those kind of matches, long matches, is not helpful for sure. But, yeah, just couple days actually since Stanford, so it's not long. Of course, I just hope it's not going to be worse.   
 But I'm in semifinals so I'm going to try for sure to do everything, you know, to play and to be able to finish my semifinal.   
  
  Q. Does it just hurt on the serve or on wide forehands?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think it's just from everything. When it's sore, it's sore.  
  
  Q. You feel it even on your backhand?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Kind of. But you can always use opponent's power. Serve is my shot. When you play forehand, backhand, using opponent power, so it's a little bit easier.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT