AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2011
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. CLIJSTERS/A. Radwanska
  6-3, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You had your chances and just couldn't quite take them. What was your feeling on the game?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Uhm, yes, you're right. I have a lot of chances, 40-15, some breakpoints. And, you know, when you're not using those points against a top player, it's hard to come back.   
 I think, you know, the second set was very, very close. Yeah, just, you know, couple more points and for sure could be the third set.  
  
  Q. Both of you seemed to have trouble on your service games. What were the conditions like?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I felt like it was very slow courts, slow balls. Maybe the serve wasn't that important in our game. There was a lot of breaks. Uhm, yeah, think so.  
  
  Q. This was your fourth Grand Slam quarterfinal. What do you have to do to take the next step?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for sure improve the game, everything. Every time is very close, you know, always playing against good, top players. I think, anyway, this year when I was in the quarterfinal anyway is good after my injury last season.   
 Anyway, was good result. So for sure I'm looking forward for another Grand Slam and be in the semifinal.   
  
  Q. You had the planes flying overhead at a crucial time. Did you know that going into the match, and did that distract you at all when you were out there?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I didn't really expect that. But it was pretty loud and not pretty fun.   
 Well, we had the same situation with Kim, so we just had to continue.   
  
  Q. Was it difficult to play through these planes?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: A little bit, yes. They were pretty loud. But, yeah, I think it was no choice.   
  
  Q. What made the difference today in the second set? Do you think Kim was more consistent?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, she was up and down. But in the important moments she was playing pretty well and not missing the ball. She was playing good, you know, right and left all the time, she makes me run all the time. Yeah, I think I had a lot of run today.  
  
  Q. Is that the most different thing about playing Kim: you have to run kilometers and kilometers?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes. She's playing balls very good, deep balls all the time. And, yeah, is difficult.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT