WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2010
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/S. Errani
  6-3, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. About your match, it seemed like it was a pretty easy win. How would you sort of characterize your match today?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, first of all, wasn't pretty easy, for sure.

 Q. You made it look easy. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, but we played, I think, almost two hours, or almost two hours. I think she's a great player on the clay court and a little bit worse, I think, on the grass. So I think that's why it was three and one. 
 But anyway, it was long and tight match. I was just very happy that I keep my serving very well from the beginning till the end. Yeah, that's it.

 Q. Let me ask you just a couple quick questions about sort of the state of Polish tennis. It seems at the moment that Polish tennis is quite strong. You're seeing more people that are in this year this have gone through further. How would you characterize what's happening in Polish tennis? And do you feel a bit of pressure because you're the last person in terms of singles from Poland that's still in the Championship?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, yeah, for sure, now there's a little bit more players than like two years ago. We can see girls and guys playing in the main draw, so it's great. Not only one, like was before, so it's great.
 But, um, well, I'm just not thinking about the pressure. I'm just doing what I have to do, you know. Of course I would like to also do at least fourth round, which is like second week. So, yeah. 

 Q. And last question: Tell me first of all in terms of why do you think Polish tennis is becoming stronger? Is there more money? Better facilities? More sort of interest in it? And also, would you say that there's sort of more support? No? Everybody is sort of shaking their head. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No facilities, no money, no nothing. So, no. Can you imagine that like even in Krakow there's no hardcourts. So I don't even have hardly in my city, which is big city. So no, we don't have any facilities to practice.
 But I'm not practicing like in States or Spain. I just feel good at home. But it's just not true if there is something for the tennis. 

 Q. This is family business. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Exactly, and that's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT