APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 12, 2017
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RADWANSKA/B. Strycova   
6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Would you say that, like, across the course of the tournament this week you have been improving with each match and happy with every result?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course.  I think I'm playing better and better each match.  I think also the opponent is pushing you to play 100%.   
I knew it was not going to be easy today.  Obviously she's a great fighter.  So the score was easy, but I really had to fight for each point.  Nothing was for free.   
 Q.  Seventh straight win against her.  What is it about your matchup with her that you like so much?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: To be honest, I didn't know that.  But, well, I think statistics, I'm not really playing.  I think every match is new story.  I think it's not getting easier even with that good statistic and head-to-head.   
I don't know.  Sometimes you have this kind of head-to-heads that it's surprising, because, you know, she's really playing good tennis and improving, as well, a lot.   
So, well, I think just suits my game, I guess.   
 Q.  She played three-and-a-half hours yesterday.  Do you think that played a part in...  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think you have to ask her, but I think so.  I think she played unbelievable match against Caro in this kind of heat.  I think there were almost four hours on court with the break.   
Well, I guess a little bit, as well, because I would say thanks to Caro (smiling).   
 Q.  This is your second final here now.  There must be something about this final or the city that you really like.  Suits your game.  Is it the surface or the conditions?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I really like to play in Australia.  I love the courts.  I feel very comfortable here and in Melbourne.   
I really like to play here.  So I'm just very happy to make another final, especially here when it's always very strong tournament.   
But, well, yeah, I think, you know, it suits my game and I'm very comfortable playing here.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  How confident are you going into tomorrow's final?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think this is the final.  You have really nothing to do in this stage.  Just, you know, last match.  So hopefully I can play the same tennis I was playing today.   
I think I was doing everything right today, and I cannot really complain about anything.   
 Q.  Will you watch tonight's semifinal?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  Why not?  I like to watch tennis.   
So, yeah.  Especially my opponents for the next game.  Yeah, of course.   
 Q.  Is there an opponent you'd prefer to face tomorrow?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really.  I think they are playing very similar tennis, to be honest.  Very fast from the bounce, aggressive tennis.   
I think it's going to be tight match, but the style is very similar.  You know, for me, it doesn't really matter.  Whoever wins.   
 Q.  How would you say your Australian Open preparation is shaping up?  Like, do you feel now you have enough matches going into Melbourne?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I think so.  I had already good matches.  I can feel, myself, I'm playing better and better.  I'm hitting the ball better each match.  So I think that's the most important thing.  And again, the match rhythm.   
So, yeah, I think I have had enough.  And, you know, just ready for tomorrow for my last match before Melbourne.   
 Q.  Is the new racquet offering you anything different this year?  We talked about that last night.  You were explaining about your new racquet.  Do you notice it bringing in a new dimension to your game at all?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think, at the moment, what I can say, I think I'm playing a bit deeper and the ball is going a little bit better.   
So that's the difference that I notice, I guess.  But, yeah, I think we will see in a couple of weeks.  I think it's still early.  But, well, so far it's going good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT