BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 18, 2010
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/R. Kulikova 
  3-6, 6-4, 6-3

 Q. You came a little bit close in there, didn't you? You could have lost that second set?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, yes, actually it was. I think all those three sets were very tight. Yeah, actually. I could lose in two sets, for sure.

 Q. Why is she a problem? 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: She was very consistent. She was moving well, hitting the ball. Sometimes she was like a wall. No mistakes at all. And here, the court is slow, the balls are slow, and it's just hard to make a winner straightaway. 
 Yeah, for sure, she was on fire here on this tournament. Going to the Quallies and beating very good players before. Yeah, for sure, she was playing very good here.

 Q. So you must be pleased the way you fought your way through?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, I think I just break her, her fire, you know. I saw yesterday her match against Svetlana, it was impressive. Of course, it was 4-1 Svetlana in the third set. But still it was very hard and hot conditions. She was just like fresh today. I didn't even see that she was tired after this match. It was very tough.

 Q. Did you reckon it was a case of working out her tactics because you'd never played her before? She was a bit of an unknown quantity to you, I suppose? 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually, I know her from the Junior when I was playing -- I've heard of her a couple years in the Junior tournaments. But if I played her, it was a long time ago. I can't remember. 
 But, yes, it's always a little bit tough to play against a player that you don't know. For example, me in the second round against Sevastova as well. 
 And she's a very good player, for sure. She can be, of course, like Top 30 for sure if she can play like this.

 Q. And you've gone up significantly today in the rankings by winning tonight. You're going to be 8th in the world on Monday. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Oh, really? Oh, actually, I didn't know that. Nice (laughing).

 Q. So can you go higher? 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I hope so, yeah. But yeah I'm just very happy. You just told me I'm going to be 8. I was 9 before, and now I'm 9. But just special. In the Top 10, it's so hard to move just one number, so it's very exciting. 

 Q. Since you know that, will you sort of refocus on your goals for the year?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Like I'm saying all the time, the most important is just to stay on the top. I was two times finishing the year at No. 10. So I was very happy about that. Of course, you know, it's better to be 5 or 1, but I think to stay in the top is just a great feeling. Of course, maybe here is going to be better, so I can be in the Top 10. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT