WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2009
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/A. Radwanska
  6-1, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. It seemed like it was just hard to get anything by her. She played solid from start to finish.   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, she was playing very good from the beginning. Actually, first set I couldn't do anything.   
 In the second set I had, you know, couple of chances, but I didn't use. That's why actually the score was, you know, I think -- you know, it was fast.   
  
  Q. What were you trying to do out there against her?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, uhm, she was serving and, you know, hitting the ball so strong. Her tennis is so powerful. And actually, you know, today she was playing very good, so it was very hard to do anything today.   
 I was trying couple of, you know, things, and you know, not playing in the middle and sometimes trying hard, you know, some dropshots.   
 The second set was more a little more life, but in the important moments she was better.   
  
  Q. Is it difficult against Venus when she's playing that way to keep the belief that you can win? Can you just talk about the mental process of staying in the match and coming out strong in the second set.   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Uhm, actually, you know, it's very hard to play if she has a very good day. If she's playing good everything is in, so it's just so hard to do anything on the court.   
 I was trying, but I'm saying she was playing very good on the grass. If she will play like this, she will make it one more time this tournament.   
  
  Q. How does that experience, playing Venus, compare to matches against other girls?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Uhm, actually I was playing Venus couple of times. Actually last two times it was easy, but actually Miami I lost 6-4 in the third.   
 Just, you know, there are some different matches, you know, against her. But, uhm, depends of course of the opponent. She's playing so flat and it's hard to do anything with the ball if she's playing well.   
 But it's not Spanish tennis, so on the grass it's hard.  
  
  Q. It looks like in these conditions, on that surface, that she has too much power, too much strength. Is that how it feels?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah. Especially, you know, it's so hard to break her. She's serving, you know, 120 miles per hour, so it's tough.   
  
  Q. Can you imagine anyone but Venus and Serena in the final at this point?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I saw that Serena's also playing good. But it can be the same final like last year, for sure.   
  
  Q. Is it discouraging for you to see two players that are so difficult to beat in these conditions? Do you have a sense that if you're drawn against them, well, you'll try and make a good show, but the idea of winning is a bit of a fantasy?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, I was trying my best today. Especially, you know, in the end, I could feel that I could do a little bit more than in the first set.   
 But, you know, if I'm playing against Serena and Venus, they're playing such a good tennis. It's different than other opponents.  
  
  Q. Where did you get the T-shirt?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually, my sister bought it.   
  
  Q. Can you explain how the grass seems to help Venus' game, make it stronger or more difficult to play?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, grass is fast surface. And, you know, everything is so low. You know, if she's playing flat and, you know, fast, it's difficult for other players.  
  
  Q. Is her movement a lot different on the grass than when you played her on a hard court?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually I was surprised because she was actually moving very well today, and I could not feel the ball. Yeah, she was also moving well, you know.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT