WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2009
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/M. Oudin
  6-4, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you talk about the match today and how you felt. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Uhm, well, it's always difficult to play someone who, you know, you don't know. And, uhm, actually I saw the girl once when she was playing against Jankovic before my match before yesterday, I saw. 
 I'm very happy that I won, you know, in two sets. It was two tough and tight sets, so, you know, it's good that, you know, I made it in two sets. 

 Q. What did you think of her game? This is the first time she's ever won a match at a Grand Slam. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, I saw the scores. She beat pretty good players before, and she played six good matches here. For sure it's one of the best tournaments for her here. 
 And I just, you know, I expect a little bit different tennis from her. But, you know, I find out after the few games, you know, what should I do, you know, to win the match, and it was okay.

 Q. And what was that?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually, I didn't expect that she was playing, you know -- she was moving very well, but not hitting that strong. And also, you know, from the backhand was so many slice, so was a little bit difficult, especially on the grass. So I was ready, you know, in the end.

 Q. Did you feel she was a little tired in the end?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, you have to ask her. But for sure on the grass, it's never easy to play a couple matches in a row.

 Q. Talk about Venus next. You've had some experience playing her. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, I mean, if I'm playing quarterfinals of a Grand Slam, it's either Venus, Serena or Kuzy, so I'm not surprised.

 Q. How do you see that match, or what do you think you have to do to get past Venus? She's won here five times, including the last two years. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I have nothing to lose, you know. She's a great champion here. And I will try my best here again. 

 Q. When you play Venus, do you think it's more mentally challenging than other players? You played Venus before, and now you're meeting here. Mentally is it the same with you if it was any other player other than Venus?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, depends of her. If she's playing good tennis and she have a good day, it's very tough to play against her. Especially the serves, you know, she's hitting hard. 
 You know, it's so tough play against both Williams sisters. So, you know, we'll find out in the beginning of the match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT