WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2009
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/N. Li
  6-4, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How do you think the match went?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Uhm, actually, you know, she's very good player, so I didn't expect it's gonna be easy. 
 So I knew that it's gonna be tough match, especially against Chinese is always very difficult. So I'm very happy I finished in two sets. 

 Q. You played two Chinese players in a row. What is your assessment of the way the Chinese players play?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, they're all very good. You know, it's always very tough to play against them. They're so consistent, and, you know, you have to play hundred percent to win the match. 

 Q. They seem to have a very tough mentality. They refuse to be beaten. There were several times today when you were at match point and she took you all the way. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, it was actually very similar compared to the last match also, you know, a couple of match points and, you know, I didn't use. But she was playing unbelievable at that time. Just the winners and when I have match points, so I didn't do anything to push the last point. But, you know, she was playing very good also in the end. 

 Q. So you've reached the second week of Wimbledon again. Can you assess your overall level of play?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, I'm very happy. Always, you know, it's very good to be in the second week of a Grand Slam. So I'm very happy with that, especially after these two difficult matches. 

 Q. You've had sort of an up-and-down year after last year. Can you talk about how you feel like you've been playing and what maybe you need to do better. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, it's hard to compare. But for sure, you know, maybe now is more pressure because I always seeded and, you know, I'm playing like a favorite on the court. 
 But I'm trying, you know, to do the same. Staying on the top is also very difficult, you know, all the time. 

 Q. So what's important for you in order to keep calm on court and not to feel the pressure?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You know, stay on the top, it's hard, because you have to play all the time very good, you know, like ten months. So, you know, even for example in the beginning of the year, I lost first round in Australia, so it's already, you know, a point that I have a zero in my ranking. 
 So I have to, you know, come back a little bit, and here do like few more round.

 Q. Do you feel like you still have the ability of a top player?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, sure. I mean, I was top 10. And, of course, this year I'll also try to play Masters again. 

 Q. Have you played Melanie Oudin at all in the juniors? Do you know who she is?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No, I actually have no idea, but I was once in the Orange Bowl. I mean, I was just practicing there, but my sister was playing actually against her, I think, semis or quarterfinal, I don't know. I just saw her once. She was playing against my sister. That was it.

 Q. You have to get advice from your sister on how to play her?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually, I was waiting for my match a long time. It was five sets before me. I was actually watching Jelena's match because the score was very interesting. The match was on TV in the locker room, so I saw a bit the match. Actually she was playing pretty good. 
 Yeah, I have to be ready. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT