OPEN GDF SUEZ
February 9, 2009
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. After a great season last year, what is your feeling now toward the upcoming season? Do you like to defend your position, or do you think that you can even move forward to a higher ranking?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: For sure now it's going to be more difficult just to stay on the same place. So, of course I'll defend all these points in all these tournaments. And for sure it's going to be more difficult.   
 But I'll try my best, and also, you know, I think the more important thing is just to stay on on the top, and even if it's going to be No. 9 or 10 or 7, doesn't really matter.   
  
  Q. So far, the results were not so good this year, and is it because it's a slow start for you or is it because it takes time for you to put all the work you did in December into your game into the matches, into the competition? What is the reason?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, all the time it's disappointing if somebody's losing the first round, of course, this is normal. But this is tennis, and it sometimes happens.   
 And you don't have your day, and you're losing first round, doesn't matter if somebody's seat seeded or not. Of course, the tournament in Australia was not that great for me. But hopefully I will do better even in Miami in the big tournament.   
  
  Q. I want wanted to know what do you think about the new road map of WTA with the premium tournament and international tournament? Because now as a Top 10, you can't play in tournaments you want to play. For instance, you were in Pattaya last year, you won, and you couldn't come back to that tournament. So what do you think about it?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, it's a very good question. It's true, I wanted to play in Pattaya, but I just can't. They just bumped me from this tournament because Vera's playing there, and I have no chance to play there.   
 And just my sister is right now there. Of course, you know, it's tough that you want to play something, something big or something small, and you just can't. So it's bad, but, what can I do?   
  
  Q. You are considered as one of the most clever players on the court tactically, the way you play. Did you have any influence from, I don't know if it's from former champions who influence you, influence your game?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No, actually, I'm just doing everything for myself, my father he's my coach. And I'm just, you know, it's of course a different tactic for all different players, but, you know, if it you're just playing against the top players, it's hard to say it's tactic, because everything is on the best level.   
 So, just, you know, I have to play like 100% even more.   
  
  Q. Are you very popular in Poland?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: To be honest, I think, yes.   
  
  Q. And how do you feel when you're at home? When you walk in the street and if you go to a restaurant, everybody recognizes you or no?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, if I'm going to the restaurant, I'm not still waiting in the line, so it's good.   
  
  Q. Do you follow the difference of tennis on the internet, stuff like this, when people are talking about you and your game? Are you sensitive?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No, actually, I'm not reading the comments or something because even in the newspaper I just want to stay calm, you know. I don't want to get angry because someone is writing this stuff. I think it's not good if somebody's writing the stuff on the internet.   
  
  Q. Do you know Wojtek Fibak?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  
  
  Q. Did he influence you? Did he try to help you at the beginning of your career?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, I know him, and I saw him a few times. And he is also, you know, doing some stuff and in some times in tournaments and commentating.   
 But he's not helping me like a coach or something. He's just, you know, like he used to play and that's it. I'm just working with my father, and of course, you know, he's talking good about tennis, about me, so I'm very happy about that.  
  
  Q. Many people speak French in Poland. What about you?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Excuse me?   
  
  Q. Many people speak French in Poland. What about you?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No, my French is just Merci and Bonjour, so that's it, I'm sorry.   
  
  Q. You said that clay is your favorite surface, you used to say that. Is it still the same, because you have been improving a lot on the other surfaces, so how do you feel on the other ones?  
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually it's all the time hard for me to answer this question. I think grass, but we know that it's just two or three tournaments on the grass.   
 But I really don't care, you know, about the surface. I can play on every surface. I can win the tournament on every surface. So it just doesn't really matter for me right now.   
  
  Q. You are playing the Fed Cup the last weekend. I wanted to know how -- was it working with the Polish Federation and the development of younger players?   
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually last week was very good. We won everything. So we will try our best also in April to go up to the world group. And I have a few good matches. Yeah, and a few good singles matches. So, I hope it's going to be the same here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT