APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2017
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/Y. Duan
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was a far different match against Duan this time than it was last week.  What was different?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, first of all, the difference was it wasn't my first match in the season.  Well, that's a huge difference.  Obviously I think I could find my match rhythm.  I was more solid, for sure.  Obviously we can see from the score that it was much better match from my side.
Q. What's the best part of her game?  She's very tall and very powerful.  I know she has a lot of development to do.  What do you think she can really accelerate at?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: She's a very aggressive player.  She's playing very flat.  The ball is going very, very low.
I think I was playing really low, but then she can do even better.  That's a very dangerous part.
You know, definitely very aggressive.  So if you're gonna play a bit slower, she can really hit the ball very strong and pretty much it's over.
Q. You have been doing this for quite a while now and everything.  Are you approaching this year any way significantly different than previous years, or you always start the year with the same kind of idea or mindset?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course, it's always nice to change something, but, you know, there is not much to change.
Of course, a little bit different practice, different exercises and trying to mix it up.  Of course, it's always tiring when you're doing all the time the same.  But this is hard work.  Obviously the season is very long.  My schedule is very similar, but, you know, every winning matches are good motivation.
Now I'm very happy to be in my first semifinal here.  It's always much nicer to, you know, to play, and, well, just keep it going.
Q. Do you like to throw in a new tournament every so often for a new look?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course it's always exciting to be somewhere for the first time.  But, well, I think I have been already everywhere, pretty much (smiling).
Q. You have gone from Babolat to Srixon?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.
Q. I'm assuming you did it for various reasons?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.
Q. Can you elaborate why?  Because you have been playing pretty well on the Babolat.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, that was a hard decision, obviously.  I have been with Babolat for so many years.
Well, I guess I had the opportunity with Srixon, and they make the perfect racquet for me.  I was trying few of them, and, you know, to make the perfect one for me.  So we keep changing, and I felt this one is the right one for me.
So obviously it's always tough to change equipment, but, well, I'm saying I'm just -- I think my age, this is the last call I can do something.  Why not?
Q. Have you changed the strings at all, the way you do the gut and your...
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No, only the racquet.
Q. Why did you feel the need to make a change?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Oh, well, I didn't really feel like I have to.  It's always a choice, but, well, I was thinking for a couple of months, weeks, and, well, I have tried, like I say, couple racquets.  Then I felt this one is really good.
And, well, was practicing in the offseason with that racquet and I felt it's, you know, why not?
Q. How long does it take to adjust?  Is it like driving a new car?  Takes a couple of hours and you're there?  Or is it more complicated than that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think it's individual thing, of course.  But like I'm saying, this racquet, it's made for me.  I was pretty much saying what I want and what I wanted to change and what I prefer.  So, you know, I think that's the perfect thing to have.
Q. How would a victory in this tournament feel, going to Melbourne next week?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, especially here is always a strong tournament.  You can see a lot of top players playing.
Of course, I have really good memories from couple years ago to holding this trophy.  Well, I will do everything in my power to repeat that.
Q. Do those memories come back to you very often when you play a tournament?  I know it was four years ago now that you won, but do you think much back to winning that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really.  You know, it always reminds me when you go to the corridor and you see your picture.  It's like, Yeah, I won.  Then I looked like that.  Okay.  (Smiling.)
You're always laughing, especially with Caro when we see our pictures from eight years ago, we're like, Why there still pictures on this court?  They should change.
Yeah, then you think that, you know, going on court, that you were here before, so you have to play good tennis.
Q. It's kind of a scary world out there with what happened to Petra, the Fort Lauderdale massacre at the airport, and you're going all over the place.  Do you do anything specific, or has anyone given you any pointers on how to keep yourself safe or security-wise?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, obviously with Petra was, you know, bad luck or, I don't know what you call it.
Well, for sure, I just hope never gonna happen to anyone else.  That's, for sure, kind of a lesson for all of us, but, you know, of course what I'm trying to do is not go anywhere that might be dangerous or anything like that.
But, yeah, well, you never know.
Q. Strycova in the semifinals next.  I don't think you have ever lost to her before.  What are your thoughts on that matchup?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely a tough one.  We always played long, tough matches.  I think the last one was in Paris.  Very good match on the clay.
I'm not expecting an easy match.  As you can see, she's playing really good tennis, especially this week.  I was watching a little bit that match against Caro, so very impressive, especially with the heat.
So, well, I think I have nothing to lose.  Just trying to play my best game and we'll see.
Q. She talked about that French Open match in press before and those rallies that you guys played and said people talk about that all the time with her and she's watched it back.  There were a few rallies in that match that were amazing.  Do people mention them to you?  Do you watch them?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I can see them very often on the Internet.  That's a lot of rallies from that match.
Well, I think we both playing similar tennis.  That makes long rallies, lots of rallies, and that's why we can have really good points and some weird shots.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT