U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2008
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. RADWANSKA/D. Cibulkova
6-0, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What's been the difference in this year for you? Your third year on tour and you're having some success?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually, I'm playing better than I did, much better this year than the last year. 
 What's the different? For sure, top 10 is a little bit more difficult to play, especially the third round that you're favorite of the match. 
 But even today it was like 50/50. I know her long time, and we both play juniors together. So it was tough match, but I'm very happy that I did it in two sets.

 Q. You seemed a lot more confident and composed than she was. Seemed like you handled the situation better than she did. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah. Actually I learned how to play against her. She's very tough player, like a wall. Everything is going back. I played against her in Doha. We played more than three hours and I won 6-4 in the third. 
 I knew that I have to play aggressive, not in the middle. Just take and go for it. So actually today I was playing very good, and that's why it was actually quick.

 Q. Is that the next step for you, to trust your shots and play more aggressive in the big matches? Because you'll have a very rough one coming out the next time against a Grand Slam champion. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah. Actually now is not very easy. Just the big players are, you know, from the fourth round. So I'll try my best. I played against her long time ago, like two years ago indoor. We'll see.

 Q. Does it help to know that you've had success against her in the past? 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually, for sure, you know, I know her like even from TV. But I will try my best, but it's hard to say. It's hard to say anything about her tactic, because she's such a good player. I have to play my 100% to win. 

 Q. Do you still get nervous in big matches? 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I was never nervous. 

 Q. In your whole life? 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No. Actually, even if I was like top 100 and playing on the center court against top players, I just know I had nothing to lose, so I was playing like -- I was nervous maybe before, you know, going to the big courts, you know, few thousand people. Sometimes very nervous. 
 But after the warm-up it was okay, so...

 Q. Not so many players are like that, especially when they're young. You can say I'm not going to be nervous before the match, but then you get there and there's a big crowd and it's a big player, so...
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah. Sometimes it's, like if somebody is nervous sometimes till the last point, you just, you know, you have no idea what to do. 
 But actually if I'm very nervous, it's just warm-up and maybe the first two games. But after it's okay, so...

 Q. Are you surprised at all by your success or at this point you say to yourself, I know I'm very good, and I know I can play with these players? 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, I was surprised in the beginning that I was just, you know, playing the first tournament after the junior, and actually I was very surprised that I did my ranking very fast. 
 I'm already top 10, so actually it was big surprise. But now, you know, I believe that I can play, you know, against all these players and even beat them. 

 Q. How is your success being received in Poland? 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually, yeah, it's like a big bomb, because I'm first player that's been in top 30. So for sure I did something for the tennis in Poland.

 Q. Is there any extra pressure, now that you're kind of carrying the flag for them? 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah. If you're talking about pressure, the pressure is like from -- it's like two years. 
 Actually I'm not thinking about it. I'm just playing my best in every tournament.

 Q. So you've reached the top 10. Do you feel like your game is to the point where you can get to the top 5? Do you feel like there's a big difference between top 10 and top 5 players?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not for me. Really, the top 20 are the same. Even at Grand Slam, you can see so many surprises, you know, Ana yesterday or before yesterday. 
 It's hard to say, but for me the top 20 is like a top players, and doesn't matter if somebody is top 5 or top 15.

 Q. So if you take a player like Venus, her ranking isn't that high but she's won seven Grand Slams, what would be the difference there between her and other normal top 20 players?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: For sure she can be No. 1, that's for sure. That's what I'm saying. Doesn't matter if she's like now, 7 or something? 

 Q. 7. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: 7. So the ranking is not very important right now, because we know that she's a big champion and she won a lot of Grand Slams. So that's why the ranking is not very important. 

 Q. Do you think experience will make a difference in your match against her, given that she's got a lot more experience in the big tournaments?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: For sure, she's a big champion, and she was playing here for sure more times than me. I will just try my best and we'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT