WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2008
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. RADWANSKA/S. Kuznetsova
6-4, 2-6, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for ago Radwanska.

 Q. So what were you thinking late into the third set? She gets up on you 4-1 and you start your comeback again. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, actually is the fourth round of a Grand Slam so you're just fighting till the last point. Even if I was 4-1 down, with the break, it's hard, because it's the grass, and one break is a lot. 
 But still, you know, we are breaking each other before. I had still the chance, so -- and I did it. 

 Q. She started playing very aggressive to get to 4-1 and felt like she stopped a little bit playing aggressive, and you seemed to gain control of it again. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, in the first set I think I was playing more aggressive. Then from the second set till 4-1 in the third set, she was the boss on the court. But then I was fighting and also trying to play more aggressive like the first set, because this is just the way to win the match. There was like 50/50 in the end.

 Q. What are your thoughts on how your game is suited for grass court play?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually I like the grass. Actually, I'm doing very good every year. I just like the surface. 

 Q. What do you like about it?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't know. It's something different than on other surfaces. It's just three tournaments on this surface. It's something special. It's the different one.

 Q. What are your thoughts now about playing Serena Williams, and what it will take for you to do well against her?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, first of all, you know, I have to play a very good match to beat her. I was playing once against her in Rome -- in Berlin, sorry, on the clay court. But now is the grass, so I don't know. I will see. 

 Q. What's the biggest challenge about her game for you?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, for sure she is a very great player, so is going to be the next challenge for me, you know, to play her in the quarterfinal in the Grand Slam. 
 You know, I just will enjoy and try my best. I lost against her, so I'll try to do something tomorrow I guess.

 Q. Do you still feel like a young player who is happy to be in the quarterfinals, or do you feel like now you've been on the tour for a couple years, a former junior champion, and you actually belong at this level with the great players?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: It's hard to say, but for sure I'm top 15, so it's the third or fourth round is something, you know, what I have to do, I mean, for me. 
 But for sure the quarterfinal, it's a big success because I beat someone who is higher than me, top five player, so... 

 Q. Do you like to play against Serena when she's the favorite and maybe people don't think you have too much chance? Are you happier than when people think you're the one who is going to win?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: For sure it's a bit easier for me. Nothing to lose. So she is the favorite. But sometimes it is very hard. If she's playing very well, it's hard to do anything. So you're just losing, losing till the end. 
 We'll see. Depends for her. 

 Q. I don't know who your coach is, but does your sister help you at all with advice?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really. I mean, I know Serena and I know how she's playing. For sure I saw a bit of my sister match against Serena, so I know what I have to do. I just have to play, you know, aggressive, and that's it. 

 Q. Can you talk about your relationship with your father and how you separate the father/daughter from the coach and the student. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: It's hard to explain because my father's coaching me 14 years already, so it's long time. I think it's just my father everywhere, even on the court. I'm not calling you coach, so... 

 Q. When you're done with matches, when do you stop talking about tennis with your father and just talk about other things?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: We're not talking so much, you know, about the tennis or about the matches or practice. So just talking about something else because it's too much. 

 Q. Is he easy on you or sometimes he's easy and sometimes not so easy?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, he's normal coach. Of course it's a different relation with the coach and player or, you know, father and daughter. But, I mean, it's hard to explain, because he's coaching me like from the first practice, so hard to even imagine how can I work with someone else. 

 Q. How surprised were you to win at Eastbourne?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Very surprised actually because I was injured a little bit in Paris, so my first normal practice was there, in Eastbourne. Then I won four very tough matches and even in the final, you know, it was very hard and it was very tough. 
 But, yeah, was very surprised actually. 

 Q. Do you remember the first time you saw Serena play? Can you talk about your memories of that?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, for sure was on TV many years ago, but I cannot remember first time. But long time ago. 

 Q. Just your images of what you saw of her as a player. 
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, for sure she's a strong player and she can hit the ball, you know, very strong. Even in Berlin she was playing unbelievable against me. I was playing not that bad and I won just four games, so... 

 Q. What are the biggest strengths of your game that might give Serena the most trouble?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: For sure I cannot play in the middle of the court. You know, just to making her run right left, right, left, and I think that's it. 

 Q. Are you optimistic?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Depends. But I have nothing to lose. You know, I just did my first quarterfinal at Wimbledon, so I'm already very happy about that. So now I'm just going to the court and try to beat one more good player. 

 Q. How did you like your chances today before the match?
 AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I was playing her five times before. Even I lost her here last year. But she was playing not that good at Eastbourne. Actually bad. 
 But then I saw her here, and she was playing much, much better. I expected what I can do on my match, but... 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT