BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 29, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/A. Radwanska
6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Looked like you were trying to be aggressive today; that that was kind of the game plan, try to dominate the points.  What do you think was the difference?  Why was she so dominant today?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well for sure that's what I was trying to do.  I think I was doing pretty good.  Just I couldn't just make the last shot.  There was a pretty tight beginning and couple of tight games as well that I could win, but actually all the games were going one way.  Not my way unfortunately.
Well, end up like this.
Q. It's been such a long time since you played Angie.  Did you feel like there was anything particularly different about her game, about her on the other side of the net?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely very solid game.  I think what is she doing, she have answer for everything.  She's not giving anything for free.  You really need to win the points by yourself.
That's, I think, what makes her one of the best players in the world, and this year the best.
Q. Did you sense an improvement in particular perhaps from last year?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Definitely.  Very consistent.  As I was saying, not much of the mistakes.  Pretty solid and definitely a very good defender.
I was trying to come in but the balls were coming back.
Q. Just looking at your season as a whole, stepping back a little bit, how do you chalk up this season?  What will you take away from 2016?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely good season.  I mean, I'm here, and for the first time I'm going to finish as No. 3.  So I think still pretty good.
Of course after the match you always disappointed.  In the end of the day, I'm top 3, and, well, just time to go home.
Q. A lot has been made of Angie's age; she won her first slam at 28; oldest No. 1.  You're not old by any stretch of the imagination, but you've been on the tour for a long time.  Does it give you hope that you've still got a lot of years to reach that potential?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I think in these days age doesn't really matter.  We could see really old Grand Slam champions last couple years, so of course we can see also very good 17 year old upcoming players.
As I'm saying, age is not playing.  Just the player.  I think everything is open pretty much for everyone.
Q. At the beginning of this year Angie talked about changing her approach to the bigger events.  Is that something you've at all considered, more focusing your schedule on the big events?  If not, will you change anything moving into 2017?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course the big events are always a priority.  You always want to make the schedule to be fresh and ready for those ones.
This year I didn't play that much.  Of course every year you're not going to play more and more.  You're going to play less.  Of course there is always big planning with the schedule, so of course we'll see what's going to happen next year.
Of course it's all depends how many matches you play every week.  It's good to play less tournaments but more matches.
Q. You've just mentioned going home.  Time for a good vacation, I think.  How long will you allow yourself to rest before you get back on court?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Three weeks without the racquet and without anything that comes to running and all this stuff.
Well, but as we know, all these three weeks going so fast, so for me it's going to be like one day I'm going back on court.
Q. Are you a beach person, or like Simona said, she wants cold weather and snow?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I been away for so long, so I think I will just go home and actually go to the Polish mountains, which is more snow -- I mean, it's not snow yet, but it's more cold than hot.
Q. You're obviously pretty sad what happened tonight.  Probably the wrong time to ask, but what would be the positive moments?  Lots of positive moments from 2016.  Could you give those to us.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, definitely I prefer to be a bit longer today on court.  Obviously three titles always makes a really good season, especially China Open one.
So, well, I just hope I'm going to do better results if the Grand Slam next year.  That's the goal.  So we'll see.
Q. Play a bit of golf in the off-season?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I'm not sure.  I don't think I I'm going to have any opportunity to play golf.  I don't know.
Q. Just wondering if there was anything special you did in Singapore this year?  You were coming back here as the defending champion.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: In Singapore?
Q. Yeah.  Did you do anything fun this week around town?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, to be honest, not much.  I just enjoy the pool at the hotel.  I am just kind of person like to want to stay in one spot and not do much.
So that's what I was trying to do before I came here, just have a good rest and trying to work on my tan lines.
It was hard with this weather, but I was trying.
Q. For the three weeks that you're off, what's the priority?  How do you need to use that time for you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for sure I just want to not put on my head too much things.  Just really rest.  Of course going to be some rehab as well just to start good off-season and not to have injury after few days.
So, you know, it's always a vacation, but you still need to do something.  But, well, that's tennis, and that's what we have to do just to stay healthy whole year.
Q. When we talk about Grand Slams, everybody looks for you at Wimbledon, because that is where you've had your best slam results.  Outside of Wimbledon, where do you think is the second like target slam for you that you think, I think I can win there?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I did couple of semifinals in Australian Open, so I guess I will pick this one.
But you never know.  I think everything can happen.  Of course always trying to do better and better US Open.  Trying to reach the quarterfinals.  You never know.
Sometimes it's just not going to expect much and then there you go.  I think it's just to do more your own things and not to think about what's going to be in two weeks.
Q. Do you spend a long time thinking about a loss or do you get over it pretty quickly?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think pretty quickly.  I think because there is always something next day, either next tournament or next match.  Everything is going so quickly.  I think maybe will be different if we play for example ten tournaments a year.  Maybe you have more time to think about it and to be mad and sad.
But in tennis I don't think you have that much time.  You just have to go forward, because in next few days you going to have another big tournament.
Q. Is that the skill of the top pro, to be able to forget about a loss?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think so.  I think you have to know how to win and lose.  It's good to forget.  Some of the matches takes a little bit more than 50 minutes, but I think the next day I'm pretty much good.
There is always something that I can think of.  Try not to really think about what just happened and just what is going to happen next few days.
Q. Sveta said earlier that in addition to watching her own shots she liked watching yours.  Are there any other players that are currently playing or no longer playing that you like watching on YouTube or on video?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think Sveta is definitely also one of the shot makers.  I was always saying that she's the one that can make everything on court.  Great athlete.  She can really make those good shots.  So obviously like to watch her.
Angie as well.  She can make some nice, tricky shots.
So, yeah, I think those players who are playing here, those two are my favorites for sure.
Q. Just a quick follow-up about staying positive and moving on.  What are some of the things that keep you motivated to keep going day after day with all the traveling and all the matches?  What do you love most about being part of the tennis tour?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think every win is motivation to work hard and keep you going.
We play so many matches a year, so that's the thing that keeps you going.  Sometimes it's very hard when you tired after couple months playing.  In the end of the year every match, it's a great thing.
So I think for me that's the motivation.  Especially here when I did another Championship and being the best 8.  I think that's the motivation to play and to really do your best on court.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT