BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 28, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RADWANSKA/K. Pliskova   
7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations, first of all.  Before starting with the match, how is it to prepare to come on court when you know there is such an important qualification, but at the same time you have a perfect record against your opponent?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think that was simple.  I think normal tournament.  You win, you're still there.  You lose, you're out.  Not much math here.   
But definitely I knew I just really play my best tennis against her.  She was showing only good tennis this week as well.  Of course I prepared that she's going to serve good and that's what she did.   
Some of the games I was just pretty much watching her serve.   
 Q.  Obviously a tough player yourself, but when you're going out against Angie with what she's achieved this year, do you just go out there and say all the pressure is on her; I have nothing to lose in this match?  Do you approach it differently?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think here, of course she's No. 1 and she's going to finish No. 1.  I think every matches here are 50/50.  It's just 8 of us and it's of course the semifinals.  I think everybody have the same chance.  I think of course she probably have more pressure after whole season and being No. 1, but I think, well, everyone can really go through.   
Everything is open in semifinals.   
 Q.  What do you think it is about your game that frustrated Pliskova?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think it's better if you ask her.  Well, I think I was just feeling very good when I'm playing her.  I can really play my game and do my things, things that I want to do on court and have a good rhythm.   
Of course all tight matches, but sometimes in the important moments always making my shots.  I had that good record.   
But otherwise it's very hard to explain why is the record like this, especially she is also a top-10 player.   
 Q.  You said before that sometimes playing on this court it can feel like you played two matches because of how sticky it can be and how much you have to work in order to win matches.  Three matches into it heading into the semifinals, how are you feeling physically?  Everything feeling okay?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  I'm in one piece.  For sure happy about that.  Also, I'm just very happy I could play two sets today as well.  That helped, especially that I'm playing semis tomorrow.  No day off anymore.   
I'm feeling okay.  Of course those days off are much better.  Remember those years that we didn't have those days in between.  That was really tough.   
So at the moment I'm feeling good.  I think for the tournament you kind of used to that surface, so your body is already so tight that it's kind of already there and you just run and cannot feel anything.   
 Q.  You played Kerber just three weeks ago in Beijing and beat her pretty handily.  Do you think that will have any bearing on tomorrow's match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Did I play her?   
 Q.  Was that a year ago?  Sorry, I might have got it wrong.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, exactly.  I was playing Caro for three times, but not Angie.  We didn't play this year, so that's for sure something that is always exciting, to play someone after a while - especially after the year like this that she had.   
Well, just for sure good challenge for me.  Well, I just hope I can keep it going.  Well, just expect good match tomorrow.   
 Q.  You've known her a long time.  Did you always think that she had world No. 1 player in her?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for sure last year, yes.  Definitely she was making ranking a little bit slower and she wasn't top 10 that fast.  She was taking her time.   
But now she deserve it.  She was playing unbelievable this year on every surface, making so many finals in the big events, so for sure now she's No. 1 player and that's what she deserve.   
 Q.  Does it feel any different this year to be making the semis with a 2-1 record, so close to even 3-0, compared to last year with 1-2.  Was there a different mindset?  More confidence coming in?  Just compare the who.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course it's better to win one more match.  In the other hand side, doesn't really matter in the semifinals.  I rather win three matches in the end than first three matches.   
So, but, yeah, we'll see.  Of course it's always good to win matches in the group.  But, well, in the semifinals I think doesn't really matter anymore.   
 Q.  Such an experienced player and defending champion.  Do you consider yourself a different player to last year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think every seasons give you good experience and couple good lessons as well after winning the tournament, but also after disappointing loses.   
 Q.  So what lessons have you learned this year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, that I think making a really good decision the right moments.  I had a lot of tight matches that I should have won.  I think even when you on tour ten years, it's still painful and still very disappointing.  Even when you lose matches against top-10 player.   
Of course every year is more experience.  I think every year I'm coming here I think I'm more relaxed, so that's just good.   
 Q.  Very serious question:  How exactly did you get that cracker in your mouth in the video?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I did good, no?   
 Q.  It was impressive.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah.   
 Q.  And scary how good that was.  What was the game plan there?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually I didn't really expect I'm going to do that.  First of all, I was surprised that we going to play game like this.  I thought she just kidding.   
Then, well, everybody was doing it.  I guess a little bit of luck.  But for sure not experience in those.  I was making this for the first time.   
 Q.  You mentioned playing Caroline Wozniacki in the past few weeks, and then you're going to play Angie, a bunch of good friends of yours.  Many players say it's difficult to play against your friends.  Of course you have many years of experience.  How do you approach it?  You spend the holidays together and these kind of things.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I am always saying that we are all professionals and we are professional tennis players for years.  You know, to be friends on tour you really have to separate those two things on court and off the court.   
So that's what we doing.  We played three times in a row, but we still friends, we still talking to each other, and we in touch.  So just go on court and you want to win.  Doesn't matter who is on the other side of the court.   
Then we shake hands after the match and we came back to exactly the same situation before the match.   
 Q.  A little off topic, but most countries are looking for their future stars.  I know two polish girls just won the Junior Fed Cup.  How well do you know them and how encouraging is that for the future of tennis in your country?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I heard about that.  I think it's a really huge thing.  It's not happening every day in Poland.   
Well, to be honest, I don't really know those girls.  I just know one that we met couple times at the Grand Slam.  I think she's really having a great potential.  Very strong and powerful girl.   
So, well, if she's not going to play tennis, I don't know who is going to play good tennis in Poland.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT