BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 26, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RADWANSKA/G. Muguruza   
7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You must be very relieved.  That was quite a tough match, even though it was a two setter.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  Well, I think you're not expecting any easy matches.  But, yeah, definitely that tiebreak helped a lot.   
I'm just very glad that I could win that match in two sets.  I think I was playing solid tennis.  I think right shots in important moments.  Well, that was a very close one, but I'm just very, very happy that I could win that one.   
 Q.  It's a rematch of last year's semifinal, but it was almost as important, did you think?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I can't really remember the other match, but what I remember it was one of the best matches I played.  I think it was unbelievable tennis.   
So if I will have to choose, I think the last year match was better.  But, yeah, well, it's good to play someone like Garbine here.  It's always a good challenge.  She always push you to play 100%.   
 Q.  How long did it take for you to kind of flush the first match out of your system?  Was a pretty disappointing result.  Were you okay the next day in terms of stepping back on court?  Have you put it behind you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, when you can see other matches also similar or even worse, then you just telling yourself you're not the only one.  So it's helping.  Of course we can see very tight, long matches here and a lot of up and downs, a lot of match point there and there.   
But of course it's never easy, especially that you know that you could win.  Here that is very important.  But as we know after first match it's never over.  Just keep going.   
 Q.  Obviously your focus was on winning the match, but the outcome of the match has had an effect.  Garbine is not in contention for the semifinals.  Kuznetsova is already in it.  Obviously the other two of you have a chance.  Can you talk about that a little bit?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely that was a great match before us obviously, great tennis.  Another match like this that a little bit disappointing for Karolina.   
But now I think it's going to be another good challenge for me on Friday playing someone like her that she had a great season, playing really solid tennis.  So, well, we'll see how it's going to be.   
 Q.  Having been on the receiving end of a Sveta three-setter, are you amazed at how she came back and did the same again today, you know, and her energy?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  I think she's on fire and she's playing great tennis and just keep it going another week in a row, so that's quite amazing.   
Yes, well, just we'll see how she's going to still be there as that fresh.   
 Q.  You said you sometimes watch the highlights of your matching, the best shots.  Have you had a chance to watch the backhand smash you did that everybody went crazy about?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: When was that?   
 Q.  So I don't think you remember that one.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You talking about this match?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Oh, no.  Now what I did is stretch, ice bath, and I'm here.  I didn't see anything yet, so no.   
 Q.  Will you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I will probably, yes.   
 Q.  Why do you think you have such a good head-to-head against Karolina?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, good question.  To be honest, I don't know.  We played so many matches long time ago.  I think just in last maybe two, three years was not that much.  Also the last matches were really, really tight.   
So I was just better couple points.  I remember the match from Stuttgart.  That was really good one with the crazy tiebreaker as well.  So, well, it's always very tight.   
You know, sometimes I have different records, for example against Serena, so at least I have good record against someone else.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  So it sounds like you were paying attention a little bit to the Kuznetsova/Pliskova match the other day.  Did you watch when she cut her hair?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, afterwards I did.  But I didn't really know what was going on in the press conference what I had.   
 Q.  What was your reaction after that, after seeing it after your match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, kind of weird.  I would just put it up like this but I wouldn't cut anything.  Maybe she's a good hairdresser, I guess, you know.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No.  No.  I will keep mine like this.  If she's happy to cut hers it's fine.   
 Q.  One of the interesting things about this tournament is it does tend to run late.  You guys are forced to play around midnight, 11:30.  Happens at some slams, the US and the Australian.  Can you practice or prepare for that, playing late-night matches, or do you do anything special?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Myself, I never practice that late, even if I know I'm going to play night session.  I just rather have normal day the day before playing noon or afternoon.   
So I don't know how the other players do, but I just rather have normal day.  Of course what can you do when you play night session?  Just relax and have good lunch.  Just chill out, you know, kill the time somehow.  It's for sure never easy, especially now it's after 1:00.  Still going to have treatment and couple other things.  You know, it's going to be pretty late.   
Yeah, that is not the good part of playing that late.   
 Q.  You said killing time before the matches.  How do you do that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, sometimes watching some good movie, going for a coffee.  Sometimes it's good nap as well.  Late breakfast.  Of course a very late session in the gym or like bike and stretching.  Just be prepared, but also fresh and relaxed.   
 Q.  After a late game like this, do you struggle to calm down because the adrenaline is still pumping and you've had a good win as well?  Does that make you go to bed much later as well?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  I need around four, five hours after the match.   
 Q.  Wow.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: But now I'm good with my sleeping pills, so I think that that's going to be -- I'm going to have one today for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT