BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 24, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. KUZNETSOVA/A. Radwanska   
7-5, 1-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How tough was that match to be a part of and play for you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course very disappointing, especially that I had a chance in the first and the third set and just slip away.   
So turn up like this I guess against those kind of players like Sveta when you're not taking your chances, you're not going to be a winner.   
 Q.  So did you notice your opponent was cutting her hair on court, and what did it do to you mentally after that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: So?   
 Q.  Did it affect you mentally?  Did to give you a shock?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I didn't even know that.  Good thing she didn't cut her anything else.  I think hair is not very important.   
 Q.  Obviously you were 1-2 down in the round robin last year, so you must at least hold onto the fact that you know you can still come through, especially after a match like this.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, of course.  Still a chance, especially I was two losses down last year.  But of course at the moment you're always thinking about the match that you just lost, so I think I need to cool down first and then I will think about what I have to do to go to the semifinals.   
 Q.  I think it's very tough to come straight after the loss, but knowing that, as she said, there is still a chance to advance, do you think it's easier maybe in a couple hours to think about the positives you can take from such a match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think, you know, matches like this, it's always give you a lot of experience and lesson for the future.  That's of course, especially in the tournaments like here.   
Obviously Sveta is one of the players she can do everything on court.  Very solid, very consistent, and very tricky player.  Of course in the end of the day everything is open still.  It's just the first day.   
Yeah, we'll see what's going to happen.   
 Q.  Coming in today, did you think of your past matches against her?  Did you watch the video and think about how you could have beaten her today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really.  We played so many times I think I pretty much on ever tournament.  We play on every surface.   
But, well, what I remember always very tough and long matches.  We know each other very well.  I didn't really need to, you know, check what I really need to do on court.  I just know her for so many years; played so many good matches.   
Every match is different story.  Doesn't matter what happened before.   
 Q.  In a match like today's, is it possible to appreciate what your opponent has gone through to get here?  Obviously because it was a close match and a long match, is it possible to, you know, maybe look at it from her point?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course it's always tough when you getting to Championships that late, but I was in that position couple of times so I know how it is.   
But, well, I think I guess for her didn't really matter.  I think she's really in a good shape; playing really good tennis at the moment.   
The only different is that we were in few weeks before and she was just last one.  That's it.   
 Q.  When you talk about not being able to convert on the small points that you needed to maybe in the first and third sets, why do you think that was?  Bad luck?  Nerves on those shots, like the backhand on match point?  Do you think you know why it happened?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think when you losing that tight matches, it's always a little bit of luck on the side, especially so many net points.   
Of course everything could be different if, for example, I would do a different shot, one of the different shots, in the first set.  You never know how it's going to end.   
So you can just guess after the match, but of course a little bit unlucky in couple of moments.  And, yeah, well...   
 Q.  And then also, setting aside the result, how do you think you played today?  How would you rate your level and your performance today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Overall it was good, tough match.  I think a lot of things were happening in that match.   
I think I could play a little bit better.  Couple of mistakes in the bad moments and not the right decisions I guess, and, yeah, that cost me a lot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT