BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 22, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Please welcome Agnieszka Radwanska.  Aga is in the white group.  She starts Monday night and is waiting to see who she plays.  That will be either Johanna Konta or Svetlana Kuznetsova.   
Questions for Aga.   
 Q.  So coming into the WTA Finals as defending champion, it's the biggest title of your career, do you feel any extra pressure to back it up with a solid defense?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, there is always a little bit more pressure when you really have to defend a big title, a lot of points.   
But on the other hand side, when you're Top 5, top 10, you pretty much defending every week more or less.  So just trying not to really think about it and of course just try to repeat what I did last year.   
 Q.  Going into this tournament you usually know everyone you'll play in your group.  In your group it's still between Johanna and Sveta.  Does that change anything for you coming in, or just having the experience of not knowing who you'll play in any given week help in this situation?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think it doesn't really matter for me.  Of course sometimes you know the opponent just the evening before as another normal tournament.  So I think there is no big difference for me.  I think it's bigger difference for the girls still waiting for that spot.   
 Q.  What's the feeling coming back with the great memories of last year and the trophy?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course it's always great to be back in the place that you have a lot of good memories.  As you know, the time flies, so I really feel like it was a week ago.   
It's always great to come back, especially that I really hope that I can really still play my best tennis here and try to do the same.   
 Q.  You often play wonderfully creative shots.  When you watch them later maybe on replay, are you surprised by what you do or impressed by what you do?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, sometimes I am.  You know, on court you don't have much time to think.  Tennis is getting faster and faster and everything is pretty much a reaction.  When I see a particular ball I'm really surprised myself that I did it.   
It's very interesting that I can surprise myself sometimes as well.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  If you could describe your season compared to last year where you ended it so well here in Singapore, how would you describe this time round?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I definitely had couple of great matches.  Obviously not the great start, but I think it's a tournament that you can come back and the tournament that you don't need to win every match just to win the title.   
There is always the hope.  A little bit of luck as well.  Depends of the other scores in the group and then you can still win it.  So I think that's what I actually prove last year.   
 Q.  You were here a couple days ago.  One of earliest players here.  Have you had a hit on court?  Have the conditions changed from last year?  Still pretty slow on court and maybe that plays into your kind of game as well?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think of course the surface is very similar.  It's the same.  But I think it's a bit faster because it's already used.  But I don't think it's that slow as last year.  That's what I notice.   
But, well, it's always a little bit tough for us play indoor.  I think I just play one indoor tournament in Stuttgart and then here.  It's good to be here couple days earlier to adjust the conditions.   
 Q.  How different does it feel this year coming to Singapore than last year?  You had two very different qualifying campaigns.  How are you feeling?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think it's always very interesting, especially you can see another players qualified.  Every year is a bit different.  I think it's always very interesting because pretty much every match is 50/50 and you really going to see good tennis.   
But of course what's different?  I'm just getting older and older and still glad I can qualify for another year here.   
 Q.  The parity in the field, I mean, there is not a singular dominant player in the field this year.  Does that change anything at all?  It does look like each one of these matches is going to be a bit of a coin flip.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, exactly.  That's what I think makes it very interesting and exciting.  But, well, I think this is the end of the year.  It's just eight of us, so everything can happen.   
 Q.  After you saw Angie win her first two slams this year, is winning a Grand Slam something that's becoming something that you think more about?  Is it weighing more heavily on your mind?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think this is the goal for everyone.  Of course Angie did incredible job this year winning two Grand Slams, final in Wimbledon.  She definitely had amazing year.   
But, well, of course that's still goal for me as well.  I have still couple years to try.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  How different does this year feel, because obviously Angie has gone up to the No. 1 and been more dominant than Serena.  In past years it was really Serena.  Is that a feeling that the other women are sensing on the tour?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  I think Angie show everyone, all of us, that it's possible.  You can beat Serena also in the Grand Slam final.  She definitely proved that everybody can be on the top.   
Well, that's why I think it's very tight right now.  I think next year will be very interesting for a lot of girls.   
 Q.  How confident are you in this year winning back the title?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think I had really great couple of weeks in Asia, so I'm feeling good.  I'm pretty confident.  I just hope I can keep it up and really play the same good tennis that I was playing especially in the China Open.   
 Q.  Domi said she brought her parents this week.  Any family with you?  Is this a special tournament where you know you'll have a few matches and people can watch you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I have a couple friends coming over, but actually parents stay home.  Too far.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Going off the question before about hot shots, do you think that there is something specifically about your game or technique that allows you to make the type of shots that you do that seemingly no other players kind of hit?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think sometimes when you have this half a second to think what you going to do with the shot, I think most of the players maybe will hit as strong as possible.  I'm the one maybe just to want to do something else, because I can't really hit as strong as the others.   
So that's why I was always trying to do something else.  Just use my head.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT