CHINA OPEN
October 9, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/J. Konta
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You only had one ace the whole entire night.  What was it like to see that serve land in for the match win?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think that was a perfect timing, I guess.  But, well, this is a match point, so you always want to do the best shot.  Well, it couldn't be any better, for sure.
I was thinking about that serve, where I should go.  I just changed my mind when I was tossing the ball.  So another good choice.
Q. You have won this title in 2011.  Compared to that time, do you have any different feeling?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I don't think so.  I think every title means the same.  It means everything, that you play just the best tennis, especially here.  As you know, everybody playing, all the top girls.  Just means everything holding the trophy.  All those years you were spending on court pay off.
Q. You won the last five of your finals appearances since Eastbourne last year.  What is your mindset going into a final like this?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Experience, it's a lot.  I mean, it's one of the most important thing going to the final.  I remember my first final.  A lot of nerves.  I was really stressed.
But I think when you played couple of big ones, you go for the final like a normal match.  I think this kind of feeling, it's just helping you.  When you too nervous, you want too much.  It's not really good.  It's not going your way.  Sometimes the hand is shaking too much.
I was relaxed pretty much from the beginning.  I didn't really feel any pressure.  That's why I could win that match in two sets.
Q. What was the key against Konta today?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think just to not really run backwards.  She was really aggressive and she was really pushing me.  I was, of course, playing more defending tennis today.
But, well, she's playing just so fast.  I just trying not to go too much we always calling behind the ^  sun.  I was always trying to stay closer and catch up with the baseline.  Yeah, that was the key, just to play a really solid, consistent game.
Q. What is your plan after the China Open?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I'm going to Tianjin, and then of course Singapore.  Very similar schedule than last year.
Q. Did you notice anything different in her game from Cincinnati to now?  Did you do anything different?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think those matches pretty similar.  I think it was a little bit different conditions, as well.  In Cincinnati was really hot, really humid.  Different balls, as well.  It's always going to be a little bit different.
But I think in the Cincinnati match she was even playing more solid.  Today I could also use my chances that she did couple mistakes.  I could win that match in two sets.
Q. You had a lot of points to defend here in Asia.  You've played well in Tokyo, Wuhan, now here.  What do you think you're doing differently the last three weeks than maybe you had been earlier in the season?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, a good question.  To be honest, I didn't really change anything.  I didn't really play differently.  Sometimes it's just that you feel good.  Something clicked.  I could win this kind of tournament without losing a set.
Well, I think pretty solid, good game.  I'm just very happy I could really play my best tennis against top players from the first round.
But, to be honest, I didn't really do anything different.
Q. So many fans call you the Queen of Hot Shot.  I want to know what is your opinion of this name?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I'm just very happy with those nicknames.  But I saw actually Kirsten Flipkens was also making a nice shot.  I think she won last month.
It's always very good to hear that my tennis is very entertaining and fans love my shots, that people love watching my tennis.
Q. Do you get tired?  I mean, this time of the year everyone else is down on their knees.  You're always flying through and winning so much.  Do you get weary this time of the year?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, it's always hard for everyone.  Asia swing is pretty much last couple of weeks in the season.  We all are little bit tired.  It's tough playing week by week, big tournaments, different conditions every week.  It's very hard time.
But I always find my game here.  Since I remember, I'm really feeling good here.  I really love the center courts, and I always really had good results in Asia.
Why is that?  I don't really know till now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT