CHINA OPEN
October 8, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/E. Svitolina
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What was your mindset tonight coming back from 5-3 in the first set?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely a bit too slow start for me.  Suddenly it was 3-5.  As we know, this is a score you can definitely come back.  Serve was not really the key of that match, either my serve or her.
You know, yeah, I was just very glad I could come back in that first set.  I think it was very important.  I just played a great tiebreaker, so that helped me a lot for sure in that match.
Q. Is there different preparation that goes into a match against a player like Svitolina who plays like you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, of course I knew what to expect.  I knew everything was going to go back to my side.  Of course, she's not as powerful player as the others.  We going to have for sure tricky rallies.  She's going to mix up everything.
Well, we played couple of times, so I really knew what to expect.
Q. You're from Poland.  I'm sure you've played tennis in cold weather before.  How cold was it out there for you tonight?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, actually weather was really changing a lot last three weeks.  I was just surprised that I was playing outside because I think most of the matches I was playing indoor last three weeks.
Of course, was cold.  Was a little bit different.  But as you said, I'm Polish, so that wasn't cold for me (smiling).
Q. You and Svitolina came to the net quite a bit.  Is that a result of knowing she's not a power player so you have a little bit more time to get in?  Is it because it's cold and you don't want to stand on the baseline all day?  What drives that decision?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think a lot of things.  But, of course, also trying to be aggressive, not to play every rally 40 or 50 shots.  I think we both trying to do the same.  If we have any chance, we step in and we go to the net and try to finish at the net.
I was trying to do that.  That's why I think we saw a lot of different and entertainable [sic] rallies.
Q. In the sixth game of the second set, you saved two breakpoints at that time.  Do you think that was the most important time in the whole match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, definitely, that was a very important game.  I think the most important game in the second set, 15-40.  Then, of course, I had one breakpoint for 5-2 that was the one opportunity that I didn't use.  But, well, then I played two great games, so I finished the set.  That was good.
Q. After 2011, you're back to a final here.  What does that mean to you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it means a lot.  Just very, very happy to be in the third final here in Beijing.  Well, is a great event.  As we know, everybody is playing here.  It's always good to be in the final that all the top players were here.
Q. You play Jo Konta tomorrow, who has just established a place in the top 10 for the first time.  You've been in the top 10 for a while now.  Can you just recall what it was like when you got into the top 10?  Sum up in your own words what kind of accomplishment is it for a professional to make the top 10?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course, I remember my first year was, oh, a long time ago.  But definitely it's easier to achieve top 10 than to stay there for a couple of years.  Just be top 10 is the first step.  Play tennis for a couple of seasons, stay top 5, top 10 till now, that's something that I'm very proud of because it's not really easy.  Especially we can see a lot of different names pushing.  We know how tight it is in the top 10 and how many players deserve to be there, how many 18-year-old girls are playing great tennis.
Staying there is really tough.  So I'm just very happy to really stay in top, being another second full year in the top 10.
About Johanna, of course, she a great player.  I think she make such a progress in the last season.  We just play once in Cincinnati.  We had really great game.  I remember I was pretty much down whole match.  Just turn around in the end of the second set and be able to win that third set.
Well, I think I just expecting a great final, great tennis, and we'll see.
Q. When you first made the top 10, what went through your mind?  Was it, I made it?  Now I'm one of the best players in the world?  What was the emotion or the thought when you broke in?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I remember Luxembourg when I was I think 17 or 18 years old.  I think I was 17.  I came from quallies I think to the semis, beating Venus, Dementieva and someone else along the way.  That was a really strong tournament.  It was always easier to play without any pressure, the 17-year-old girl that had nothing to lose.
Yeah, then I kind of learned what it is, the center court, what it is to be everything around.  Just kept going.  Of course, couple months later I was the one.
Q. With Konta from the one match in Cincinnati, what did you see from her side of the court?  What impressed you about her game?  What do you expect for tomorrow to kind of push her back?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think what she's doing great, she's really playing fast from the bounce.  You don't have much time.  Everything is going pretty much fast and flat.  She's not giving any time to think or run.  Very aggressive player with really good serve.  Mixing up a lot, as well.
Well, I think this is the final.  I just hope I can really play my best game.
Q. You just said you made the top 10 when you were 17.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think 18 maybe.
Q. Konta is 25 nearly.  There's a big difference.  She's really broken through in the last 16 months.  Were you aware of her before that?  Is she now a player that other girls in the locker room are talking about?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, definitely.  I remember her actually from the grass season last year.  Then I think everything started.  I just saw a couple of her matches there.  I didn't really know her before.  I knew that something clicked there because she was playing really good.  Just a couple months later, there she is.
Well, I think age doesn't really matter, I guess.  Some players play the best tennis a bit later.  Some of them around 30s.  So I think you don't really have prescription really for that.  So now she's really at the top-10 level.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT