CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/C. Wozniacki
6-3, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. In the third game you were down 2-0.  How big was it for you to break her and not go down to 3-0?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: At that moment, I didn't know how important that game.  But I guess now for sure that would change a lot.
Yes, I think 3-Love, for sure it's a slow and bad start.  For sure, that was one of the most important games in that set.  Well, I think it's much easier to play when it's just 1-2.
Q. Seems you and Caroline decided to play each week in Asia.  Have you joked about that since you're good friends?  And what did you learn from the previous two matches?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't think it happened to me ever to play someone three weeks in a row.  Good we're playing in different tournaments next week so we can't play against each other again.
Playing Caro is always a pleasure, always great matches.  For me is also a very good challenge to play someone that solid, that consistent.
You know, it's not about learning from one match or two matches two weeks before.  We know each other for, like, 17 years.  Practicing together as well almost every tournament, playing some matches against each other.  I think we know about each other everything.
But, of course, every match is different story.  I think we showed that every week.
Q. Which part do you think you did better?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think everything was working for me today.  Just maybe slow start.  Wasn't really great.  But then everything was smooth and I was really trying to play aggressive, really coming in.  I was serving also good.
So, you know, I cannot really complain about anything.  The score looks good, so I think just tells everything.
Q. In the second set there was a long rally.  You won that point.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, there was a lot of good rallies.  With Caro, is always a lot of running.  Well, that's for sure, couple rallies for 4-Love and also for 5-1, two of the best rallies in that match.
Just always happy to hear the crowd afterwards.  It was entertaining tennis.
Q. You've qualified for Singapore now.  How much of a relief or release is that for you in terms of being able to play without having to chase points and chase qualification?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, I'm just happy to qualified already.  But it's still a huge event for us.  You know, doesn't change anything here.  Maybe I have less pressure chasing the points, but you know, still trying to win the tournament.  That's the goal, of course.
You know, just keep going.
Q. The match point, one of your hot shots of the season?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't know.  You tell me (smiling).
Q. You retrieved the volley, then the lob.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: For sure one of the best points, as well, in the match.  Especially for the match point.  Yeah, maybe.  I just hope I can win with one of my shots (smiling).
Q. Do you remember shots like that?  We're at the end of the season now.  You've hit a lot of hot shots.  Are there ones that stick out in your mind or is it all a blur?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: To be honest, I can't really remember everything.  I remember when someone is telling me the match, a particular point, kind of explain me what was happening.  I was like, Yeah, happened.
But I think, you know, after so many matches, so many good rallies, after so many tournaments, you might not too well remember everything.
Q. Can you talk about your shoulder injury.  Is it okay now?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, it's okay.  It's more like a prevention.  Very hard conditions.  Every week different balls, different surface.  Of course, it's also in the end of the season.
It's a bit irritated, but it's okay.  I can still serve, so it's good.
Q. You returned serve really well this match, especially in the second set.  I think Caroline only won 25% of her first serve points.  Did you have a plan to neutralize her first serve or is it something that just happened?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think just something that happened.  I think reaction is also very important in the game.  I think today I was really focused from the beginning till the end.  I knew nothing's going to come for free.  I was really trying to be aggressive from the first point and also from the return.  I think I was doing this pretty good.  That's why I could really win that match in two sets.
Q. You won the award after the match.  Nadal and Djokovic won that before.  How do you feel about that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: It's always great to achieve awards like this.  I really appreciate it.  That was a surprise for me.  I didn't know.  Well, another trophy for the collection.  So, yeah, cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT