CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/Wang Qiang
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You seemed to have a plan to attack.  Was that something you had coming in or something on the fly?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: First match is always tricky.  I just realized that the court and balls are much slower than the last week.  Well, I was just trying to be more aggressive.  If I had a chance, I was stepping in and moving to the net.
Seems it's working, I guess.
Q. In the 5-1 game, she ended up breaking you.  How did you rebound and break back?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I was 5-1 up.  Of course, I had a couple of matchpoints.  It was still not a tragedy when I was 5-1 up.  I was just very happy that I put a couple of good shots in next game and closed that set also very quickly.
Q. It's a quick turnaround from Wuhan.  At the same time you're closing in on facing Singapore.  Is it a big push, like, Forget I'm tired, I need to adjust to the conditions because the finish line is coming?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, you are always trying to not think about pressure, especially here, close to Singapore.
Of course, first matches are always a bit tricky, always more nerves.  But, well, I'm just very happy that I could play a good game, a quick two-set match.  Couldn't have been any better.
Q. If you go back and think to the first times that you were in the running to qualify for the finals, maybe back in the Doha days, how much were you counting points back then, like the first time you were going through it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, like, it was hundred years ago (smiling).
It was a bit different.  I was two times as the alternate.  I was very happy with that.  But I was playing also two times when I was second.  Well, that always did my coach, so I never really look at the points.  I was always trying to focus in the next match, not really thinking what is going to be or who is going to lose.  I just wanted to win myself.
I think it's better if you really take care of yourself and really do your points yourself than thinking about the others, how they going to do.  That's not good.
Q. Today in the second set, she hit a shot, a cross-court pickup against you.  Your reaction seemed to be a bit amazed.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I didn't expect that at all.  That was a great shot, obviously.  It's something that for sure, I mean, I didn't even know she's going to get it.  Of course, normally you go down the line.  Then she did the really great angle.
Well, just a great shot, amazing.
Q. Your fans call you tennis magician.  How can you do that, to play a lot of hot shots?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I heard a couple of nicknames like that.  It's always great to hear those kind of nicknames.  Always happy when I heard that my tennis is very entertaining and I can do the shots that fans love it.
Well, always trying to do that.  A couple other nicknames I have on tour.  Just very nice to hear that.
Q. You have a lot of fans.  In your daily life do you like to communicate like on Facebook or Twitter?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  I think Internet is the most powerful thing in this century.  Doing a lot of Internet and all those Facebook, Instagram and Twitter things.  I'm trying to do that.
Of course, I know the tennis fans, they want to know what's going on also off the court.  I always trying to do that, as well.
Q. Many journalists focus on the Singapore final.  Unfortunately you cannot enter the semifinal in Wuhan Open.  I hope you can enter the final of this year's China Open so you can have enough points.  If you cannot get enough points in the China Open, you will face more pressure in the Tianjin Open.  As the defending champion, what is your plan in the Tianjin Open?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I just hope I can do it here, that's for sure.  But, well, I had the situation last year when I had to win the Tianjin Open to qualify for Singapore, and I did it.  Of course, it was last-minute qualifying.
I will try everything to qualify a bit before that this year.  Everything is open.  This is a big event.  Everybody can do a lot of points here.  Well, I think, of course, it's a little bit more pressure, but I think every year it's kind of similar situation for everyone, especially a lot of girls this year is really close and the rankings are very tight.
Q. You were talking about nicknames.  I can't resist to ask you what is your favorite nickname?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I really like 'professora'.  I think it comes from Spanish and Italian coaches or players.  Yes, it's great to hear this kind of nickname.  It means I playing really good, perfection tennis.
Yeah, it's kind of funny but it's very nice.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT