DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 29, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RADWANSKA/C. Wozniacki   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You got the championship at the Tianjin Open.  What is your thoughts about Svetlana, who also won there?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Against Sveta, we are playing so much matches on so many surfaces, we know each other for so long.  We didn't play for a while.   
Playing her is always a great challenge.  She's a great fighter, now I think in a great form.  Well, this is a quarterfinal of a really big event.  Everybody's playing really good tennis.  I just hope I can really play my best game because I need it.   
 Q.  How would you rate your level today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think, first of all, you have to really play good tennis against Caro to win.  I knew I played well, because otherwise I wouldn't win that match especially in two sets.  She's never an easy opponent.   
I just really happy to get revenge from last week.  Of course, it was a really good game.   
 Q.  How much of the previous match were you watching as you were waiting and killing a lot of time?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually, I was watching whole match.  Very impressive.  What could I do, just eat and wait.  I just knew is going to be a long one, but not as long as it was.   
But I think it was three hours of really good tennis.   
 Q.  You played Sveta many times before.  Your record against her is not that great.  What makes her game tough for you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think you can really say that she's kind of like the really Spanish style tennis that is very uncomfortable to play against.  Very good athlete, as well.  She's a very good defender.  She can really mix it up, everything on court.  Very tricky.   
Well, I'm just really looking forward for that match because we didn't play for a while.   
 Q.  Do you reflect at all or think back to your incredible week in Singapore?  Do you ever watch any of your matches or highlights?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really.  Maybe highlights are on TV and I'm watching something.  But never myself.  I think I have enough of my tennis just playing myself life.  I don't really need to watch again.   
But, of course, great memories for sure, especially that Singapore is very soon.  Well, now the only goal is just to qualify for sure and I will see from that.   
 Q.  Do you track the scenarios on when you can qualify, if you win how many points?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't know.  I know I'm close.  But also some of the girls, as well.  Anyway, here is a big event.  Beijing, of course, very big event.  I think everything is open for everyone.  I think every match matters, that's for sure.   
 Q.  There was a long interruption in the first set when you were up 4-1 because Caroline asked the trainer for her neck.  Despite all your experience, is it difficult to find the momentum back after such a break?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, I think I just stepped back a little bit, didn't use my chances, then suddenly it was 4-All.  But, well, good that I just woke up again and just finished that set.   
Of course, that would not be great if I will just lose track the whole set.  But I think I was playing a little bit better, more aggressive, really focusing on the important points, on my game points and breakpoints.  That helps me to win that set 6-2.   
 Q.  It's almost 1 a.m.   Are you the type of player when you get back to the hotel, it's going to take you a while to get back to sleep or...  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, actually I can't really fall asleep.  Sleeping pills always helping.  Without that, no chance.  Especially since Cincinnati I'm playing night session pretty much.  So it's tough.  And it's 45-minutes drive.   
 Q.  I remember you were very lucky to get extra points at the Tianjin Open to make it to Singapore last year.  Except the China Open, what are your expectations about the Tianjin Open?  Do you want to defend your championship?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, I want to defend my title.  That's the goal, especially at the tournaments that I won before.  But I just hope I can make qualifying before that this year.  If it's going to be the same as last year, well, it doesn't going to change anything.  When I go on court, I want to win.  I just hope the points, I will just have less pressure in Tianjin.   
 Q.  Midnight games, how could you end up so successfully today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Like I was playing, I was really playing a lot of those matches last few weeks.  It's never easy.  You really have to wait whole day.  Sometimes is getting longer and longer, especially in the Grand Slams when you playing after the men's matches.  Then, of course, you have to do your things.  Anyway, it's two hours afterwards.   
Well, sometimes you feel like you can go either to party and you going to come back and it's going to be same time.  I guess I used to that.  Just use my pill and go to sleep as soon as possible.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT