DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RADWANSKA/E. Makarova   
6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you feel about your start today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, the first match is always tricky, especially we have different conditions everywhere:  for sure different courts, different balls.  It's always a little bit different.   
I'm just very glad I could really play good tennis and two sets in the first game.  It's always better than two hours on court.   
 Q.  Talk about the change in conditions.  How are the conditions here different than they were in Tokyo?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, first of all, in Tokyo, it was raining whole tournament.  We were basically playing indoor whole tournament.  I think just the final was outdoors.  That's the big difference.   
Also, inside was very humid.  Here is a little bit better.  Still humid.  But also the balls are different, so behaving a little bit differently in the air.  Courts are slower.   
So pretty much everything was different.   
 Q.  The courts are slower there or here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Here.   
 Q.  Slower than Tokyo?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.   
 Q.  At the end of your tournament in Tokyo, it looked like you were dealing with some sort of leg issue against Caroline.  How is that and what was the problem?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's fine.  You know, when you play really long match, it's always something coming up, especially at the end of the season.  It's been okay.  Some tightness.  I'm in one piece right now, so it's good.   
 Q.  Simona was saying yesterday that a lot of retirements, sometimes it is mental.  This final stretch, tell me the challenges of it on your mind and body.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  Also matters how many matches you played till Asia, how busy was your schedule.  I was also saying couple of times that now I really thinking about my schedule from the beginning, just to make sure I'm still healthy, still fresh mentally and physically for the end of the year, for Asia tour, for Singapore, if I'm going to make it.  That's very important.   
From my perspective, I'm actually good.  But on other hand side, I didn't play as much as the other years.  That is really helping.   
 Q.  There's a possibility you might meet Caroline next round.  What would you do differently going into that match than when you met in Tokyo?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for sure just taking my chances, if I'm going to have those.  It's always hard to say what you're going to do kind of for sure.  I'm not expecting easy and short match.  We always having long battles against each other, especially on the slower surface as here.   
So, well, I really going to prepare today and have a good rest, just play my best tennis tomorrow.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the freshness, all the energy that Kerber brings to the No. 1 ranking, and how you yourself have been so close.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's always great to see new player No. 1.  I was saying also before, she was really the one who really deserved that.  She was playing great tennis.  She is still playing great tennis, from the beginning, from Australian Open till now, and showing unbelievable game on every surface.   
What she did this year, it's really incredible.  She really deserve to be No. 1.   
 Q.  I'm not going to try to pronounce it, but are you familiar with the city that Angie lives in and has the academy in in Poland?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I'm familiar.  I never been there.  But I know where it is.   
 Q.  What do you know about it?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I just know her granddad and her, she has this huge facility which is under Poznan, which is a big city.  It is in Puszczykowo.   
I was planning to go there few times, but there is always something comes up.  Well, it's very nice that she has her own indoor courts, especially in Poland.  You need indoor courts with our weather.   
So, yeah, just hoping one day I can just visit her there.   
 Q.  Have you ever tried to convince her to switch flags and you guys could just have an awesome Fed Cup team and win the whole shebang?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, we were talking about this with Angie and Caro, that we could really have a great team.  Then separate, and playing in groups, number three, whatever.   
Yeah, well, not my decision.   
 Q.  Speaking of Fed Cup, I was wondering if you heard about the suggested changes they're proposing.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't know.   
 Q.  Did you hear about that at all?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really.   
 Q.  One of them is for the final, it would be at a neutral venue, not a home-and-away concept.  What do you think about that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, I'm not even close to the Fed Cup final, so I don't know if I'm the right person to judge that.   
But I think this is good idea because I think it's good to play in a place that it's close to everyone.  Of course, sometimes we're playing Australia or Japan, and you have to go around the world just to play one match.   
I think it's going to be, I think, fair for everyone just to play somewhere where it's close and after the last tournament.   
 Q.  With Caroline, did you notice her playing any differently in Tokyo against you than maybe in the past when she's played against you?  Seems like she's been a little bit more aggressive since New York.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, not really.  But definitely now she's more confident on the court, especially after New York.  We were playing solid tennis, not much of the free points.  Well, I think serving also a little bit better.  So altogether makes her really a good player.   
I think she can really come back soon, if she's going to play like this, to the top 10.   
 Q.  Some Chinese fans say your style is like Tai Chi in China.  What do you think about that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't know.  Wow.  Maybe.  If somebody comparing to this kind of style, I think it's good.  Those kind of things I think here is always - I think the perfect word is 'perfection'.  If you're comparing me to that kind of things, this is good comparison.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT