DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 26, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You have been the most favorite tennis player in the WTA.  Do you have any secret for that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: What can I say?  I'm just very happy to win that title for five times in a row.  I'm very appreciate that the fans are voting for me every year.   
I just hope I can win a couple more times.   
 Q.  How do you feel coming into this last stretch of the season?  Fresh enough mentally, physically?  You ended pretty well last year.  Maybe a bit of pressure to defend the points.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, it's always difficult, especially when you still fighting for the Singapore.  A tight schedule in Asia, as well.  Playing a couple big tournaments, in a row.   
I just think about the schedule whole year, just to stay healthy and fresh, like you said, because it's very important part of the season, as well.   
I'm fit.  I'm good.  I'm healthy.  Hopefully I can play the same best tennis like last year.   
 Q.  Have you been happy with the way you've been playing this summer?  Is there something you definitely want to improve here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I was really playing good tennis last couple weeks in States.  I was playing really good tennis in Tokyo, as well.  I just hope I can keep going and play the same level.  Should be good.   
 Q.  You know Angelique very well, played her many times.  What kind of opinion do you have on her season, two Grand Slam titles, being No. 1?  What does that mean for you?  You are in this generation.  Does it make you believe a little bit more that your time could be coming soon?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course, I think we all playing to win the Grand Slam.  I think this is the dream for everyone who is playing tennis.  So, you know, really working hard for that, as well.  I was close couple times, but didn't do it.  Still have couple years to try.  Yeah, we'll see.   
Angelique is definitely playing unbelievable tennis this year.  She really show that she can play great tennis on every surface.  Very solid tennis.  She definitely deserves to be No. 1.  I think this is the only player that played as good over a whole season.   
That's her spot right now and she really deserve it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT