U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KONJUH/A. Radwanska
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Describe what it was like on the court today.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, she was playing pretty good tennis, serving very well.  I just couldn't do any more I guess today.  I was really trying.  I was just too slow today.
Q. With her power, it's a difficult thing to defuse.  What were you trying to do to get her out of rhythm tonight?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I was just trying to mix it up and not play in one spot.
Well, sometimes is difficult when the ball is going really big from the other side.  So it's hard to control, really put the ball where you want.
That's what I was trying to do.  But, well, she was really solid.
Q. Did you feel like the match was in your hands at all tonight or was it really on her racquet the way she was playing?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, there's always a way to turn it around.  That's tennis, so anything can happen.  Definitely it was only one break in the beginning, then I was not really close to break again.  Maybe there was one or two chances.  Then I didn't really hold my serve.  I didn't serve good enough.
Then, well, I'm here not as a winner.
Q. Do you think the roof made any difference?  Would you have rather played that match in open air than with the roof closed?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I'm not really sure why they close the roof.
Q. Did they tell you anything?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, the risk of rain.  But, well, there was always risk of rain, I guess.
Q. So you would have preferred if it was open?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't know what would happen if that would be open.  Sometimes I just don't understand why they're closing the roof.
Q. You're the only top player that's played her twice now.  What is it about her game that makes her a top-rated 18-year-old?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, she's really making good angles in the rallies.  You go from very far from the court, then she have open court.  That's dangerous.  She makes good angles from both sides, and of course good serve as well.  That makes it really dangerous opponent.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT