U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/C. Garcia
6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you feel about that match?  Better performance than against Broady?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  Well, to be honest, I expect, as always, a long and tough match against her.  I know what to expect.  We know each other for a while.  What can I say?  Just very happy I could win that match that quick.
Q. You have had a good record against Caroline before.  What is it about the matchup that seems to skew your way?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, every match is different.  Every match is different story, different conditions.  We played on clay last time, so of course that was totally different match.
Well, today I was really serving good and returning very good.  Again, a player who was really serving really well, so I had a good warmup the second round.
Well, I was really doing everything right today, and I think that's why the score was like that.
Q. Can you talk about the potential matchup either against Ana or Varvara next round?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, obviously against Konjuh I played at Wimbledon kind of a drama match, so there was not really that long time ago.  For sure she make huge progress last couple of months and she's really playing good tennis at the moment.
And against Lepchenko, we didn't play for a while, play a lot of matches.  I know I lost a couple of them.  Not an easy one, as well.
Well, just very happy to be in the fourth round, and we'll see what's gonna happen.
Q. You mentioned a couple of matches ago that you thought you played some good tennis through New Haven.  Do you think you're playing some of the best tennis of your career?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's always hard to compare if it's the best match or the best tournament or the best tennis.  For sure I'm just very happy to play a really good level, my best level.
Definitely really couple good matches in New Haven, especially semis and the final.  So, you know, of course everything is going forward.  You always have to go for it and make the progress and play better and better, trying to improve everything.
But definitely I feel good right now and I think I'm playing really good tennis.
Q. Anything you're working on specifically in your game?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, to be honest, when I go on court I really trying to improve everything, so it's not just one shot or one thing that I'm working on at the time.
So, you know, when it's a practice, I practice everything.
Q. You're known for your tennis smarts.  How do you think you'd be as a commentator?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Oh, that's a good question.  Well, I hope I could handle commentating.  I never did that really.
But, well, you tell me if I'd be good or not.  (Smiling.)
Q. I think you'd be good.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Thank you.
Q. Going back to the Wimbledon match against Konjuh you said after that you thought you were going home and already checked out of the match when she had match point.  What did she do particularly well in that match to get in that situation where she really did have you on the ropes?  What makes her a dangerous opponent?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, she was definitely serving very well, and what I remember is she was really, sort of from the beginning till the end, not really up and downs, and that's why I was really struggling in that match.
Like you were saying, I was almost home.  I was just lucky in the end, obviously.  But, well, I just hope there will be different story on the hard court if I will play her.
Q. This is your seventh year in the top 10.  How do you manage to maintain that consistency?  How do you look after yourself, look after your body?  Because it's tough being on the tour for so long at such a high level.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  Health is the most important thing for us, especially when the season is so long and you're playing another year on that kind of level.
So of course rest, treatment, that's the most important thing.  So I have my own physio all the time with me at home and I'm traveling also with one.
So, you know, that's what you need when you are so many years on tour.
Q. One more on the commentator thing.  Do you think it's easier for tennis players to be good commentators?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I think so, definitely.  You know how it is on court, what can you feel on court, and maybe sometimes why you don't have the good day or something is not going your way.
So it's easier to imagine how it's there on court.  I think that's the best experience to have.
Q. Second week in a slam I think at all four of the majors this year.  I think off the top of my head.  Yes?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, pretty much.
Q. Thank you for verifying.  You had talked about changes in your schedules, about wanting to peak at the big tournaments and maybe play less and things like that.  Do you think that that's a result of it, you know, being able to find that consistency at the majors, or is it something else?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think it's a lot of things that have to work together to play good tennis and to have good season.
Of course I didn't play that much as the other years this year, so maybe that's why I'm healthy now, fresh.  And there's still a lot of big tournaments till the end of the year, so it's not over yet.
So, yes, I think probably there was a couple of good decisions.  Yes, so we always have to double-check the schedule and think what's gonna be in the end of the year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT