NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 26, 2018
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/D. Gavrilova
5-7, 7-6, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Talk us through the match and how you managed to pull away with the win in the third set.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I mean, I start very good.  It was a great match till the end.  But I think just the first set slip away a little bit.  4-1 up and then those long games that, you know, could end up a little bit different.
Well, in the end, she was really making some good shots in the end of the first set and it slip away.  Well, second set was pretty similar.  Game by game, point by point.  So tight, so long rallies.  And then, well, two match points down, but everything was just so tight.  I think serve was the key in that match.  It was very important.
But, you know, in important moments I think didn't work for her, and that's why I could come back in that second set.  Obviously in that third set I was more confident.  I think she got a little bit angry and not patient.  Well, that was quicker set.  It was good, because we didn't spend four hours on court.
Q. At this stage of your return, do these sort of wins feel extra special?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  Well, I think in that stage after two months at home, I think every match it's great to win, especially against someone like Daria.  She's playing great tennis right now, and I'm very happy that I could play really good two matches and that I could win those two matches.  At the moment I have really nothing to lose and really enjoy my game and enjoy the grass.
Q. Do you feel like you prepare for matches much differently now that you've had your time away from the sport?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really.  At home, most of the things I was really taking care of myself to be healthy, to be 100%.  A lot of rehab and also stuff off the court.
But to be honest, I didn't even practice on the grass.  I just came here on Wednesday and that's it.  Of course playing with the girls before the tournament and playing some points on the grass, but that was it.
Well, I think couple of years ago, when possible, I think I would not be ready and kind of panicking that it was not enough.  But I think in that age and stage, I think it's good.
Q. And do you feel any different?  Are you putting any pressure on yourself?  Or are you just enjoying being back playing tennis again?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, like I was saying, really enjoying being back.  But also surprising myself that I can really play good tennis from the beginning.  Yesterday and today, really solid, good matches.  Serving pretty well.  Moving very well after those two months.
I really didn't kind of like didn't expect that.  I'm really happy the way I play, and I just hope I can play better and better.
Q. Were you also happy with the way you fought today?  Every point seemed like a battle?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Oh, yes.  I think today was really good game and a lot of crazy, tricky shots, as well.
I think she's also one of the kind of player that she can do everything on court.  You know, I think it was really enjoyable for the fans to see that match, and I'm really happy to win this kind of battle.
Q. Does she remind you a little bit of yourself with some of her varieties?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think so.  I think she's this kind of player that she's not that powerful like the others hitting the ball so strong and you don't have much rallies.
But here, as we could see, it was a lot of going on on the court.  That's why it was three hours.  Well, that's why I am really, really happy I was out there on court and it was worth it.
Q. Did you sense that she was getting frustrated and falling apart a little bit in the third set and just felt you had to stay consistent?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, exactly.  Of course it's always disappointing to lose a set like this and after the match points.  I understand that she was frustrated.  Like I said, I just wanted to be solid and really focused on my service games and also trying to break in the beginning, and that's what I did, but I didn't really thought it was going to be that quick.
Q. You have a very different test coming up next in the shape of Kvitova.  How do you feel about going into that match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, like I was saying before, I don't really have nothing to lose, especially she's having great season and five titles already.  I think she's really on fire.
So we played so many matches against each other.  I think, you know, I just hope I can really play the same game I was playing today and we'll see.  I really gonna enjoy that match.  I'm playing against one of the best players in the world, so we'll see.
Q. Did you think you'd be straight back in and getting through to a big match already?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, yes.  I mean, I think I have really good preparation in those two matches to play this big one.  So, yeah, I'm really looking forward, and especially, she's a great person, great player, and I like to play against her.
She's always pushing me to, you know, to play 100%, and for sure tomorrow it will be the same.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT