U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/N. Broady
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Take us through the tiebreak.  What were you thinking?  How important was it to get that first set?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, first of all, I'm just very happy that I could play a tiebreak in the first set, I could come back from 5-2 down.
Of course, I was 5-2 up in the tiebreak.  I think I was just too slow and didn't really come in.  You know, I pay the price, a couple set points down, it's not fun.  Especially, you know, she was serving unbelievable.  So every point matter in that tiebreak, especially when I could broke her at least at one point.
But, well, I was just couple points better today.  Definitely she pushed me 100% today.
Q. How tough is it to play someone serving lights out?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: She was really serving great, 120 pretty much whole match.  Was not easy at all.  So every break matters.  I was trying to do that, then of course focusing on my serve.
But, well, a lot of up and downs, a lot of tight games.  But, well, in the important moments I was just better the one shot.
Q. What do you make of New York, the city?  How have you been spending your time off when you're not playing?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course, good recovery is the most important thing.  When I have time and opportunity, always go for nice dinner, always try to find different place.  Around the hotel, in Manhattan, it's quite easy to just walk around, you can just choose whatever you want.
Q. Do you have a favorite neighborhood, Central Park or something?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course, Central Park.  Broadway, as well.  Having dinner in Hard Rock Cafe, as well.  Enjoying New York.
Q. Do you feel your personality vibes with fast cities or do you prefer something calmer?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I really like New York.  I like cities like this.  But not for the long term.  I think one or two weeks, it's enough, and then I like to be in the quiet spot.
For example, here it's always funny.  When we go to New Haven, it's pretty quiet, calm, nothing really going on there.  It's not loud at all.  Then you come to New York, it's just opposite.
It's good to have a mix, a little bit of everything.
Q. Did you hear that Beyonce was at Serena's match?  Did players get excited hearing stuff like that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Really?  Why not at my match?  It's so unfair (smiling).
I didn't know that.  I just play my match.  It's good to see personalities like Beyonce, of course.
Q. Talk about playing Garcia next.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, we played couple of times.  Long matches, long battles.  I think the last time was in Paris, Roland Garros.
Well, a lot of really tight matches.  Playing her is never easy.  She's very solid player, really hitting the ball hard, coming in.  Just hitting really fast from the bounce.  She's not giving you much time.  I think I will need to focus on the first ball, first shot, just not make her put everything in the middle because then I'll be in trouble.
Q. Talk about the way you're playing right now.  Assess the match today.  How do you feel you're progressing in this tournament?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I've been playing pretty good last couple of weeks.  Definitely best tennis last week in New Haven, beating lot of top players whole tournament.
Of course, today was not the prettiest match ever.  But, you know, you couldn't really play all the time the best tennis.  Sometimes struggle just with yourself out there.  You want it too much, and it's just not going your way sometimes.
But, well, just I think what happened also today, I was just too much backwards, didn't really play that kind of tennis I was playing last week.  But, you know, sometimes happens.  Especially when you're really under the pressure, playing someone that you really should win that match.
So just hoping the next match I'm more relaxed.
Q. Do you feel like you're getting up to form where you can make a long run here?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I hope so.  I was really playing good tennis.  I'm healthy.  I'm okay.  I'm in one piece.  It's good opportunity to make a good results here.
I was doing everything in my power 100% to prepare for this US Open, so we'll see.
Q. How important were those matches in New Haven for you to build up momentum coming into the tournament?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: It was last-minute decision, but I guess it was a good one.  Playing really good matches out there.  Winning really strong tournament not even losing a set, that always give you a lot of confidence.
Just trying to keep it going here.  You know, just hoping it's going to be at least my first quarterfinal.
Q. Are you aware if there are celebrities in the stands?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really.  I mean, it was pretty lot of people in the stadium.  Especially when it's so hot, you're just sweating, using the towels all the time, you're not really focusing who is sitting out there.
But I didn't recognize anyone.  Maybe was someone there.  But maybe sometimes when they exactly sitting just on the bench just next to the chair when you're sitting, then yes, of course.  But otherwise it's hard to see.
Q. You've been in the top 10 for a long time now.  Every time people play you, they're really going after you.  Is it more fun chasing than being chased?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course, once I was the one who was chasing, and now I'm there.  Always have that more pressure because someone is really pushing you.  So like you're saying, that's why there's always a little bit more pressure.  Sometimes you're not playing the greatest tennis.
But, well, it's always harder when you go out there.  It's back of your head, you know you have to kind of win.  I mean, sometimes it's just not your day and it's just not going your way.  It's always hard, especially that you know they really going to come in and play and have nothing to lose, so it's always easier.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT