U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/J. Pegula
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Looked like you picked up right where you left off in New Haven.  Pretty happy with that performance?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  You know, the most important thing that I have quick, nice first round.  Just very happy to have this quick match just to, you know, be ready and fresh for the next one.
Q. You talk about needing to be fresh, to try to get through the first week without too many complications.  When matches do start to get complicated, do you start to think about that, Here I go again, stuck in the third set, should have finished this in two, or can you stay focused?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think because we playing a lot, I think every scenario I already did.  I played so many matches pretty quick in two sets.  There were some Grand Slams that I was really struggling from the first rounds.
So, you know, anything can happen.  But, of course, it's always better to have quick match, have good tennis and be confident with your game.  I prefer for sure those kind of matches than those I have to save match points, for example.
Q. Your sister is not in the draw this year.  Does it make you enjoy the tournament any less?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course, it's always better if she's around.  Struggling with couple of injuries, so she's not here main draw.  Well, hoping she can be back soon and we going to play most of the tournaments together.
Q. Do you think it's an advantage to have a sister or brother on tour?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course.  I think it's great to have someone from the family around.  You know, we best friends.  We very close.  It's always good to have someone who understands you and know how it is how to lose, how to win, how you feel about it afterwards.
It's always great to have her around.
Q. Do you follow more when you hear about other siblings?  Do you follow closely?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, I follow the scores.  I'm really always curious about other matches.  But, you know, it's always nice also to see other siblings playing tennis.  It's always cool.
Q. Are you one of the people who looks at your draw at all, looks ahead, or does your coach tell you match by match who you're playing?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, actually never look at the draw.  As we know, anything can happen.  I don't think it's really necessary.  I think the most important thing is just to focus on the match.  If you win, then you can look up your next opponent, especially when you have another day to think about it and to prepare.
Q. Do you read the sheets that the tour puts out on records, the match notes?  What are you most proud of from the records you've read about yourself?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You mean here?
Q. Just in general before matches.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it depends.  Sometimes it's really funny to read some statistics that you have no idea about.  Sometimes you really surprised.  So I like to read those things about myself, other players, other tournaments, scores, wins and records.
It's always very interesting.
Q. Do you have any New York traditions, something you always do when you're here?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I like to have this ice cream from this kind of car.  I don't know how you call it.
Q. The trucks?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, the trucks.  But it's always nice just to walk around the city.  Always cool.  You know, as we know, New York never sleep.  It's always nice to get out from the hotel and forget about tennis for a little bit.
Q. Simona was saying the same thing, she was getting the ice cream from the trucks.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Really?
Q. Do you have a flavor?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  Well, I like these sprinkles, colorful sprinkles, chocolate ones.
Q. There are a lot of changes at the tournament this year.  Is there a court you're looking to playing on?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course, I didn't play on Grandstand.  Of course that would be good to try to play on this court.  I think I played on every court in this facility.  So I think just the Grandstand is the one I didn't play.
Q. The ride that you take from Manhattan to the site can vary.  It can be short or long.  What are you normally doing during that ride?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, sometimes it's very long.  Sometimes I'm just getting nervous I'm going to be late.  But when I'm on time, I'm trying to relax.  Not much.
Q. Like phone, music, talking?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, now we have wi-fi in the car so it's much better.  Yes, exactly like you saying, listen to music.  Also checking other scores on the way to the courts.  So, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT