CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 27, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/E. Svitolina
6-1, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What were you thinking when you were down two set points in the second set?  How did you rally from there?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, in the second set, was a lot of ups and downs.  Everything was turning around both ways.  Of course, I was serving for the match before.  First I was break up, 4-3.  I lose my serve, then again serving for the set.
Then suddenly end up with two match points down.  That's how it is when you're not taking your chances where you have them.
But, well, just very glad I could come back as well myself in that moment.  That was really important moment.  I really put some great shots in the key moments in that match, win that match in two sets.
Q. What does this title mean to you?  You have a chance for an extra million dollars next week?  As a whole, what does it mean to win after what you did in January?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Every title means a lot.  I'm so happy to get like another one, especially in a place I never win before.  I'm just so happy to win title here.
Q. Can you talk about how much you enjoyed your time here, even when you were spraying the champagne over everybody.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, well, a great week for me.  Great preparation.  A couple of great matches.  In the semi, in the final, very strong tournament, no easy matches.  I was pushing myself 100% from the first round, working hard here.
Well, just trying to keep it up and play the same level in New York.
Q. You didn't drop a set here.  You seem to be placing your shots really well and getting to a lot of shots that people were surprised anyone was able to get to.  What is it about your game that has improved to this point?  Do you think you're playing at the top of your game right now?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Winning tournament like this, not losing a set, it means I really played good tennis.  I really played against top players.
Well, I was really feeling good this week.  Everything was working.  I was feeling very confident on that court.
I remember also playing last year very good.  It's just Petra was too good.  I think this is great preparation, great week for me before the Open.  Here we go, we have a trophy.
Q. What does winning the series mean, besides the chance at a bonus?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it means it's been couple good weeks.  I didn't really know that I have chance to win that.  I was really surprised myself when I find out yesterday I can be No. 1 in that list, as well.
Of course, another thing that I won.  So now it's everything in my power to do good in the US Open.  It will be worth it, right (smiling)?
Q. Anne talked a couple times today about you accepting that wild card.  How did that decision go?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: It was tricky scheduling, especially with the Olympics.  It's always hard to predict how you're going to play, how many matches you're going to have till New York, how you're going to do, how you're going to feel, if you're going to be okay or not.  It's very tough, especially this year.
So I did not have enough matches.  Here we were on the phone with Anne for couple of days.  I decided to get the wild card here.  I just wanted to play more.  I knew here is a great preparation tournament.  I came back.  I guess it was a really good decision.
Q. Are you surprised you haven't won here before?  This is your sixth time here.  The court seems to suit your game but you haven't been past the quarters before.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, that's the tennis.  That's the sport.  Sometimes you have your days, sometimes not really.  Sometimes you're playing really good tennis, but there's someone who's playing even better.  Sometimes you're not really play your best tennis in that week.  Depends also who you're playing against.
That's why we can see every week different winner.  I think that's why the sport is so exciting, especially in the women's game.
I just very happy that finally I can win it myself here.
Q. Couple crowds of 5,000 or more the last couple days.  Pretty good atmosphere to play in?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  I was very happy to see more and more people coming.  They were really enjoying the tennis.  They've been great support whole week.  You can really see and hear how they like tennis, how they really like to support.
I really appreciate that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT