CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 26, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/P. Kvitova
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Seemed to run her all over the court from the start.  Was that the plan?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I didn't really expect that quick matches, for sure.  Everything was working for me tonight.  I was really playing great, solid tennis from the beginning till the end.
Well, I think I was just feeling very good on court, very confident, very loose.  I was serving much better than the other days.
Well, what can I say?  I'm just so glad I could win a match in that kind of style.
Q. Your first final here.  A big step for you.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course.  I think being in the final in another tournament is always very exciting.  I'm so happy with that.  My seventh appearance I could be in the final, so I'm happy with that.  I just hope I can play the same great tennis tomorrow.
Q. You haven't been in a final since you won in China in January.  How has your game come back around?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I did a couple big semifinals this year, but this is the first finals since then.
Well, it's always great to play for the title, but different story.  Well, it's good that I'm again in this level that I can really play my best tennis, especially before the Grand Slam.
Q. Do you work to try to peak at the right moment for the Grand Slam?  Do you feel you've done that this hard court season?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think so.  I feel I'm playing better and better.  Even here I just feel on court much better.
Well, I was really working on couple of things before I came to the U.S.  You know, in the beginning, it's always tough.  Different conditions everywhere.  Here I guess everything is working for me.  I really feeling good on court.
Hopefully this year New York is going to be more lucky for me.
Q. How do you feel about your opponent tomorrow?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, we played couple of times.  She's really young, talented player.  She can do everything on court.  Very tricky as well.
Another great challenge for me to play someone like that.  This is, for sure, one of the younger players that we going to see much more often in the finals for sure.
Q. Petra said she had more trouble with your second serve than your first one.  A lot slower.  Do you try to throw off your opponent's timing?  Is that why your second serve is slower?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I was trying to mix it up.  I just knew from her turn, everything is going so fast.  I prepare for that.  I know I have to mix it up, not play with the same rhythm all the time.  I also tried to change the placement.  That's what I did.  I guess was working.
Q. Do you have a little extra incentive, if you win the U.S. bonus challenge series, that you can win it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course.  That also means that I played couple of good tournaments, and I could win it.  Definitely it's worth the win.  I will just do everything within my power to win tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT