CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 25, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/K. Flipkens
6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You're in the semis for the first time.  Feels like the monkey is off your back.  You've had problems in the early rounds before.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course.  Well, I'm just very happy to make the first semifinal.  Especially that it's a very strong tournament.  It means I had a couple of good matches, a couple of good wins.
Well, I guess now I have really nothing to lose, especially I'm playing Petra next.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about playing her, what challenges that brings.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think it's great challenge, especially before a Grand Slam, before the US Open.  We played here last year, and of course Singapore final.  Couple great matches against each other.  I just hope it's going to be really good one and we really going to show some good tennis out there.
Q. You broke her three times in the first set.  Did you see anything in her that you could take advantage of?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, she was calling the physio, but she was still running very well.  Of course, I could manage to break her couple times in a row maybe because she was struggling with something.
But definitely she was still fighting till the end.  Really pushed me to play hundred percent today especially in the end of the second set.
Q. Talk about the one point where she went between her legs.  You won the point, but...
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's always entertaining for us, as well, playing rallies like this.  Of course, she's a very tricky opponent.  You can really expect from her those kind of shots.  Very good touch, very good hands.
We had a lot of matches with rallies like this.
Q. You expected her in the second set not to go down without a fight?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, I knew it's not over after the first set.  She started play much better.  Maybe I stepped back a little bit too much, and didn't serve good enough.
Well, the most important thing is I won the last point.  The last game was also not easy.
Q. I think it was 5-4, 30-All, she hit the tape, thought it was a winner.  You were able to get there.  Maybe that deflated her.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, that was bad luck for her, as well.  It was a clean winner.  I had no chance other than that.  The game when it was 4-All was a key game in that second set.  Good that I made some right shots in the right moments.
Q. You mentioned you had nothing to lose.  Do you consider because she plays well here you look at yourself as a little bit of an underdog?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: She plays well here.  She's one of the best players in the world.  And this is a semifinal.  Like I was saying, I just hope I can really play my best tennis and really play good match tomorrow.  Going to be a good preparation before the US Open.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT