ROGERS CUP
July 28, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. PAVLYUCHENKOVA/A. Radwanska
6-4, 6-7, 6-1
An interview with:
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You did well in the second set to force it into a third set.  What do you think was the difference in the third set?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I could finish that match in two sets, that's for sure.  I think she start to play much better.  I think the best set for her was the third one.  She was playing very aggressive, of course.
I had some chances.  I think that fourth game was the key, as well, when I lost my serve.  It was 40-15.  Then I just couldn't come back anymore.
Q. Did you notice anything different about her game?  It's been a while since you played each other.  Was there anything she did today that surprised you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, we know each other for so long.  But definitely she was really playing good and solid tennis today, very consistent whole match.
Well, I just, you know, didn't serve good enough, for sure, today.  For sure, that cost me also a lot of points.
Q. What are your plans for the next couple of days?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I'm going to stay here, and then I'm going to Rio on Monday.
Q. You saved a couple of match points in the second set with some big forehands.  What was going through your mind then and what was your thought behind them?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, if you're match point down, you always going to think that it's pretty much almost over.  But it's still not over honestly.  Of course, you're still fighting.
I guess your opponent is more nervous.  So then, of course, the shots are a bit different from her.  You can always step forward.  That was pretty much happening on the match points all the time.
Q. How do you feel physically a week before the Olympics right now?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I feel good.  Of course, it's always disappointing to lose.  Obviously I wanted to play more matches here.  But, well, what can I do?
Now just going to practice more here a couple days and then hopefully I can really play my best tennis in Rio.
Q. Are you planning to go to the opening ceremonies?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I'm not sure yet.  I think all depends of schedule.  If you play next day, I think it's going to be tough.
Q. You've gone to them before.  Is it as fun to be there as it is for us watching it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  It's always different when you're there and walking.  But also you cannot really see much.  Especially I'm P, I'm just walking there, I hear the noises, fireworks is happening there, then you have to walk on.  It's always disappointing that you can't see.
But, of course, it's great to be there, especially when you walk through the stadium in front of everyone, all the Polish athletes.  It's a great moment, definitely.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT