WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/K. Siniakova
  6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. How would you rate that performance? It looked much better than maybe your last round. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, well, less dramatic than last round, that's for sure. (Smiling.)
Well, I think I felt a bit more comfortable today on court. Everything was kind of easier for me today. Much better game. 
Well, we can see from the score. I really cannot complain about anything.

Q. Going back to that match the other day, was there a moment where you thought that ball was going to land on your side? Did you think that at any moment that net cord on match point... 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course. I was kind of like stepping forward already and going to the net. So, you know, you always think that you have such a bad luck, so for sure it's going to go to your side.
Well, I thought it's over.

Q. You did? You genuinely thought it was over?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: (Nodding.)
 Q. Next match against Cibulkova, played just a week or two weeks ago? What do you need to do better on Monday than you did against her in Eastbourne?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely she's playing great tennis at the moment, and she's playing very good on grass. I think I really have to play even better than today to beat her.
She's really showing great game. I definitely have to be aggressive and trying to play my game, not waiting for any mistakes. You know, for sure solid tennis for two or three sets because nothing is going to be for free at this match.

Q. Do you feel more comfortable on the grass now than you did in Eastbourne, or is it the comfort level?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think so. I think every match it's helping me to adjust to surface and to have match rhythm. You know, hopefully I can do better than Eastbourne. 

Q. What's your kind of overall thoughts of your first week at Wimbledon? How do you sum it up?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, you know, I'm just very happy that I went through. And of course it is always kind of a relief that you made that minimum and you're in the second week. Just very happy about that.
Now I think it's a bit less pressure. You're playing against those top players, so anything can happen.

Q. Have you and Angie talked about the fact that she saved match point in Australia against Doi and she went on to win the title?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, yes, but just then. I didn't actually see her here. Different schedule. No, actually, we just saw each other after her tiebreaker, so we were laughing about that. So it was kind of like similar to my match, her first set.
But, well, that's how it is. It's, I guess, not easy matches. You just have to be better that one particular point. 

Q. Could something like that give you extra confidence that if this is meant to be this could be, you know, mean something like that falls your way?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: You mean that match? Second round?

Q. Yeah, gives you confidence for the rest of the tournament, like this could be my chance?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, exactly. I think I was just lucky. When you're saving three match points, you know, I could be actually at home today. And I'm still here. 
So of course I think it's less pressure and you kind of feel like, yeah, you were lucky and now you just have another chance to still be here. Yeah.

Q. The weather, you must be very pleased to finish your match and be through now, not have to come back tomorrow. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course. I was very happy that I could finish today with the rain or the darkness. I saw that. Some of the matches were suspended, as well, because it was so late.
Well, of course is always good to have the day off. So, yeah. 

Q. You're doing well just finishing your matches just before Poland and Switzerland and now just before darkness falls. Good timing. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, for sure, good timing. But actually I was hoping I could finish much earlier the other day just to relax more before that match and come back home and watch. 
I just wanted to watch that game so much. So actually I was staying here, upstairs, and I had some dinner after the press conference and then it was 1‑All, so I had to stay longer. I didn't want to go home and miss any of the 10 or 15 minutes. And then the penalty. I was sitting upstairs here till 11:00 p.m. Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT