WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/K. Kozlova
  6‑2, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. When you saw the schedule last night, how pleased were you to be on Centre Court given the forecast?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course, I was happy. I knew that I think three days it's not good weather right now. Well, I was really lucky to play on the Centre today, that's for sure.   
   
 Q. How many times have you played under the roof?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I can't remember. But I think couple times. I remember it's very humid when it's closed. Happened couple times.   
I remember also once when I was playing I think fourth round quarterfinal with Kirilenko on Court1, then we were finished on Centre Court very, very late under the roof.   
So, yeah, happened.  
   
 Q. Do you like it?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course, especially when you know that the weather is bad. At least you can have your match, especially that is already one day delayed. So, yeah.   
   
 Q. Is it expected when you come to Wimbledon there will be a delay like that? Is it still a challenge to stay around and wait all day yesterday and come back and be mentally fresh today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course. I was actually in the gym already kind of warming up. It was 3‑2 in the fourth set. I was starting to warm up. Then suddenly everything change in that match before me. Then raining.   
You know, I was mentally ready to go. Then, you know, rain. So, you know, it's always tough, but it's the same for both of us.   
   
 Q. Do you think a tournament like Wimbledon or all of the Grand Slams really should have more roofs? You had a tough time in Paris with the schedule and the weather. Here you have an advantage over someone else. It's not fair for every player.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course, especially in the beginning of the tournament, we have so many matches, the draw is big. So, of course, why not? I know it's big thing to build a roof. It's not easy. But, of course, more roofs, better.   
I think in Australia at the moment, it's the best.   
   
 Q. I was in France for the Euro Championships. I saw you on the screen saluting for the Polish team. Were you watching the previous games? Are you excited about tomorrow? Are you going to watch it?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't think I have a free day tomorrow. I wish, but...   
Well, yes, I was watching every game. I was always trying to schedule my practices just to watch Polish team. Of course, we cheering, me and my team, all the time. Of course, tomorrow I hope I'll play earlier than 8:00.   
   
 Q. It will be late.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes. Hopefully I will finish.  
   
 Q. If you look back to yesterday, what time did you get to the courts? When did you find out that your match was going to be canceled? Today what time did you get to court?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I knew the weather is going to be tricky, so I didn't warm up a little bit earlier. I was on court at 1:00. I have two men's matches. I knew can be very, very long.   
Then I was waiting till that. Like I was telling the other question, I was already warming up. Then we were told last call. I think it was around 6:30. I came back here, was trying to warm up, at what time, at 11:00. Didn't happened.   
I was waiting there in Aorangi for I think one and a half hour. Then came back here and have 10 minutes.   
   
 Q. We're living in some historic times in this country. Part of what has occurred has been some unfortunate comments about Polish people who live in this country. Are you saddened by that? Can you share what your thoughts might be?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I know it's a lot of Polish community here, a lot of Polish people working, living here.   
I'm not aware of every comment, so I don't think I should comment on it.   
   
 Q. There were pieces in the British papers today about how Wimbledon misses the star power of Maria Sharapova. Do you think the tournament misses her or do you think there are other women who can rise to that level?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, you should ask fans or tournament or someone.   
Well, I think we have so many other good players, so many other women playing great tennis, so many other good matches. I think the women's still going to be a great event.   
   
 Q. This Wimbledon, Milos Raonic is working with John McEnroe. Is there a point in tennis where you think we might see coaches come in for bits of time? You worked with Martina for a little bit. Can you see an advantage of someone working with somebody for a small period of time?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, I can see a lot of players working with former champions, of course. Well, I think it's a really good idea. Is nice to see former champions around, working with players.   
Well, I think, you know, their experience, they just can help. Well, hoping that, you know, we can see it more, and also that work good for them.   
   
 Q. You have a great season this year. You're very experienced player. What do you do to maximize your conditions?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: The schedule?   
   
 Q. The slump.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Like last year, you mean?   
   
 Q. Yes.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think in sport, in tennis, sometimes you have a little bit worst time. Sometimes it's few weeks, sometimes few months. We can see players dropped a little bit, sometimes a little bit more, sometimes just a little bit.   
But I think that's sport. You cannot play great tennis for 10 months a year every year for 15 years. I think this is just impossible. We are not machines.   
You know, the point is just to, you know, work hard still and do your things. Sooner or later, you know, you're going to come back.   
Of course, I had some worst time beginning of the last year. I had totally different ranking at the same time. But, well, I managed to come back. Everything change.   
   
 Q. During these rain delays, especially early on at a tournament, I assume the player area is very packed with players. Everybody is lying around and waiting. What is the mood like? Does everybody have their headphones in listening to music, are people talking?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think, like you saying, eating or talking, watching Centre Court. This is the only court you can watch. You know, I think play some cards. Yeah, just waiting. Just looking at the sky, if it's still raining or not. What else you can do?   
   
 Q. What did you do yesterday?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually I was watching Caroline on TV. Well, great first round. It was good to see that kind of match. Tough for Caro, for sure.   
   
 Q. We are talking to Svetlana Kuznetsova about creativity the other day. She said you were one of the most creative players. Who maybe nurtured this in you? Were you always like this? At any point did anybody tell you to tone down the creativity and go for something safer?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: First of all, it's very nice to hear I can create something in tennis that is entertaining. This is always the way I played since I remember. I always enjoy having those kind of comments, that they like watching my tennis, my game, always trying to mix it up everything on court.   
Well, I think I cannot really play that powerful tennis like the others, so that's the way I play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT