AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 24, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. CIBULKOVA/A. Radwanska
4-6, 7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you feel after that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's always a good match, but I don't think I was playing good enough today.  I think she was playing really aggressive, good tennis.  I think I step backwards a little bit too much.  That wasn't helping today.
Q. Did you feel like you were in a better position yesterday when you were 6-4, 2-Love up and then all the rain breaks happened?  Do you feel that interrupted your momentum?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, maybe.  Never know how it's gonna happen if we finished that match yesterday.  But definitely different conditions today.  The mornings are a bit different.  It was pretty sunny and windy.  Yesterday a bit different.  Well, but conditions are same for the both of us.
Q. Did you feel like you were facing a different Cibulkova when you came back today?  Did she seem more ready for the fight, being more aggressive out there?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think she was playing similar, I guess.  I think I was -- you know, I was serving much better yesterday.  I think I was playing a bit better.  Today I think I was too defensive and didn't really find my rhythm today.
Q. Do you still feel good about your game in general after that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, yes.  I'm healthy.  I'm good.  Ready for Wimbledon.  Of course it's always disappointing when you lose, and especially that type of long match.  Well, what can you do?
Q. It seems like rain is no friend of yours.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really, no.  Not at all.  (Smiling).
Q. Should we give you an umbrella?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, I think I should have a gift at every tournament.  A huge umbrella, yeah.
Q. If terms of practice now when you get to London -- I mean, you mentioned before it's less windy there.  You will be actually practicing on the grass and it's exactly what you will face.  How much of a difference does that make in terms of the time you have between now and your opening match?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's not much time.  So, you know, depends of course the schedule.  Maybe you have one, two, maximum three days of practice there, so of course it's not much, but, you know, I'm in the match rhythm.  I picked up good matches here.
So, you know, it's good to keep going and, you know, let's hope the weather is better there.
Q. How superstitious are you?  The draw was today.  Do you look through the draw?  Do you focus on the first match and forget about the rest?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually always focusing on the first match.  You never know what's going to happen after and during your match as well.  I think that's sports, that's tennis.  Everything that happen.  And we can see especially at the Grand Slams how many different scores you can see.  So, you know, match by match.
Q. Do you think there could be a situation where Serena finishes top of the rankings but doesn't actually win a slam this year, just based on the first two slams of the year?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, she's still making finals.  Still a lot of points.  And she can, you know, be No. 1 still.
So, you know, being No. 1 is not about one or two tournaments.  It's whole year.  She's still playing good, very deep through all the tournaments.  So why not?  Yeah.
Q. The Wimbledon draw, first-round opponent, how do you view that draw?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: To be honest, I don't really know her.  I don't know if I can say much right now.  (shrugging.)
Q. Don't know her?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really, no.  I know the name, but -- yeah, I don't know much about her.
Q. This is going into it with a crystal ball, but we looked at the draw, and if you and Jo Konta get through you could play her in the fourth round.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, that's second week of the Grand Slam.  Okay.  It's still Friday before Wimbledon.  (Laughter.)
But, yeah, I wish can play her in fourth round.  Let's stick with that.  (Laughter.)
Q. What are the chances that you play someone you have never played before and you don't know?  How do you prepare for that?  Do you sit with your coaches and do some scouting or do you let them do that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it depends.  Sometimes I have a chance to see the match before, for example, if it's not the first round.  Then of course you watch.  Actually, I'm always happy to play someone for the first time.  It's always a nice challenge.  You can play someone ten times already, it's different story.  So this is something new, something that never happened.  It's good challenge, yeah.
Q. How do you feel about competing at the Olympics later this year?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, just very happy to play Olympics for the third time.  Well, it's just, you know, cannot be worse than the other ones.  Let's hope it's going to be much better.
Q. Is it a particular ambition of yours to do well in the Olympics?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course.  The goal is always to win, especially that the Olympics are once in four years so it's not much chances.
Yeah, I'm going to do everything in my power to prepare for that event as much as I can.  And we'll see.
Q. All of the women, when you talk to them, tennis players, seem to be very excited about the Olympics and they are all focusing about the Olympics and of course Wimbledon first, but then it will be Olympics.  Whereas many of your male counterparts, they don't care very much or are playing other events.  Do you know why?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for us, for tennis players, there are so many other events.  The other sports, they just have Olympics and some other championship and that's it.  So maybe that's why.  And also if someone just know they have no chance for medal, you know, you're playing for nothing pretty much.
So I think that's the decision for a few of them that they decided to play something else.  But, you know, I understand that because, you know, when you're there and making third round, what do you have?  I mean, no points, no nothing.  Just nothing.
Well, I just understand those players that they just wanted to play something, you know, that it's counting for the ranking.
Q. What do you feel you have improved in your game since you were a Wimbledon finalist?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: For sure more experience than a few years ago, and, well, it's always something to improve.  So when I go on court and practice, I'm trying to improve everything.
Tennis has changed, as well.  Different opponents.  Tennis is stronger and faster than before, so you always try to catch it up and be able to still win even if there is no more easy matches, as before.
Q. In terms of the Olympics, do you think there should be ranking points awarded then to the players competing?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think so.  I think it's still tough, still a big draw.  You know, you're playing really good matches from the first rounds.  There should be some points as was before.
Of course, you're not defending them next year, but still, I think this is a huge event and there should be points, yes.
Q. What would you think if you won Wimbledon and Poland won the Euro?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, that would be a very nice weekend for Polish people, that's for sure.  (Smiling.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT