AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 22, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/E. Bouchard
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That went well.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, not bad.  I think that was much better match than yesterday.  Well, I think good match from the beginning till the end.
Couple of breaks on the way, but I think my serve was also the key in that match.  Very happy I could come back in that second set in the end and winning in two sets.
Q. What are most proud of your performance today?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think I was serving pretty good, I think.  I think that's also very helping, especially in that kind of match.
So in the important moments I was serving good.  I close it up, as well, with a good serve.  That's always very helping.
Q. Do you feel like you're building momentum?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  Well, I think every match like this gives you a lot of confidence.  It's easier afterwards in the end of the tournament or going to the Grand Slams.
So just very happy with that win and with the game.  And, well, now is the stage that you have to play better and better to win matches.  So we'll see tomorrow.
Q. It looked like all the aspects of your game were working well today.  Is that how it felt today?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I was feeling very good on court.  I think conditions were also much nicer than yesterday.  You could probably do everything what you wanted to do.
So that is always very nice.  Well, I don't think I can really complain about anything today.
Q. Coming into the net seemed to work well for you today.  Is that a part of your game that you're happy with going to Wimbledon?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  I think playing on grass it's always a good thing, because it happen going forward.  Of course I was trying to do that today and that was also working pretty well.
Q. When you play somebody like Genie, she hits the ball incredibly hard, too aggressive, sometimes too aggressive and she's going to miss quite a few times.  Do you think about that in the back of your head that she's going to go for too much at certain times?  Do you adjust your game accordingly and try and bait her into it or do you just play?  What's your kind of tactic?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for sure what she's doing the best is she's really hitting so fast from the bounce.  So I would think it's really going fast.  It's not even about the power.  It's about the momentum when she's hitting the ball.
Hitting the ball and the ball is back just one second later.  So you need to be quick.  You need to react very good.  That's what she's doing the best.  And sometimes I was surprised that the ball was going from nowhere, I was playing pretty deep, and then suddenly it was a winner in another corner.
Well, that's the way she's playing.  I think on the grass it's working pretty well, so she can be very dangerous on the grass.
Q. It's the time of year when there is a lot of sporting events going on around the world.  It's an Olympics year, as well.  We want to know if you weren't a tennis player what sport do you think you'd be good at?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, good question.  (Smiling.)  If I look like exactly like I am now I don't have my choices.  For sure not volleyball or basketball.  So I'm not sure.
Maybe gymnastics.  But I think I like the sport when you can play a bit longer than, you know, when you're not 20 and you're old.  Maybe I have to choose something else.  You tell me what I'm good at.
Q. Would you play golf?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Sure.  I think they make so much money.  Yes.  (Laughter.)
Yeah, definitely.
Q. The largest ethnic group in Britain is actually Polish people.  I wondered, do you engage with the Polish community?  Do they come out and support you at Wimbledon?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course I can actually hear a lot of Polish voices.  And especially when I just going to the building and through the grass it's a lot of Polish people.
You know, when you go to the restaurants, pretty much you don't need to speak English at all.  (Smiling.)  It's good.
Q. There are some great Polish restaurants around South Kensington not far from Wimbledon.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, I think I just tried once.  I can't remember where.  But it's good to just, for sure for my mom that -- her English is not good, but when she's going here she's pretty comfortable.
Q. Today when you were playing and your sister was playing in Roehamton, I was wondering how you keep up with, you know, playing not the same tournament.  Do you text each other?  Do you talk often?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, we are in touch all the time.  Even before the matches, you know, we were talking, you know, when we played actually the same time.  The first thing that I go off the court was, yeah, if she finish or if she's still on court.
I know she's -- I think she's still playing or maybe in the end of the match.  But it's always -- it's much nicer when we are in the same tournament.  But when we're not, always in touch.  We have always been so close, everything together since we were kids.  Yeah.
Q. How would you feel about facing her at Wimbledon?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: If it's gonna be a quarterfinal, yes.  But not any earlier (smiling).
Q. Would your mom be pleased?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, for sure.  She will just enjoy, for sure.
Q. Which one is whose favorite?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't think a favorite.  Just us.  She's just watching, not even cheer for anyone.
Q. When your sister and you started to play different tournaments -- because for a while you guys were always at the same tournaments, so when that started happening, having a split, was it an adjustment or was it fine for you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, she was the one that had more injuries.  She was out.  Then she was come back and her ranking was up and down.  So now it's again she dropped a little bit, so now playing different tournaments.
But, well, this is the way it is.  This is the sport.  So obviously you need to start from the beginning sometimes when you have six months off and play some smaller tournaments.
So sometimes we not seeing each other for a couple of weeks.  But time flies.  It's not like ages.  So, you know, we see each other at home, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT