AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 21, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RADWANSKA/M. Lucic-Baroni   
6-4, 2-1 [Ret.]   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Enough of a good workout for you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for sure.  Well, very tough conditions today.  I think the first day that it was really windy.  And with her powerful game, sometimes it's hard to find a right rhythm from the beginning.   
But, well, is not easy match for the first round as well here.  But, well, still happy that I could win that one-and-a-half sets and ready for the next one.   
 Q.  It must be difficult when she's already played, she's obviously got her rhythm on the grass, and then to have to retire probably just as you're getting started.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  I didn't expect that.  She was still playing great tennis, very powerful game, very consistent.  So I was surprised that something happened to her.   
Well, I was really, really surprised that she was not 100% today.  But, well, good game and hoping tomorrow will be less wind and I will have another good match.   
 Q.  Was it really that windy out there?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  I think a couple games it's not really, and then it's blowing really, really hard just suddenly from nowhere and it's changing.  So it's hard really to see where the ball's going.  You know, so just hard.   
 Q.  Eastbourne and wind go together, don't they?  You expect it when you come here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, it's true.  It's less rain but more wind.  That's for sure.   
 Q.  But no dive-bombing sea gulls this time?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No, not yet.   
 Q.  Give them time?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Do you feel more comfortable now that you've actually got back out onto the grass now?  The weather is a little bit better?  Do you actually feel like you're getting your grass season actually started?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, I think so.  I think the first match I think is the hardest.   
Every tournament is a little bit different, every grasses are a bit different.  I think when you pass already the first round it's a bit easier.   
So I think sometimes I feel I'm playing every match better and better going through the tournament, so we'll see what it's going to be tomorrow.   
 Q.  You're not the only one that's sat there and said that the first match is the most difficult at any given tournament and that after that it's relaxing.  Can you explain that concept?  Why is the first match so tricky?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think we all are putting a bit of pressure on ourselves that you should win that first round or second round.  So I think that's why you're not really relaxed on the court as much as you are in the quarterfinals and the semis.   
So of course depends on the tournament and on the opponent, as well.  But I think that's the point.  When you are already in third round, you're like, yeah, you did it already.  Not bad, I mean, winning couple matches or one match.  And then you feel much better and more confident, as well, to feel the conditions, the court, everything around.  So it's just easier.   
 Q.  The last two matches you have had you have played Coco, big hitter, Mirjana also hits very flat.  On grass, do you prefer to play a hard-hitting opponent or would you prefer to play more of a grinder?  Because if they are hitting hard you can be direct, you can do a few different things on grass compared to like clay or hard court.  Does it matter to you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, as we know, like, there's a lot of different players.  Sometimes when I play this powerful player as Mirjana today, Oh, why I'm not playing someone who is playing with more rhythm?  And then when I play someone with more rhythm, Why they're not hitting it hard?   
I expect this.  It's always something that you want.  (Laughter.)   
Well, I knew she's this kind of player, and I knew it's gonna be fast from the beginning and from the first shot.  So that's what I expected.   
 Q.  So basically there is no pleasing you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really (laughter). I think a lot of -- also depends on the surface as well and the conditions.  But I remember even the final last year we were with Beli and playing similar tennis and it was so windy.  It was tough to finish the ball.  We both were pushing to the other side.  And then it was long and I think the conditions were pretty similar than today or even worse and tennis looks just so different.  So, you know, the conditions are also very important today.   
 Q.  Did you specifically ask for this time slot for your match so that you could watch Poland, or...  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually, we were having dinner with Caroline last night, and I was telling her that she should play fast and nobody can play three hours here.   
So when I was going on the court and she was going off the court, she's like, Yeah, you see it?  I did it.  I was like, Yeah, thanks.  (Laughter.)   
And I think her father is also very happy.  He's also big fan, and Caroline, as well.  So, you know, we did it both good job.   
 Q.  Who owes who a handbag now as a result of this?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Oh, I think we're kind of even.  Yeah.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Are you guys going to watch the game together?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I'm not sure.  I didn't really talk to her after my match, but probably, maybe -- we always at the lobby at the hotel having really good on big screen, so it's nice to watch it there.  I'm going to call her.   
 Q.  She already left.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Actually, that happened in Birmingham, Poland was playing, and we were on same floor.  And we had the lunch just between our rooms, and we were saying, my team, You need to watch Poland as well.   
Yeah, yeah, I'm going to come.   
I'm going to just knock on your door and I'm gonna just grab you from there.   
Of course, 8:00, and my team was saying, Yeah, go, get Caroline.   
I'm knocking.  Yeah, I'm coming, I'm coming.  So sleepy.   
Sorry, no time to nap.  You go with us.  (Laughter.)  No choice.   
 Q.  That's a good friend.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT