AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 20, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously you're looking to go slightly better than you did in Birmingham.  Quite challenging conditions already.  Talk a little bit about how you keep your mind focused.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  Well, of course last week was tough with the weather.  You try to really adjust with the surface.  It was hard.  Half the practices were indoor.   
I saw the top draw for the first round, first match on grass.  Here was almost the same.  Quite challenging.  But then everything change, of course, as we know.  But, well, it's good.  It's only one day like this, so I was able to practice on the grass here.  I was lucky.  Couple of times I just finished five minutes before the rain, so hoping it will be much better than the last week.   
 Q.  And having Coco this time around?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: When I saw the draw, I was like, Well, tough again.  But I was looking forward for another revenge.  And, you know, it's always challenging to play someone back to back just a few days later.   
Well, why not (smiling)?   
 Q.  When you do play somebody sort of two matches in a row, does it feel like the first match continues or does it feel like a whole new one?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: It feels like we just finished two hours before and we play again.  Everything is going so fast, and the draw is big and you could play anyone and then it's again the same player.   
But, you know, every match is different story.  Different conditions, different day.   
 Q.  So you were saying that you got here, and how many days were you able to get some practice on the grass here in Eastbourne before today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, actually, I think I played a few days that were okay.  When it was raining, I was also able to play on grass.  It was slippery but I was careful.  I didn't run much.  So, you know, I was okay.  For sure, much better weather than Birmingham.  It was not too bad.   
 Q.  And Caroline was here yesterday.  She said that you guys practiced together and that it was really helpful to her in terms of trying to find her level again playing against you.  How did you find it practicing again with Caroline?  It's been a while since you have seen her around.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, exactly.  Well, we practiced off-site so nobody could see us here but we practiced for about two hours.  Good practice.   
It was really good day.  And we were also trying to avoid the rain.  So we wanted to play as early as possible, so we went even off-site to make that happen.   
So of course good day, especially when somebody is pushing you to play 100% so I can say exactly the same thing.  Those kind of practices are very, very good before the first match.   
 Q.  How much attention have you been paying to Euro 2016?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, actually, I'm watching a lot of matches.  Of course my team is guys, so now I know that we need to eat dinner before the match starts.  Isn't my choice anymore.  (Laughter.)   
But it's fun.  Especially in the days like this you have something going on, so we watch matches.   
 Q.  Are you just watching Poland or just any...  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I'm watching other matches as well.  But of course Polish team is always important, and so tomorrow is the third one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT