AEGON CLASSIC
June 15, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. VANDEWEGHE/A. Radwanska   
7-5, 4-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Agnieszka Radwanska, please.   
 Q.  Tough conditions today.  Tough sort of start.  Can you talk us through what happened for you in that match.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, she was playing quite good.  She just continued playing from last week.   
For me, was tough.  First match is always tricky pretty much without the practice on the grass.  I think I needed a couple more days to adjust.  Hopefully Eastbourne will be better.   
 Q.  You took a wildcard here.  You're going to go down to Eastbourne anyway.  Do you feel you've got that tricky transition over, and come Eastbourne, you'll feel more comfortable?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Exactly.  That was the point as well, to play more on grass, to be ready a bit earlier.  I was couple times in Eastbourne first round.  Last year was a different story.  I played Nottingham, then Eastbourne I was feeling much better.  Hopefully this year will be the same story.   
I mean, I didn't play bad today.  Maybe I didn't feel the grass that well yet.   
Still she was playing really good.   
 Q.  What kind of things have you tried to do before being able to go on the court?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I was just trying to keep, you know, myself ready.  And since couple of days, actually, trying to play as much on grass, but I was playing on indoor.  Still playing, but it's tough for sure.  Especially for someone that played first week on grass.   
We didn't have enough hours on grass to play a really good match.   
 Q.  Did you find it particularly tough to play Vandeweghe, who just played for a whole week, won the tournament, is totally in rhythm, ready to go from the first ball?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, exactly.  I think it was really tough draw, especially not much rhythm with her.  Huge serve, how she stepping in from the first point.   
You know, maybe against someone not that powerful would be a different story.   
But that's the draw.  What you can do?   
 Q.  Could you have done anything differently?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Maybe I could serve a little bit better and try to make more points with that, and mixing it up a little bit more.   
In the beginning of the match, that was very important.  Then kind of that changed, we could break each other more.   
But, well, what can I do now after the match?   
 Q.  When she swings so hard and so often, there's a temptation to hope she's going to miss.  Did you feel that way?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  She was really consistent and solid.  No free points from her.  You can really see how she win the tournament last week.   
She was really playing good game and very consistent for all three sets.  That's surprised me a little bit as well.   
 Q.  Despite this, do you still feel that you really are a grass court player after all?  You reached the final at Wimbledon.  Do you still like the surface?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, it's not like I'm going to win every single match on that surface.  I wish (smiling).  Of course I like it.   
We still have two tournaments on the grass.  I will do everything in my power to do better and better.   
 Q.  Can I just ask if you're looking forward to playing in Eastbourne?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course.  I'm playing every single year.  So, well, I really like the tournament.  I think it's a quiet place to have a really good practice, good preparation before Wimbledon.   
The only thing is the wind.  Sometimes it's so windy that we're struggling a lot.  But no rain, so we can practice as much as we can.   
 Q.  You realized you just jinxed it, so it's probably going to rain all week.  I mean, just curious, though, your game is built on pushing people to play an extra ball, using all the court.  But grass it is much shorter rallies and a lot quicker.  How is it that your game adjusted so well on this surface, because it's a tough surface for a lot of people?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I guess I'm using opponent's power, as well.  Always low bounce.  Always like that.  I was always practicing on the fast surface.  So for me, if it's a low bounce, I really like it.   
It's just me.  Since I remember, I was 16 when I played first time on the grass.  From the first point on that surface, I was like, that's it, I just love it.   
Yeah, and then the same actually two weeks later, I won the junior Wimbledon, and I was playing first time on grass.   
I just like it.  I think it is a surface you really like or not.  It's not like you can really practice, then you kind of change your mind.  It's really specific.   
But, well, I just always look forward to that kind of season.  Well, it's too short.   
 Q.  Do you feel like on grass, you get full value for your shots?  Every time you hit a good shot, you get the most out of it.  Whereas on clay, it's going to come back to you more often than not.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: True.  Of course, it's more difficult to run and to come back as well.  Not like on the hard court, you can be much quicker.  Here it's a little bit tough.   
Of course, sometimes there's no bounce.  When the ball is very low, then it's pretty much, that's it.  On the hard court and clay, you can still run.  You can play very defensive tennis.  The rallies can be 50 shots.   
Grass is different story.  Few years ago was much faster.  I think the grass is much slower.  Also the balls are not fast at all.  They're getting actually bigger and bigger.  You can see a lot of rallies, a lot of really long matches.   
But still I think it's just different tennis on grass, for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT