ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. PIRONKOVA/A. Radwanska
2-6, 6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Is it your wrist you were treated for?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: It was my hand.  Well, I had surgery few years ago and I couldn't really play in that conditions.  End of story.
Q. The conditions are so soupy, so heavy.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I'm just so surprised and angry, that, you know, we have to play in the rain.  I mean, it's not a 10,000 tournament.  It's a Grand Slam.  How can you allow players to play in the rain?  I cannot play in that conditions.  I mean --
Q. There was a moment where it looked like you were trying to explain that to the chair.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, well, also in the morning, like, the second set it was -- we play pretty much in the rain.  I don't know who allows us to play in that kind of conditions.
I mean, I don't think they really care what we think.  I think they care about other things, I guess.
So, well, I'm just pissed.  I just cannot play in that conditions.  I mean, I'm not healthy enough.
Q. When you say you're not healthy enough, there are players around you that are so much bigger and so much stronger.  So are you saying that these conditions just -- you're put at so much of a disadvantage beyond the fact that you have injuries?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I mean, I had hand surgery a few years ago, and for me, playing with those balls in that kind of court is pretty much impossible.  So, I mean, I tried.  Maybe I played worse, did worse things other days than when we start to play that match, but it definitely, you know, shouldn't be like this.
We shouldn't play in that kind of rain.  Why?  We still have couple of days of tournament.  What's the point?
Q. Did Pironkova did something that make your play worse than two days ago?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think she came on court and she had nothing to lose.  I was 6-2 and 3-Love up and so I was leading.  Well, she just went on court and played her game.  She's a very solid player; she did the right things today.
Q. This might seem like a stupid question, but when the rain is coming down like that and the conditions are like that, how does that affect play for you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think you were just late.
Q. That's okay.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I was just saying that, you know, we shouldn't play in that conditions.  I think the last time I was playing in the rain was 10 years ago here, so, you know, it's definitely not the right decision they pushing us to play.
Q. But specifically with respect to the balls, the conditions of the court, what does it do?  The ball gets wet?  You can't control it?  What is it actually like to play in?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course the ball gets so heavy after actually a couple of shots.  You know, it's slippery, as well.  You know, everything is just getting harder.  What can you do?  It's getting worse and worse every game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT