ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RADWANSKA/B. Strycova   
6-2, 6-7, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Thank you.   
 Q.  You were comfortably leading 6-2, 2-Love.  You've probably gone through this a few times in your head.  Can you just explain what happened from 3-Love in the second?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, actually was just one break, so not much, especially in our match.  But, well, I think she started to play much better.  I think she had nothing to lose in that point.  Hitting the ball so well.   
Maybe I wasn't aggressive enough from that point, but, still, she played so much better.  Of course I had some points, especially the one break point for 4-2.  When you're not taking your chances, especially in the key moments, end up like that, I guess.   
Well, I'm just very happy that I come back in that third set and win that match.   
 Q.  How physical was the match?  A lot of court coverage from both of you.  Physically was it a pretty tough match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  Well, I expect that.  I knew she's a very solid player.  She has very good hands, very good touch.  She's not the player hitting the ball as strong as possible.   
I knew it's going to be a lot of running, rallies, and, you know, I expect that.  Of course that was really tough one.   
 Q.  You have a 4-0 head-to-head record on her.  Does it get tougher each time when you come up against such players when you have such a good record?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I don't think that makes a big different, especially that you don't play someone for a long time.  I think she has really good season.  She's playing really good tennis.   
I don't think matters what happened few years on different surface in different country, summer, I can't even remember.  So I think every match is new story, especially when you play someone on your level.  Anything can happen.   
 Q.  I don't know if you know, but you play Pironkova in the next round.  Any thoughts on her?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, we played so many times, but I think the last one was also quite ago.   
Well, against her it's always a good challenge.  She's really tricky opponent.  You know, I expect a tough one as well.  Well, we'll see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT