ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/C. Garcia
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. After two rounds, how well do you think you're playing and how happy are you with your form so far?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think I play really good two matches.  Especially this one.  I think this was really a tough one.
Well, first of all, I'm just very pleased that I could close that match in two sets, that's for sure.
Q. Congratulations on your win today.  Just want to know what are your expectations of the tournament, and maybe let's start with next round, when you're playing Barbora Strycova?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think I'm not really thinking about expectations or second week.  I think taking match by match, and I'm just very happy to be in the third round.
Of course now it's not going to be easier.  She's playing great tennis, especially on clay.  For sure another tough match.
Yeah, well, you know, I'm healthy, in one piece, and I'm just ready for the next one.
Q. You've spoken about this before.  You just played two matches and had two very good performances.  How do you feel about your decision to skip Rome, both physically and mentally?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I feel well.  I was home practicing and had a lot of fitness and tried to prepare as best I could.  I think it's working so far.
I'm really feeling good on court mentally and physically, so hopefully I can continue that way and playing at same level.
Q. Do you feel noticeably more rested at this French Open compared to maybe the Australian Open or US Open last year?  Wimbledon?  Just typically not often you got a week's rest before a major tournament.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I think I feel fresh, rested.  I think that's why, because I played not that much as last year.  I withdraw from a couple tournaments this year.
Well, that's what you have to sometimes do to be fresh and healthy whole year.  Not only thinking about next week, but what's going to happen in three months.  We have four Grand Slams plus Olympics this year, so schedule is very important thing.
I think experience here is very important.  That's why sometimes I have to skip one tournament, to play good in another one.
Q. You could become No. 1.  Might be tough for that to happen here.  Looking ahead to the end of the year though, is that something you think you could achieve?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course.  That's what we all fighting for.  Being No. 2, it's close to No. 1, but on the other hand side it's not that close.
But, still, I think this year is another chance for me to get to this point, and of course I'm going to do everything in my power to do that.  Yeah.
Q. Talk about limiting your schedule this year, is that scary as a player that plays quite a bit?  When you play more you can get more points and ease the pressure a little bit.  Now you play less and it's a lot of pressure each tournament.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: If you ask me that five years ago I would say, Yeah, it's very scary and I would feel weird not to play hundred matches.  Here it's different story.  Like I was saying, experience is the thing, really using and making a schedule.  Now to be home for two, three weeks in the middle of the season is not the scary thing anymore.  Can just help you.
Sometimes I have this part of the season that I just rather practice more than playing matches and enter another tournament.  So that's what I decided to before I came here, and so far it's working.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT