ROLAND GARROS
May 20, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  So how were your preparations for Paris since you skipped Rome?  Do you like make that preparation specific for this tournament, or were you just kind of preparing like you normally prepare for any tournament?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course you want to prepare as best you can, especially before the Grand Slams, so of course I did that.  I have been almost two weeks at home and really practicing a lot.   
You know, I just hope that gonna work good for me to skip Rome and play good here.   
 Q.  You're the No. 2 seed here in Paris.  Do you have the expectations of a No. 2 seed at Roland Garros, or are your expectations for this tournament slightly different?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, to be honest, I don't think the numbers playing.  Of course being one of the top seeds, it's good.  It means you have a good ranking usually, playing good tennis.  But as we see, everything can happen, especially in the early rounds of a Grand Slam, as well.   
I think, you know, there are so many girls playing great tennis and who deserve also to be top 10, top 20.  There is no more easy matches.  Obviously you have a bit more pressure being second seed, but doesn't mean that is going to be any easier.   
 Q.  You worked with Martina Navratilova for a time.  What did you feel like at that time someone as a former player could bring to your game?  And on the opposite side, what is someone who is just a coach who specifies in coaching, what do they know or what can they bring that a former player might not be able to?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, that's a good question, but I think experience makes a big difference.  I think someone who has been on tour so many years and winning a lot of tournaments, a lot of Grand Slams, can tell you a lot how it is on the court and know how you feel.   
But also like, you know, someone who didn't play I think also can see a lot of things just sitting next to you, what you to work on and what you need to do to improve.   
I think it's not really -- I mean, I think they can really kind of say the same things.  It doesn't really matter.  If you're a good coach, then you can say the same things that someone who win couple of Grand Slams.   
 Q.  After Rome, did you take any time to just not play tennis?  Azarenka was in here earlier; said she needed a little bit of a break to, you know, get out of the routine of going to the site and practicing and things like that.  Do you relate to that at all, and were you able to do that before you got here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  Well I had few days off at home, but not too much.  I think it was three, four days that I have for myself, but then just work hard.   
Came here also to adjust the courts, so I'm more on the court than off the court.  So, yeah, we'll see.   
 Q.  The tournament has talked about beefing up security, that security is more in place this year because of the attacks here in November.  Have you noticed any changes from your point of view?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, yes.  I notice more security pretty much everywhere.  I think it's great.  It's good to feel safe, so, yeah.   
 Q.  You have progressed as a professional tennis player.  In your own mind, do you place more emphasis on the Grand Slams than the regular tour events at this point in your career, or do you feel differently about that than when you first came on tour?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for sure when I'm planning a schedule, for sure, it's different than when it was eight years ago.  I think, you know, experience, it's a very important thing I think in tennis career.  So, you know, when you play too much or you don't have enough matches or, you know, you are too tired even for the US Open swing.   
So of course the majors are always the priority, so you always trying to do the schedule to play the best tennis on the Grand Slam.   
That's what I'm trying to do.  Sometimes I feel I need more matches.  Sometimes I feel I need more practice than matches.  That's why sometimes I need to skip a tournament, you know, to feel good on court again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT