DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 19, 2018
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. KASATKINA/A. Radwanska   
7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Another disappointing loss for you.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  I mean, every tournament be losing the first round is very disappointing.  Of course, that was a really tricky opponent for these tricky conditions here.  So wasn't easy.   
Obviously the tournament is always very strong, so you're not really playing against players that's in top 40 [sic].  So you cannot really expect good draw.   
That was definitely tough one, especially here.  But what can I do?   
 Q.  No reason you shouldn't get back to where you used to be a year or two ago.  Is it frustrating it's taking so much time?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I mean, I know it's going to be difficult.  Everything is changing going forward.  We can see a lot of good players playing a really high level.  It's not about one or two tournaments to come back.  Maybe if you win the Grand Slam, you have 2000 points.  Otherwise it's always going to take time.   
 Q.  How are you feeling the first month and a half of the year has gone for you?  Has it gone according to plan in terms of your game, physically?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, physically actually feeling much better than last year.  Actually November, December and January, those three months just took me to be healthy again, get back to my weight, just to stay healthy without any sickness in the meantime, viruses.  So actually now I start to feel better.  So everything takes time.   
I think I just starting from now.  And, well, I'm still working very hard, doing a lot of things on and off the court.  So we'll see.   
 Q.  You had a lot of opportunities in the second set.  Can you talk about what made it tricky for you today.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I think second set, and also in the first set, I had a bunch of opportunities.  You know, some maybe bad decision in those particular moments.  Couple breakpoints, as well, that I didn't use.   
Well, in those kind of tight matches when you're not using those chances, they're really going to turn around everything.  That will be interesting for sure if there would be a third set.   
 Q.  You played Petra last week.  What do you make of her stretch, winning two titles in a row after what she's been through?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think, you know, she played amazing.  Of course, well done that she was keep playing at the same level till the end.  You know, winning against Caro and Garbine, it's pretty huge thing.  All those tight matches, long matches...   
Well done.  She deserve it, for sure.   
 Q.  Being in the situation that you are in, would it be okay for you to sort of set a goal for yourself, say by the end of this year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course, you know, coming back to top 10 would be great.  That's the goal, of course.  So yeah, well, I not really thinking about what to do in every tournament.  Of course, wherever you go, you want to win.   
So, well, I think we'll see in the end of the year how it's going to be.   
 Q.  When you've achieved so much in so many years, you got married as well last year, could be a distraction maybe, do you still have the motivation?  Is it difficult to keep the same motivation that you had in earlier years?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course, everything change.  Especially I think physically it's also tougher than it was, especially playing the young ones.  Intensity in the game, it's always bigger.  You playing more those longer, good matches.  So sometimes, you know, physically and mentally it's also tough.   
I think everything needs to work good to play good match and to win the match.  So obviously it's not going any easier.   
 Q.  How would you describe Kasatkina's game?  What do you think she does well?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think she can do everything on court.  Very good hands, very good touch.  She can mix it up.  So obviously I think that what makes her very difficult opponent.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT