BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 18, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WILLIAMS/A. Radwanska
6-4, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What's your assessment of that match and how you played?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think it was pretty good match.  I started very well.  Unfortunately I didn't took chances I had in the first set, so many break points I couldn't even count.
Well, if you're not take it in that kind of match against players like Serena, end up that way.
Q. Serena has had quite a bit more rest than you have recently.  How much do you think that played a factor?  And in the past she's had a little bit more rest than you have.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I mean, I don't think that really matters.  Everybody have their own schedule.
But anyway, I didn't really play that much this year.  Just, you know, if I played it was really good results, so I'm happy with that, of course.
But, well, about the schedule, happy with my schedule so far.  Always in the big ones, and hopefully I can stay healthy and playing like that through the rest of the season.
Q. Is it easier to take a loss like that when you play well?  Looked like you were playing as best as you could kind of be asked with her returning the way she was at certain parts of the match?  Is it easier to take a loss like this than, I don't know, say, Australia where it was over like that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, of course.  I just know I was really close this time.  Much closer than in Australia, for example.  And I really play on that level that I can really hope I can win one day.
So, yeah.
Q. She said that you were taking the ball and serving the ball more often to her forehand, that that was something she noticed was different than your previous matches.  Were there other tactical changes that you made tonight?  It seemed like you were playing a bit flatter than normal.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I was trying of course playing against Serena is hard to talk about tactics.  If she's on fire, it's bombing from each side.
It's tough, but, well, that's what I was trying to do, to really support and not to start like in Australia.  I was definitely too slow, and she starts so aggressive that I wouldn't be able to do anything in that first set.
So I really want to avoid that and start myself playing my game.  That was good.  Same before.  I just didn't take my chances that was there.  Definitely should have win that first set.
But, yeah, well, also some chances in that second set.  But, yeah, in the important moments she was really returning very well.  I was serving first serves, but she was too good.
Q. It had the feeling of a championship match.  Obviously you're No. 2 in the world now.  Did you feel like that out there, that this was kind of, in that sense, a championship match almost?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think so.  I think it was a really good match.  I think we both played very well.
In important moments she played really amazing shots.  I think maybe I just didn't really step enough in some of the important moments that I have a chance.
Then she took it and it was too late.  But I think that was really match in that kind of level that we have ranking.  Yeah, that's for sure.
Q. Overall safe to say it was just a good experience here at the tournament and you will be leaving here positive?  Everything was kind of what you hoped for coming in?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course.  I mean, another semifinal here.  I'm very happy with the result.  Of course it's always disappointing when you lose, but, well, I just lost against the best in the world, so it's not too bad.
But, well, I could actually have left here after first round.  Just very happy that I could come back in that first round and then play much better and, you know, actually have another semifinal this year.
Actually, I'm pretty happy and hoping I can play the same tennis in Miami.
Q. Speaking of Miami, are the conditions in Miami compared to Indian Wells like night and day, like totally opposite, or how different is it?  How hard is it to adjust?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, even today was very different.  I was playing first or second matches this tournament.  For the first time night session.  That was already a big difference.  Of course the schedule is the schedule.  But, well, now I know it's different.
But, well, definitely Miami is a totally different conditions.  It's so humid and the ball is not flying that much.  Actually, the balls are getting much slower and getting fluffy.  So, well, I'm going to take the first possible flight and adjust the conditions there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT