BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RADWANSKA/P. Kvitova   
6-2, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  (Question regarding Poland.)  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, couldn't have been any better, that's for sure.  Very happy with that win, obviously.  Happy about getting to the semifinal here.   
 Q.  From the start of the match you looked very focused and very on fire.  Talk us through how you felt the match went.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, well, I had couple of matches, good matches going to that quarter.  I really felt good.  I remember our last match, and it's never easy against Petra.  I think I was playing great tennis from the beginning and I really want to win that one.   
I was fighting for each ball.  Of course 5-2 down in the second set is never easy, but I was talking on the court already that I had some experience with that this tournament.  Just one break, so I'm just very happy that I would be able to come back, because third set with Petra is never easy, as well.   
 Q.  You have been on a great stretch for a few months now.  How do you compare to other runs you have had in your career?  Is this the best one?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think so, especially in that offseason is a big break.  Of course it's always going so quickly, but you still have those few weeks without match rhythm, so it's always a bit different.   
But I'm just so happy that I could just stay in the same level and playing the same good tennis I was playing the end of the last year.   
That was the goal.  I think I achieved that.   
 Q.  If memory serves me, couple years ago when you reached the finals you played really well, but in the finals, weren't you hurt during the finals and didn't play well.  Can you relive that and how disappointing it was to play so well at this tournament and then in the finals you couldn't play your best?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course I was very disappointed, especially that I was feeling very good whole tournament and I was really playing great tennis.  I remember very good match in the semifinal against Simona.   
Obviously that was one of the worst moments in my career, that I wasn't healthy in the final, the big event.   
But just that was past, so hopefully that will never happen again.   
 Q.  You were talking about the offseason and the break.  Have you done anything differently in your offseason this time around?  Sometimes people have a tendency to maybe overtrain in the offseason and around about now is when you feel that effect.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, you're definitely right.  Sometimes you want to do too much in the offseason.  Sometimes we are all thinking more is better, but it's not true, really.  I have a really good rest.  Didn't do anything throughout three weeks and then I started very slow.   
But to be honest, I didn't really change anything.  I definitely knew it's gonna be really long season with the Olympics, as well.  So I just also thinking about not January but also about the US Open Series.   
So you really have to think ahead and not doing too much in the beginning, because then you're going to be for sure exhausted.   
I think now it's about a whole season to play really good and be fresh and be healthy.   
 Q.  Is it hard for you not to pick up a racquet in three weeks?  Do you feel you should, or is it very easy for you to just not do anything?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, after those seven weeks in Asia playing so much, three weeks was like two days (Smiling.)  I really wanted another three weeks, trust me.   
But, well, I knew that I had to come back on court.  That was already enough rest.  I couldn't do any more.  I wish I would have, but...   
 Q.  Do you feel energized?  You play energized.  You're getting everything.  Do you feel really rested?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I think so.  I'm just so glad that I could be in another semifinal in a big event.  This is the fourth tournament this year playing so good, so I guess the plan was good.   
Not playing that much tournament.  Obviously have a couple issues in my leg, but that's gone.  So, well, couldn't be any better.   
 Q.  What cheesecake will you have while you sit with your feet up watching Serena and Simona?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Good question.  I don't know, but definitely different one.  Maybe banana cheesecake.   
 Q.  Can you look ahead first to playing Serena and then consider about playing Simona?  Obviously we don't know who are playing next.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, this is definitely a 50/50 match.  Really gonna watch that one.  I really have nothing to lose against both of them.  This is the semifinal of a really big tournament.   
Well, I just hope I can really play good tennis that I was playing last few days, and that's it.  You know, goal is to win, but it's not gonna be easy, that's for sure.   
 Q.  With this win I think you move up to No. 2 in the world.  Good feeling?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  It's always a good feeling to be back in this position.  I wasn't long last time, but I think that was a few years ago.  It's always good to be back in that position.  Now it's difficult to be No. 1.   
 Q.  (Question regarding opportunity.)  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: There is always opportunity, but it's not about one or two tournaments.  To be No. 1 you really have to play the whole season very good, and obviously catch Serena.  But she is also playing very good tennis and she will want to play good and be there at No. 1.   
Well, I will try my best, and now I have the opportunity that I'm definitely not really defending much points till the grass, so, well, that's definitely my spot that I can do that.  We'll see if I can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT