BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/J. Jankovic
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You were saying at the start of the week you were healthy but you have some strapping.  Is everything okay?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, it was just getting so tight a few days ago, and just in case I'd rather tape it not to get it worse.
But it's all good.
Q. How do you rate how well you played today?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think everything what I did was right and I was patient.  I knew a lot of balls are coming back from her side.
It was pretty hot, also.  Different conditions than the other days when I played.
So just very good, the right shots for me in the important moments, and in that second set it was pretty tight.
And, yeah, well, just very happy to win that match in two sets.
Q. You play so well here at Indian Wells.  I think it's six quarterfinals you have played.  Does that give you a little bit of an edge maybe facing Petra tomorrow, knowing that this is a place you have done better than she has?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: To be honest, I don't know what she did here before.  But definitely I want to do better than the quarters, obviously.  The goal is always to win, especially that I was really close once.
So, well, I just hope I can really play my good tennis against her, because otherwise I will be in big trouble.
Q. Do you read anything into the results or the way she's won this week and that every match has gone three sets?  She's played a heck of a lot of tennis.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't know if I know all about the matches what she played, but I definitely saw a couple of them, especially the first round that she played.
But, well, I like to know the scores and I like to watch tennis, so pretty much I know the scores, yeah.
Q. But the point I'm saying is she's played a lot.  Do you think in one sense that that could be to your advantage going into the match against Petra?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, to be honest, we are not playing every day, so that is always -- it's always better to have those days off, especially when you really have long matches.
That help me, as well after my first match.  I was almost three hours on court, as well.  So I don't think she's tired or anything.
Q. You said you like to watch tennis.  All the players say they like to watch you.  Who do you like to watch?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: (Smiling.)  Well, if you're talking about the women's or men's side?
Q. Either.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I really like to watch everyone.  I really like to compare matches and see all of the guys and girls playing.
Of course I love to watch the top seeded, as well, especially the men's tour.  Actually, I watched Andy.  That was disappointing that we are not going to see him again here.
I don't really have a specific person.  Just really would like to watch everything.
Q. Have you ever talked to him about tactics or dropshots or anything that you two share in common?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really, no.  I think we just watching each other.
Q. How is the cheesecake in your life these days?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Very good.  (Smiling.)  I had a Snickers one last time.  Yeah.
Q. Just one trip this tournament?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Couple of them.  Yes.  So I had a couple.  Oreo one and Macadamia.  So yeah.
Q. Do you have a favorite that you like to keep going back to, particular type of cheesecake, or do you like just trying them all?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I'm not really superstitious.  When I go there I like to have something else.  So something that I have never had before or something new.  So that's why I always take a different one.
Q. Your favorite?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Oreo one.
Q. Have you ever made your own cheesecake?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really, no.  No.  Not -- Tiramisu I did, yeah.  It was actually pretty good.  I was surprised.  Yeah.
Q. Do you have a favorite athlete in the world that's currently playing?  Not necessarily tennis but just your favorite professional athlete.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't know if I have one.  It's hard to just pick one.  But I definitely consider tennis as whole my life, so I have been watching tennis whole my life.
So if I have to pick one, it's going to always be a tennis player.  So, yeah.
Q. Can you reveal that tennis player?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, Roger Federer I think is a classy guy, and I could watch him pretty much all day.
Q. What do you remember from the match that you played against Petra in Singapore?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I just remember it was very, very tough match.  Long, tight, everything was tighter, every game, point by point.
A little bit different surface, different conditions, definitely.
But, well, I think with all these emotions, I don't know if I can even remember the one rally.  But I think always against her you really have to play good tennis and be careful definitely on her serve.
She's really using her left hand very good for that.  Well, but I just hope we can play on the same level as we played in Singapore.
Q. That court is quite slow in Singapore for an indoor court.  This court is arguably slow, as well, even though the ball flies.  Is that like a neutral place for you two to meet?  You have kind of opposite game styles.  Fast surfaces, I would presume, favor her.  Is this a pretty neutral court, do you think, for you guys?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think so.  Like you say, the ball flying, so for sure it's gonna be a little bit different.  And we will see how it's gonna be tomorrow.  We can see different conditions every day.
But I don't think we can play these kind of rallies that we played in Singapore.  I think here is a little bit faster to finish the points.
So in Singapore I think is the slowest surface in whole season and it's very sticky.  Here it was a little bit faster.  I guess it would be a little bit faster tennis.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT