QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 24, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RADWANSKA/M. Niculescu   
7-5, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Agnieszka Radwanska, please.   
 Q.  Could you talk about the game, how you felt on court today.  Maybe talk a little bit about your next opponent as well.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for sure, not an easy match.  Very tricky opponent.  As you see on the court, a lot of up and downs.  Very hard conditions as well.  I'm just very happy I got through, especially that I lost the last match.   
Good comeback for me in that first set.  Just made it point by point.  Long rallies.  A lot of weird shots along the way.   
I'm just very happy to win that match in two sets.   
 Q.  Most of the players are complaining about the weather conditions.  The wind.  Did that affect they way you played today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, of course.  The wind is never easy to play with.  The balls going different way and the winds changing, so it's never easy, especially when you play someone like Monica.   
So really tough, and, well, for sure, different tennis than usual.   
 Q.  Many top seeded player has lost already, so tournament is now open to everybody.  Do think it's a very good opportunity to win this tournament now?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, as we know, every tournament has these kind of score surprises and some of the top players are out in the earlier rounds.  But it doesn't mean it's going to be easy.  A lot of new names coming up now, and we can see they're really doing good.   
I think every match is tough.  Doesn't really matter if it's a top player or lower-ranked player because tennis is changing so much.  You can see the ranking is changing also so much every week.   
So I think this is the same opportunity as every year.   
 Q.  You said ranking keep changing every week.  We see recently a lot of the top player losing in like first round, second round, early stage of the tournament.  Why do you think it's happening?  Do you think younger players getting better?  Schedule is too tight for top player?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: First of all, a lot of new names coming up, younger players playing really good tennis pretty much on the high level from the beginning, playing as experienced player.   
You know, every year it's tougher and tougher.  We can see a lot of new players playing really great tennis.  A lot of players deserve to be top 10, top 20.  It's really tight.   
So it's really easy just to lose the ranking in a few weeks because there's no more easy matches as we can see.  Tennis change so much since eight or 10 years when I started playing on the tour.   
Now everything is more consistent.  You can see players playing on the same level as us.  That's why you can see a lot of matches, pretty much all of them really tight, really long.  There's really no more really easy matches.   
 Q.  As you said, they are a lot of good, young up-and-coming players, especially in this tournament, like Jelena Ostapenko or like Daria.  Is there any specific younger player you look at, you have a lot of expectation on?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think Belinda Bencic did a good job going to top 10 so fast.  She surprised me I think that she playing a really good player who spend already 10 years on tour.  Playing big experience and she's playing really solid tennis.   
As you can see it's more players like her right now, and, of course, those 18-, 19-year-olds.  That's why us, all the players really having trouble.  That's why pretty much every in tournament, it's going to be some tough losses in the first rounds.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT