QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 23, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RADWANSKA/K. Bondarenko   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Agnieszka Radwanska, please.   
 Q.  Tell us about your win today.  Good start for the tournament for you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: About today, definitely was not that greatest match.  Obviously it was hard conditions, but I won.  That's the most important thing.   
The first matches are always very tricky, especially the different conditions everywhere, and here in Doha as well.  We used to that it's always a bit windy and can be very tough.   
I'm happy with that win and ready for the next one.   
 Q.  Just looking at what you've done over the last six, seven months, since the US Open in particular, what's changed for you?  You've obviously had a lot of fantastic results in that time.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Everybody ask me the same question, but I really didn't change anything.  Something just clicked in Asia, and I was playing much better tennis.  I was feeling on court much better.  Played really solid since that.   
Well, but to be honest, didn't change anything.  I just think being consistent, working hard.  Maybe the score at the tournament were not that good as expecting, but I was still doing my thing.  Practicing the same way, doing my thing.  Suddenly it worked out.   
 Q.  You worked a bit with Martina Navratilova at the start of last year.  Do you have any contact with her now?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, we still in touch a little bit, but, you know, as a friend.  But, well, after we stop, we not really, you know, working together.  So, well, still being good.   
 Q.  And your coaching arrangements are working well now?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, well, my team didn't change in a couple years, so the same guys as we see on court.  Yeah, I'm happy with those.   
 Q.  You mentioned the conditions.  It must have been tough in the hot sun sometimes out there.  Does that affect your game at all, and if so, how?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it was a bit windy out there.  And, you know, it's always tricky, especially the first match is always the toughest.   
Everywhere we have different conditions, different surface, different balls.  Maybe it's similar, but it's still a little bit different.  Especially that I came from home, from indoor and didn't play a match for a few weeks.   
So the first match, it's always I'm happy to go through and I just hope I can play much better tennis in the next round.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT