AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 28, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/A. Radwanska   
6-0, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think you needed to do better today on your side to make that a little bit tighter?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think the only thing that I could do better is if I put more first serves, that would help for sure.  But otherwise I didn't really think that I was playing bad.   
I think she started unbelievable, with such a power and speed.  I was just standing there kind of watching her playing.   
Well, I had my little chance in second set, especially when it was 4-All.  But otherwise just too good.   
 Q.  Sharapova sat here a couple days ago after a similar loss and spoke about how it was inspiring and motivating playing Serena, which surprised a lot of us.  Can you relate to that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I definitely agree.  It is inspiring, especially that I have very good run, I have so many good matches coming here.  You go on court and you lose 6-Love in 20 minutes.  That's not what you expect.   
Everything was just too good, from her serve.  When I was serving, everything is just going to your side with that kind of power, so deep that you cannot do anything.   
 Q.  Was that first set the best set of tennis anyone's played against you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think so.  There was just no mistake.  Unbelievable serve.  Everything, she was going for it.  Yeah, I couldn't do much.  Not at all, actually.   
 Q.  Why do you feel like in the second set you were able to make a mark?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I have to be honest, I think she did couple mistakes.  I think she kind of played a little slower.  I came back to the game.  Few rallies, then couple good shots, I was there.  It was much better set.   
But definitely she didn't play good as the first set.  She give me opportunity to play, you know, to have a chance in that second set, but I didn't take it.   
 Q.  It's only half an hour since you came off court, but can you look back on the tournament as a success?  Can you reward yourself?  How will you reward yourself?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely great tournament.  Semifinal of a Grand Slam isn't a bad thing.  Still very happy with the result, happy with my game, for all the matches here, especially I could be home after fourth round.   
So good memories, good result, good tournament.   
 Q.  Do you reward yourself, buy yourself something for a good tournament?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, didn't really think about it.  But, yeah, why not?  This is the semis, so it's not bad.   
 Q.  Is it easy because of the way she played today to put this loss quickly behind you and just roll forward with the positivity of Shenzhen and then making the semis here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think so.  It's less painful.  For example, when you have three match points, you still losing the match.  Well, of course, it's less painful for someone who is just playing unbelievable tennis.  Half of the match you just have no chance.  You trying everything and you think you're playing good, but it's still not going your way at all.   
So, yeah, I'm not even angry because I know she was just playing too good today.   
 Q.  Do you think it's a case of just your match style doesn't match up with the big hitters like Serena?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't think any of the style is good when Serena's playing like that.  You know, if she's playing her game, it's different level.  When you serve 190 wide, I don't know who's going to take that.  Well, definitely not me.   
 Q.  How much of a gap do you think there is between her level and everybody else right now?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: If she's playing her best tennis like she was playing today in the first set, it's big difference actually.  I don't think anyone can really play on that level.  She really showing her great tennis on all the Grand Slams.  She really showing she want to win it.  She's doing everything right.   
She goes on court and she just want to kill it.  Going like full power for everything.  So I don't think anyone can really play on that kind of level at all.   
 Q.  It looked like you shared some nice words at the net.  Could you share with us what you said?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Just typical words.  But definitely she's a great person on and off the court.  So I respect her off the court, as well, as a really nice girl.  She definitely deserve the final.  She played unbelievable.   
I'm just going to watch the final.  What can I do?   
 Q.  What do you like about Serena as a person?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think she's really relaxed player.  Especially she can have a lot of fun off the court, joke about everything.  I really like her style about that.  We can really talk about everything.   
 Q.  Looking forward, have you thought about the Olympics at all this year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely, yes.  But still lot of tournaments before that.  Still a lot of big events before that.  So still time to think about Olympics, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT