AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/C. Suarez Navarro
6-1, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Talk us through that today.  The conditions?  The warmth, everything.  Was anything distracting apart from Suarez Navarro at the other end of the court?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, the first match is always tough.  Sun is pretty much in the worst place when you're serving.  Kind of used to that and I know it's going to happen, especially when you're first on.
Well, definitely hot today.  I think we also knew that we have the same conditions, both of us.
So I was feeling good on court anyway, so all good.
Q. First game on RLA today, right?  Disappointing you haven't played there so far in the tournament?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think I did.  Or not really.
Q. Bouchard.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, against Bouchard I was there.  Night session.  I was on every court, so pretty good.
Q. Taking much interest in the Sharapova and Williams match that's on court at the moment?  Will you watch that when you're finished or take off and do something else?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, to be honest, I know those two very well.  Obviously it's probably a great match out there.  Of course I'm going to watch, but, well, but I think you're used to watching those players that you were watching for so many years and also playing against also so many times, so it doesn't really matter to be honest.
Q. How are you assessing your form at the moment?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think it's good, especially that I did semifinals here and I won the tournament before.  Couldn't be better so far.
Q. I am sure you are asked this question before, but the WTA Championships, the win by you, does that give you an extra little feeling of steel in your bones coming here, to a Grand Slam?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, on the hindsight, yes, especially that you playing there only against top players, and that give me always more confidence.
But I was saying before, this is new season, new Grand Slam; you're starting over again.  So it's not like you winning Champs so you have easier draw or easy way to the semis.
You know, it was very close.  I wouldn't be here and playing in this quarterfinal after the fourth round, so doesn't really matter.
Q. Have you caught up on the controversy of the mixed doubles match from Sunday?  Have you read about it?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, I read about it, but, you know, I don't really have a comment about that.
Q. Your serve, is that the sort of point that Maria and Serena can exploit?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, for sure.  I didn't serve that good today.  I was trying to be focus on that, especially that it was tough on the one hand side.
But definitely when you play someone like Maria or Serena you're trying more.  You have to really go for it, yeah.
Q. I know you wear the tape on the shin and the ankle guard all tournament, but did you pick it up in Shenzhen?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.
Q. And that forced you out of Sydney?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes; same thing.
Q. Obviously managing it each match.  What are you doing?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I mean, it's good.  It's getting better, but also it's not perfect because I'm still playing, still going.  So it's hard to get rid of it.
But, you know, it's nothing that serious that I can't run or play so it's okay.
Q. Do you feel the gap in the women's tour between the best players and the players struggling to get through the first and second rounds is closing?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  Actually, I was saying that before, that compared to few years ago, you can really see that.  A lot have players having really easy matches, especially top players; now it's every match is tough.
Even those players who are 50, 60, 70, are playing really good tennis.  You really have to play solid, consistent, and play kind of 100%.  Otherwise, it's not good.  The tennis now, it's going that way.  It's really small difference between all those players.  The young ones or other players are catching up those top 10 players, and it's not getting any easier.
Q. A lot of the women have changed coaches over the season.  You changed coaches, too.  What were the reasons behind that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I didn't change my coach.
Q. Well, sorry.  Consulting.  Martina is not advising you anymore.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's not like I change my coach.  It was just another person on my team.  Well, there was a few months with her.  Just a little bit different schedule and we have to stop working together.  But that was something that I want to try and that was good experience with her for couple months.
Now I have the team, the same team for couple of years and I'm happy with that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT