SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 10, 2018
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RADWANSKA/C. Bellis   
7-6, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That was obviously a real arm wrestle in the first set, but you really got on top in the second.  What changed, do you think?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, for sure in that match the first set was the key, key point in that match.  It was really tight, and a lot of good tennis in that first set.  I think, you know, she was a little bit upset about losing that first set.   
I think I was playing very well in those first few games in the beginning of that second set, and then I was more confident and I was really, I think, playing more aggressive and using all my chances that I have just to not let her play and win that match in two sets.   
 Q.  Is that the real difference between an experienced player and a young player on tour is that, as you play more, you get better at putting setbacks behind you and keeping your focus?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, sometimes yes, but it's individual thing.  Especially for her it was the fifth match, so she could be a little bit tired, as well.  So I think it's a question for her.   
But sometimes it doesn't matter the age but it's just, you know, the set is so tight, so you're kind of losing the concentration for a little bit in the second set and then it's just slipping away so quickly.  Sometimes the 6-Love is not really showing what was happening on court.   
 Q.  You obviously were aware of her -- I think you played before -- because she's very promising, a lot of media attention around her.  Did that help, having a match or two against her previously and knowing a bit about CiCi coming into today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I saw her a couple of times on the court, and obviously a young, really solid player, solid from the back, and playing very quickly from the bounce.   
She really pushed me 100% today, and I really had to play my best tennis to beat her today.  But first of all, I couldn't lose today because it was my coach's birthday, so I just couldn't (smiling).   
 Q.  Did he say that or did you say that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I said that (smiling).  He said after the match.   
 Q.  There has been the theme around the top players like yourself and Angie, Domi, Petra, all unusually outside the top 20, and now I think if Petra wins today, all four of you are in that section of the draw, bottom half, which is an amazing section but you are in that unusual situation, all of you being unseeded.  What are your thoughts on how that kind of section is emerging?  You will start to play each other and you're all kind of trying to make your way back?  It must be a strange feeling.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I was always saying the numbers are not playing.  It's the names and the players.  So obviously, as you can see, the ranking is changing so fast.  You know, beginning of the year was so different than the end of the year.   
It's changed for so many of us.  For me, it doesn't matter if Petra have 20 or 30 before her name or she's seeded or unseeded.  It's still Petra Kvitova.  I'm not really looking at the numbers.   
 Q.  Is it nice to see, though?  Because all of you seem to be getting form back again after some setbacks last year.  Quite a few of you are all quite friendly with each other, all heading back in that direction, it seems.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's tennis.  So you're always going to have up-and-downs, and sometimes it's a couple of weeks, sometimes a couple of months.  Sometimes whole season is not that great and you're struggling with a couple of things.   
I guess it all happens to us the same time.  So many other players are playing really good tennis, so sometimes even when you're feeling good it's hard to come back.  They are really pushing you a lot, and then suddenly it's the end of the season.   
Like I'm saying, nobody's machines here.  We're all humans.  You know, you can have a couple of tournaments a bit worse, and then suddenly you're out of the top 20.   
 Q.  Did you feel better on court today than you did in your previous match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, to be honest, no.  I think I felt better in the first match (smiling) maybe because sometimes you're just going on court and, you know, you really have to play the best and you're playing someone top 10 and someone who is going to give you biggest intensity on court.  You kind of know that, and that's why I really prepared for the best from the first match.   
I think I was just playing good tennis today and yesterday.  Different opponents, different matches.   
 Q.  Does it help having that confidence or motivation that you've done so well in Sydney before?  You have won here before, made the final last year.  Is there something about the conditions or the site that you just feel really well?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I really like the courts here.  I really like to play here.  Obviously conditions are tough.  Sometimes it's 45.  Sometimes it's so windy.  But, well, I think we're all kind of used to that.   
But, well, I really like to play here.  It's something that, you know, is in the air that it suits me.  Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT