AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2016
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/A. Friedsam
6-7, 6-1, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you think you got out of that one?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, good question.  A bit lucky in the end.  Just one break.  The serve maybe was not the key in that match.  But still, this is the kind of score that is very typical to come back.
I had no choice, just to fight till the end for each point.  That's what I did.
Q. When you saw she was hurting physically, was it your tactic to try to get her to run?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I think you're trying to make her run definitely.  But, yes, anyway, I think, as we could see the worse for her was jumping, so it mean serve.
Well, just bad luck.  Was definitely the score that you want to be healthy and be hundred percent.  Obviously have to ask her what happened, why, what was going on.  I think just the cramps.
Well, happens.
Q. What goes through your head when you see her like that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah, well, it's tough because you know someone is struggling.  But you really have to play your game because someone is still fighting.  Sometimes you just don't want to do the stupid mistakes in those moments.  Then the hand is a bit shaking.  You want it too much.  Then it's kind of weird situation.
So I just wanted to play my game and not really do anything different.  So that's what I was trying to do.
Q. Have you ever heard a player crying before?  Was it difficult to see her cry?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I know what a cramp is.  I know how it's like.  I never had that during the match, but definitely it's hurting, it's painful.  Of course, it's hard to see that.  But on the other hand side I want to win the match, so you keep going, and yeah.
Q. From your side of the net, what is your read on the match?  How did you find yourself that close to bowing out?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely slow start for me.  That first set just slip away so badly.  I came back 5-4 and set points on my serve.  That was my fault.  I didn't take it.  End up like that.
Second set was just fast, easy.  She also started playing much slower.  I could just play my game.
Then suddenly just something turned around in that third set and I was 5-2 down.  I was saying before, only thing you can do is just fight till the end, especially most of the time the opponent is also getting nervous in that kind of moment.  That's what happen I think, as well.
I just used that and win those last couple games.
Q. Physically how do you feel after a long match like that and the first week is done?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think much better than her.  I'm good.  Definitely playing every second day, it's okay.  It's not tough.  Obviously this kind of match, when you play two-and-a-half hour, of course it's never easy for next day.  But I think I'm going to be ready for the next one.  It's not a problem.  Tomorrow I'm going to have a lot of treatment, a lot of rest, to be hundred percent for after tomorrow.
Q. Are you glad to have had a tough match, to make you think you can actually get through the second week?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, to be honest, of course, gives me confidence that I won something that maybe I shouldn't in the end.  But if I have to choose, I prefer two-set matches.  1 hour 15 minutes is perfect.  But sometimes it's not really going your way and you not doing the right things in the right moments, ending like that.
But I'm just very happy that I could win the last point.
Q. You could very well end up playing Daria Gavrilova.  How much notice have you taken of her in the first week?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, first of all, I was playing her two weeks ago in Shenzhen.  I know she's playing really good tennis.  Is not going to be an easy one.  She definitely playing much better.  Very good this year.  She definitely playing much better than her ranking is.  So we have to always be careful playing those kind of girls.
She definitely was playing great tennis today and I was really in trouble.
Q. Is it difficult looking forward to the quarterfinal playing a young player in front of her home fans?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's never easy to play someone from the country that we playing.  That's what happens sometimes.  I know that the crowd is not going to be with me.  But, well, you just have to play your game still.
Q. Have you given any thought to mixed doubles at the Olympics?  There are several Polish doubles players that I'm sure would like to win your heart and your partnership.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, yes, I definitely want to play more than the singles in the Olympic Games, that's for sure.  It's still couple months to go.  The ranking are changing a lot.  So I think I'll have to decide just right before that and see what are my options.
Q. Even though it's a medal competition, it's not something you necessarily prepare for a lot until right before Rio?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I can only prepare in the Grand Slams.  But on other hand side I really want to focus on my singles.  Well, I think the last time was Hopman Cup that I played mixed doubles and actually I did pretty well.  So maybe one-and-a-half-year break maybe is going to be good, as well.  Let's hope that way.
Q. This has been a good slam for you in terms of consistency, getting through to the second week.  As we go into the quarterfinals, where is your confidence right now going into the next round?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I'm just very, very happy to do another quarterfinal here.  Always feeling good here.  I really like the atmosphere.  I like the courts.  Been great.
So I just hope I can go further and do one step forward, make the final.  But, well, every match is going to be for sure not easier.  So I just try to keep it up, play better and better because that's what I need for the second week of the Grand Slam.
Q. Does it help you that it's the slam at the start of the season, more energy, your body is fit compared to maybe the US Open?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I think so.  Of course, after off-season, body is fresh, well-prepared, healthy.  But, yeah, definitely you want to do good from the beginning.  You ready to go.  So maybe there is something that is easier for everyone to play Australian Open than US Open.
But I think this individual thing, so maybe some of the girls prefer other conditions.  But definitely I'm the one who going to pick this one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT