BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 29, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/S. Halep
      7‑6, 6‑1

    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. What a difference a day makes. Talk us through certainly your comeback in the first set, but the tiebreak, please. 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, that definitely was a crazy set. Up and downs pretty much whole set. Every point matters in that case. 
    Well, the tiebreak I didn't really know that I could come back, and suddenly ‑‑ I think I was really relaxed. I didn't get tight and I think I made really good shot in important moments. When was just 5‑1 down I think I just kind of play aggressive tennis and that works.

Q. Was it just that you thought at that point you really had nothing to lose, at 5‑1 down? Did you just think, Just swing for the fences. 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, exactly. I think when you're that down in the tiebreak against someone like Simona you're not really thinking you can still win inset.
    I was pretty relaxed and still fighting, still playing. And I think when you really relaxed I think sometimes it's better, as we see. 

Q. Obviously she's out of contention, but your fate lies in the hands of two other players. Is that a little strange?
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, happens couple of times already before, so what I can do right now is just watch and cheer for Maria. 
    So that's it. (Laughter.)

Q. So you know that Maria has to win in two sets. She cannot lose one set. Are you cheering up a lot? Are you going to see in the stadium? Home? Hotel? Where?
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I'm not sure, but definitely I'm going to check the score every game or even more often. 
    Like I'm saying, now what I can do is just watch and see how it's going to be.

Q. Aga, apart from what happens tonight and whether or not you advance, how happy are you that you were able to at least end your season, if it ends today, playing like that? That was a level aggression we don't normally see from you going for that much on your forehand particularly. 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, I think I was really playing great tennis today. That was I think much better tennis than the other days. I didn't really play bad, it's just today everything seems like it was working for me. Was really good quality tennis the whole match.
    If it's my last match, so happy with that, that I made it here and I really had a lot of good matches, good tournaments last couple of weeks. I won my 500 match here as well. 
    We'll see. 

Q. Simona was in here earlier and she said after the first set she knew she was done. Finished. 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I didn't really feel like it. She was still fighting, still there. 
    But I think with not really belief that she can win. Also I was really feeling better in that second set as well, more confidence, so I could really play my shots pretty much everything what I wanted to.
    Well, how she feels, she knows the best.

Q. Are you the type, though, if you had lost the first set, would you say, You know what? I lost two matches coming in here; I just lost another set it's been a long year. Good‑bye. I'm leaving. 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, you were just reading my mind actually. That was it, yeah. I went on court, and to be honest I didn't practice yesterday. I was really tired and I'm falling apart a little bit as well.
    So what I had yesterday, it's half an hour in the gym, two sessions of treatment. What I wanted to do is really play my best tennis today. Like you're saying, it's been a really long trip and I lost already two matches. I think that works for me.
    I think I will have to take more of the day off. (Smiling.)

Q. Speaking of that fatigue, was it easier to play more aggressively today knowing you didn't have enough in the tank to run around for three hours?
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: That's what I was trying to do. I know Simona can run for three hours as well. She's very consistent player. She is not really the player playing up and down. She is always playing on the same level, very consistent and solid from the back.
    So that's what I'm trying to do. But when I saw the time that we played, more than an hour first set, didn't seem like it was going to be short match, even when I was trying to be more aggressive than usual.
    But, yeah, the second set was much quicker and was really, really happy about that. 

Q. Are you going to send a text message to Maria Sharapova saying you should beat her in two straight sets?
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't want to make too much pressure. Just if she's doing her things, you know...
    I'm just going to cheer for her from my probably hotel room or from here, the stadium. 
    But, well, that's it.

Q. Was just a joke, huh? So if you don't make the semifinals and you have to go home, just think about the entire year. Were you happy? Sad? Okay? Up and down? What do you have to do to move ahead? 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, after first couple of months I didn't know I'm going to end up here. I didn't really have the result I wanted to have. 
    Actually everything change pretty much from the grass court season. Also Asia swing was great for me. Even if that was my last match, so happy with what I did to be here and that I played for the fifth time in a row the Championships. I think that's the goal for everyone in the top. 
    Yeah.

Q. But I would guess winning the Grand Slam one day is important, no? 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course. I mean, obviously that's the goal as well, especially I think on the grass that I feel the most comfortable.
    I think I'm playing really my best tennis there. Of course I have couple of years to try, so...







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT