BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 27, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. PENNETTA/A. Radwanska
      7‑6, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. It seemed like in the first set you had the upper hand and you got a couple of breaks. What changed after that do you think? 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, definitely that first set I should have win. Another couple of chances that I didn't use. I think, well, I wasn't ‑‑ the concentration was really slipping away sometimes and I wasn't focused enough.
    Suddenly I was set down. In second set it just didn't go my way either, and of course that set was also pretty tight. I guess not my day either. 

Q. There was a nice moment with you and Flavia at the net. Did you say anything to her about the fact that this is her last tournament, your last match with her? 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, today we were just playing tennis. If we want to talk we going to talk off the court. We did, and we going to probably again.
    Other than that, just pretty much shake hands. 

Q. You're no stranger to this tournament. You've played it many times. You're in a situation now where your fate lies in the hands of someone else. How do you handle the next few hours? What do you do? 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Like you're saying, it's nothing with me right now. It's just that other girl's score. What I can just do is watch and that's it. 

Q. Can you describe what is the key of the match in your opinion today? What made the final result, I mean, more than everything? 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, today was pretty tight in actually couple of points in the first set; couple of points in the second set as well. I am a little bit tired, and I think I just, in the important moments, I am not really focusing at the one point.
    It's just kind of when I'm not using the one chance that I have, then it's really turning against me. That's what happened in those two matches. Yeah. 

Q. You just said you were tired. Steve Simon came in yesterday and spoke with us, and he indicated he thinks one of his first orders of business as your CEO is to trim the calendar, particularly from the US Open to this point. Your thoughts on that? 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course everybody is a different situation. Sometimes you qualified many weeks before that; sometimes it's just 24 hours. So I think that's what makes a huge difference.
    I was playing all those weeks in a row and so many matches. And that's my decision, my choice. I really want to be here. 
    But on the other hand side, it's a lot.

Q. But you feel that the calendar could use to be trimmed a little bit?
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course. I think every week matters for us to have a little time off, even between tournaments. So of course. 

Q. Would you say that there was a turning point today or not? The last dropshot in the first set that Flavia did it to you? Some backhand passing shot down the line that she made that maybe was a little bit unexpected or some forehands that you missed? 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I don't know if I can say just about one point. I think in the first set I was serving for the match [sic] and that was my big chance in that situation. I didn't make it. 

Q. With the season being the length that it is ‑ at the moment it hasn't been cut back ‑ how do you try and maybe schedule in breaks or manage your schedule? What is your approach to doing that to try and stay fresh for ten months? 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, sometimes it's very difficult, especially that‑‑ depends how you do. Sometimes playing just one match; sometimes playing five matches in one week. It's really hard to sometimes make a decision for whole season when you going to play, because you never know how you going to do and what you going to play in the end.
    For example, now fighting for Singapore. Well, I think nobody is getting younger, so I think every year you really have to think about where you're going to play and pretty much learn with your experience how you feel playing all those tournaments, how you feel playing just some, less tournaments a year.
    So it's individual stuff. Some of the players play a lot and some of them playing just almost just half of the tournaments. So I think it's individual thing. 

Q. What works for you personally? 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Definitely less and less, I guess, right now. I think my calendar is pretty similar every year. It's maybe two or three tournaments different. 
    It's always nice to go home, especially after long trips. That's what I'm trying to do all the time. That's for sure working for me very well. Even when it's just couple days at home, really makes you feel that you're resting and that you have, you know, power to go to another trip. 

Q. How will your schedule be affected next year by the Olympics? 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I didn't really think about this yet. Good question. I think after here I really want to plan everything and we'll see. 
    But of course with Olympic year it's even tighter than usual, our calendar year. We'll see.

Q. Flavia hasn't totally closed the door on next year. Everybody keeps saying it is, but she says, You never know. Do you expect to see her play? It is an Olympic year. 
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I'm not sure, but I think she will be done after here. That's what I would do. 

Q. Your sponsored by an Italian company, Lotto. Is your contract, endorsement next year, the year after over or what?
    AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, next year for sure I will be Lotto. I can tell you that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT