BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 25, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. SHARAPOVA/A. Radwanska
  4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. Looked like a high quality match out there. Where did you think the difference was?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I definitely didn't use my chances. I start a little bit too slow in the second set and was a little bit I guess too late to come back.
Obviously in that third set I could come back at least to 5‑All. Yes, in those kind of matches when you're not using your chances, it's not really ending your way. 

Q. You two have played many times and you know her really well. Was there anything she did today that perhaps surprised you or do you think she improved in any certain areas?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think she is just kind of player that even that she didn't play for couple months, she's always ready to play matches and always in shape to play really good match.
I think we always playing three hours match in Championships, so I'm not surprised. But actually, well, I guess she was just better today. 

Q. Obviously the beauty of this is that you've got another two chances. What's your mindset now? You've got a day of rest. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, this is little bit different tournament than the others. Even when you lose you have chances to go for it.
So, well, still going to fight for that. We'll see. Of course no easy matches here, so, well, I'll be very happy to play the same tennis that I was playing today and we'll see.

Q. Were you happy with your quality of play, apart from the result obviously?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes. I think it was really good match. I was just saying before I didn't really use my chances. Couple of off games that I just slip away a little bit. 
That's why I didn't really‑‑ that was not the point that I got everything turned around.
Yeah. 

Q. You always have these long matches with Maria. Do you enjoy that battle against her or do you think, Oh, no it's going to be a lot battle, a grueling match? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think it's always exciting, and especially when you play very long and tough good matches against top players. Of course I'm very happy with that, to have really good battles against those kind of players like Maria.
You know, good match. It's just that it didn't end up the way I wanted to.

Q. You came ever so close to making it 5‑All in the third set. Talk about that point where she hit the lob. What was going through your mind? Is that the kind of point you're going to think about again or you're able to shut it out?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I mean, of course that was my fault. I should win that point, that's for sure. Yeah, and then will be 5‑All. Still, we will not know how it's going to end. Definitely my mistake over there not to really look where she was. 

Q. Are you ever surprised by how big she goes on her second serve?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes. I think she's one of the strongest second serve on tour, that's for sure. But I knew that. 
She's always serving that way, I guess. Well, that's a little bit surprising, because supposed to be a second serve, not the first two serves.
But, well, that's the way she play.

Q. You played her so many times. Why is it so difficult?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Very powerful. Solid player. I think no normally weak points and pretty much everything which is on the same level. 
She's really going forward from the first point. So you cannot really step back, because otherwise she's going to pretty much kill you from every point.
That's why you really have to play aggressive as well from the beginning. As she serving well and first two serves and return she's really going for it, so the way it is, just not to get back too far and trying have some control as well on the court. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT