BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 24, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Aga, it's your seventh time here. How does this compare to the other times, considering the way you managed to pick things up in the last few weeks?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I remember once I also did it, because of Asia, the year I won Tokyo and Beijing in a row. I was I think 14, and I jumped to 8. That was once.   
I think this year was pretty similar. Before Asia, I didn't think I have much chances. Everybody really know how tight it was, how many girls were fighting for those couple spots. We had a lot of players from I think number 5 to 15 to have the same chances.   
Of course, after Tokyo I just realized I still have chance. Just very, very happy to be here for the seventh time.   
   
 Q. Aga, would you like to see a week off before the Finals as the men do? It's difficult to prepare mentally when you don't know until the last minute if you're going to play here or not.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, of course, they have a little bit different schedule than us. Of course, playing just few days before, like the girls did this year, it's pretty tough. Especially it's a long way here, all the jetlag, flying.   
It's a really busy schedule. I think a week off is always good before every tournament, I guess, but especially here.   
   
 Q. Talk about your year overall. I know how frustrated you were when you lost at Roland Garros. Have you made any changes?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, beginning of the year was tough. To be honest, I didn't really change much. I was practicing the same. It's just during the matches, something didn't work. I couldn't really play my best game during the matches.   
Of course, grass court season I think gave me much more confidence on court. That was kind of a click out there. I was playing much better, feeling much better on court than beginning of the year.   
It was still not too late to be here, to make much more points in the second part of the season. But I didn't really change much.   
   
 Q. Aga, you mentioned not too long ago that the tour is a little bit too long, and the ideal season is about nine months long. For quite a few players if the season was not long, you wouldn't have a chance to be here, which is a place a lot of players want to be. Where or how do you find a balance between a body that's tired from a long season and a desire to be at the season finale of the year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think it's always been like that. This is one of the most important tournaments for us, but also on the other hand it's at the end of the year.   
But I think we all know that and we're all trying to push ourselves to the limit and play the best tennis here. Is never easy, especially that some of us have to play few weeks in a row to get here just before that. But I think it's always going to be like that. That's how it has to be. This is the tournament that is always in the end of the year.   
We all have the same problem, I guess.   
   
 Q. The WTA has been introducing the technology to support on‑court coaching, which you and your coach can actually look at the real‑time game stats during the game. Are you aware of that? Have you used it? Do you find it useful?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I'm aware of it. Actually, to be honest, on court we just talking, not really using all this technology.   
But definitely off the court we checking statistics. I think it's very interesting to see pretty much everything, what your opponent did the last match, all the percentage, pretty much everything what you can check there.   
It's very, very useful. I think everybody going to use that, yeah.   
   
 Q. From 2011 to 2014, you were the WTA fan favorite singles players. In your opinion, what makes you so adorable, likable for the fans?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I don't think it's a question for me. When I won for the first time, I was so surprised and so excited that I could win. Then, of course, to win it four times in a row, I'm just so happy and glad I have so many fans all around the world.   
Well, I'm just going to do everything to win for the fifth time.   
   
 Q. Can you talk a little bit about Muguruza, who I think you played four times this year. She's the youngest one here. You played her a bunch of times. You have a lot of variety, are creative, but why can't you beat her? Has she changed a bit?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, this year we played a couple times, always tough matches. I didn't have the results I want to have against her.   
She definitely had a great season this year. Very powerful player, very solid pretty much on every surface. But, well, I think she definitely make huge progress last year. She really have great potential to play. She will have so many chances here in Singapore. To beat her, you really have to play your best game. She's really not giving any points for free.   
I was close a few times this year, but I guess I will just have to try here or in the next year.   
   
 Q. Are you surprised she's gotten this good over one year? Did you think she was going to be that good or you weren't really sure about her?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, we played a few years ago in Miami, third round, maybe fourth, I can't remember. I beat her there. But you could already see she's going to play very good. You could already see a big potential over there.   
It doesn't really surprise me that she's right here. She definitely going to be on top for the next couple years, that's for sure.   
   
 Q. Aga, there is the absence of Serena Williams, but all the eight players here are Europeans. They must be doing something that players from other continents aren't doing. Can you shed some light on that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I don't think there's any prescription for that, that we all from Europe. I guess also in Europe, tennis is a very big sport. A lot of people playing tennis. I think that's why we can see a lot of players from Europe, of course. In the States also tennis is huge. Unfortunately Serena is not here.   
I think, anyway, tennis is getting bigger and bigger everywhere, Asia as well. It's really good to see that. Also we can see a lot of players from different countries all the time. That's good.   
   
 Q. Although at 26 you're hardly an old lady, we all think of you as a veteran of the tour. In the years you have been playing and qualifying for the Finals, have you noticed any fundamental differences in the tour or just little changes every year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think every season is different. We always playing different players. Some of them you playing so many times, sometimes you play the young players the first time.   
I think also to be consistent is very, very important in tennis. That's also in your head. Mental strength is also very important. That's what makes us professional tennis players. That's why we're on top.   
The season is very, very long for us. We're playing pretty much every week and traveling all the time. So mental strength is definitely one of the most important things.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT