CHINA OPEN
October 9, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. You played Angelique many times, 5‑All until today. How do you rate that performance?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, yes, we know each other for years. Obviously we just played last time in Stanford, actually pretty long and tight match. I didn't really expect any shorter match today. 
But I think I was really doing everything right today. With all that tough conditions, I was handling everything good. I start pretty good. I was definitely happy to win that first set. 
Just a few games to slip a little bit in that second set. But I was still playing my tennis. I was able to come back and end up in two sets.

Q. Do you think you won because of the way you were playing or she wasn't playing up to her standard?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think I was playing pretty good, I think much better than the other matches. I knew I really have to be solid today to beat her. 
As we were saying, I really know her. If you're not playing your 100%, you're not going to win. She's not going to give it to you, any free points. 
But, yes, definitely I didn't expect that match to be that short, that's for sure. 

Q. You have so much variety in your game. Are you happier when you hit a clean winner off of power or a strategic winner cat‑and‑mouse style?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's good to have both. But I think it's always more entertaining for us and for the fans, I think for everyone, when the winner is just somewhere that you have no idea it's coming. So I think I would choose the tricky winner. 

Q. This is the third time you qualified for the semifinals in the last five years. Maybe you're good at some tournaments at the end of the season. Do you think so?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I think so. I really had a lot of good runs in Asia. It's been always good trips for me here and I always have good results. 
So something is definitely working for me here. I'm just very happy with that. 

Q. Compared with last season, this is a little bit special because we all know if you win this title, you'll have a position to go to Singapore. Coming to the semifinals, do you feel there's more and more pressure, or it's getting better and better?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think at the moment everything is so tight. It's been like that for actually two, three weeks. Actually, from Tokyo I'm already fighting for the Singapore. There is always, of course, pressure and there's always behind your back that it's still possible. 
Of course, the goal here in Asia is definitely to play that kind of game and to have those results to be able to go to Singapore, yes. 

Q. It's a long season. Everybody seems to have some ups and downs. In the middle of the season, you played not so good. I want to know what happened to you in that time?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, actually not the middle of the season, but the beginning was not great. I didn't really play my game on the matches. I was struggling a little bit. 
But, well, happy to be back and playing on a very high level and playing my game. I think grass helped me with that, as well. That was the kind of time that I start to play much better. 
Well, I'm just very happy I could still be a top eight player at the end of the year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT