CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. You were very frustrated after your last match. This one, the first set was better quality from you. You must be more pleased, I guess?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, definitely much better tennis today. But I think we also have that opponent that push you to play 100% because otherwise that would be 1‑6 probably.   
Of course, this is not the way that I wanted to end up that match. But as we all know, it's ending of the year. We can see couple retirements. Hopefully she will get better soon.   
   
 Q. I think of all the top‑10 players that Madison has played, she's played you the most.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: We actually were talking before the match, Why we always play against each other? Sometimes we playing someone pretty much every week or every couple weeks, and sometimes you have to wait another couple years play someone again. So, yeah. Also against Coco, I played her three times in the first round in two months. That's a lot as well.  
   
 Q. With respect to Madison's game, sounds like you have a lot of respect for the way she plays tennis. What have you been able to do, do you think, to kind of dominate her when you play against her?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, she's definitely a very powerful player. I think this is one of the fastest shots on tour. I think every shot, her serve, return, every stroke.   
So I think what I was doing right today, definitely I was returning good. I was able to broke a couple times. That was definitely helpful today.   
Well, you have to always be careful because the balls are really flying fast and quick. You really have to be quick as well, not to let her play her game. Always try to be the first one to make the good shot that she cannot make a winner.   
   
 Q. As we're heading to the end of the season, what is your dominating feeling about how you played and what you've done in 2015.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, definitely up‑and‑down season a little bit at beginning of the year. Not the result that I wanted. That was a little bit frustrating, as well.   
But I think, well, clay court season is never great for me, so I wasn't really surprised that it was that way. Well, at least I did much, much better in the grass court season. I had couple good results there. I think that helped me to be where I am right now.   
I have more confidence. Also better ranking. Still have a chance to go to the Singapore. Yeah, still fighting for that.   
   
 Q. What is it like playing in the pollution? And also, the new head of the WTA has come in. Caroline Wozniacki said there were changes she would like to see him make. Is there anything you think he should be doing now that he's come in?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: About the conditions, well, definitely tough. A little bit different than usual. But I think we all kind of used to it, right? We coming to Beijing every year. We can expect more or less humidity or the pollution. Actually, I was feeling good today, so yeah.   
And about the rules, well, there's always something that someone wanted to change. Of course, I don't know what you're talking about exactly, but definitely I have also couple things that I would like to change.   
But I think there's always going to be someone or something that not going work for everyone. It's normal.   
   
 Q. What would you like to see changed or addressed?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, maybe something specific?   
   
 Q. I'm just wondering if there's anything you thought might be worth changing.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course, everybody talk about the shorter season.   
But I think, for example, the smaller Masters in, or I don't know how you can call it, in Zhuhai. I think that's something that shouldn't be really mandatory for the players. I think it has to be your choice, especially that it's after Singapore. So it makes your season much longer. Two weeks does a lot for us.   
I think there's also too much points there. I mean, you ending after Singapore, for example, No.9. Then someone's getting 700 points. Suddenly from 9 you're 12. You thought you finish No.10. What now?   
I think that's couple things about that tournament that should really change.   
   
 Q. You're playing either Kerber or Wozniacki next. Talk us through those matchups.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I know those girls for so many years. Actually I love watching them playing against each other. Always interesting, always great match. I saw the game also in Tokyo. It's always very entertaining. We can see on court everything. It's always on the really high level.   
Who's going to win? I think this is a 50/50 match. Well, for me also it doesn't really matter.   
   
 Q. Andrea Petkovic was in here talking about how this season in particular she felt like the younger players were making more of a push, and because of that the first and second rounds of tournaments have become much more difficult, and that stress can maybe create injuries on the top players. What are your thoughts on that? Do you have an alternate explanation for all of that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, she's definitely right. There are so many players playing really on the high level from the beginning. I mean, you can see 18, 19 years old playing already great tennis.   
Also the draw, you're not really having easy matches. From the first round, you have to play your 100%. They're pushing you to play 100%. That's maybe also the reason you're playing really couple tough matches.   
I remember a few years ago, there was always a bit easier beginning of the week. Then from the quarterfinals you really starting to play just another intensity. And here right now, everything starts from the first round.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT