CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Tough three‑setter today. Talk about what she was doing that caused you some problems and what adjustments you made to get the win.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think my tennis caused me problems today. Was not really great match. I mean, the most important thing is I win. But I didn't play at the same level I was playing the last couple matches. I was really angry on court. Nothing was working for me today, that's for sure. But, well, good I just went through and win that match, yeah.   
   
 Q. Can you identify what was the issue today, why you weren't able to play as well as you wanted to?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think just not my day. It's not like I can't play tennis suddenly the next day and tomorrow will be probably good. Sometimes you have just those matches that is not going your way at all. You're getting really frustrating on the court. It's just nothing is working.   
I, of course, trying thousand things on court. But, yeah, well, that's why maybe I just look like I lost. But I just know I didn't really play my tennis. So that's not really making me happy.   
   
 Q. Are there things that you've learned to do on court to snap you out of that negative space?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, you still there. It's not like you losing very quickly. It's just very tight match. Still trying everything. You can still win that match even when it's not really going your way.   
That's why I was just keep fighting. It was so up and downs in that match, so many breaks, points I should have won and I didn't, and opposite as well. That's why it was little bit crazy match.   
At least in the end I make those couple good shots and there we are.  
   
 Q. Would you want to see a shorter season?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, why not? I think, you know, everybody wants that. But it's just the way it is.   
   
 Q. So you'd be willing to give up prize money, tournaments, things like that, in order to have more of an off‑season?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yeah. I think nine months season will be good. I think a lot of people agree with me.   
   
 Q. Four years ago you won the China Open and qualify for Istanbul. Now you really have a chance to win China Open again with most competitors being out. How do you like the prospects of the China Open this year? Have you imagined winning the championship again and qualifying for Singapore this year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I mean, that's the (indiscernible) to go here, to do it well, to be qualified in Singapore.   
Of course, a lot of points is here. That's the biggest tournament before Singapore. So I think every match matters here. That's why I really, really want to do well here.   
So I think, you know, everything is open, so hopefully I can do it.   
   
 Q. The player's party was held tonight. If you could choose which one you prefer, the party or a tough match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I think a tough match. That's what we're here for, to compete and to play matches. We players. Of course, the party is always the second choice.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT