CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. How are you feeling about that match? Coco seemed to be getting some momentum towards the end. Were you surprised she pulled out?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I knew she retired last week. But, you know, every week it's different story, different tournament.   
I was prepared for whole match. We played couple times before that. So I knew what to do on court.   
But maybe still going on something with her health. I think we have to ask her.   
   
 Q. A few other players have retired today, including the top seed. What does that do for you? Does it make you feel good or just the next opponent?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I don't think it really affect me. I think this is the end of the year. Not everybody is fresh at the moment. I think really that's the main reason.   
Well, I think that's what happen in Asia pretty much.   
   
 Q. You've gone through a number of different years where you're trying to qualify for Singapore in this kind of weird last‑season push. Talk about what makes this section of the season different with respect to qualifying for Singapore. Is it a different mindset for you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, trying not to. Just play normal game and not really think about it.   
But, of course, is getting busier and busier because suddenly you're playing couple of tournaments in a row. I just also took the wild card to Moscow just few days ago. I'm playing also in Tianjin next week also. Is a very busy schedule.   
But I'm just doing everything to qualify to Singapore. There is no choice. I need to try every week.   
   
 Q. Those decisions to play this heavy schedule in Asia, all of that is driven by your desire to qualify for Singapore or for other reasons?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, Asia is supposed to be like that since I made a schedule a long time ago. But Moscow was just the last‑minute decision.   
Well, I really start Asia very good. This week is going to be I think a lot of changes. This is the biggest tournament in Asia. I think everything can change after this week.   
   
 Q. Talk about your confidence right now after Tokyo and everything, not a terrible loss last week, now given what Venus did in Wuhan. Are you feeling pretty good about your game?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I really had a lot of good matches. Of course, that wasn't really great draw, I guess, in Wuhan, especially that I really played almost from the plane.   
But I was feeling good. I really prepare myself for those couple busy weeks. So far so good. So hopefully that will go that way.   
   
 Q. I know that you went to the player area to do a manicure. A lot of women like to do the manicure. Can you show us your nails and can you tell us why you like manicure and how do you feel about this manicure at the player area?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I didn't expect that question (laughter).   
I really like doing my nails. I think this is great for all of us, you know, to have something like this here when you have day off. We just have one practice. It's just very easy for us to go next door and do the manicure.   
As I see the girls are pretty busy last couple days. I was there, as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT