U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/M. Linette
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Would you assess the match?  Looking strong out there.  Do you feel good about the way you played?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I think it was a much better match than the first round.  I think I really played good.  I think was pretty good match.
I didn't expect her to be that good.  I never play against her.  We know each other for so many years, but never really played against each other.
So that was actually quite a challenge, for me to play someone from the same country.  Not very happening very often.
But, well, I'm just very happy that I think in important moments, in the key points, I was a bit better.  I think that's why the score was like that.
Q. You say like you feel better than the first match.  How so?  What do you think was improved?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it's always a good question.  Especially that you cannot really play much better two days after, right?  I think it's all a mental thing and how you go on court and how you feel the ball.
Every day is different.  I think I was just feeling very good on court today, hitting the ball pretty well; serving also not bad.
Well, now it's going to be the really challenge in the third round, right?
Q. How do you look at the match history?  You said you hadn't played her in match play, tournament play before.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: No.  Even when I played that was maybe 15 years ago, junior times.  I really can't remember.
Q. But you have known her for...
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, yes, we know each other, but we never played.
Q. Madison is next.  She cruised through her match today.  Appears to be playing very well and confidently.  Talk about that match ahead.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, we really had great match at Wimbledon, and hopefully we have the same kind of game here at the US Open.  For sure different conditions, different surface, so different story.
So we will see how it's going to be on hard court.  It will be a really tough third round.  She's playing home.  Well, I just hope it's going to be a great match.
Q. You're known to the crowds here.  You have had some great matches here; you're no stranger to the crowds.  You're playing an American at the US Open.  Not everyone in the crowd are Americans, but predominantly they are.  Is that presenting any challenge?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I'm not expecting they will cheering for me, obviously.  But, well, that's always the price when you're playing someone from the country that's the home tournament.  For sure it's going to be rowdy and loud.  That's for sure.
Well, from my side, I'm going to do everything in my power to play the same tennis I played at Wimbledon, and we will see if that's gonna work.
Q. The women's side of this tournament has gotten a lot of attention in terms of attendance.  Tell me a little bit about kind of the general growth of the women's side of the game, if you see more sponsors or fan interest if that continues going forward?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I think it's not really a question for me, but I think it's really going a good way.  I think we can see more people coming and even, you know, at the practice courts we can see a lot of people watching.
A lot of different sports stories as well.  I think women's tennis really going a good way, and I think a lot of people, the WTA, is doing a good job of that, and hopefully it's going to be better and better, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT