ROGERS CUP
August 13, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/A. Cornet
  6‑2, 4‑6, 6‑4 
   
 Q. Congratulations on your victory.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Thank you.  
   
 Q. If we see the score, it was not an easy match, of course. What can you say about your performance and the position of Cornelius?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it was a good match, especially that third set. I think it was different in the match. It was better quality, that's for sure. A couple of up and downs as well. I think from my side I just start the second set very bad, and then it was just too late to turn around and that's why I played the third set.  
But I'm just very glad that I could come back in that third set. I think I started to play a bit aggressive in the end of that set and I think that worked.  
   
 Q. Do you put yourself a little bit of pressure because you're defending champion?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, there's always a pressure, but you know, every week pretty much you're defending some points, lessor more. Here of course, it is more. But you always do everything to defend the title. So I'm also trying that and I hope I can do that.  
   
 Q. And last question from me. You're going to play Simona Halep. Have you played her? What kind of match will you expect?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, we didn't play for a while now. Well, she's one of the best women's players in the world and playing really good tennis, and I think I have really nothing to lose. I just hope I can play my best tennis and enjoy the game. She's the one that, you know, top seed here. So well, we'll see.  
   
 Q. How pleased have you been with your level from Stanford and here, with your level of play? Thumbs up? Thumbs down? Some things good, some things bad? What do you think?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, actually, against Andrea I played a great match in Stanford, so I wasn't really that sad. But you know, every match helps the confidence, and of course, especially with the different conditions, it's tough as well. Especially matches like this, very tight matches, it was just played a few points today, and I'm just very glad they turned like my way. But you know, I think winning a tournament, I think I've gotten better. So hopefully I can play even better tennis tomorrow against Halep.  
   
 Q. And you were saying before that you feel like you have nothing to lose against Simona because she's a higher ranked player. You've been the Top 10, Top 5 player for so many years. Is that really so easy for you to flip that switch in your head to say that you're the underdog tomorrow?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I don't know, but I'm just playing one of the best players now, and you know, of course, you always want to win. Doesn't matter what's the ranking and who is your opponent. But it will not be an easy match. Even if not going to be my way tomorrow, I just hope I can just play my best tennis. And we'll see how it's going to be. I just saw her playing today against Angie. That was a really good match. So I know she is also in good form and playing good on the hardcourts. So for sure not going to be easy.  
   
 Q. And last week in Stanford you said that your reaction when you saw the dress that you were wearing at Stanford was a bit interesting. So what was your reaction when you opened the box and you saw this one?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, very similar actually. I really like the reaction from all the people and all the players. They really surprised that the dress, it's always very different, and even from the last one as well. So yeah, pretty much the comment is like, that dress is for the evening, for the party. Don't go on court with that. So but they really like it and I like the reaction, and I like to have something different as well. So I love the dress.   
   
 Q. Simona is coming after a difficult period in tennis, but this last couple of victories she's gaining her confidence. Does that put a little bit more pressure on you going into the match tomorrow?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I also didn't have great beginning of the year. So I think we all have kind of tough months or weeks that they are not really the way that we want it to be. But I think what I saw from today and from the day before, I think the hardcourt is good for her, I think she's really playing great on that. And also she showed that in the beginning of the year, especially in America as well. So that's why I think that is her surface for sure that she's playing great tennis.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT