WIMBLEDON
July 9, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. MUGURUZA/A. Radwanska
  6‑2, 3‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   What's your general reaction after that match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, very good match.   I think she was playing very good today.   I think, well, not really ups and downs.   Very solid from beginning till the end.   
Well, I tried everything I could today, but wasn't enough.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk us through what happened right at the end from your point of view.   Was your box telling you to challenge?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   It was 50/50 call in that ball.   I decide to challenge.   Wasn't really good decision.   
   
 Q.   She started so well.   How do you feel you came back into the match?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, yes, she started very fast.   I think I was a little bit too slow in the beginning.   Then was a crucial point 1‑3 in the second set.   I serve for it.   I think, a couple, her mistake.   I just took my chances in that second set.   That's why went pretty quickly in the end of the second set.   
You know, third set was pretty tight.   Of course, I had the chance especially in the beginning of the set.   But she was really solid in important moments and serving very well.   
   
 Q.   The turning points in the second and third sets.   More question of mental doubts or tactical things in the game?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, of course every point matters in that kind of match.   It was pretty tight.   Of course, there was no free points in that kind of match.   
It's hard to say if it was mental or nerves or, you know, just luck sometimes.   You know, every match is different.   Every point is different.   
But I felt in the important moments, she was serving very well.   That didn't give me a chance to break her.   
   
 Q.   How do you compare Garbine's game against Serena's or Sharapova's as far as how hard that ball is coming at you?   Were you surprised how she handled the late moments of coming through under pressure?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, we play couple times.   I kind of know what to expect.   
I think Madison is hitting much harder than Garbine.   I think Muguruza, what she's doing, she's very solid from both sides.   Even if she use so much power, she also have good direction, mixing up.   That's what makes her a very good player.   
We going to see her more often in the second weeks of the Grand Slams, that's for sure.   
   
 Q.   Even though you lost, don't you think there's a lot to cheer because you made arguably the semifinals of the best Grand Slam of the year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course, I'm just happy with those three weeks on the grass.   It was very intense.   I'm very happy with my game.   
Of course, it's always disappointing when you lose, especially a tight match.   But still a good two weeks.   
   
 Q.   Tactically can you explain a little bit about what your game plan was going into the match.   Also around the second set, tactically you started to switch things up a little bit, keep the ball a little bit lower to her.   Can you give us some insight into how you wanted to play that match.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Sometimes you play how the opponent lets you play.   I think when she stepped forward, I was too defensive in the first set.   
But of course you always find other way to be in the match, turn the things around.   
But, you know, the tactics for those kind of matches is very simple:   not to play to the middle, also focus on the serve, put as much first serves as possible.   That's what I trying to do.   
Well, she was just too good today.   
   
 Q.   She said she was pretty nervous in the second set.   Were you nervous, too?   I know you've been at this stage several times before, but it's been a while.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   To be honest, not really.   Of course I was there before, so I know what to expect.   
But compared to other semis or the finals here, I wasn't nervous at all.   
   
 Q.   Can I clarify on the challenge at the end, did you hear a shout urging you to challenge or had you made the decision to challenge it?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think I did it because I'm the one to decide if I challenge or not.   Nobody can do that for me.   
   
 Q.   After the start to your year, this is obviously a great result for you.   What do you think about this result looking forward?   Do you think it could be the spark for your year?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course, it was very good few weeks.   Much better than the beginning of the year.   That's for sure.   Let me be a bit higher in the ranking.   Still thinking about Singapore, this is the goal for everyone.   
Of course, there is one more slam to go, a couple big tournaments.   We'll see.   Anything can happen.   
   
 Q.   When you dropped out of the top 10 earlier this year, you sent out a tweet to kind of laugh about it.   Yes, okay, I get it, I've dropped out of the top 10.   Now that you're back into the top 10, how much does that actually matter to you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course, being top 10, it's always the greatest thing to be in the top 10.   People think that it's tragedy to be 12, 13 or a bit less.   I think that's the people that never play sport.   There's a lot of those experts, you know, complaining, always there, thinking they know everything.   
But, of course, you know, I was 13 here.   Doesn't really matter.   You know, if you play a game, you play your best tennis, doesn't really matter.   Of course, when you play better, your ranking is better.   
But I think in the end of the year is the one that it matters if you finish top 10 or not.   
   
 Q.   You and Martina Navratilova split up earlier this year.   I understand she was helping you a little bit here these two weeks.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, we have the same locker room, so we chat in the locker room.   Of course, we split up a few weeks ago, but it doesn't mean we not talking, avoiding each other.   
Of course, you know, she's always there for me.   I always can call her.   
   
 Q.   Do you think Garbine can win the title here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Good question.   Well, I don't know who's going to win that match.   But I guess it's going to be Serena.   I don't think she can beat Serena in the final.   I think Serena not going to let her do that, no, not in this tournament (smiling).   
But I wish her luck.   It's going to be hard.   If she do that, big respect.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT