WIMBLEDON
July 7, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/M. Keys
  7‑6, 3‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   After Roland Garros, did you see yourself so few weeks later in the semifinal of a slam?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   To be honest, not really.   Well, I knew that grass is much better for me.   But I think after that match in Paris, I wouldn't expect the semifinal here, so that's for sure.   
   
 Q.   Is it just a matter of the change in surface or is there something different that you're doing while you're here in terms of your game that's helping you get these results?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I had a lot of good matches before Wimbledon, in Nottingham, especially Eastbourne, as well.   
I think I will play good match against top players.   That is always helping.   I think I will have a lot more confident after those weeks on the grass.   Here we go.   
   
 Q.   You still didn't expect the semifinal?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Not really, no.   
   
 Q.   You have had the experience of being here at Wimbledon, standing on Centre Court for the final.   What would it mean to you to be back there with the chance to see your name on the trophy?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it doesn't matter if you win before or not, you want to win again anyway.   That's Wimbledon.   Everybody fighting for it.   
Of course, I was close, even two times.   But never did it.   Well, maybe this year.   
   
 Q.   Are there any images that you take with you that inspire you when you walk out on the court here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course, being in a final, that was a huge experience for me.   I remember that match from the beginning till the end.   
I think that also helping for the future, that you know how it is to be in the final of a Grand Slam.   
I think afterwards it's a bit easier, you know how it is.   
   
 Q.   Madison hit 45 winners against you, but you were able to get an awful lot back.   How would you rate her in terms of her game?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I knew she's very powerful player and everything is going to be going to my side very fast, doesn't matter from which side.   I knew that.   
Of course, her serve is also very good.   I think that was the key in that match, as well.   
It was hard because you really have to focus on your own serve because if you lose that serve, then you're really in trouble.   That's why it was tough.   You really have to be focused whole match.   Otherwise, not going to go your way.   
But you're going to definitely see her more often in the future.  
   
 Q.   When you're playing someone as aggressive as Madison, how hard is it to think you're controlling the match?   Do you feel sometimes you have control and sometimes you don't?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think it's going to be similar with Muguruza.   We'll see how it's going to be if that will be similar with the serve, groundstroke.   
Madison is also the player hitting the ball very hard, really stepping into the court, not giving you a lot of chances.   
   
 Q.   It was a bit of the struggle at the start of the year in terms of consistency and results.   How disappointing was it when the coaching relationship with Martina didn't work out?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think that was two separate things, my game and her as a coach.   
We were working together, I think it was bad timing actually.   I was struggling first few months beginning of the year.   But, well, I think was just bad timing, that's it.   
   
 Q.   What is it about this particular period that's really sort of come together for you?   You got to the final of Eastbourne.   You've had a good run here.   How much do you think experience is going to help when you meet Muguruza?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Experience is always very important, especially in a Grand Slam.   But we'll see.   Sometimes when you there for the first time, you also have nothing to lose.   It's always two sides.   So, yeah, we'll see.   
   
 Q.   You played well in the lead‑up tournaments, but overall do you think you played this tournament with a little bit less pressure than when you've come here as a top five player?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think you can really see that from two sides.   You dropping, so you have more pressure to play good, to be back in the top 10.   And also the draws are more difficult because in the second week you have to play someone from 1 through 8, right?   
The other side, when you see that, you have the pressure to be in the second week, playing better, doing a minimum of quarters or semifinals.   
I think it really doesn't matter.   How you feel on court, doing what you have to do to win the matches.   Just, you know, playing your best tennis.   Doesn't matter what's your ranking.   
   
 Q.   Muguruza has beaten you your last two matches that you've played.   Is she the favorite?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, uhm, I don't know.   I think it's going to be 50/50 match.   She's for sure playing very good tennis at the moment.   
We never played on grass, so I think it's going to be very good challenge.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT