WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/J. Jankovic
  7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   With how your year started, how good are you feeling on court now and being back in the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I'm very, very happy, especially that I really had another good match against Jelena.   And we have always very good matches, very tight ones.  
Of course another quarterfinal here.   So it couldn't be any better.   I'm just very, very happy I could do it again.  
   
 Q.   You have played Madison Keys three times so far and succeeded against her.   What is the key against Keys?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, actually, I didn't remember those three meetings, but I remember the one that we played here on Court 3.   That was tough one.   I think it was 7‑5 in the third.  
Well, she was playing amazing tennis, and she's hitting the ball very, very strong and serving unbelievable.   I really have to be careful on that and trying to put as many balls as I can to the other side. Also, really be careful on the returns.   
We'll see.   I think it's going to be fast, really fast tennis from her.   For sure different match than today.  
   
 Q.   How would you compare the way she plays with other players on the tour?   What is different about her game?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think she's the one that really playing, hitting the ball very well, very deep. I think she's trying to finish the ball in two, three shots.   That's what she's trying to do.   
I really have to try not to really give her the chances to finish that ball.   For sure, not playing defensive, because otherwise she is gonna step forward and I'll be in trouble.  
   
 Q.   You don't remember the match in China where you hit the 100 miles per hour forehand?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, that's right.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How hard is it for you to, at this stage of a Grand Slam, to take it one match at a time when you're seeing ‑‑I don't know if you looked at the draw, but anything about how, you know, you could be going to another final in the future or something like that?   How hard is it to just stay one match at a time and not get distracted by thinking ahead?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, actually, every time I finish the match, I go to the gym and bike.   My first question is, Who am I playing next, because not really seeing the draw, of course, in the beginning.   I check the draw for first rounds or something going on.   But then, of course, you can't remember whole draw.  
So especially that some seeded players are also, you know, losing a little bit before.   That's why I kept saying, it's one match at a time.   You're not really thinking what's gonna be in the second week or end of the second week.  
   
 Q.   Is on match at a time easy or something you have to focus on?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, not easy, I think just see what happen, like we see.   So you just have to focus on your next match, and that's it.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe the state of your game right now and how it compares with the best tennis that you have played?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think I'm really playing on a really high level right now and I have had a lot of good matches, also Eastbourne and here.   Well, if I keep winning, I can't complain.  
So I guess I'm doing okay.   
   
 Q.   Is it as good as you've played?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think so.   It's hard to compare how I'm playing now or two years ago or six years ago.   Everything changed.   And different players, different even surfaces, different tournaments.   Everything different.   
But most important thing is I just keep going and feeling good on court, and I think I really feel I'm playing my best tennis.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What do you think changed first half of the year?   Your results weren't as good as they usually have been, now on grass.   Is it just grass or time?   Are you feeling more rested?   What sort of changed?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think both.   Of course grass, it's my favorite surface.   I always feeling good on that.  
I never had problem playing on that surface and always had really good results here.   Also the time, I think it was tough beginning of the year, and I think passed that, and now it's just better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT