WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/C. Dellacqua
  6‑1, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Just talk about you're playing great again and why?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I just feel much better than in the beginning of the year.   And also, I think the surface also makes a huge difference.   Everything is just easier for me.  
I already have bad times right now, a few months ago.  
   
 Q.   I remember talking about it at Roland Garros when you lost early, you seemed to be upset.   But then you left Roland Garros and you came to England and all of a sudden you changed.   What happened there?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, well, of course losing first round is always disappointing.   I wasn't happy at all.  
Well, I have some days off.   Well, that was a lot of actually time that I had.   That's why I also took the wild card to Nottingham, to play some more matches.   Especially the grass season was a little bit longer this year.  
And, you know, I think more matches also give me more confidence.   And, you know, I was feeling good from the beginning.   That's why I just keep going in Eastbourne.   I had a lot of good matches against top players.   
   
 Q.   Did you tell yourself something different when you got home and you were having problems?   Did you say, I need to do something different?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, when I was practicing, everything was okay.   I just couldn't do the same things during the matches, and that was it.   That's why I just needed more matches.   
I think I just needed those couple of months to work on that, and I think that works very well.  
   
 Q.   So do you feel like you're doing a little bit different?   Looks almost the same, but you have always been very smart anyways on the court, whether you're creative or all of that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I didn't change anything much.   I think right now the tennis, it's very on a high level, that every match is really tight.   When you have everything 100%, everything is turning against you.   And you are losing first tournament and then the second one.   Then it's just keep going the wrong way.   
That's why I just turned it around these things just few weeks ago.   Now everything is in a good way.  
   
 Q.   So is the confidence all there now?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I think so, of course.   
   
 Q.   That was after last week or just this week here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Oh, after last week, for sure.   That was really big and strong tournament.   A lot of players in it.   There were no easy matches.   I was really happy just to have more grass court matches there.   I was playing really well.   Of course that was a good week for me.   
   
 Q.   You might have to play Petra who has been playing well.   You know her extremely well.   Talk about that.   Maybe on grass, maybe in front.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think in that match I have nothing to lose.   I'm playing two‑time champion here, and I'm in the second week.   Of course now I'm playing someone from the top.   I think I'm just going to go on court and really play my best tennis.   I really have nothing to lose right now, and I just hope I can play my best level.  
   
 Q.   But you must feel like if you're playing great, you can beat her, anyways?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, the last time we played was in Singapore.   Totally different surface and conditions, so for sure that would be a different story here.   
But still, of course, it's even the match that I can win.   Well, we'll see.   We will see Monday.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT