U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2017
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RADWANSKA/P. Martic
6-4, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Petra has had some good results at the slams this year.  Have you been keeping up with that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, well, of course.  I remember Wimbledon she played really good.  But as we can see, it's a lot of tough first rounds.  I didn't really expect an easy match.
Obviously I really had to push myself 100% today to win that match.  That's what I did.
Q. A lot of matches with the schedule today.  What do you make of all the craziness?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: It's for sure busy day.  You can really hear that and see that.  I was on the outside court.  It was loud.  It was loud.  It's busy, crowdy.  Sometimes it's tough, for sure.
Q. That's probably the first time you played a match on that court.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes.  I never play on that court.
Q. It's pretty popular for the fans.
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: It was tough, like I was playing.  All those courts really close to each other, so it's pretty loud.  You don't know if they calling on your court, on the court next to you.
The fans also very loud, crazy, on the other courts as well.  They're cheering their players.  It's really, really loud.  It's tough.  So you have to really adjust and focus on your game, not on other things going on.  Yeah, that's it.
Q. Were you confident you were going to play yesterday?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I knew is going to be bad day.  I was third on.  After the men's match, as well.  You not expecting any early start.  So, you know, it was for sure for everyone.  But at least they canceled the matches pretty quickly.  We didn't really have to stay for whole day there.
Q. You've won 12 straight first-round matches at the Open.  Do you feel like you always come here prepared and ready to win?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I didn't really know that statistic, to be honest.  But, of course, it's good to pass the first round.  It can be really tricky, as I was saying before.  First round can be really tough, as we can see in the draw.
Every match matters.  You really have to be really prepared 100% from the first round, from the first ball, because you not going to have any gifts in the first round.
Q. The US Open maybe isn't your most favorite, being out on Court 5.  Does that feel it was the ultimate test for you to deal with all of the elements?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Maybe.  Of course, we all know the conditions here.  It's going to be like this.  Of course, I didn't have the results that I wanted to have here.  Obviously I didn't even make the quarterfinals here like I did in other Grand Slams and tournaments, pretty much everywhere.
So, of course, it's disappointed.  I'm trying every year.  So hoping maybe this year.
Q. Strong results in the summer.  Do you feel you're getting back to the player you were before the injury?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Yes, I think so.  I always like the hard courts.  I always like the U.S. series swing.  But never really catch the second week here at the US Open.  Yeah, there is something I guess in the air that it's not helping me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT