AEGON INTERNATIONAL EASTBOURNE
June 27, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. BENCIC/A. Radwanska
  6‑4, 4‑6, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   On your way up to London, will you be able to look back on Nottingham and here and feel you got some really good preparation behind you for Wimbledon?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   I think I had a lot of good matches, Nottingham and here.   I think that's the main thing.   I think I did the best preparation before Wimbledon, and I really played good tennis.   So now just will see what happens in London.  
   
 Q.   It got away so quickly in the final set.   Can you talk us through what was happening for you.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think of course I didn't like the conditions, that's for sure.   That makes every match kind of 50/50, a lot of crazy shots and weird rallies.  
I just have to be real lucky in that kind of day, that tennis is really not the tennis.   It's just something that you are trying to do.   It's just very frustrating that you can't really play your game because it's just impossible.  
Well, but I think she was just kind of using the wind better than me, I guess, today.  
   
 Q.   You took a lot of chances certainly in the second set with your dropshots and your slices with the wind switching direction.   I think in the final set, like you say, just very small margins, but it was enough to tip it her way very quickly.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Exactly.   I think it was really tight match.   Of course I slipped out a little bit in that third set, but it was hard to also hold the serve and nothing was for sure.   
A lot of up‑and‑downs.   So I think it was really hard to predict anything today on the court.  
   
 Q.   The scoreline to somebody who hadn't seen the match, they might think it was a thrashing.   But it was a close match.   Are you happy with how you played today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I definitely didn't play as good as I was playing the last couple of matches here.   That's why it was a score like that, I guess.   
But I'm saying it was just hard to do anything.   I was really struggling with that.   Just the ball didn't listen to me at all (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Do you think that was because you were more tired because you played a lot more than her in your last match?   Two hours and she only had 13 minutes.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think so, as well.   I had a tough match yesterday, and it really cost me a lot of energy, as well.  
But, I mean, it's not because today I couldn't play, but being fresh, for sure, is also very important thing.  
But, well, it happen.   Lucky her that she didn't have the semifinal.  
   
 Q.   The chances are you're going to play on Tuesday.   Does that make you feel a little better that you have a bit of time now to adjust to the grass when you get back to Wimbledon?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   I think now every day makes a huge difference, so if it's going to be Tuesday, I will be very happy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT