AEGON INTERNATIONAL EASTBOURNE
June 26, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/S. Stephens
  6‑1, 6‑7, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What gave you more trouble, Sloane or the seagull? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think Sloane (smiling).   Well, and I think the wind, as well.   That was very tough conditions today.   I think we both were struggling with that. 
The other days was much, much better.   Today was really, really windy.

Q.   Is that the weirdest thing that's ever happened to you on a tennis court?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think so.   Especially there were a lot of them flying around, but this one was really close.

Q.   Have you ever been attacked by a bird before?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   No, not really (laughter).

Q.   You took some risks, though.   It was very windy.   Looked like it was coming across the court.   When you were sort of slicing with those dropshots, did you think they were going to come back at you?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think the wind was changing, as well.   Sometimes I was changing sides and I was against the wind, and I was going to the other side and still I was against the wind.   That was weird.   And of course there was another wind from the side, as well.
So it was really tricky.   You just had to know that the wind is going from each side and just to hit the ball strong, because otherwise it's gonna fly wherever it will fly.

Q.   You know you will be facing Belinda in the final   and you have never faced her before.   What are your thoughts on that?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I was saying it's always very interesting to play someone for the first time, especially not really happen very often.
It's gonna be interesting match, for sure.   She had a really good season this year.   Upcoming player on tour.   So, well, I'm really looking forward.

Q.   Will it be difficult maybe to play a teenager who might have no fear at all in a final?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course I think more pressure is on my side, but this is the final so we both want to win.   I think we are gonna fight the same for each ball game by game, and, well, we will see who's better tomorrow. 

Q.   Do you feel like you're playing at the level you were at when you got to the final of Wimbledon three years ago?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think so.   I'm feeling very well now.   On court and off the court, I'm really fresh.   I had a lot of good matches here and also in Nottingham, so I hope I can do the same or even better next week.   I'm here to have very good warmup and a couple of matches to play before Wimbledon.
I think I did that very well.   That was the goal.   Now we will just have to see what's going to happen in London. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT