ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. BECK/A. Radwanska  6-2, 3-6, 6-1    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  You managed to turn it around in the second set, but didn't go your way.  What do you think wasn't working for you?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, it was really strange match.  I start pretty slow and it was too late in that first set. Was much better in the second set. I thought I'm playing still my game in third set, but just went too fast just other way.   Q.  You didn't have any physical issues or nothing at all, right?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Let's say that.   Q.  It's been a difficult year.  Can you talk about why you're not playing as well as you usually do?  What's happening here?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, clay season is not really my favorite one, and I guess it's not getting better, even when I'm really trying to do everything. So I just want to forget about that and focus on grass, I guess.   Q.  In your practice you're doing fine but when get on the court it's a little bit different?  Maybe a little bit nervous?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: My game is not really working together.  It's just not the same as the hard court or grass.   Q.  Is this the first time that's happened to you for an entire year where you're not playing again?  You've been winning all the time, so why is it different now?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Maybe getting older.  I think.  I don't know.  I can't answer that.   Q.  You mentioned clay is not your best surface or your favorite part of the year, but you seem clearly disappointed.  Did you feel you could have had a good run this fortnight, or did you not feel well coming in?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Well, I was doing a lot of things to really play good here.  I practice well at home.  Of course doesn't matter how I feel like, I should just win that match. Of course I'm not happy about the result.  Losing first round is always disappointing, especially in a Grand Slam.   Q.  The last time you played her you beat her 6-Love 6-Love.  When you step on the court and find her hitting these huge balls like in the first set, did it take you by surprise or do you not think about your previous match with her at all?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: That was two years ago and different conditions.  Shouldn't really compare anything.  Of course it was quite different match than the other one, but she was playing quite well.   Q.  You tried something different with your coaching this year adding Martina, and then you guys split.  Has that made things a bit unstable for you off the court?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really.  That was good part of coaching, and that end few weeks ago.  I just go forward and doing my thing. So I don't think that really matters.   Q.  You almost never would get nervous.  Now seems like you're a little bit nervous when you're on court.  Do you feel that way?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course I'm not getting nervous because of the pressure; just getting nervous because I can't really do what I want on court and it's not really working. That makes me nervous and angry.  That way, yeah.   Q.  Today in the third set were you just frustrated?  Is that how you felt?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Of course I was frustrated.  She just had some answers for my shots, and I just didn't play good in important moments and slip away couple of games.  Was really hard to come back.   Q.  You played great on grass and you're going back to grass again.  Maybe that's the place where you'll turn around again, playing better again.  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: I hope so.  I will do everything in my power of course to do that, and we'll see.   Q.  You spent quite a long time inside the top 10.  Is it weird for you going to slams and having like a lower seeding than you're used to?  AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA: Not really.  I think that doesn't really matter.  I think what matters is winning the matches.  Doesn't matter what number do you have next to your name. So, yeah.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT