MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/A. Radwanska
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It's been a tough couple weeks I think parting ways with Martina and not a great start in Stuttgart.   How are you easing into your clay court season after the loss to Caroline today? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, well, of course every loss is disappointing, but I think, well, she was playing really great tennis today.
I didn't play bad, it's just if one shot is not working, like serve today, it's not really easy.   So I missed a serve today and I think that was also one of the key in that match. 
About the clay court season, I think worse than last year.   I played good here, and in Rome as well.
I think the most important part of the clay season is still there, so I hope in Paris will be better.

Q.   How is your shoulder?   I notice it's been strapped for a couple weeks. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, it's always getting a little bit worse in the clay court.   You're pushing more, just using the shoulder more than in other surface, and always struggling with that.   I know it's coming, but I cannot do anything about it. 

Q.   Did the split with Martina come as a surprise, or had you seen to coming for a while? 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, it was our decision.   We talked about it once for the long time, and we just thought that has to be like that because we have different schedule. 
She had couple of other things to do.   She's there; I'm here.   Wasn't really working.   We didn't spend that much time that we wanted to.   That's why it ends like that. 

Q.   What you did you learn from her in the time you were together?   What's the lingering legacy?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   A lot.   I think those couple months was really great.   I think she had really a lot of stories that she could tell me on and off the court. 
I really see tennis from a bit different perspective as well.   With the huge experience she had, she could really talk about everything.
I was really happy with that couple months.   We will stay in touch and we're okay.

Q.   At the risk of being terribly British about this, to look forward to Wimbledon with all should that she achieved there, what you learned from her, can that help you when you get to Wimbledon?
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I hope so.   Wimbledon is one of the biggest tournaments for me.   I will try.   Of course everything we work on I will try to kind of try to use everything that I practice for on the grass court, because we are working on couple things that is very important also in the grass court.
So, yeah, I hope I can do that myself. 

Q.   You're not the only person that's parted with a coach.   Ana did this last weekend.   She felt that it was down to her; there was nobody else to blame.   Did you feel that when you played your first‑round match?   In the past you seemed conflicted when Martina came in.   Your instincts seemed to have deserted you.   First round match you seem to have that back. 
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I have still my coach on my side.   Martina was extra person on my team.   It's not I don't have any coach anymore.   I still have my whole team with me.   I didn't feel alone or anything like that. 
I think Ana had a little bit different situation right there.   But, you know, like I'm saying, it wasn't really surprise because we talk about it.   It was our decision, and for us it was the best decision that we could make.   Yep. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT