MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
March 26, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/A. Schmiedlova
  6‑4, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Obviously a very tough match.   Not much difference separated you.   What do you think the difference was today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, always a bit tricky playing someone for the first time.   I didn't really know her before, but always makes it different when you play someone for 10 times, for example.  
So of course there was couple of key points in that match.   Of course I was in trouble, especially in that second set.   But I think what was most important in that match is that I was really playing good shot in the really key points, in the break points, and I used that well.  
So just very glad that I could finish that match in two sets.  
   
 Q.   She didn't really win many of her second serves.   Was that a key?   You really attacked her second serve.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   I think it was also my goal in that match to really go forward and take my chances.   I could really come to the net, as well, and try to play aggressive tennis, as well.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about what Martina has brought to your game, and why did you decide to go to her as a consultant?   What is it about her and what has she added?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, first of all, she's a great champion with so many titles, major titles, and huge experience.   She has many years on the tour.   She's still actually there, also, calling the matches and pretty much know everybody.   So that's also very important.   
That's why she can really talk about everything.   That's what we are doing, talking off the court about everything.  
   
 Q.   How much time have you been able to spend with her?   How many weeks or days?   Is it a lot?   Is it just in small portions?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, depends.   Here we have four weeks together, whole Indian Wells and here in Miami.   So that's long time.   
Also, she's gonna do with me also big tournaments in Europe.  
   
 Q.   I want to ask you about playing on the tour with your sister; obviously she's playing Venus today.   She's the big sister of Serena, you're the big sister of Urszula.   What's that like?   Plus and minuses to it?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   I think it's the best to have siblings on tour.   You don't feel alone of course having a sister and doing the same thing as you.   
She can understand you very well after the good match, after the tough one, tough losses, as well.  
It's great to have a sister on tour, you know, hanging out together.   Sometimes you just feel like also you have part of home with you, as well.  
   
 Q.   Also, I don't know if you look at the draw, but there is a possibly dream family quarterfinal looming here.   Have you played her in a main event yet?   If you did, what would that be like?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   We did, but many years ago.   We played so many times in the junior times, so also even longer time ago.  
Well, I think, you know, this is the worst draw.   I mean, it's nice to play against each other in the final, for example, but of course in the big events like here quarters is also good.  
But, you know, it's not really the great thing.   I would say also I think Venus and Serena would say the same.   Playing a sister, it's not the same.   It's always going to be tough.   
Of course you go on court and try to win, but it's different.  
   
 Q.   Is it tough because she hasn't had the success you have had yet?   Do you feel sorry for her?   She has such a big shadow to follow, top 5 player for many years.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think she had up and downs in the whole career.   She had really good season two years ago when she was 29th, so we played pretty much everything together.   
That was a chance that we could play every week against each other.   Then she had surgery twice and a lot of problems with the back and shoulder.   So she was out for so many months.   
Now she's come back; now she's really playing good tennis.   I believe and I really hope that she can be back and we gonna play everything together again.  
   
 Q.   When you guys are here in Miami together, do you get to hang out a lot?   Do you go out to dinner or hang out outside of competition or do you just focus on competition?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course we are going out.   I think everybody is really working hard at practice, but also after a tough day you want to really forget about everything and just, you know, have good dinner and relax a little bit.  
So of course we pretty much hang out every day.  
   
 Q.   Last year was a little slower year title‑wise for you, so what have you done in the offseason?   I know you have a new trainer in December.   What have you done to get back to like the level you were at before the last couple of years?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I really practiced hard, a lot of fitness.  
Well, I really did a lot of weeks of hard work, so I hope it will pay off soon.   So we'll see.  
   
 Q.   Is that your ultimate dream, though, like Venus and Serena?   To meet in a Grand Slam finals or obviously premier event times?   Is that a dream?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course that would be great.   I think also dream for our parents to see us playing in the final.   
So, yeah, definitely.  
   
 Q.   Is it distracting ever?   Like if she has a bad match and you know that she's upset, does that distract you?   How do you block that out when you have to focus on your match and you're maybe wanting to be the older sister, supporting her?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, you know, for example yesterday I watch a little bit here.   She played three hours yesterday, so I watched her a little bit on TV.   Then I went back, but was still on the phone.   Then I was somewhere in the grocery store and still, you know, watching if, you know, she's still on court.   
And of course, you know, it's not like I'm forgetting.   It's feels like I'm playing the match.   
So of course we support each other very much.   You know, she's the closest person I have.   We have always been close to each other.  
   
 Q.   Do you room together or do you have separate rooms?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Sometimes yes.   Here actually I have a boyfriend, so we separate.   Sometimes we do together, as well.  
   
 Q.   Will you give her some tips on how to play Venus today?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think she knows what to do.   She played her so many times, as well.   But for sure we talked again.   I didn't see her today yet.   She was still sleeping I guess when I was coming on‑site.  
So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Is there any advice or tips you give your sister?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think, you know, we are gonna for sure talk a little bit about Venus, especially that I played her twice this year.   But, well, she saw those matches.  
So I think, you know, Venus is also playing well now.   Is really hard to say something that she's not doing right at the moment.   
That's going to be a very tough match, but I think my sister has nothing to lose right now.   Hopefully she can play her best tennis.  
   
 Q.   Going back to the match like today, since it was your first game of the match, was it just like nerves getting to you today or a slow start or...   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, the first match is always tricky, especially with the different conditions compared to Indian Wells.   You know, also a couple of moments in that match that I could really step forward and I didn't do that.   That's why it was much longer than it should be.  
So I paid my price, even in that second set.   But I think, you know, I win in two sets, so that's what, you know, what's most important.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT