BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/A. Riske
  6‑3, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   With the exception of one little hiccup in the first set, fairly simple opening match.   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, well, I think I start very well.   I'm in trouble the end of the first set but also finish very well, so that's the most important thing.  
   
 Q.   How's it feel to be back after having such a big run last year here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it's always great to be back in a place where you have good memories.   Last year was great for me.   
Of course, it was tough loss in the final, but I think this is one of the best tournaments, so I'm always happy to be back here.  
   
 Q.   When you come back, is it easy to banish memories of what happened last year in the final, or is that lurking always in the back of your mind?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, that was the final so of course you remember that for a long time.   You cannot just forget it.   After that I had so many tournaments, so many matches.   
Whole season is pretty busy, so you have other matches in your mind.   I don't want to go on court thinking about that final really from last year.  
   
 Q.   You spoke earlier this week about having Martina as part of your team.   Apart from her wealth of experience, what is the one thing that stands out that makes her a good coach in your mind?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think her huge experience on the tour.   I think we can just talk about everything, on and off the court, and already working on couple of things on the court.  
So far, so good.   So I'm very happy with that, the coaching.  
   
 Q.   With Martina, what is she advising you with?   What are some of the things that she would like to change, things that she would like to leave as they are?   Do you also talk with her about the experiences that she's had and get some stories from the past?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   She's telling me stories all the time.   Sometimes I'm just so surprised that something like happened, as well, to her or to other players.  
I think she was so long on the tour that she can really talk about everything.   I was saying just huge experience.   
Especially on the Grand Slam, this is of course the biggest goal for me.   So, yeah, especially we are gonna work on that, trying to win seven matches in a row.  
   
 Q.   Would you say she surprised you with some things story‑wise?   Can you remember any at the moment?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it just is conversation between us.   I was saying we talk about different things on and off the court.   And, yeah, just to see ‑‑but I had same problems, same matches, similar stories from each tournament.   
So, yeah.  
   
 Q.   So what's going to be the first thing that you work on when you practice later today or whenever you practice?   What will be the first thing you learn from your match today, your win today?   What would you work on first?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, today is just rest and massage, but tomorrow is the practice day.   
So I think maybe my serve wasn't great today, and I really had to work on that.   It was a little bit tricky with that wind.   The ball was flying a little bit, but for sure serve tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   If you lose a match‑ like Sydney you lost early, Martina arrived and you had lost and it was all over ‑ if you lose a match, if you win a match, what are some of the things that she might say to you?   If you lose does she get angry with you or does she have a way of saying things?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it of course depends what match and what happened and how was my tennis.   I think you cannot just say losing matches and winning matches are the same.   Every match is different.  
Of course we talk about the good and the bad side even from the wins.   That's why I think tennis is the sport that you can improve all the time.   Doesn't matter if you're 16 or 26, you can still work on couple of things just to try to be better and better.   
   
 Q.   How would you assess your form so far this season?   What's pleased you?   What hasn't pleased you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, of course the first Grand Slam didn't go really my way.   Well, but I think Venus was really ‑‑she's still playing great tennis.   I think from last season she's really on fire and playing her best tennis.   
But I think, you know, still beginning of the year.   Also here, this is quite a challenge.   It's a big event.   Almost beginning of the year.   We will see here in and Miami.  
   
 Q.   What expectations do you have on yourself now that you've got Martina in your corner?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think always the highest expectation, I guess, especially that I have been in a few finals.   I won already a couple of tournaments ‑ couple of big ones, as well.   
Being in the top 10, top 5 couple of years now.   Whenever I go I want to win the title, so the expectation are always the highest.  
   
 Q.   When you have a win, do you have any type of celebration?   I know you have to get ready for the next match, but is there any type of celebration with that particular win?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Maybe later in the tournament, maybe in the second week when the tournament is two weeks, not in the beginning.   
So if I'm going to be in the end of the second week, we talk again (Smiling.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT