QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 25, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RADWANSKA/F. Pennetta
  6‑1, 6‑1 
   
 Q.   That was quite quick today.  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, well, actually surprised me as well.   For sure I wouldn't tell it was going to be that quick.   
Well, I think I really played great tennis today.   I was really aggressive from the beginning and really focused from the beginning and that worked until the end.  
   
 Q.   I guess you did not expect to beat the No. 16 in the world and Indian Wells champion this way, right?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Of course.   I think this is a tournament that you're expecting all the very top, long matches and playing against top‑20 players here.   So of course, there's no easy matches.  
   
 Q.   How long did you prepare here?   I mean, were you always used to the conditions?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I was here a couple of days, so of course it's a bit different conditions than in Dubai, so it's a little bit tricky.   I was here a few days and I had time to adjust, so that worked well.  
   
 Q.   Just a question, when you're in this beautiful city, do you get an opportunity to go out to see any of the sites or is it strictly tennis, back to the hotel, tennis, back to the hotel?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it all depends if you are here‑‑ I mean, if you are here for the first time or whether you're here a couple times before.   And I'm here already a few times for a championship, for the tournament a few years ago.   So I've been doing a lot of things before.   And now I think when I'm here, just focusing on tennis.   And of course, afterwards I go straight home.  
   
 Q.   What are the things that you would recommend for people to do here?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I really loved the camel ride, the safari.   That is a really cool.   Of course, there a couple of really good restaurants that you can really try, especially with a nice, cool evening.  
   
 Q.   Another question about your social media.   You're on Twitter, you're quite active.   What sort of role does Twitter and social media play in your life?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it's very important, especially I think for the fans.   We are traveling so much and every week in a different city, different country.   I think it's really a nice for everyone just to know where we are, what we are doing and what's going on in our lives before the match, after the match.   I think people really like it.  
   
 Q.   Do you spend a lot of time looking at your phone?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I think so.   
   
 Q.   It's a bit addictive yeah?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   I think so.   I think a phone was always the really important thing for me since, remember, I'm traveling so much.   Of course, we want to be in touch with everyone, especially your friends, your family.   So the phone was always next to me, so yeah.  
   
 Q.   Did anyone teach you how to use it?   Have you ever posted something and thought, I wish I hadn't done that?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Not really.   I don't think so, no.   
   
 Q.   Your next opponent, Venus Williams, quite a tough one, I guess?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, of course.   I think it's going to be very good match for revenge.   We played just a few weeks ago in Melbourne.   
So she had definitely had great season last year and very good beginning of the year.   For sure not going to be an easy one, but I will looking forward.   I think playing Venus is always a really good challenge so I'm looking forward.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you anyways got a lot of respect in front of a multiple Grand Slam champion, but does she somehow for you deserve extra credit for how she's dealing with her illness and despite that coming back?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, of course.   It's always hard to be back after a long break.   So now she's back.   She's top‑15 and, well, she's really fit and healthy like she was a few years ago.   So she for sure is very tricky opponent.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT