QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 22, 2015
Agnieszka Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What would your expectations be for this week here?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think wherever you go for the tournament, you want to win, so of course this is the goal.   Obviously it's not going to be easy.   The draw is pretty strong from the beginning.   So not an easy one, but always trying to win.  
   
 Q.   At this time of year, is the most important thing to just get plenty of matches under your belt?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I think this is the beginning of the year, so more matches is better, I think, for everyone.   So I will looking forward, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Aga, what are the most effective changes that you have made to your game since Martina has been helping you?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, we are working on a couple of things on the court.   We have a few big ones.   Definitely playing more aggressive, really going for it.   I think this is the really important thing, especially right now when the tennis is going the way that everything is going faster and stronger.   This is in the thing that you would have to do.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you, I read an interview with your coach Tomasz Wiktorowski, and he said you were kind of in a transition period, as you were explaining already now, to a more aggressive game.   I wanted to ask you, you are still quite young, but why didn't you do that already earlier?   
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I mean, the transition maybe, it's too big a word, definitely changing a few things, trying to improve.   Of course, tennis is a sport that you can always improve something.   Always you want to be better and better.   Doesn't matter what you win before, you just want to win more and be better, especially when I didn't win the Grand Slam, this is always the goal right now.   Of course I want to be better as well and make this step forward, so that's why I'm changing a few things.   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   Do you already see a progress in your game or moving into this more aggressive game?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Well, I think it's a bit too early to say.   We just‑‑ you know, with Martina not long, it's just been two months.   So I think in time we have to see that after maybe half year, a year.   Just needs a bit more time than a few weeks.  
   
 Q.   But in practice, does it already work quite well?  
AGNIESZKA RADWANSKA:   Yes, I think so.   I feel good on court.   I can see really the difference.   Sometimes it's just the point is that you‑‑ when you go on court and playing a match, sometimes it's just the habits that you have from so many years and you're forgetting those new things and just actually a big change, bigger difference between practice and the match.   So I'm just going to now trying to refocus in the matches to do those things that I should do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT