CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 27, 2016
Kyle Kalis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is there an intentional plan to keep you guys as busy and out of harm's way?
KYLE KALIS: Yeah, that's definitely Coach's plan.  I think it's a good one.  It's definitely what we did last year, and I think we're trying to get the same result as we had last year.  Kind of just trying to get ready like we did last year and get the same result.
Q. Are you enjoying this little different experience even though it's not what you were expecting this year?
KYLE KALIS: Yeah, last year it was kind of a shock for a lot of guys because it wasn't what we were used to for a bowl game, but we definitely knew coming into this year it was going to be pretty similar.  No one was too shocked.
Q. Talk about the evolution of the line; what has been the gap from the Ohio State game until now?  Last year you showed such progress in the bowl season.  What have you seen here the last couple weeks?
KYLE KALIS: I think it's a big testament to the coaches.  The coaches never really give us a chance to really feel comfortable or get settled down too much.  They always keep us on our toes.  Like yesterday we had meetings starting at 10:00 and went until like 10:45 at night just nonstop all day.  They always try to prepare us for the next level, and it really feels like that.  Already in college we're already at the next level, and it feels almost like a job.  But that's how it should be, and it's like a job, so we go about it like that.
Q. Does it help you get prepared for the next level?  I know that's one of the big things you talked about when Jim took over the program.
KYLE KALIS: Coach Harbaugh personally I don't think has done that much for my game.  I think he's kind of like the figurehead.  He's not really a position coach.  Coach Drevno has really done that.  I give all the credit to him for the way he coaches me.  He never lets anyone take a day off, and that's been huge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT