WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL ONE: SAN DIEGO
March 15, 2009
Oliver Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Today, we have Mexico starting pitcher, Oliver Perez. I will ask him to share his view of the game. 
 OLIVER PEREZ: Today's game was really tough for us, because we understand the Koreans, they really good. When I was pitching -- when they hit the ball, I was missing my location, and I was behind the count, and that's why they take the pitches. 

 Q. Oliver, my question is, it was clearly seen that the home runs were very good pitches. What can we do to combat this? 
 OLIVER PEREZ: Well, I would also like to say that they want to win and we noticed that they play tremendous ball. They are players of great contact. This is what happened. Some of those pitches were good, but we also need to understand that they are professional players, and that's what the results came to be, that's why they played better ball than we did, and that's why they won. 

 Q. Oliver, tomorrow facing Cuba, what will be your strategy as a team, thinking that they've already beat you last week? 
 OLIVER PEREZ: Well, I would like to say that Cuba is another big player in baseball. We need to forget today's game; we lost it. Let's accept it. 
 And tomorrow, we will have a very important game and still we will have an opportunity to move forward to play yet another game. 

 Q. Oliver, could you please tell us, how do you feel about your performance here? Are you a little upset about your own performance? 
 OLIVER PEREZ: Well, I want to say that all of us are a little upset. We don't really like being in this position, but we need to realize that we all did our very best effort, and this is baseball. We need to take the good and the bad. 
 You know, we need to be professional. And tomorrow, we'll be coming here with our very best. 

 Q. Oliver, obviously in this situation, this is March, and a lot of pitchers are out of rhythm. Do you feel that you have or are on your rhythm to take on the responsibility or is it the lack of rhythm that brought you to the situation? 
 OLIVER PEREZ: I've been practicing since mid-December, planning and practicing particularly for this Classic, and I knew that was an important event for myself and for the Mexican team. I really feel at my very best, as I felt at my best at any other spring training. 

 Q. Among the Korean players, they were following the small ball, but Mexican players, how do they play for career Yankees? You prepare for a small ball from Korea, but there are so many home runs. What do you think about it? 
 OLIVER PEREZ: Three solo homers, the Koreans play good baseball, you know? They can play power; they can play small baseball. That's why you have to be careful, because you have to take the chances and try to score more runs, because they are good and you've got to be careful. 

 Q. Oliver, were you surprised or was the team surprised somehow that the Koreans play different? They bat when they have three balls and zero strikes, or they have the steal. Did that surprise the Mexican team? 
 OLIVER PEREZ: I would say that everybody knows the type of ball that they play. With any count or at any count of the game, they can do anything. So as I said, we need to be careful with them, try to understand the type of ball that they play to be able to come out victorious. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT