SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 26, 2008
Marta Domachowska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  How tough was it to come back in the third set, literally after getting a bagel in the second? 
 MARTA DOMACHOWSKA:  It was not easy, for sure.  In the end of the second set I was trying like to come back already to win at least one, two games.  I didn't make it, but I was feeling better and better. 
 So it was easier for me to come back because I was trying to in the second set already to come back. 

 Q.  What do you feel you did well in the first and third set that maybe you weren't doing in the second? 
 MARTA DOMACHOWSKA:  Well, in the second I did really a lot of errors and easy mistakes.  I think in the first and second and third set I was just trying to play my game, and in the important moments to don't be afraid and just do my best. 

 Q.  Is this the longest match you played? 
 MARTA DOMACHOWSKA:  No.  I think I had longer matches, but I think in this year it is the longest match for me. 

 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your next match with Venus and about the Australian? 
 MARTA DOMACHOWSKA:  Yes, we played this year in Australia.  I lost-4 and 4, but I had a lot of chances that day, so I will try again and see how can I do it. 

 Q.  Are you going to do anything tonight?  Will you rest a little longer tonight after a match like this? 
 MARTA DOMACHOWSKA:  Now after this press conference I'm going to have a massage, so I will relax a little bit.  As I know today is the players' party, so I think I will go a little bit because I'm not playing tomorrow and I will enjoy a little. 

 Q.  You mentioned those unforced errors.  How do you think you overcame those during the match? 
 MARTA DOMACHOWSKA:  What? 

 Q.  The unforced errors, you had a lot of them.  How did you overcome that to still win? 
 MARTA DOMACHOWSKA:  Well, my game is that I'm trying to all the time put pressure.  I think I did a lot of errors, but I had some winners also.  So I think that in the important moments I had more winners than errors. 

 Q.  Can you talk about as you go through a match like that, what do you think about?  Do you ever realize, Geez, this is going on for a while? 
 MARTA DOMACHOWSKA:  Oh, yes.  I would like to switch off my brain sometimes.  I have really like thousand thoughts every, like, minute.  But I think the important thing for me is to stop thinking and try to play the game. 

 Q.  What are some of those thousand thoughts? 
 MARTA DOMACHOWSKA:  Well, you don't want to know (laughing). 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT