NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 21, 2010
Michael Finley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL FINLEY: Always been optimistic. I always thought this team was a good one. I just thought we needed to be more consistent, take things a little more seriously. I think once we did that and once we realized the benefit of trusting each other, I think that's when we started playing our best ball. 

 Q. I see all the work you're putting in here. How do you stay ready for this role, because you really don't know when you'll be called upon? But when you are, they might need you to --
 MICHAEL FINLEY: That's the role of all the guys on the bench. Not only on this team, but throughout the playoffs. Just always be prepared when your number is called. Because that's the one thing you don't want to do, is not be prepared when your number is called. That opportunity may not come again. So I just try to keep myself game ready so when Doc does call my number, he has confidence in knowing that I'll be ready. 

 Q. Talk about the last couple of days of practice and how different it was from the last time with the extended time off? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY: Last time I think we had that big break, it was a break. I think guys took it literally, both physically and mentally, and we weren't into it. 
 This time these last two practices we've been focused on the task at hand. The defensive and offensive schemes we put in place, everybody was focused. The last couple of days have been great practices for us. 

 Q. Is that just a matter of getting deeper into the playoffs and realizing --
 MICHAEL FINLEY: Yeah. I mean, unfortunately, yes. It can hurt you if you don't do it earlier. We could have easily lost those games because we weren't mentally prepared the last time we had the break. 
 I think we learned from that that different things can happen when you're not prepared. From that standpoint, we came into this situation knowing the importance of the games coming up and we would be mentally prepared. 

 Q. Has much been said this week in that regard? Or does it just sort of happen --
 MICHAEL FINLEY: As far as mentally being prepared? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 MICHAEL FINLEY: No, it doesn't have to be preached. I think we learned from the last series against Cleveland. We came into Game 3, I don't think we were mentally prepared. Cleveland came in and pretty much put a good beating on us. 
 From that standpoint, the coaching staff didn't have to say much. As far as us being mentally prepared coming into this little break. I think we'll be all right. 

 Q. You've played with some good post defenders, namely Tim Duncan is a good post defender. How does Perkins match up compared to other guys you've played with? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY: I like to say Perkins is what I call a throwback big man because of his size and his strength. A lot of big men nowadays are more based on athletic ability and ability to score from the outside. But Perk is an inside type of defender. He takes pride in his defense. He gives us the ability to not have to double-team as much, similar to what Tim Duncan gave us with San Antonio. When you have that benefit of having a big man able to do that, it just makes your defense even better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT