NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v LAKERS
May 22, 2008
Michael Finley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How has he changed approaching the game with the Lakers?
 MICHAEL FINLEY: He is still one of the top players and he does whatever it takes for him to give his team the best opportunity to win. This year, unlike years in the past, he trusts his teammates a lot more in crucial situations, to give the ball up and let them make the decisions, with them making right or wrong decision, during the pass he would try to do it pretty much all himself. 
 From that standpoint, he has grown into a true league player. I think it has made a better team and him a better player.

 Q. When he says, I can get off, is that a boast? Is that just fact? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY: That's just him being himself. As you have seen in the past, you know, he goes and tries to do his individual thing. At some point in the past, it usually hurts him. It is a sign of his maturity, showing that he can trust his teammates and then pick and choose his points to be aggressive and at the same time keep his teammates involved.

 Q. 20-point lead last night. Most teams might take that and keep it. Do you guys put that away? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY: We have to. It is just one game. The situation where we had a nice lead and they made a tremendous come-back. At the same time, they are a great team. So they can't take them away from them. We just had to have this behind us and focus on Game 2.

 Q. None of you guys seemed to be able to hit a shot in the fourth quarter. 
 MICHAEL FINLEY: It was a combination of a lot of things. Our inability to score, turning the ball over and ability to miss. When it is riding against you, it is tough to maintain the lead. But we still had an opportunity. We just came up short.

 Q. Obviously, you guys have (indiscernible) build on from that?
 MICHAEL FINLEY: You have to. You want to play as perfect a game as you can. But you are playing against a good team. Last night was an example of that. We try to put that behind us and refocus.

 Q. What will you guys do today? Obviously rest a little bit. 
 MICHAEL FINLEY: I think that's the most important thing, to rest physically and mentally and get prepared for tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT