NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v SPURS
June 14, 2007
Tim Duncan
Michael Finley
Robert Horry
Tony Parker
David Stern
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   DAN PATRICK:  Here to hand out the Larry O'Brien Trophy to the World Champion San Antonio Spurs and their owner Peter Holt is the commissioner of the NBA, David stern. 
 COMMISSIONER DAVID STERN:  First of all, thank you, Cleveland, for being a great host city in your first visit to the NBA Finals, and congratulations to the Cavaliers, who rose up all year and had a spectacular post-season reason. 
 And now, to the San Antonio Spurs, a team for the ages, who have won their fourth championship in nine years with a display of basketball that puts them in the pantheon of the great teams in NBA history.  Congratulations to Peter Holt, to the ownership group, to Coach Popovich, and particularly to the great fans of San Antonio.  Here's the trophy. 
 DAN PATRICK:  What were the expectations for this team when you started the season? 
 PETER HOLT:  Well, we had very high expectations coming off of last year.  We're a beautiful team.  This is a great, great team. 

 Q.  Have you run out of acceptance speeches for the Larry O'Brien Trophy? 
 PETER HOLT:  Never, never.  I love it up here.  Thank you, Cavs fans.  Thank you, San Antonio fans.  Thank you. 
 DAN PATRICK:  Now for the presentation of the MVP trophy. 
 COMMISSIONER DAVID STERN:  Almost 25 points a game, a shooting percentage of 57 percent for The Finals, a performance that, how shall we say it, was extraordinaire.  So to the MVP of the 2007 NBA Finals, Tony Parker, we say congratulations, and Bon Chance. 

 Q.  What's going through your mind right now? 
 TONY PARKER:  I don't know, it's like a dream.  I want to thank my teammates.  They've been great.  This one is for Michael Finley.  He made the right decision to come to San Antonio, and I'm very happy.  I don't know what to say.  That's like a dream, watching Michael Jordan every year when I was small, and to look at that is unreal. 

 Q.  What time did you have to get up or stay up in the middle of the night to watch the NBA growing up? 
 TONY PARKER:  3 in the morning. 

 Q.  Will you be more nervous playing in the NBA Finals or getting married in a month? 
 TONY PARKER:  That's a good question.  No, I'm not nervous, I'm not nervous. 

 Q.  Michael, congratulations with the game ball, long time coming.  These guys wanted to win it for you.  How do you feel? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  I feel great right now.  I feel blessed to be part of a great group of guys.  They welcomed me with open arms a couple years ago.  I'm just glad we won it.  I'm ecstatic right now. 

 Q.  Where are you putting that basketball? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  I might just put it in the bed between me and my wife.  I don't know right now. 

 Q.  Robert Horry, ten fingers, seven rings.  Are you going to play a little longer? 
 ROBERT HORRY:  I think I'm going to play one more year to try and repeat. 

 Q.  When you get this many championships, does it get to the point where you almost understand that this is going to be the feeling? 
 ROBERT HORRY:  You never expect anything.  There's too many great teams in the NBA.  The Cavaliers were great and we got four wins real quick.  When you're with a group of guys you want to win for them like we won for the team. 

 Q.  Tim, compare this one to the first time you won the trophy. 
 TIM DUNCAN:  I've got to admit, this one is sweeter.  The road that we took to get here, it was as tough as we ever had it.  Guys persevered, had great performances from 1 to 12.  It was great.  All around it was great, probably the best one. 

 Q.  When you go through and realize that eventually you have a shelf life of how long you can play, is that why you're holding on to this one tighter than maybe the other ones? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  Absolutely.  That boy over there took my other trophy so I'm going to keep this one at my house. 

 Q.  Was there any jealousy Tony taking your MVP? 
 TIM DUNCAN:  He carried the team, and I'm just happy he was on my team. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT