NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v SPURS
June 8, 2007
Michael Finley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Talk about defending LeBron.) 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  Well, it's all a team effort.  I mean, it started out with Bruce lining up on him and just making his looks and his drives and such difficult to the basket, but at the same time Bruce knew he had his teammates behind him.  But we always said, LeBron is a good player.  We just wanted to make it tough, make him have to make tough shots and make them.  Last night, fortunately for us, they didn't go down. 

 Q.  Is it encouraging at all that you won Game 1 and you know that as a team you really didn't shoot that well from the perimeter? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  Oh, yeah.  Offensively we weren't that good.  But again, we banked a lot on our defense, and once we look at film we'll see even more room for improvement.  But last night, although we got a win, we know we still can play a better game. 

 Q.  (Did the Spurs' experience in previous Finals help in Game 1?) 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  I think it helped us.  It helped us from a coaching standpoint.  I think they prepared us with the week off and keeping us as sharp as they could. 
 From a playoff standpoint, it wasn't a big deal with the lights and the media attention coming into Game 1.  Most of the team had already experienced that.  So from that standpoint, I think it gave us a step up. 

 Q.  Was your first Finals game everything you thought it would be or hoped it would be? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  Yeah, I mean, I wasn't really nervous until we had to do the introductions.  I didn't know they went through all that hoopla.  It felt like an All-Star game.  From that standpoint I was nervous.  I just didn't want to trip and fall and embarrass myself (laughter).  But after that it just became basketball, got the jitters out early, we won, and that was the most important thing. 

 Q.  (Do you expect LeBron to play much better in Game 2?) 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  Yeah, I think so.  I mean, just going on his past series, he usually uses that first game as, like you said, a feeling out game, seeing what the defense is giving him and taking away from him, and going into Game 2 he usually makes adjustments.  So from that standpoint we have to go into the game knowing he's going to adjust, he's going to be a lot more aggressive from the jump ball, and we just have to say if our defensive adjustments, and hopefully that will be enough. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT