NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v SPURS
June 6, 2007
Michael Finley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  (Talk about this being your first Finals appearance.) 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  It's been an exciting experience.  You know, you can never redo your first, and I'm trying to enjoy all the hoopla that surrounds it but at the same time keeping my focus on the task at hand, and that's Cleveland.  But over all I'm enjoying it. 

 Q.  How frustrating has it been for you the last 13 years and not getting here, and what's that feeling been like? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  It's been frustrating, but when you come into the league you think it's something that's a given, that you make it to The Finals in your first four or five years, but this is a tough league.  I've had a lot of ups and downs throughout my career, but right now I'm very thankful to have this opportunity to play in The Finals, and I'm just going to make the most of it. 

 Q.  You said a few days ago before you even knew it was Cleveland that it hadn't really hit you yet.  Yet when you see all this, you know it's Cleveland.  Has it hit you yet that you're in the NBA Finals? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  I guess.  I'm seeing you guys and doing a press conference like this.  It's here now.  It's time to really get focused.  I'm really excited, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow's game. 

 Q.  A lot has been made about LeBron being in The Finals with the Cavaliers.  If the Spurs win, Tim Duncan will have won four titles.  Why do you think that people are so excited about LeBron? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  Well, LeBron is an exciting player.  You can't take anything away from him.  He's done a lot for the city of Cleveland.  He's done a lot for the game of basketball.  So for people to be excited for him in his first NBA Finals is well-deserving. 
 But Tim, this is his fourth, so it's pretty old news for him.  I mean, the league is about new, exciting things, and LeBron is that thing right now. 

 Q.  What does it say if Tim were to win four?  Does this make him one of the greatest ever? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  I think win or lose, in my opinion, he's still considered one of the best players to ever play the game, just because of the success he's had before these Finals and the type of person he is.  I mean, when you have the type of attitude that he has as a champion on and off the court, he's well-deserving of everything that he gets. 

 Q.  How much is Manu the wild card on this team?  He's obviously a very streaky player. 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  Well, I wouldn't see him as a wild card.  I mean, he's a wild player, but I wouldn't see him as a wild wild card because he's an All-Star in my eyes.  Any other team in this league, he's an All-Star, but he's a guy who's willing to sacrifice the best -- what's best for the team.  If it means coming off the bench he's willing to do that.  So for him to be considered a wild card, I don't think so.  I think he's going to give us what he's been giving us throughout these playoffs, and that's consistent play, being the All-Star that he is, and hopefully he'll give us a better chance of winning. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT