NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 27, 2007
Michael Finley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about the biggest difference between you guys in Games 1 and 2 and playing Game 3 here in Utah as far as how it is affecting your performance? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  I don't understand. 

 Q.  Anything in particular?  Was it the crowd?  Was it the way the game was called?  Was it something the team didn't do?  What was the biggest difference? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  The biggest difference is we didn't execute.  We didn't execute like we did in Game 1 and Game 2, both offensively and defensively.  On top of that, they picked up their energy and seemed to sustain it for 48 minutes. 
 We just did it for maybe a quarter, quarter and a half.  As a result, we were on the losing end of the stick. 

 Q.  Was that energy as a result of frustration the team was feeling about either how the game was going in their favor or was it more about what they were doing against you? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  A little bit of both.  I think we let the officiating and things not going our way kind of affect us a little bit.  On top of that, they were in a good groove.  They were basically living off their crowd, the energy of their crowd, hitting the big shots, taking big shots. 
 When those shots started going down, their confidence just went even higher and we just seemed to stay at a steady state.  So with that, we lost. 

 Q.  What about Deron's performance?  A young player and your being a veteran, what did you think about his performance? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  I like Deron.  Deron is a Texan.  He went to high school in Texas and went to college at Illinois.  So I have always had my eye on him.  He is a great young player, great young talent.  He brings a lot to the table for their team. 
 I think the team feeds off his confidence as a player.  When they see him going into the game very confidently, it just gives them a sense that they can win any game. 

 Q.  Are you feeling better today yourself?  Do you feel good today? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  Better than yesterday. 

 Q.  How bad was it yesterday?  If you can give us an idea what you were going through. 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  It was a little bit painful but it was bearable.  I was able to go out and give my best and hopefully tomorrow I can be even better. 

 Q.  It happened in Game 5, I believe it was, before you played against Phoenix, you still played.  It didn't seem like it hurt as bad.  Was it better or worse? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  It was worse than that.  It was a totally different area of my back.  I am okay. 

 Q.  Did it just tighten up, or was it something you did while working out? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  It happened in practice a couple of days ago.  I should be okay.  It is not that bad. 

 Q.  Michael, you guys always say everything goes through Tim Duncan.  When he is on the bench in foul trouble, is it difficult to get into a rhythm? 
 MICHAEL FINLEY:  It is not difficult.  I think we are still capable of doing it.  We played a couple of games this year with Tim in foul trouble, and we found a way to win. 
 Last night we were forcing the situations when he wasn't in the game, trying to make the big play, trying to do things that was out of the regular for us. 
 We just have to stay the course when he is in foul trouble on the bench.  When he comes back in, continue to feed off him. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT