MCI CLASSIC
April 18, 1997
Rick Fehr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RICK  FEHR: I think conditions weren't a whole lot different, as I see it.  It was blowing a little bit harder, but I don't think it was a whole lot more difficult to score. I didn't hit as many quality shots today.  The wind was steady, and strong all day and sometimes that makes it easier because you know which way it is blowing.  But, generally, I scored very well, I saved par a number of times.  Didn't hit that many real good shots, but I am putting well.  I am scoring well, so good position. 
 
RICK  FEHR: 13 I didn't hit a very good tee ball and actually hit a tree and dropped down and into the fairway and so had to hit a 7-iron into the green.  Came up short about 30 feet and rolled it in.  So it was a surprise birdie on 13.  15, I hit sand wedge in about, I guess, about twelve feet from the hole, and made that putt.  I guess you want bogeys.  16th hole, I hit a poor drive out to the right and had 2-punched it under one tree and tried to carry the bunker and hit a decent shot, but it ran through the green into a bad lie and hit a bad pitch shot and made bogey. 
 
RICK  FEHR: Had to have been 30 feet.  That is it until I make the turn.  Second hole hit a good drive.  Had a 5-iron to the green, hit a terrible shot left of the green, hit a bad chip about 15 feet from the hole and made it. Number 8, finally hit two good shots in a row, hit a good drive and 6-iron about -- I guess about 18 inches from the hole.  Tapped it in.  Then the 9th hole I hit a decent tee shot out in the fairway and was in one of the sand divot -- repaired divot, which was probably the worst hole to be in that situation because I had to hit kind of a cute, little pitching wedge with a little draw kind of under the trees.  With that type of lie, didn't have much of a shot.  Hit a decent shot, but it ran through the green and had a difficult chip shot and didn't pull it over very well and missed from about twelve feet. 
 

Q.  Talk about that chip, Rick, and what happened.
 
RICK  FEHR: Chip?  Talking about the last hole? 
 

Q.  Yeah.
 
RICK  FEHR: Yeah, I was trying to bounce it through the first cut of rough or the fairway - I guess the first cut of rough - and tried to bounce it and trickle it onto the green.  And that grass really grabbed it, acted very sticky, and the ball just didn't come out of that grass very well, so came out about twelve feet short. 
 

Q.  Rick, after the birdie on 8, I mean, that is one of the more difficult holes out there on the front.  Did you know you were tied for the lead and did you think I have got 9 ahead of me?
 
RICK  FEHR: Yeah, I knew I was tied.  I don't think many guys think that way.  It is Friday again, and every shot matters; whether it is a 9th hole, 13th hole, or the 3rd hole, and I didn't change strategy.  I mean, if I was five over, you know, or three over playing that hole, I would have played it the exact same way.  So, I just -- you know, I didn't catch a good break, and I didn't execute a great shot, and the result was a bogey. But, I don't think I would have felt any different standing on that tee 7-under as opposed to 8-under. 
 

Q.  Did the conditions make it a little bit easier than you thought they might be this afternoon?
 
RICK  FEHR: Maybe.  I didn't know if the forecast was 35-mile-an-hour winds or 20.  I think it blew about the same all day from what I could tell.  Obviously, it was warmer in the afternoon.  But when you make the turn and when we played 16, 17, 18, it is like you feel like well, somebody all of a sudden turned on the fans.  But it is blowing like that all day.  It is just when you are in the trees, you don't feel it as much. 
 

Q.  How about playing with Nick tomorrow, and talk a little bit about this weekend.
 
RICK  FEHR: First of all, I don't know if I will be playing with Nick. 
 
RICK  FEHR: They are good guys.  We all know each other.  We are friends.  It doesn't really matter who I play with.  Obviously, I am in a good position, and it has been a good week thus far.  And, you know, just hope to continue good play. 
 
RICK  FEHR: They all nodded.  Well, I am hungry. Great. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT