US OPEN
August 31, 1997
Joannette Kruger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Any reaction?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: I'm disappointed. I think maybe I just -- I don't know, I have to get
used to playing on centre court, that's all.

Q. Nervous?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: Uh-huh.

Q. You seemed after the first set, she sort of unloaded on you, but in the second set
you seemed to really start to handle her power quite well.

JOANNETTE KRUGER: I don't think it was a problem with the power. I think I was in slow
motion today. My feet were really slow. Maybe it's also because I had a really tough match
and I only finished quarter past nine on Friday evening, I don't know. I also think it was
nerves because that's the first sign of my nerves goes to my feet. I mean, I'm 23, but I'm
not used to playing on the big courts. I think for me, my game has developed now so far
that I'm going to be playing there more and I'm going to have to get used to it, to be
able to play better. Because I really felt that I had a great chance today, and I'm really
disappointed about my performance because I don't think she beat me; I think I beat
myself. I made way too many errors. I think that was the whole point of my game, is that
I'm really a baseliner. If I lose that, then I don't have any chance.

Q. You've not played her before, right?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: No.

Q. What were your impressions? She's obviously gotten a lot of publicity here?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: She's a good player. I think she handled the situation much better
than I did. I think that's what creates a champion. I think she has the mental ability to
be there, definitely. She surely thinks she will be great one day, and it's a good
attitude to have if you want to be there. I think she has talent, yeah, a lot.

Q. And her game, not just her attitude? What do you think of her game?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: Like I said, she has a lot of talent. I think she has a great overall
game. She has a great serve, great return, good volleys. What I was really surprised with
was her movement; it was unbelievable. Every time I had a shot, she was there waiting for
it. I think she could meet me really well. She really anticipated well where I was going
to hit, that's also very good thing that she has, talent.

Q. So if you had to play her again, what would you change? What would you do
differently in your own game?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: Keep more balls in the court. I think if I'm playing my normal game,
I would stand a really good chance. I honestly believe if I could have just played like
I've been playing my last three matches, I think it would have been -- I'm not saying I
would have won, but I'm saying it would have been a lot tougher and a lot more pressure on
her to see how she handles also being under pressure. Because there was no pressure on her
today. Whenever there was, I gave it to her. She handled that much better than I did. And
I think that was very good, because she's so young.

Q. You're the second opponent she's faced in a row who said you beat yourself. Anke
Huber said the same thing. What does she do to force the action that puts you in that
situation?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: I think, you know, to be honest with you, we create it in our own
heads, "We're playing Venus." Venus is the next player. I think you put it on
yourself to say, "Hey, what am I going to do here today to win? I've got to do
something great." I think that's not the attitude to have. She's a human girl just
like I am, and I'm just going to have to keep the ball in the court. She has great,
unbelievable, powerful shots, yeah. But can she do that consistently? I don't know.
Because I did not give her the chance to keep consistently hitting great big shots. She
had to hit one or two in a game to win a game; she did not have to hit four or five. I
think that would be the key, to be more aware of just playing the ball and not the
opponent.

Q. Is she the hardest server you've played against?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: Brenda serves harder.

Q. Isn't that unusual, that here she is, 17, and her opponents are psyched out?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: Yes, it's crazy. I don't know what to think of it.

Q. Have you ever had that feeling with any other player you've been around, where
you've gone on dealing with the mystique as much as the ball?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: No. I think actually she's quite unique in ways.

Q. A lot of her shots were in centre court. What did you think about that? She didn't
really hit a lot of balls to you long?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: A lot of balls where? Like in centre court, a lot of her shots were
-- a good percentage of her shots were in the middle of the court?

Q. Yes.

JOANNETTE KRUGER: Yeah, I think she knew I was going to make the error. I was so
inconsistent she thought, "All I need to do it keep the ball in the court, I will
win." When she needed a big shot, she did pull it out. I can give her definitely that
credit. She played really well when it mattered in the second set.

Q. She came off the court seeming very winded. Did she seem that way coming up to the
net?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: I was really tired, too. After any long point we had, one or two or
three, I was tired. I could feel my legs. I think I had a tougher road to here than she
did, so that also maybe made a difference.

Q. How would you describe her confidence compared to other players around her age?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: I think she has enormous confidence in herself. I think it's great
when somebody that age can have that confidence. I think it's wonderful. I never had it.
When I was 17 years old, I was really looking up to all these huge players and saying,
"Wow." Here she is 17 and thinking she's this wonderful, great player. I don't
know where you get it, but she has it, so that's good for her.

Q. Have you noticed that some other players don't feel the same way, that they're
saying she hasn't done anything yet, why is she going around saying how good she is?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: She hasn't really, I mean up to this moment, really gone far in any
Grand Slams or big tournaments. That is a fact. But I think the whole way that she was
brought up through the press, this is the new player, that is what made her feel also
maybe more confident of the. "Hey, I am great because everybody thinks I'm
great." I think that is more why she's feeling that way than her results. I think
also she was maybe taught from a young age that she's going to be great, and never really
put into the Juniors or anything to really see how well she's going to be. She has
performed, I think, tremendous for the amount of playing that she's had. I think for a
girl that age playing as much matches as she has, I think it's great.

Q. With the terrible news of the day, were you distracted by that? Were you just able
to focus on your work as a professional? Were you happy to go out on court?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: I was really shocked when I heard that. I only heard it this morning
when I walked in the locker room. I just realized, you know, life is so fragile. I really
thought, I'm so keyed up in my tennis. What is it really, if you look in the majority of
life? Where are we going next? I could die in a car accident when I walk out of here. That
just made me more realize, I have a faith in God, made my religion so much more important
than anything else. That is, for me, what it really turned me into. Instead of focusing so
much on my tennis, I try to see the whole picture in a big focus for me.

Q. In the second set, you were doing much better. Was it a combination of you doing
better and her losing a little concentration? How would you rate that?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: You know what, she made me mad, and I played better. She actually
smiled at me when we walked around the changeover. I thought, "Oh, my goodness, I've
got to do something just to feel a little more like I'm worth a smile here." I
started saying, "I've got to do something now or it will be too late." So I
think that triggered me a little bit. I was a little bit more feisty, whereas at the
beginning, I was so intimidated by this big stadium, to say the honest truth. I think that
was the main thing, the stadium.

Q. When did she smile at you?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: At 3-Love.

Q. What was the biggest court you played on previous to this? 

JOANNETTE KRUGER: Well, I've played on center in Paris, so it was the center here.

Q. That wasn't preparation enough, so to speak?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: I don't know how many times I have to play here to feel like it's my
home ground. Top players feel it's their backyard when they play out here. We only get out
there once or twice a year. They get out there every match they play. They're really used
to it. I think I'm going to perform a lot better now, I'm going to be there more.

Q. So you play better when you're mad?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: Yes. I always play better when I'm mad. I think I should get somebody
to bully me outside my locker room before I walk out (laughter).

Q. In becoming angry, did you interpret the smile as being a little bit condescending?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: I don't know what it meant. I can't tell you what she thought at this
moment.

Q. It made you angry. How did you interpret that?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: It came over as being, you know, "Do you have anything more than
that to show me?" That's what it came over to me like. "Do you have anything
else that I can challenge you with?"

Q. That seems to be an attitude that some of the other players have. While they admire
her confidence, they seem a little put off sometimes that she is so confident.

JOANNETTE KRUGER: She is really confident. As I said, it's a great talent to have. It's
not bad, because that is what creates champions. Look at Martina Hingis, she's the same,
she's a really confident player. I think that's the key to being No. 1 in the world, is
that little area where you never, ever, ever stop believinng in yourself. She has that You
know, I don't know. I think it's great to have that ability. It's something that you're
born with, I think.

Q. What did she say to you at the net? Did she say anything to you at the net?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: No.

Q. Kruger, of course, is a well-known South African name. Are you any relationship to
the former politician?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: Well, we all -- back in the 16th century. Should we go into history?
Two Kruger brothers that came from Germany. That's where everybody related from. I mean,
there's so many. It's a very common name, so. I'm related far away (laughter).

Q. You compared Venus to Hingis. If you had to guess, do you think Venus is going to be
No. 1 someday?

JOANNETTE KRUGER: Not while Hingis is around, no. I think she is just amazing. She has
everything. Maybe, I don't know, she's more consistent than Venus. But I don't think that
Venus has played as much as Hingis. It's tough to say. She has the ability to be good, to
be No. 1; she has the mental capacity to be there. We'll see as far as her stroke-wise
matching up to Martina.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT