CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2006
Kim Brozer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.
Ms. Brozer, how would you characterize your performance at this tournament? 
KIM BROZER:  You know, overall, I'm pleased.  I was very happy to be playing on the weekend.  I played very solid yesterday.  The putts didn't go in.  And today I didn't keep it in the fairway, which is a necessity here.  So that's the 4 over.  Overall, I'm pleased.
Q.  How would you compare this experience to all the other venues that you've played at this year?
KIM BROZER:  Totally ranks right up there, I'm talking even with venues in Canada to go along with that.  London was fantastic.  The fans have come out.  They've been supportive.  The golf course was awesome.  The weather was great.  I mean, you couldn't order this.  You could order this every day and everybody would be happy.  It was very well run.
Q.  Do you want to talk about the performance of other Canadian players?
KIM BROZER:  Sure.
Q.  How would you characterize that, just in general?
KIM BROZER:  You know, I haven't been watching.  I don't know what's happening today with Lorie.  As I talked about yesterday, I think she's    I know she expects to win.  And on top of that, there are    what's our population    thirty some million other people that want her to win, as well.  And she's done a fantastic job.  The demands on her are a whole lot more than anyone else, particularly because she is sponsored by CN.  And she's done a great job to get this tournament to happen.  A lot of other demands apart from playing the golf, and she's done really well.
Q.  Talk about those demands.  Do you feel any kind of pressure in addition to performing well as an athlete here?
KIM BROZER:  I mean, if you take Lorie, for example, and Dawn, for example, the higher profile Canadian players, they've just    they have more things going on in the week than I do.  So I can pretty much do my thing and go back to the hotel and that's it.  But they are very recognized and people are always after them for an autograph or interviews and whatnot.
Q.  Were nerves a factor at all on a day like this, fourth round of the Canadian Open?
KIM BROZER:  You know, I would have to say a little bit.  I would be lying to you if I said no.  They were a little bit.  I just never got settled.  I didn't ever settle down from the beginning.  I feel like I shot about 90 out there today, to be with you, because I was in that much rough.

The bunkers, my poor caddie, I feel bad for her because she had to rake about eight bunkers.  But it was just a long day, that's all.
Q.  But it was an experience obviously for you to build on?
KIM BROZER:  Definitely something to build on.  And I had it kind of going in the end and just not really getting a handle on it, but I'll certainly learn from that.
Q.  I have to ask you about the greens.  Cristie Kerr right now, she's tearing up the course right now.  How tough are the greens?
KIM BROZER:  I'll tell you what, they have really tough pin locations and if you're able to    obviously sitting in the fairway you can fly at those pins.  I couldn't do that today.  Good for her.  She's doing what you're supposed to be doing.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT