U.S. OPEN
September 7, 1994
Bernd Karbacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You broke right back to get back in the match and suddenly doublefaulted, and then a question with the line? 

BERND KARBACHER:  No, it was first a question of line and then a doublefault. 


Q.  You were rattled particularly by that; do you think that that ultimately was the -- 

BERND KARBACHER:  I think it was a clear mistake.  I mean, I broke back 4-All, and was back in the match and then I played a good forehand and it was a clear mistake.  Then I made a doublefault because I was angry, upset, and, that was it. Then I played one good point. 


Q.  It looked like all the calls that were going against you were made by the same linesperson; did that occur to you? 

BERND KARBACHER:  I don't think there were too many mistakes.  I think it was -- this one was clear mistake, but, I think it was not that she was against me.  I think maybe she saw it wrong or -- that can happen in tennis.  It's very disappointing at this particular point. 


Q.  How tuff is he and how good is he playing? 

BERND KARBACHER:  I mean, he's a top ten player, so he's a very good player.  He's, I think, in semifinals so far in the Grand Slams tournament, that means he's playing always well there.  He has a good serve and I think that was the point of the match. 


Q.  What did you say to the linesperson before the last game? 

BERND KARBACHER:  I won't repeat it.  I was not very happy. 


Q.  Do you feel that somehow this was stolen from you? 

BERND KARBACHER:  No.  I think I lost it by myself.  I started very badly in the first -- I started playing good tennis in the second set when I was down a break, when I started playing good, and, I mean, the match was almost over.  I played okay in the tiebreaker, he made a couple important points.  If you lose the first set like that -- I never had rhythm and never played my best tennis in the first two sets-- I started playing, well, like, I think when I was 4-3 down or one break down and I started playing well and if I win the tiebreak, maybe it is a totally different match. 


Q.  What does that show to the other players when somebody like Todd makes three semis at a Grand Slam; is that really the sign of a top player? 

BERND KARBACHER:  It is a sign of a top ten player, a top player, of course.  The good players, they play -- usually, they play always well in the Grand Slams, and I had not -- I was -- it was not like that.  I had too much respect.  I knew that he's not playing his best tennis at the moment because he was out for a few weeks, and so he lost in the first set against Reneberg.  Maybe he was a little lucky that he wouldn't get hurt, and I know I had a chance and I start very well with a break, but then, I just didn't play well in the first set. 


Q.  Do you think Todd can win it all? 

BERND KARBACHER:  No, I don't think so.  I think he will have a very tough match the next round, either Thomas Muster or Andre Agassi and I was very impressed by Michael Stich's match yesterday.  Of course, anyone can win the tournament, but if you ask me for a prediction, I won't bet money on Todd Martin. 


Q.  What is Todd missing in his game? 

BERND KARBACHER:  I mean, he's a very, very solid player.  He can play from the baseline very well, he has a good serve, he makes good volleys, but, I don't know, I think he's not-- maybe not consistent enough.  I think it's just a question because he didn't play so many tournaments the last weeks, so I think he will have problems if he has -- especially when he's playing Saturday, Sunday.  Maybe if he's playing -- the semis will be a very tough match, then he has to play the final. 


Q.  Are you too hard on yourself?  Do you feel as though your intensity is -- 

BERND KARBACHER:  I was nervous at the beginning.  It's my first quarterfinal match in a Grand Slam tournament and I played in the States against an American player, that makes it not easier. Another problem, it was very windy, and the mixture between if you're nervous and wind is terrible, because if you play from the baseline and you have no rhythm, it won't be much better and if it's windy and so -- then I was -- if you play first time in the stadium -- or in a big tournament in the stadium and then you really think you have chances and then you are really disappointed the way the games are going.  So, then I was upset and angry and a little bit frustrated.  I always tried.  I almost came back in the match. 


Q.  When you're angry, do you think that fires you up? 

BERND KARBACHER:  Sometimes, and sometime it hurts your game.  It is not very good if you are angry or upset.  And if you're complaining too much, it doesn't help your game at all.  But sometimes you cannot control it. 


Q.  How about today, how do you feel you controlled it today? 

BERND KARBACHER:  I think I started to control it when I played better.  So, it was okay in the third set and in the fourth set. 


Q.  Martin has reached the finals of Australia, semis Wimbledon, how do the players on the tour view him, his strengths? 

BERND KARBACHER:  I said it already, he's a top player. He's top ten in the world.  What else do you expect?  Everybody respects him.  I think everybody knows it doesn't matter if it's Pete Sampras or Andre Agassi or anybody, if you go on the court against Todd Martin, it's a tough match, you can lose and you can win. 


Q.  In the final game today, how difficult is it to not think about the second to last game and how difficult is it to concentrate and forget about what happened? 

BERND KARBACHER:  Of course, it's very difficult, because it is a bad mistake in your game, if you are down 4-3 a break and you break him back and make two doublefaults in the next game, so that's -- for me I forgot it pretty fast.  I tried -- I said to myself, "Keep on trying, it doesn't matter.  I broke him once, maybe I can -- it happens a second time."  But he was serving very well and if he does that, then it's difficult to break it off.  Doesn't matter if it's first game or the last service game. 


Q.  Germany has had a tremendous amount of success in the tennis program.  Do you think there's anything America can learn from the success of German tennis? 

BERND KARBACHER:  I think America has not bad either. Pete Sampras, Jim Courier, Todd Martin, Agassi-- Richey Reneberg plays very well.  So there's nothing to complain about. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT