RCA TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 12, 1996
Bernd Karbacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. If you could just go through the match and explain why it didn't go your way today. 

BERND KARBACHER:  Nothing went my way today.  I played terrible.  I couldn't concentrate.  I made so many mistakes didn't serve well.  Nothing was good.


Q. Any reason you can pinpoint as to why you couldn't concentrate all that well?

BERND KARBACHER:  Yeah, there are some different reasons.  I didn't feel well the last two or three days when I came here.  I just-- I don't know, little headache and I thought a flu was coming up, but it is not there, but I just have no power and no energy, maybe -- I don't know, maybe I still get a flew or something like that, but I just don't feel well.  I sleep the whole day and I am still tired, so I don't know what is going on.


Q. Were you able to practice much or did you have to take off some time?

BERND KARBACHER:  Yeah, I was practicing, but like every time like, I didn't play well, just never felt comfortable when I went on the court. 


Q. Did this happen after the third round at Cincinnati just started the last --

BERND KARBACHER:  It started, I think when I came here the day when I travelled like with bus, I was already so tired, it was just two tired and felt like when I flew from Europe to the States.  Then I went to bed immediately and woke up the next day at 10 o'clock, so -- and then the next day I was practicing one hour.  Then I went to bed immediately again, so just -- I don't know what is wrong.


Q. Especially disappointing coming on a week where you had a lot of points to defend and had a lot of success here?

BERND KARBACHER:  Yes, of course.  It is always -- I played some of my best matches in my career here and I think I should have played much better, but it is just -- sometimes it happens and I had wasn't too lucky the last couple of months.  I had to pull out from two tournaments when I was there.  I didn't play well today, so just I hope maybe it is getting better next week at the U.S. Open.


Q. What is your schedule? Are you off before the Open?

BERND KARBACHER:  I play Toronto.


Q. What do you have to do now to regroup and get back in a good frame of mind for the Open?

BERND KARBACHER:  I think I just have to practice well and maybe have a day off tomorrow and start practicing really a lot and I hope that I get in shape.  And I think I cannot play  worse in Toronto than today, so I think I just keep on trying and I will improve my game and play much better.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT