GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 1996
Bernd Karbacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BERND KARBACHER: Yeah, I was down a break and when I -- when I lost the second set the
heat was really bothering me and when I got the break in the second set and third set, I
really didn't think that I had a chance to win this match and then I started to change a
little bit on my return and tried to hit -- just to push the ball back -- back to his
forehand and then he started missing a little bit. He made a few doublefaults. Then I
broke him back and then it was an open match. 
 
Q. At this stretch you were probably hitting your best run and is this the kind of
match that maybe can kind of get you pointed in that direction again (inaudible)?
 
 BERND KARBACHER: Yes, of course, I really like to play here. Okay, it is very hot, but
for me, the heat is not too bad. I can stand the heat pretty good. And the conditions suit
me very well, like the balls, the court is not so fast. And I played -- the last two years
I played very good in the hard court seasons, so I was looking forward to it. You have a
lot of things to do and if you have a good feeling when you go to a tournament, then
mostly you always play well. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about that stretch? You had such a good stretch -- leading
up to the final in Indianapolis and then kind of (Inaudible.) Can you talk about what
changed there for you or what was going on --
 
 BERND KARBACHER: Yeah, I mean, problem is maybe last year after the Indianapolis
tournament I had some unlucky draws. I played first round at the U.S. Open I played very
well, but lost to Jim Courier in the fourth set, so that was kind of unlucky. And then you
have a little bit of a break and then almost the indoor season starts in Europe and I am
not -- I don't like the indoor season so much and for me, it is very hard to win the
matches. I have not so much confidence when I go indoors, so maybe that is the point and
then there is another break beginning of the year -- at the end of the year. Then you go
to Australia, so that is maybe -- it is just -- I am not an indoor player. I would love to
play more tournaments outside. 
 
Q. How about just as far as this year has gone, maybe a little bit of a down, getting
to the quarters at French (inaudible)?
 
 BERND KARBACHER: It was good. I played -- I didn't play so bad. I think I played okay
in the clay court season. I had some injuries after and during Wimbledon and then
afterwards I couldn't play so much tennis and I got back in shape and practiced hard and
now I am fit. So I think I am going to play well here in the next tournaments. 
 
Q. When you go into a tournament next week, say, in Indianapolis where you have been a
semifinalist (inaudible), do you carry that over, that extra bounce, like at a tournament
like that, where you had a big run, like Indianapolis?
 
 BERND KARBACHER: Yes, of course. Like I said before, when you go to a tournament and
you really like to go there; you enjoy it and you know the circumstances are good, the
courts and the balls that suits you very well, then if you have a good feeling to go to a
tournament and go on the court and you really like to play there, then you have to play
well. That is normal. I mean, you can lose matches, but you have a big advantage when you
go to a court that is perfect for me. 
 
Q. Several years you put together a period (Inaudible.) One or two touraments--
(inaudible) is there some way you can find consistency?
 
 BERND KARBACHER: Yeah, I am trying to, but for me it is very difficult. I have no
solution yet. I did not find it the last four, five years. I think it is just -- it has --
for sure, it has something to do with the surface and the balls and the conditions. Like I
said, for me it is very hard to play on grass. I don't like to play on grass and I don't
like so much to play on indoors, so usually I play well in the clay court tournament and
on hard court and that is how I pick most tournaments, so I think I just have to try to --
for the next year to play as many tournaments on hard court at the beginning of the year
as possible and maybe I don't play indoors at all. 
 
Q. Can you do that without your ranking suffering so much on --
 
 BERND KARBACHER: Definitely. You have to play a few indoor tournaments, but for
example, that is not a big reason to play three or four tournaments on grass because other
tournaments at the same time, okay, Wimbledon is one big tournament, but you can play
there or just two and then you have two weeks off and that helps you also because you need
to have a break in the summer sometime and you have a lot of choices which tournament you
pick. I think it doesn't matter if you -- where you make the points, it doesn't really
matter, for the top guys it is more important because they have to play all the Super 9
events almost to make the big points. But for the other players, it doesn't really matter
if you make 100 points there or indoors, it doesn't matter. You have a choice to pick --
you have to play, let us say, four, five indoor events, but that is enough. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT