NASCAR XFINITY SERIES: NASCAR RACING EXPERIENCE 300
February 16, 2019
Brandon Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We're going to go ahead and roll into our post‑race media availability in the NASCAR Xfinity Series for today's 38th annual NASCAR Racing Experience 300 at Daytona. We're joined by today's third‑place finisher, driver of the No.19 Juniper Toyota, and that's Brandon Jones. We'll go ahead and open up the floor for questions.   
   
 Q. I don't even know if this is totally in your wheelhouse, but when it comes to the racing we've seen this weekend, a lot of people are pointing to the bumper extension on the back of the cars. Is it something to do with that or the composite bodies here for the speedway races that's making it really difficult for you guys to suck up?   
BRANDON JONES: Yeah, there was a lot of unknowns. With the new super nose, the composite body. There was some stuff that we just really couldn't determine based off anything in the past. I don't know what led to it. I know that getting really close to the wall like that, it seemed like all the cars were really good when they were offset to the right drafting. Maybe that had something to do with it, maybe it didn't. But all in all, it may not have looked very exciting, but my heart was racing for sure the whole time.   
THE MODERATOR: After today's strong third‑place showing, we're going to your home track, Atlanta Motor Speedway next week. What kind of momentum does this give you going into Atlanta?   
BRANDON JONES: Yeah, this was big. This was a great way to come out of this track. Sometimes I've been on the tow hook and sometimes I've been on the good end. Great way to start our Speedweeks anyways.   
Atlanta is a different animal than Daytona is for sure, so I'm looking forward to seeing what our new crew chief Jeff Meendering can bring to the table for that track. I think that's really going to help us out when we come back in a couple weeks.   
   
 Q. The new Supra, you have the highest finishing with the debut of the Supra. Do you really notice a difference when you're inside the car after practicing and qualifying and now racing? Do you really notice a difference, or does being the Supra make the big difference, or not at all?   
BRANDON JONES: Yeah, it didn't seem to really make a difference. I definitely couldn't tell that I was driving a different style car. I think in the wind tunnel they were very similar, as well, to the Camries, so it wasn't a very big change. But they definitely looked really, really nice out there on the racetrack today.   
THE MODERATOR: Brandon, congratulations on the third‑place finish, and good luck next weekend in Atlanta.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT