JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2014
Steven Ihm
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about finishing up your first tournament as a professional. 
STEVEN IHM:   It was an awesome weeks.   Just a big thanks to the John Deere guys for allowing me to play this week and really showcase my game.   It was a super fun week.   I thought I played pretty well.

Q.   How much did you learn from Thursday to Sunday? 
STEVEN IHM:   Tons.   I mean, just my playing partners, playing with Stankowski, he said just have fun with it, and playing with Glen today, he's Steady Eddie, so that taught me a few things, too.   Even if you're hitting it good you're not going to make a million birdies sometimes and stuff like that.   I learned a ton about myself this week, and I definitely know my game is where I want it to be. 

Q.   This is something as you look forward that, yeah, this is what I want to do, isn't it?
STEVEN IHM:   Definitely.   I mean, it was a super fun week.   They're not all going to be home events, but just being on this stage is where you want to be.

Q.   Taking home a check, that's‑‑
STEVEN IHM:   Yeah, that's always nice.   You've got to make money somehow.   If I can do it by playing golf, that's pretty fun.

Q.   What's next for you? 
STEVEN IHM:   Next will be probably the Waterloo Open next week, and then I'll have some Monday for Web.coms maybe the two following weeks, and hopefully I'll be playing in those.

Q.   Talk about having Andy as your caddie.   He has 32 years' experience.   How did that help you?
STEVEN IHM:   It was awesome.   It took us not a few days to get meshed together, but he told me a lot of things after rounds.   He says, you're a pro now, let's play like this.   You don't need to be doing all this extra stuff like you had to do in college and whatnot.   He helped me slow down and really focus on a lot of my shots, and I thought he did a great job this week. 

Q.   Talk about having the gallery out there.   Obviously they were yelling on every hole. 
STEVEN IHM:   It's awesome.   I mean, every time you take a birdie you get a roar like Zach or Stricker or somebody.   It was super fun, and it was just an awesome experience.

Q.   Any thoughts on what you're going to spend that first paycheck on?
STEVEN IHM:   Probably put it in the bank real quick. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT