NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 16, 2018
Wade Miley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How does having the kind of bullpen that the Brewers have help you in terms of game preparation personally or when you're on the mound in the middle of a game let's say?
WADE MILEY: I just try to go out and pitch my game, and get as many outs as I can, get as deep into a game as possible.  And the game will dictate when the bullpen takes over.
Q. Is it fair to say that the cutter saved your career?
WADE MILEY: I mean, throwing strikes, I think, saved my career more than cutters, just being able to throw pitches in the zone.  Obviously the cutter has been a big pitch for me.  But if I didn't locate it, I don't think it would be all that great.  Just being able to command the baseball again.
Q. There's been so much talk about the bullpen and maybe how they try to limit you guys starting-wise.  Has it kind of become a point of pride for you and Jhoulys and the others to go as long as you can, and maybe put up numbers that others wouldn't expect coming into the series and postseason?
WADE MILEY: Same from the beginning of the year, I think any starter, all of us just want to get as deep into a game as we can.  Craig's the manager, he makes the final decision, but at the same time, you want to make it as tough on them as possible.  We try to go out there and do the best we can.
Q. You mentioned being able to command the baseball again.  What do you attribute that to this year; was it a mechanical adjustment, a mental one or something else?
WADE MILEY: A little bit of both.  But a lot of cleaning up mechanics.  I was just having a hard time repeating my delivery last year and the year before.  So just spent a lot of time trying to clean my mechanics up.
Q. Ryan Braun a few years ago was the man, so to speak, and now he doesn't get talked about as much.  What's he like as far as the way he is in the clubhouse and his leadership?
WADE MILEY: He's still the man.  He's still Ryan Braun.  There's a respect that everybody gives him.  But it's kind of in our clubhouse how it is.  He comes in and goes about his business the right way, and obviously it shows on the field.  His numbers may not have been what he wanted them to be this year, but I think he had a pretty good year.  Had some bad luck early on, but hits the ball hard.
Q. Just on shorter rest, how does your routine change?
WADE MILEY: Not much.  Just two less days, I guess.  Kind of threw bullpen yesterday and just prepared to get out.
Q. Schoop's getting a start tonight, he hasn't played much in the postseason, you know him from way back.  How do you think he's handled the fact that his time in Milwaukee hasn't gone the way he wanted it to?
WADE MILEY: Probably as good as you can handle it.  Obviously he wants to play every day, and probably takes the plate every day.  For him he's played 162 games in Baltimore for multiple years.  It's probably hard to come off the bench like he did.  He's still there supporting his teammates day in and day out.  He's going to try to do whatever he can to help the team win.
Q. Facing the Dodgers, you've already faced them three times this year, and it's a team that they live and die by the home run, they like to get the ball in the air.  What's your approach?  Do you do things maybe a little bit differently against them than you might do against another team that's not so homer happy or is it pretty much the same deal?
WADE MILEY: I don't want to give away all my secrets.
Q. Can you give away one?
WADE MILEY: No, I just go and execute pitches.  I feel like I attack every team I face the same:  Just try to keep the ball down and mix speeds back and forth.  And hopefully hit it at people.
Q. I wanted to follow up on that Schoop question.  You played with him several years, so you've seen him when he's been really, really good.  And we haven't seen that.  So what are we missing?  Tell us about the real Schoop when he's going well.
WADE MILEY: From what I've seen he's a superstar.  Hitting .290 last year, 35 homers, plays great defense, probably can turn two with the best of them.  I don't know.  He just needs at-bats, I guess.  But it's hard.  We've got a really good team over here.  He came in in August and this is how we play.  He'll be good again.
Q. Having played for a bunch of different managers, can you share with us what you like about Craig Counsell or where you think his influence has been felt on this team?
WADE MILEY: He's just consistent.  First off, he's a good human being.  You can communicate with him.  You can talk to him.  He's going to shoot you straight.  As players we respect that.  And he's just consistent in what he does.  It becomes a pattern and routine, and you can -- you kind of know what you're going to get every day when you come in, and that's good.
Q. Looking back at your Major League track record, you haven't gone on short rest before.  When was the last time you've done this, in the minors even, before you were in the pros or is this completely new?
WADE MILEY: I guess it's a new experience.  We'll see how it goes.  Looking forward to it.
Q. One more question about the bullpen.  How much of a boost mentally and emotionally has its success given your club this season?
WADE MILEY: Our bullpen has been huge.  They come in and they pretty much shut the game down.  We got a lead -- it reminds me of Atlanta a couple of years ago, when Kimbrel and O'Flaherty, they had a lead in the sixth inning, the game was pretty much wiped out.  I think about that all the time and our bullpen is on that level if not better.
Q. What is tougher for you, to play a team that has a lot of speed or a team like the Dodgers that have a lot of power?
WADE MILEY: I try not to even think about it, I just try to stick to my playing, stick to the approach we have, and just let the game dictate itself.  Just try to execute pitches, make quality pitches and hope for the best.
Q. When you were in Spring Training did you think that you would be pitching in Games 2 and Game 5 of the Championship Series?  Did anything like this even cross your mind or was it too wild to think about at the time?
WADE MILEY: That's what we suit up for once Spring Training starts.  I think all 30 teams at some point that thought crosses everybody's mind.  That's why we play the game, to be in these situations.  So, yeah, I'd be lying to say I didn't think about it.  I've always dreamed to be in this situation, playing for a potential chance to go to the World Series and play for the World Series.
Q. And the idea that you were on a Minor League contract and you were trying to work your way back and then you had the injury that kind of derailed you.  Was there that confidence all along that I'm going to be there when it counts and I'm going to make an impact?
WADE MILEY: I mean the front office, those guys made that clear.  They wanted me to get healthy.  It made me feel better.  I went and got healthy and came back and tried to help the team any way I could.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT