NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 12, 2018
Wade Miley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you think back to that day in Spring Training where you got hurt?  You were right on the cusp of making the team and got hurt.  Did you have worries at that time that they might not stick with you through that, that they might just go with what they had.  And to be here, sitting here ready to start Game 2 of the NLCS, can you just reflect on going from that point to this point?
WADE MILEY: I can tell you this, *David had beat me to the training room that day, and we had a small conversation immediately after it happened.  So I really wasn't worried about having to go anywhere else.  I liked what he said, and yeah, it's just an exciting time now.  You look back eight months later, seven months later, and we have an opportunity to play for NLCS and potentially go to the World Series.
Q. Wade, is there any benefit from a preparation standpoint for you following another lefty?
WADE MILEY: Definitely.  Yeah, I'll watch what Gio does too.  I'm sure those guys will make adjustments as the game goes on, but it's definitely something to look at and see how he attacks them tonight and see how they respond to it and go from there.
Q. Wade, how does it affect the starting pitcher when you know that you have such a deep bullpen behind you and that the team's probably planning to use it relatively early?
WADE MILEY: We just try to go out and get as many outs as we can and leave that up to Counsell and the coaching staff to make that decision when they want to turn it over to the bullpen.  So obviously you watch the previous game, and you see how it goes, and if those guys are fresh or not.  But in the end, we're just trying to get as many outs as possible, and Counsell will let us know when we're done.
Q. Wade, kind of along those lines, you've had, I think, five or six seasons in your career where you have 32, 33 starts a year, but your innings per start gradually went down, which is happening all over the league.  And as that has started to happen, have you noticed a difference in the way that maybe you manage your workload like the first time through the order?
WADE MILEY: No, not really.  I just try to go out -- like I said, just go out, pitch, compete, try to keep the team in the ballgame and get as many outs as possible.  I mean, the way the game is going right now, especially with a bullpen like ours, the games are a little bit shorter for starters more than likely.  But as long as we win at the end of the day, that's all we're looking for.
Q. Wade, do you guys get kept guessing a little bit on assignments, too?  Like we finally heard yesterday it will be Gio and you and Jhoulys after you.  Do you guys kind of have to wait to see what they're going to do, or does Craig sort of give you hints ahead of time?
WADE MILEY: I mean, there's not -- I'm not sure when Craig tells you all anything.  He kind of gives us a little heads up, hey, you might be doing this.  Nothing is definite, but I think we've kind of learned to adapt to that in a way, just kind of be ready to go.
Q. Was there anything specific you did this year to have such a good year?  I mean, I know last year didn't go the way you wanted it, but what did you do different or what did you change up this year?
WADE MILEY: I just spent some time in the off season just trying to, I guess, recreate myself, get back to throwing strikes and being able to command the zone, and it's paid off a little bit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT