NL DIVISION SERIES: ROCKIES VS BREWERS
October 6, 2018
Wade Miley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Could you tell us a year ago, look back a year, you had just finished that year, and you told us about going home and knowing you had -- has it struck you yet just the difference now, where you are now, and where you were a year ago and just everything that's happened between then and now?  
WADE MILEY: I don't know if it's struck me or not.  I was just fortunate that these guys gave me an opportunity to come be a part of this.  Just excited about this opportunity to get to pitch in a postseason baseball game, and hope we can go out there and give us a chance.   
 Q.  Every time we come here, we ask about Coors Field.  What's your theory of Coors Field and whether as a pitcher you need to be cognizant of the conditions in any way or just pitch your game?  
WADE MILEY: I play you just have to pitch your game.  Obviously these guys, it's their home park, but they've got to pitch in it, too.  Just try to go out and make pitches.  And like I said, just try to give the team a chance.  See how long I can keep the offense out there, how quick I can get them back in the dugout, and really try not to read too much into the altitude and the weather and all that stuff, just pitch.   
 Q.  Seeing how your bullpen has done in Game 1 and Game 2, but also leading up to this, does it make it a little more easier?  Does it take the pressure off starting in Game 3 with a possibility to sweep?  
WADE MILEY: I feel like I try not to look into that.  I feel like I try to go out and get as many outs as I possibly can because I'm going to try to go nine innings tomorrow.  In my mind, that's how I've set it up my whole career.  And Counsell will make that decision when it's time to turn it over to the bullpen, or hopefully I can go nine innings.  That would be fun.   
 Q.  How hard was it to change your style of pitching?  We talk a lot about the cutter, but there's some other things you're doing a little different, too.  How hard was it to transform yourself, especially after being in the league for so many years?  
WADE MILEY: It was different for sure because I always had more of like an attack mentality.  Here it is, hit it, throw as hard as you can.  And now it's kind of back off and try to cat and mouse more, I guess you could say.   
But it was a little bit of a transition, but in the end, you're still going out there to compete.  You're still going out there to try to get three outs per inning.  And that's kind of my mindset.   
 Q.  Can you tell us about working with Erik Kratz and just how happy you were as a teammate to see a guy who's had a long career and had a really special moment in his first postseason game yesterday?  
WADE MILEY: It's great to see.  He's been grinding away at this for a long time, like you said, and unbelievable human being.  I've gotten to know him -- I played with him for like four days in 'Boston in 2015.  But to actually get to know a guy, what a great human being.  Proud to call him a teammate and just super excited that he's having such a good year and obviously doing well.   
 Q.  As a catcher, what does he do well?  
WADE MILEY: I mean, right now everything.  He still strikes with the best of them in the game.  His presence back there gives you a different confidence on the mound, and it's not to knock anything from Manny.  I haven't really thrown to Manny much.  He looks great back there, as well.   
Me and Kratz kind of hit it off.  I didn't throw to him in the spring at all.  He wasn't there.  And just kind of picked it up and hopefully keep it rolling.   
 Q.  When you look at the firepower that they have in their lineup, especially Arenado and Story, what does it say about your pitching staff to hold them to two runs in those first two games, and how scary is it that it could break lose at any time?  
WADE MILEY: Our pitchers have done a great job every year with every lineup.  Obviously Colorado, you've got their guys in the middle of the lineup that are bangers, but at the same time as a pitching staff, we have to go out and trust our stuff, trust our catcher and know that we've got seven guys behind us ready to make plays.  You can't be scared of contact even here in Colorado.  You've just got to go out and keep the same game plan and just make pitches.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT