NASCAR CAMPING WORLD TRUCK SERIES: NEXTERA ENERGY RESOURCES 250
February 24, 2012
Justin Lofton
Timothy Peters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KERRY THARP:   Let's roll into our post race for the 13th Annual NextEra Resources.   Camping World Truck Series race here kicking off the 2012 season at Daytona International Speedway.   Our race runner‑up is Timothy Peters.   He drives the No.17 Tire Kingdom/Service Central Toyota for Red Horse Racing.   
Timothy, congratulations.   Certainly an eventful evening, but certainly a terrific start of the season for Red Horse Racing.   
TIMOTHY PETERS:   It definitely was.   It was an action‑packed night.   We were fortunate enough to keep our nose clean all night long.   That right there is what it's all about, seeing that boy right there celebrating in Victory Lane.   That's a special place.   It couldn't have been a better night for Red Horse Racing as a company, 1‑2 finish, Todd coming in fifth.   
Can't say enough about my guys, Butch Hylton, guys on pit row, Service Central, Tire Kingdom, Toyota Tundra, Joe Gibbs Engine.   It was an awesome night tonight.   These guys worked hard on our truck since we left Daytona last year.   
We got some momentum.   It's showing.   We're going to be a force to be reckoned with in year.   
KERRY THARP:   Questions for Timothy.   
   
 Q.   Of all the wrecks and calamities out there, what was the closest you came to it?   How did you stay out of the trouble?   
TIMOTHY PETERS:   We took a little bit different strategy.   We just wanted to make sure we were there at lap 100, not out of it at lap 1.   Probably the first part of the race, until we got the first caution, we rode in the back.   
The closest one was there towards the end.   I don't know what happened, if the 7 and the 13 got together.   But when Sauter went up into the tri‑oval, that was pretty close.   
But for the most part we were clear of wrecks all night long.   Good job to my spotter, Tony Hirschman.   It was just a great team effort.   
   
 Q.   If that last wreck hadn't occurred right there at the white flag, were you going to have a chance to race your teammate for the win or are you committed to stay behind him?  
TIMOTHY PETERS:   I was committed to stay behind him until the time was right.   But this guy right here, I believe I could feel him touching the punching bag in my throat he was pushing so hard (smiling).   
But it was going to be interesting.   But I wasn't going to leave John.   Obviously, when you get probably 100 yards from the start/finish line, it's everybody for themselves.   I wouldn't trade nothing for the way tonight ended.   
KERRY THARP:   Also joining us right now is our third‑place finisher in tonight's race, Justin Lofton.   He drives the No.6 CollegeComplete.com Chevrolet for Eddie Sharp.   Justin, congratulations on a super finish out there today.   Talk about your run.   
JUSTIN LOFTON:   It was an exciting one.   I mean, we had a game plan of sticking to the bottom.   Unfortunately our teammates were taken out halfway through the race.   Team owner was spotting for me also.   That definitely helps a lot.   It was a really cool run.   We had good pit stops all night.   We played the right strategy.   Eddie kept me calm.   When they would get that run on the outside, I wanted to drive up there, but he kept me down.   We found ourselves in the right place at the right time.   I tried to push Timothy to get us in a better position.   
We could have ended up a lot worse.   I'm very excited for everyone at CollegeComplete.com.   
KERRY THARP:   We'll continue with questions.   
   
 Q.   It seems like you're pretty well‑satisfied to get through this one with a second and third place.   Is that accurate?   
TIMOTHY PETERS:   Definitely for me.   Like I said, nothing beats going to Victory Lane.   I'd like to be there.   But, again, this place, it sets the tone for the rest of the year.   You can either be ahead of the game or play catch‑up.   Right now I feel we're ahead of the game going into Martinsville.   
JUSTIN LOFTON:   Same here.   Like I said, my teammates are sitting back somewhere anywhere between 15th to 30th, and they're going to be playing catch‑up with the rest of the year.   With this new points system we do, it is so hard to catch up.   
It's really good to come out of here.   I beat my best finishing position here by over 15 spots.   I'm definitely not going to complain.   
   
 Q.   This race always has a history of some wrecks.   It seemed like there was a high degree of carnage tonight.   Anything in particular from your perspective that was causing it?   A lot of rookies around.   People too aggressive late in the race?   
TIMOTHY PETERS:   It's Daytona.   With the trucks, the closure rate is so huge, when you get side‑by‑side, these things suck together, not your own doing.   I think the air played a lot to do with that on some of that, obviously some of the guys not knowing.   
I've learned my lesson a bunch.   Just been fortunate enough that I wrecked, finished, not hit anything.   
But it will come.   I hate it for those guys because they're with great teams and they deserve a respectable finish.   
JUSTIN LOFTON:   Yeah, tonight it's just the closure rate.   Everyone now is starting to lay their bumpers on each other.   If you were kind of pushing, and the guy in front of you was pushing, the guy behind you would give you a big shove.   Unfortunately it's not going to be you spinning but the guy in front of you.   
But it was definitely wild out there tonight.   The wind was wreaking havoc.   It was really exciting for the fans, at least I hope it was, but it was for the drivers on how strong the outside line was all night long.   
KERRY THARP:   Guys, congratulations.   Good start to the season.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT