NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: WACO
March 22, 2019
Dominque Golightly
Sara Williamson
Breanna Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you guys feel about earning this right to come and play against the No. 1 team in the country?  
BREANNA WRIGHT: We are just really excited to be here.  This is a great opportunity for our team as a whole and we're just excited to take this challenge on.   
SARA WILLIAMSON: Like Bre said, we're excited.  It's an honor to be here.  We are excited to get things going.   
 Q.  Can you talk about attacking them, when you guys have the ball, obviously you're not going to give away your game plan, is it a matter getting on a roll?  
BREANNA WRIGHT: We're a high-calibre offensive team so we are excited to walk out, on d and work on our game that way.   
 Q.  Dominique, can you talk about the confidence the team has coming off the south land tournament and being able to beat Lamar, stuff like that in does that give you confidence coming into the tournament?  
DOMINIQUE GOLIGHTLY: For sure.  We are pretty excited.  It's an honor to be here and we're just ready to give it all that we have.   
 Q.  You've all been around the program for three, four years now.  Knowing when you started for the first one or two years of your career, you guys were not eligible to play in the postseason.  From all the way back then to where you are now, did you think it was going to happen in this timeframe that you guys were in school?  
DOMINIQUE GOLIGHTLY: Honestly I wasn't really thinking about that.  My freshman and sophomore year, we weren't eligible so I was just worried about winning our conference championship, and so that alone was a huge accomplishment and goal and dream for me.  So for us to finally be here my senior year is just a perfect way to end things.   
SARA WILLIAMSON: Just that it happened really fast.  You asked, did we expect it to be in this timeframe, it's just amazing.  It's phenomenal that we were able to accomplish so much.   
 Q.  What's the atmosphere been like in Abilene?  
SARA WILLIAMSON: We have a great community in Abilene.  Everybody is so supportive.  We have an amazing chapel that was held for us and a great turnout.  We're getting a lot of coverage just from a lot of loving fans.  Our teachers, even, just super encouraging.  The community is so tight night there that it's just an amazing experience and especially to be able to experience it with the men's team.   
 Q.  What was that chapel like?  Did you pray for a win or anything like that?  
DOMINIQUE GOLIGHTLY: There was some praying.  There was some singing, just a lot of glorifying God for what we were able to accomplish and to be able to do it with our men's team.  It was just amazing to be able to just stand up there with our guy, as well.   
 Q.  Sara, your coach talked about how you led the team in those last two tournament wins, and talked about the grit and determination that the team had.  But can you talk about that a little bit and then what you're saying is the only senior on the club coming into this game, what you're telling the younger players?  
SARAH WILLIAMSON: We played Baylor my sophomore year so I'm not nervous at all.  When I'm trying to give them words of wisdom, it's to have fun because that's what we are here to do ultimately.  It's an incredible opportunity and we're blessed to be here and this tournament game, our entire team, everybody that we had on the roster stepped up in some kind of way, whether it was being on the bench cheering loud or people contributing on the court -- the incredible free throws she made, everybody was clutch in their own way.   
 Q.  Being from down the road, have you followed the Lady Bears?  Have you been here for camps or anything?  
BREANNA WRIGHT: I made a comment earlier that I actually grew up watching Baylor, just down the road.  45 minutes from Texas, as well, so it was really fun.  I'm just really happy to be at ACU and be competing here.   
 Q.  All three of you were part of the team in 2016 and 2017 with the big four senior class.  I've always equated that game as being a gift the seniors because there was no postseason to go to other than the WNIT.  Breanna, you started, Dom and Sara, you both were reserves in that game.  What are some of the -- I know the team lost but what were some of your most memorable moments, fondest memories from that first game at the Ferrell Center?  
SARA WILLIAMSON: Anything you do together as a team is just phenomenal, amazing experience.  So all of my memories are just being with my teammates, it was with the four seniors, as well, so get to remember them as we play on this court will be really fun as well.  But we're here with a new team and we're just excited.   
 Q.  When we talked the other day, you were overwhelmed with how excited you are and that's probably still the same here today in the Baylor visitor locker room.  Kind of where is your head space at right now?  
BREANNA WRIGHT: We're kind of tackling it, it's another game for us and one step closer to our ultimate goal, just go as far as we can in the NCAA Tournament, so that's what we're trying to go into this approach with and that's the mindset that we're having for our practice today.   
DOMINIQUE GOLIGHTLY: Feel like we are all pretty locked in.  Really focused on on our scout and what we need to work on in practice and we're just making sure that we're focused on the task at hand.   
SARA WILLIAMSON: Slowly getting more real the closer we get to game time, so it's exciting.   
 Q.  How do you guys guard and stop Brown and Cox.  
DOMINIQUE GOLIGHTLY: We're not going to give up our secrets -- nice try.  Just going to execute our scout what we've been preparing for the last couple days and go out there and work hard and do our best to contain them.   
 Q.  Looking at the roster, everybody's from Texas except you.  How did that happen?  
BREANNA WRIGHT: I'm really not sure but it's great to be here.  I love it at Abilene Christian University.  I wouldn't trade it for anything else.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT