PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2011
Chan Reeves
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about today, how exciting was it for you, and how did you play?   
 CHAN REEVES: It's really exciting. I didn't play very well, and I got very lucky with the playing partner that I had. Golf course is hard. It was great playing in front of -- every hole, I had members out there that knew me and called my name. It's kind of a once-in-a-lifetime thing, so I was fortunate to be able to do. It didn't play as well as I would have liked, but I didn't have to. My job was really just to kind of keep the pace with him, and I can slow someone down.   
  
  Q. You're a Class A PGA Member, member of The PGA of America; how special is it to note only be here, and hosting the championship as one of the host professionals but also getting the chance to be a marker and to play in the championship?  
 CHAN REEVES: Like I said, very few people have the opportunity to do it. It's incredible. The guys setting up the PGA have been here for two years, and getting to know the guys, that's been fun.   
 And to watch the whole thing come together -- I was here in 2001. I don't know how much big it is than 2001 but a lot, it seems likes a lot bigger production, in ten years so much has change. To tee it up with Paul Casey -- needless to say, last night wasn't the best night of sleep; you're nervous.   
 Plus, we have been shut down, we have been closed for a week and a half now, so I haven't seen a golf club at all. But I mean, like I said, to be able to do this, in front of your home crowd, family and friends around, and not having to really press myself out there, I'm just here to make a living and my job is to stay out of his way and the fact that a guy like that will treat me as well as he did for 18 holes, it's incredible. It's super. We talked all the way around.  
  
  Q. Have you done this before in a PGA TOUR event or major championship?  
 CHAN REEVES: No.   
  
  Q. And who came up to you and told you?  
 CHAN REEVES: My boss, Rick Anderson, called me last night. I knew going into the week that if there was an odd number, they would be taking a marker. It's cool.  
 It's a different experience standing on the tee at 8:20 and hearing them call your name, from the Atlanta Athletic Club, and all of my members filling the grandstands, it was great.   
  
  Q. What did you shoot?  
 CHAN REEVES: I didn't play well at all.  
  
  Q. Did he keep your score?  
 CHAN REEVES: No, I just keep his score. So I didn't finish several holes. I didn't drive it very well. You can't play this golf course without driving it in the fairway. You have no chance. And I didn't drive it in the it fairway.   
 But when I was behind, I just picked it up and let him play. That was what I was told to do, and I'm fine with it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT