ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 23, 2013
Paul Chryst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  COACH CHRYST:   It was good to get a win Saturday night.   We had to fight to get it.   Yet a lot of guys made a number of different plays that contributed to us getting that win.   As you mentioned, looking forward to getting on the road and going to play Navy this week. 

Q.   How do you stop the option for Navy, Army, the military schools?   How do you stop that quarterback from doing that?
COACH CHRYST:   Obviously they're very good at running it.   I won't be able to answer that question until we do stop it. 
Certainly when you're playing that type of attack, you've got to split up your assignments.   Everyone's got to be accountable for the different options on the plays.   They do a great job of mixing in their action passes off of it. 
It's assignment football.   It's being disciplined with your eyes and executing your assignment.   We certainly got a plan.   We're hoping it stops it or we can be effective. 
I can't say that we're qualified to be experts until we play that game and do something against it. 

Q.   Talk about your first season in the ACC so far.   What are the ups and downs for you so far?
COACH CHRYST:   It's the ups and downs of any season.   A season's a journey; each game's a chapter in that journey. 
I don't know.   It would be hard to answer in a 10‑minute segment nonetheless an hour.   There's some good stories individually, guys contributing, growing.   There's areas that we've got to improve upon. 
Certainly appreciate it.   It's energizing to be in the league, knowing this is going to be your home for the long‑term.   So that part's been energizing.   I know our kids have enjoyed the challenges that each week presents in the ACC.   Last week we were out of conference, this week we're out of conference, then we jump back in it for the finish of the season. 
Certainly appreciative and excited to be in the league.   As far as our take of it, it's a lot of the individual stories and what we've done as a team and where we've got to go. 

Q.   Talk about your offense.   Seems like each week, one week you scored 9 points, last week 35.   Is there something you are missing, that one big play?
COACH CHRYST:   We certainly haven't been consistent.   We got to work to be better at that.   We've had some games where we've struggled running the football.   Last week we weren't real explosive in the passing game. 
Each week you're playing someone different and the game is different.   I get that.   But we're looking to be more consistent offensively for sure. 

Q.   Your quarterback Tom Savage, how would you evaluate his play to date, and the impact he's made on your program? 
COACH CHRYST:   I'll answer the second part first.   He's had a big impact.   Starting quarterback, captain.   Love the way he approached since he came and transferred, the work he's put in.   I like the toughness he plays game.
I think he's certainly done some very good things for us, like everyone on our team.   Like our coaches, there's things we have to get better at and improve.   Tommy would be part of that. 
But I've really appreciated being able to work with him.   I think there's still room for him to get better, so I'm excited to see how he and our offense and our team finishes this season.   Really excited he's here.   Wish we had him for more years. 

Q.   Interesting odyssey for him to find a landing spot.   He was determined to find the right fit.   A lot of years without playing to get one year. 
COACH CHRYST:   That's what I've come to appreciate about the way Tom's approached it.   Because of his story, I think he's truly invested in this year and he's enjoying playing.   When you have it taken away from you, when you get back on that field, you enjoy even the ups and the downs that we've had as a team, as an offense, even him personally.   He also can kind of keep it all in a perspective and keep playing. 
It's been a very unique story.   I don't think he'd wish that to repeat on anyone.   But I'm glad the way it's turned out.   We're going to do everything we can to help him finish out his last season in college the right way. 

Q.   Jameis Winston.   The first week of the season, without a lot of game tape, for you, what was your game plan like going up against him?   What are some of the things you came away with that maybe other coaches can use? 
COACH CHRYST:   Our game plan wasn't good enough.   Maybe it was good that we didn't have a lot of tape on him.   I was extremely impressed with him.   That was a one‑game snapshot.   Honestly, we haven't had any crossover. 
You see the highlights and you understand what he's doing.   It's a credit to him and I think their whole offense, what they're doing. 
Truly I thought this when we played him.   Very skilled.   All the physical attributes that you'd want.   I think the thing that seems to me, a great competitor, in big moments rises up.   He's playing, and they're playing, at a high level. 
He's impressive. 

Q.   Any potential weaknesses that you came away with?
COACH CHRYST:   Did you see our game (laughter)? 

Q.   I did. 
COACH CHRYST:   Yeah, no, he's pretty good. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT