ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 25, 2013
Paul Chryst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  COACH CHRYST:   It was certainly good last week.   It was a strange game, but going to Duke and being able to come away with the victory.   Really looking forward to week's game against Virginia.   I think each game you find out more about who you are, but I think this one will be a big test for us and looking forward to playing.  
   
 Q.   It's obviously a good day for you guys offensively.   What do you see from Virginia on film in terms of defensive challenges that they might present for you guys?   
COACH CHRYST:   Yeah, I think they've got a lot of‑‑ they're playing well on defense and certainly it starts with a good scheme and good players.   I think that we'll truly be challenged.   Be challenged in the run game and also in the throw game.   That's where I'm looking forward to finding out more about our guys and how we play.   But I think they do a nice job of changing up and presenting you with different looks.   I think they're doing it with good players.   I think we'll be challenged.  
   
 Q.   What specifically have you guys been working on defensively this week?   
COACH CHRYST:   Well, I think when you look at obviously the big plays hurt us last week, and what are the things that cause big plays?   It's guys not being in position.   Certainly when you face these teams that spread you out and you can have fewer guys that can overlap.   So you've got to tackle well.   Everyone's got to do their job and trust that the other one‑‑ we had a couple plays where guys were trying to make up for someone else and then they put themselves in a bad situation.   
So I think it's just truly being confident in what you're doing and doing it the best you can, but also confident‑‑ certainly, we did a lot of good things in that game, but you don't feel real good when you give up that number of big plays which results in certainly one of those games that it's a track meet.   
I've liked the way the guys took ownership of the film and of their spots.   We really only had‑‑ yesterday was our first real practice day, but I like their approach.   We've got to get better there obviously.  
   
 Q.   Did you have any inkling last week before the game that you would have, as you just described it, a track meet?   What are the possibilities for another track meet this week?   
COACH CHRYST:   Well, I didn't have an inkling.   I think you have to prepare for any type of game and kind of for different reasons they play out.   This week you almost‑‑ I think it's one of the good things and bad things maybe, but you don't really know what to expect.   You can kind of make an educated guess.   But often times maybe just not smart enough, but they play out different.   You've just got to be prepared.   
Prepare all your units to be ready if it's a throw game, a run game, a high scoring and low scoring and kind of playa accordingly.   There are so many different factors that enter into it that can sway a game into a certain way or another.   I think you've just got to try to prepare for it all and try to have a plan or be able to adjust as the game flows.  
   
 Q.   If I might follow‑up, what's been the development of Savage from game one to now heading into game four?   
COACH CHRYST:   I think Tom keeps gaining experience again.   He's a guy that's a fifth year guy, but hasn't played a lot of football.   So I think he's gaining comfort and just playing.   Each game will present different situations and you just get used to handling those.   
I think he is getting better.   I think that he's certainly got things that they continue to work on, don't get me wrong.   But I think Tom is getting more comfortable in playing and also that helps him play a little bit better.  
   
 Q.   You've obviously gotten good production from your top two receivers so far this year.   But do you see the tight ends becoming more part of the passing game as the season progresses?   
COACH CHRYST:   You know, I think it's‑‑ it kind of we're going to need him to be at the end of the season.   Yeah, I think there will be guys that certainly had an impact in it.   I don't know off the top of my head how many they had the other day.   It was, as you know, people are wondering about the third receiver, is Kevin Weatherspoon or whoever, we're going to get involved.   The games kind of take care of it, and Spoon was obviously a big part of what we did last week.   So I think we had Manasseh had a catch, Scottie had one for a touchdown.   
Yeah, at the end of the year they're going to be a part of it, and how it plays out game to game, a lot of it depends on how teams are defending you or a lot of different things.   But we have a lot of confidence in them, and we're going to need them as the season goes.  
   
 Q.   Any updates on the guys that got sort of banged up and injured Saturday?   
COACH CHRYST:   No.  
   
 Q.   I know it's early in the season, and Savage hasn't played in many games as you mentioned a moment ago.   But did you envision that he would be this successful this early?   Just talk about his game and what you like about what his strengths are?   
COACH CHRYST:   Well, you never quite know how a guy's going to perform.   That's part of the beauty of it.   But I think Tommy does a great job.   He's certainly a talented player.   I mean, he's got a major college arm, certainly, and he's a competitor.   I love the way that he's approached his preparation and work ethic.   I think he's a guy that when football had been in some ways taken away as far as being able to play the games.   I also think he's a guy that's enjoying that whole process and comes out and enjoys practice in the summer and the off‑season, enjoys that preparation.   So I think it's a guy that certainly has some God‑given abilities and works at being the best he can in all the different ways that you have.   So that's where as a coach he's enjoyable to be around because he's trying to make the most of the opportunity that's in front of him this year.   That's all you can really ask for is a guy trying to be the best he can be and it's our job to help.  
   
 Q.   I was just wondering in your meetings this week and in practices, have you seen the defense, especially the secondary, maybe practicing with more of a chip on their shoulders after what happened in Durham?   
COACH CHRYST:   You know, I think if you say, boy, no one's pleased like that, but I haven't had a problem with the way they practiced before.   You know what I mean?   So to say that there is a marked difference, I thought guys in particularly in the secondary try to go out and practice every day with a purpose.   So I think that certainly you don't want that to come off like they've accepted something or are happy with it.   I don't get that sense at all.   
But when you say a marked difference or chip on their shoulder, the one thing is I think that there are enough guys on defense that like any competitor, they're proud and they're not satisfied with what happened.   
I wouldn't say all of a sudden there's been a huge spike because I didn't think that they approached it bad previously.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your quarterback Tom Savage?   What have you seen the last couple games since his first game of the year, his growth and maturity as a quarterback?   
COACH CHRYST:   Well, kind of like with the previous, I think that he's continuing to gain comfort in playing the games.   I think he's been better.   Last week he was better than game one just on some of the game management issues.   He's putting himself in position where he does a great job of preparing during the week and in practice.   On the field, off the field, he's doing all the things that you want from your quarterback.   So he's given himself a chance and another challenge and another opportunity this week to continue to grow.   I've liked the way that he's approached it from the time he got here.   We've just got to keep progressing each week hopefully.  
   
 Q.   Talking about Virginia, what type of team would you see on film?   They're up‑and‑down, they beat BYU, lost to Oregon, and blew out VMI.   What have you seen on film?   
COACH CHRYST:   Certainly you see a lot of things that concern you when you're playing them that week.   I think BYU is a really good football team.   I've been involved with games, you know when you play Oregon and how that score to me isn't reflective of problems, necessarily, as much as it's a good team and in a hurry it can get out of hand.   I've been on that and it certainly looked impressive against VMI.   I've got a ton of respect for what they're doing schematically and their coaches.   I think they've got some really good players that present some problems for us.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT