ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 4, 2013
Paul Chryst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  MIKE FINN:   We welcome Pittsburgh head coach Paul Chryst.   Coach, just a brief opening statement, then we'll go to questions. 
COACH CHRYST:   Obviously, got beat.   It was a game that we can certainly, and need to, get better from.   Obviously I thought we got a lot of respect for Florida State, not just their players, but their coaching staff. 
We have this bye week.   A lot of things we can learn from, things we can get better at.   Certainly need to take advantage of this week and next week for our prep for New Mexico so we get better. 
MIKE FINN:   Questions for Coach Chyrst. 

Q.   Paul, seems to be a lot of open space in the secondary.   Have you been able to determine what caused that? 
COACH CHRYST:   Yeah, you're right.   I think whether it's the depth by backers, by the secondary at times, a little bit of I don't want to say uncertainty, jumping a short guy, creating the space behind it.   Certainly a lot of things like that.   That's a good indicator of a lot of things where we got to get better, got to clean it up. 
I feel good that our guys will.   Coaches, players took ownership of the film and what we did.   That's where we're at right now.   But I think I'm encouraged a lot of things that need to be fixed are things in our control.   That's what we've got to do. 

Q.   Paul, on the offensive side, what were some of the things that stuck out to you specifically when you watched the film, particularly as it relates to Tom, recognizing blitzes, the offensive line?
COACH CHRYST:   I think certainly we had three sacks.   One was an assignment error, and therefore we started with two guys on one, should be a two‑for‑two.   We took one on a quick.   Tom has to get the ball out.   We took one on a screen. 
But those were big lost‑yardage plays.   I thought Tom did some really good things.   Then there's a couple where he's got to stay with or get off a little bit faster.   Even when he came off the field, he's telling it to you before you have to bring it up. 
That's part of the playing the game.   There's certainly a number of areas obviously in a game like that there's some things we can build on and definitely some areas we've got to clean up. 
The O‑line did some good things.   Quarterback, good things, got to clean it up.   We had some procedure things, got to clean it up.   It's back to making sure we take care of things we can control. 

Q.   Did you come out of the game pretty healthy? 
COACH CHRYST:   No, came out of it pretty healthy I think. 

Q.   Paul, I know basically your philosophy, nothing too crazy.   Do you have to think about different ways to get Tyler Boyd the ball after what he showed you Monday night?
COACH CHRYST:   Absolutely you want to make sure that all the guys, they need to be play‑makers.   Tyler fits that.   Devin fits in that.   We have to find a way to make sure all our guys that can make a difference are getting touches.   I feel real confident we can do it within the parameter of the offense. 
I don't feel like we've got to get out of box.   Want to continue and make sure that the guys that can make plays are getting enough touches. 

Q.   After a game like that, do you appreciate the bye week or would you rather get back on the field as soon as possible?
COACH CHRYST:   I don't know whether it's because the way it's laid out, you embrace it.   I think right now we certainly learned a lot about who we are.   We got areas we got to improve upon.   I like the way our schedule is laying out right now.   We'll take advantage of that, get back on the field today.   We'll get two, three practices in this week, then have a normal game‑week preparation. 
Right now I like having this time.   Certainly we need to take advantage of it, maximize it. 

Q.   You mentioned a little earlier Tom Savage had some good things but some things to clean up.   Go a little more into how he looked his first time playing. 
COACH CHRYST:   I loved his demeanor, the way he was coming off the sidelines.   I thought he was all the things you want.   He was enjoying playing again, appreciative.   Sometimes when you sit out that long, older guys that get their first start, all those plays were appreciated. 
I thought he was a guy that truly enjoyed playing football again, competing.   I loved his demeanor throughout the whole game when something good happened or something bad happened. 
That part, I wasn't surprised, but you're sure appreciative of the way he approached it, just kind of played the other night. 

Q.   Other end of the spectrum, you had a freshman place kicker that performed pretty well.   Were you holding your breath to play a first‑time guy like that?
COACH CHRYST:   Obviously he did, he performed well.   You're around him and you anticipate them and you hope.   I thought that Chris did a good job of that.   He was the guy that we saw in practice. 
We had a number of guys that had their first action.   I thought overall I'd give a majority of them credit for the fact that they were the same guys that we've been in camp with. 
You also don't want to take any of that for granted, so you're appreciative of that. 
MIKE FINN:   Thanks for being with us, coach.   Enjoy the bye week. 
COACH CHRYST:   Thank you. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT