ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: OREGON v WISCONSIN
December 28, 2011
Paul Chryst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Any different? 
PAUL CHRYST:   You know, fortunately, it has been good that way.   It's been really fun to kind of get back in that window before Christmas, it was a little bit‑‑ you feel like you're going a lot of different directions, but as know, it's a pretty neat group of guys that we have here, and so I've been really fortunate.   It's been enjoyable being with them. 

Q.   Can you talk about how you guys‑‑
PAUL CHRYST:   I think it's knowing that this is an unbelievable opportunity, and what we as a group, players, and the coaches, had something to do with it.   But all together, to get to this point, and what a great opportunity and a great challenge we have; but finishing it outright‑‑ so really to me it wasn't a talk that's needed.   You know, this is what we do and we have got great professionals on our staff, and I think we have got unbelievable players. 
So you know, nothing needed to be said.   And we know what an opportunity we have and what guys have done to get to this point.   You know, there's only one way to approach and that's finishing it the right way. 

Q.   Not turning the ball over‑‑
PAUL CHRYST:   You know what I think, I think our guys really, truly buy in.   They respect the game, and know those things matter.   So I think there's tremendous ownership more than any drill or anything that's done that way. 
I think it goes right back to the players.   It's important to them. 

Q.   You obviously don't want to have a negative thought‑‑
PAUL CHRYST:   I think it's making sure that the fundamentals, which again, I think coaches coach, but until players really buy into it and that's just one example, I think guys understand to play good football, these are things that need to be done, and that certainly is one of the big facets of the game that you've got to protect the football.   And I think our guys buy into it. 

Q.   Other than the fact‑‑ anything you look back on and say, why didn't we do this that way, anything in particular? 
PAUL CHRYST:   Oh, yeah, I wish we wouldn't have thrown that pass at the two‑point play if I had known it got knocked down.   You always do have those‑‑ no regrets, as there is something you do differently, because you knew the result.   But as far as going in, I felt‑‑ I think ray coach, what you want to do, is make sure that you give the game to the players, and are they prepared for the situations that come up, and are you doing things that are‑‑ are you asking them to do things that are in their strengths. 
And that part I feel, whether it's last year's game or games this year, the two losses, Michigan State and Ohio State, you always want to make sure you're giving the kids the best chance to have success, and I think that as a staff, we can hold our head up pretty high and by no means are we, you know‑‑ we are not perfect.   By no means am I saying that. 
But it is, the great thing about the game, it is a player's game and our job is to prepare them and then they go out and play.   That's my only goal every game is are you giving the players a chance and can they go out and play.   And then you've got to go make some plays. 

Q.   Did it feel any longer‑‑
PAUL CHRYST:   A little bit, because the next one, by the time we talk on Sunday, we are pretty much on to the next one. 
I also appreciate the game enough, you know, that the other team can make some plays, too, and that's all right.   And so the last one always sticks with you because you don't have that longer, because you don't have the next game to turn the page to. 

Q.   When people e‑mail, staying away from the power run, do you hear that and how do you address that? 
PAUL CHRYST:   Yeah, we did, and you know, I think the one thing that more than anything that when I look our group of guys in the eye, that's the truth or the truest of the truths is in that room. 
We were all good with what happened, not the result, but there was no, you know‑‑ you do the same thing.   You run it, so everyone knew they were going to run the ball and what the hell, who knows, and you go play it.   It's something that we had from day one, we knew if we got in that situation, you know, power running game, absolutely, we had good linemen, we had a good back. 
We also had a quarterback to trust it completely, and so I'm really‑‑ that one would never bother me as far as what the call was.   Like we started out earlier, could you take anything back, yeah, if I had known it had got knocked down, I wouldn't have called it.   But I'm all right with that. 

Q.   (Regarding Montee). 
PAUL CHRYST:   It's just I think‑‑ I don't know if it's different, but it's what you said.   He truly does have I think the willingness to compete and the desire, and what guys are doing in front of him.   I think it's a good combination.   But he has been fun to watch in those situations, and you truly appreciate that. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
PAUL CHRYST:   I think Nick is a heck of a football coach.   I think both schematically and the biggest testament to the players, you can see that they play fast, which means they are well coached.   Obviously they have got a certain skill set but they play fast, which means they are well coached and they know what they are doing and they know how to react to certain things. 
I've thought a lot of Nick for a long time, and you know, I think that his players buy into what he's teaching, and I think that it complements their team really well.   I think I've got a tremendous amount of respect for Nick. 

Q.   Do you just pick his brain‑‑
PAUL CHRYST:   Yes, I've talked to Mike and we talk regularly.   I think that you have to be careful.   Mike looks at Oregon through the eyes of his team and who they are, and I think we are different. 
So you know, my conversations with Mike have been more about other things than how do you attack Oregon.   We get all the games on film.   We know who we are.     So I think you've got to do your own work. 

Q.   Florida State, have they talked a lot ‑‑
PAUL CHRYST:   You're going a couple layers deeper than I do.   It makes sense.   I think they have got a heck of a plan, and I think it complements who they are.   I think they have got a plan as a whole team, and I think it fits it perfectly.   I think they are darned good. 

Q.   Last year to this year‑‑
PAUL CHRYST:   It all made sense at the time you and appreciated howmonty went through it.   You look back now, and what were we thinking‑‑ you say that, and it was fun to see John get his first touchdown.   And James, I think the world of James.   So things work for different‑‑ or play out for different reasons. 
I just think Montee's story is an awesome story, and I think we all have to go through times that either, I think they are a little bit of crossroads and how Montee decided to handle his situation, boy, he grew, and probably made him‑‑ going through all that certainly made him‑‑ all of our experiences make us who we are.   And I'm not so sure that any of us would trade any of what happened as hard as it was, because I think it was a point where monte says, you know what, whether recommitting yourself is the word, but Montee was‑‑ it was a lot harder on Montee than he led on us to believe, because he was nothing but a great team guy and was ready and the Iowa game, he jumps in and his first play, makes a big play.   So he was always prepared, always ready.
So I think when you look back, now you say, probably all makes him who he is and allowed him to do and have the year that he's had, and you know, it's guys like that that have a special place in your heart. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
PAUL CHRYST:   Nick is obviously a very talented player.   A big part of our offense, and I've enjoyed being around Nick and seeing him develop and grow and certainly for us to be as good as we can be, we need Nick to be as good as he can be. 

Q.   Is it the same as what Montee did‑‑
PAUL CHRYST:   You know, really had not‑‑ you're almost so close you had not thought about that.   Absolutely.   I think that all of the guys are like that where they‑‑ and you know being around, but they are a perceptive group of guys.   They are willing, they have got confidence but they are not so‑‑ they are not arrogant where they can't learn lessons, and when you say that, it makes complete sense and I'm sure that probably James has been thinking that before we even‑‑ you and I are talking about it, or you thought about it.
James is really talented, and he is‑‑ I think that he has gotten better in a lot of ways.   Montee has had a year that you don't see as much of James, but that's not to say that James has not gotten better this year.   And so I think you're right and I think that that's kind of the exciting‑‑ there's another story yet to be, and that one is far from being done and that's pretty cool.

Q.   Talking to him‑‑ inaudible. 
PAUL CHRYST:   Every guy, and rightfully so, James is confident of who he is as a player.   Every player wants to contribute and contribute in a big way, in big games. 
And so that will be a fun‑‑ they are so close.   They are going to ‑‑ those conversations, you know, even if they don't happen, they have already happened because just the way they interact.   And so I think that will be an exciting time, because they are both‑‑ wherever they are at, they are both going to continue‑‑ that's who they are.   They will continue to grow. 

Q.   Coach Al talks about defense almost like a hockey team‑‑
PAUL CHRYST:   In shifts, no doubt.

Q.   How does that challenge you when you sit down and look at it and try to figure it out, it seems like there are so many of them. 
PAUL CHRYST:   We need to get some power plays going.   We need to get a couple of majors for them so if we can get that going, we'll be all right. 
That's why I think it's a well conceived plan.   I mean, they have got‑‑ it's a good scheme.   They have got good players that run it, and I think he goes about it and uses it the right way, and that's why I think certainly, and I am not‑‑ offensively what they do is impressive and all that.   But they are‑‑ the defense has a lot to do with where they are at in my opinion.   And you know, I don't know if you were here, but Nick is a good coach.   I think that they have got‑‑ it's a great fit to their team.   I think that it fits who they are and so I think all that's well designed with how they use the players in playing a lot of guys, and they can, because there's not‑‑ some people play a lot of guys but there's a pretty significant drop off.   I don't see that. 

Q.   Is there a warm memory that sticks out? 
PAUL CHRYST:   The ones we want.   I mean for me, it was the first one that we won where it was a triple over time game.   That was‑‑ for a guy like me coming out there, that was a pretty neat thing to be a part of and never‑‑ playing at Wisconsin and growing up, there was good regional rivalries but never an in‑state like that. 
That was obviously special because you were on the right end of it and so I was in four of them and the two wins stick out.   The second one, you know, I remember just thinking, the guys that made the most plays were Oregon guys.   That's pretty cool, whether it's Derek Anderson, Joe Stanton, Mike Haas, Bill Schwankhat (ph) I think Mitch Musen (ph) had a pick.   I'm thinking, pretty neat for an Oregon kid to have an impact in the Civil War.   So I think the two wins stick out and you try to erase the losses. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
PAUL CHRYST:   You hope not in some ways.   But I mean‑‑ and I think the strength of Wisconsin, and you hear it, Russell will talk about it, it's the people.   That's what drives you and that's what you can tell right now.   It's the players and it's not our sports information guy, it's our players that truly‑‑ but that's who‑‑ and you kind of have that every year regardless of going on, I just happen to be part of the senior class. 
It's funny, because there are different stages.   What it meant to me as a kid, it was my dad and those were fond memories.   As a player, not so good of memories.   But really a need place.   And the friendships, that's real.
Then having the opportunity to come back and coach here, you feel like you've been able to be a part of it in a lot of different ways.   I think that's the unique thing for me that you are able to truly be a part of it, and I think hopefully have an impact on guys. 

Q.   What makes Russell behave as a quarterback beyond the athleticism and the stats he's put up? 
PAUL CHRYST:   Well, what makes him unique is I think he's a uniquely gifted athlete.   I think he's got an unbelievable passion to compete, and I think he loves, loves competition and I think he loves the game of football.   And so if you've got a guy that's talented, loves the game and loves to study it and is smart, and loves to compete, that makes for a pretty good quarterback; he can overcome coaching, you know. 

Q.   Brett said that he picked up a lot of the playbook lingo, extremely early.   Would you elaborate on that? 
PAUL CHRYST:   I mean, I don't know in the sense, if you need to elaborate, because that's true.   He came in and you're learning a foreign language, and he learned it.   I think he understood everything when we started camp and I think camp gave him a chance to make it become more second nature.   And that only happens by working at it and being exceptionally bright to be able to grasp all that. 
And the other thing, I think he's an unselfish person that he didn't fight the learning.   He dove in and said, you know, this is what it is, and I'm going to learn this.   And so he's truly been a joy to be around, and I consider myself fortunate to have had this year with him.

Q.   When did he come under the radar?
PAUL CHRYST:   I think I was on the road recruiting so, May. 

Q.   What was your thinking? 
PAUL CHRYST:   At the time, okay, he's asked for his release.   Now, you know, does he have an interest in Wisconsin.   And then so it kind of goes in steps.   And then does he have interest in Wisconsin, he's going to come and visit.   Then when he visits, had a good visit.   So it starts narrowing down.   So I think it built, the process built, but we were obviously very fortunate.   And I feel like it's been good for both sides.   I feel certainly he's had a large impact on us and we as a team have made a positive impact on him, too, which that you feel good about. 

Q.   How does his presence make your offense more effective? 
PAUL CHRYST:   I think because he's‑‑ I think we are more effective because he's good.   His presence, I think that's part of quarterbacking, good quarterbacks.   So I don't quite know how to answer other than we're better because of him. 

Q.   In terms of, let's say, his style, his assets are complementing the running game. 
PAUL CHRYST:   Well, certainly, the quarterback, Scotty complemented our running game in a very different way, but that's the position a little bit.   But you know, certainly Russell has got a unique skill set for what we have had in the last few years and I think that we have done a good job of knowing who he is and his strengths and then playing to that. 
And he knows our strengths as an offense are, so he plays that, and so I think it's been a good fit, a good match that way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT