UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2017
Paul Chryst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Maryland - 13, Wisconsin - 38   
PAUL CHRYST: I'm really proud of the way the guys played, and I thought we had a good week of preparation.  You never know how games play out, and certainly, you know early is great.  Big play by T.J. and start us off.  And also on the flip side, offensively the first two drives in and turnovers, and particularly the one that we're backed up, gave the ball to the defense on the 5.  I thought it was a huge response by our defense.   
I thought the offense did a nice job of answering the scores with a score and putting things together.  It takes a lot of guys to step up and contribute and proud of the way they played and kept playing.   
 Q.  After the two turnovers, I think your offense had three scores on four possessions.  Is that what you expect when they don't hurt themselves with penalties and don't give the ball away?  
PAUL CHRYST: Well, I don't think you can always plan to score on every drive.  It would be good though.  But you just want to play good football.  We had the -- also had a touchdown.  I don't know what happened on that drive.  We had the penalty.  We've got to just work on minimizing those mistakes that make it a little bit harder.   
But I am -- I do like the way that they focus on the next play.  I think that's the way you've got to play this game, and I'm proud of that.   
 Q.  Alex does a generally pretty good job of bouncing back from whatever mistakes it is, and why is he able to block that out so quickly?  
PAUL CHRYST: I think he knows that he has to.  You know, the biggest thing about something that happened is what can you take away from it to help you go forward.  I think he's got confidence in himself and knows that, all right, can do this better or whatnot.  But he works at it.  I love that part about him.  He's got poise, but he's got a ton.  It matters to him, and he does a lot -- I mean, quietly guys know that he's into it and will compete.  I thought he did a lot of really good things today.   
 Q.  Based on what you just said, he did do a lot of really good things after the pick.  But how does he eliminate that one bad pick?  It seems like it's become a pattern and he plays really well afterwards.  But how do you eliminate the one pick?  
PAUL CHRYST: Sometimes it's not there, or something doesn't go the way that you think it may versus that coverage or whatnot.  I thought that it seems to me that that's what you've just got flush a little bit.  It's hard because everyone knows that when the quarterback is in rhythm, it's good.   
But he's got to, I think, continue to feel when he's out of it that, all right, maybe there's nothing there and come back to it.  So I think you try to balance that with playing the game, and certainly you don't want him to be robotic, but I think you just continue to keep letting him see it and talk with him about what he saw, what he felt, and then you've got to trust guys and go out and play.  But I do think the way he responded was really impressive.   
 Q.  How'd you like how Jonathan responded after his fumble, and how concerned are you by a second straight week of turnover?  
PAUL CHRYST: Well, I loved his response.  You know, you never want to turn the ball over.  Obviously we've got to continue to do a better job of coaching that, right, and helping them.  Not one kid wants to -- Alex didn't want to throw a pick, and J.T. didn't want to put the ball on the ground, so we'll go back and look.  Whenever someone's going through something, you try to find the common things that's happening.   
So I can't speak -- I didn't get a great view of what happened today on it, but you just, you make sure that they're in a position to go forward, and then you put your trust back into them.  That's the way that you grow, I think.   
 Q.  You mentioned the stop after the fumble your defense got.  It seems like it's been sort of a common theme for them to step up in big moments lately.  What do you think it is about that group that's allowed them to do that?  
PAUL CHRYST: I think they're good defense.  I think the coaches give them a good plan, but I think they relish those moments.  We've got to stop letting them feel it that many times.  But I think they compete.  That's the biggest thing is they compete.  You've got some guys that get big in those moments.   
 Q.  It appears Fumagalli is getting back to his old self, what's that mean for this offense going forward, particularly on third down where he's such a weapon?  
PAUL CHRYST: Well, I think it's huge.  As the season continues to go, we're going to need everyone, and I thought Fum for the first time since the about bye was playing fast in practice, and it carried over.  So, as you mentioned, he was big.  I think we were pretty good on third down, and I'll bet you he had a big part of those.  I know Q. had one and A.J. had one.  But it was good.  We need everyone, and especially they had a smaller wide receiver group, and Fum needs to be that guy.  He's capable of it, and it was good to see.   
 Q.  How do you manage Jonathan's workload, especially since he's a freshman?  Or do you feel like he's done a pretty good job through seven games?  
PAUL CHRYST: No, I think he's been good.  You want to be attentive to it.  I don't think it's a special number or something that way.  It's communication, and making sure that you're doing a good job with them during the week.  Tomorrow will be good for him, how do you get your body back?  He's young, and we've got great assistance with that.  We've got guys that are done it, and they can help him.  Together we make sure that every one of our players is ready for the next opportunity that we get.   
 Q.  Do you expect Maryland to run the ball the way they did in that fashion?  Did your guys -- do you think your defense wore down a little bit there in the third quarter?  
PAUL CHRYST: I think -- we did think that -- you know, Maryland's a good football team.  They've got a lot of really talented football players.  We thought we saw on film what we saw today.  That back will hit it up in there, and we were impressed coming into the game with their offensive line.   
You know, it's a game.  They're explosive offense.  Two receivers particularly that you've got to defend the whole field on them, and I thought they certainly got some runs.  Yet I thought that our guys did a good job, and it was a game.  Wasn't surprised that they ran the football.  That's kind of who they've been.   
 Q.  Turns out T.J. Edwards is pretty good when he can play a full game.  What did you think about his pick and his job to stop the run as well?  
PAUL CHRYST: T.J. is a really good football player.  I think what I've enjoyed seeing is that he doesn't mind putting -- being one of those guys to spark our team.  Not just our defense.  He works at it, and I think he trusts his preparation.  Goes out and he has fun playing.  He's really enjoyable to be around.   
 Q.  You mentioned the wide receivers Maryland has.  I know you guys are excited to face Moore today.  I think other than one big catch, he didn't do that much.  Is it just a matter of you guys have the top three corners.  Is it really that much of a weakness there for teams to exploit in the passing game?  
PAUL CHRYST: I think a ton of respect for him as a player.  Yeah, it takes everyone.  I thought there were times where we had good pressure on the quarterback and certainly we do.  We put D.T. and Nick and Dontye, you know, there's times when they've got the one-on-one, and they've got to compete.  I think Jimmy's doing a heck of a job coaching them.  We've just got to continue to grow.  Everyone is a part of it, right?   
 Q.  What does it mean to have Taylor reach 1,000 yards and join such an elite group in this year?  
PAUL CHRYST: Well, you're proud of all that goes into it.  We've got a lot more football to be played, and we've got to continue to get better.  But those are -- I think he's a really good back.  I think that's part of the reason why J.T. came here is he wanted to be, you know, in the same -- he wants to be a running back in the place where there's been some good running backs.  And we've got to help him continue to grow and become the best player he can be, and it takes everyone.  It's fun when you watch good running plays, it's every guy in it is part of it, and J.T. knows that.   
 Q.  When Fum and Chris went out in the second quarter, what was your confidence level in Arrington at that point?  I know he's still pretty new to that position?  
PAUL CHRYST: Yeah, time to step up.  Guys always -- he practices all week, and those opportunities come your way, you've got to step in and step up.  I'm anxious to see how he did.   
 Q.  Lot of talk about Jonathan Taylor, obviously, but the offensive line in front of him from week one until now, it's been a lot of rotation happening because of injuries.  But what kind of improvement have you seen from that group overall in the past six, seven weeks?  
PAUL CHRYST: I think they've been working.  Yet every week is a different opponent.  So there are different challenges.  I think that they're a group that works, and they like playing with each other.  I think they like blocking.  The guys did a nice job in pass pro.  I don't know if we gave up a sack today.  We've got some guys that played football there.  Michael Deiter's played a lot of football, and Beau Benzschawel, it's fun seeing David Edwards get comfortable at his position.  Certainly at the left guard we've had Diets and Erd's playing, and I think Tyler Biadasz, to be honest, is doing a heck of a job for a freshman.   
Obviously they give us a chance.  Yet I know there is room for them to continue to improve, and I think as long as they -- I don't know why they wouldn't.  I believe in them that way.  Just continue to build on the things we're doing well, and find the areas we've got to get better.   
 Q.  I know it's early, but do you know at this point is Chris's injury something that you'd describe as minor, more severe, where that stands?  
PAUL CHRYST: Yeah, I don't know for sure.  But just in talking to him coming off the field at halftime, he didn't make it sound like it, but we'll see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT