UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 12, 2016
Paul Chryst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Wisconsin - 48, Illinois - 3   
COACH CHRYST: Well, appreciate what the group did and proud of the way they played, and certainly a lot of guys contributed to it.  And once again I thought our defense was really good.   
And four takeaways.  Third down, really productive.  And that was fine.  I thought, offensively, we did some better things.  And it was a good team win and it didn't just happen.  It was a good week of preparation.  And wanted the kids to enjoy it tonight, and we've got to push the reset button and have another good week.   
But want to make sure they're enjoying the journey that is the season.  And I thought they've done a good job to this point and we've just got to continue to do so.  Proud of the way they played today.   
 Q.  These guys have said, you know, we're not through the difficult part of our schedule yet; that they've made that clear.  But mentally, after you've gone through such a grind of close games, do you think it's refreshing for them to be able to get a game like this where they don't have to stress for four quarters?  
COACH CHRYST: Yeah, I think it was good.  I mean, it doesn't just happen.  I think that's why you feel good with it.  And I think it's also when there's so many guys contributing that makes -- you know it was a good sidelines.  You spend a lot of time with these guys.  You like seeing them have success and be able to impact a game.  I think that's important.   
 Q.  Can a rushing performance like this, when you guys have struggled in that area in the past, build confidence for those guys?  Can that carry forward as you go forward?  
COACH CHRYST: I think all of your experiences help, the good experiences help build some confidence.  And we haven't arrived yet but today it was good.  And I don't think that there was a group lacking confidence, necessarily.  We've been doing some -- it's been progressing.   
I thought it was good today, we've had some continuity in the line.  That's been good.  But it was nice to see when the second group got in there and be able to be productive, that was good.   
But I think certainly anytime you have success or your experiences, that does give you more confidence.  And I think what gives you confidence, too, is knowing what it was that you did to give yourself the chance to have that happen.  And I think that's where you go back to your film study, your preparation, how you worked during the week, and then you can build on those things.   
It didn't just happen.  And that I think tends to lead to more confidence.  And so it was good.   
 Q.  Did you see a game like this coming?  Do you think you've been building toward a game like this?  
COACH CHRYST: You never know what's going to happen.  You know, it felt good.  But I think no one did something they aren't capable of.  So I think that point, I think, you could say it's been coming.  But I thought in studying and looking at Illinois' defense, I thought we'd have to be on point.   
And I think there were some we weren't but there were a lot of times we were.  And I thought you never know how each game is going to play out, so you do all you can to be ready and prepare for it.  And credit to the players, they played and played well today in a lot of areas.   
 Q.  You guys have been -- it appears you've been bringing along Bradrick Shaw gradually.  Has he reached the point now where he becomes a legitimate third threat for you guys to go to no matter where the game is?  
COACH CHRYST: Yeah, and I think he's been that.  We had more attempts today.  I don't know how many attempts we had.  But there's more attempts.  But we had that confidence in him for a while.  Early I thought he was doing some good things in the season, and then he got hurt and kind of worked his way back.  And once he started feeling healthy and I think at the same time was kind of gaining that confidence, we had it in him, but we didn't necessarily have the opportunities for him to get -- I don't know how many carries he had today.  So we've had confidence in him.   
 Q.  What was the key to converting more often in the red zone today?  
COACH CHRYST: Execution.  You know, I mean, it was guys putting it all together.  And that's what's fun about football is it takes all 11.  And I think they're able to do that.  And there's nothing magical about this game.  And it's guys executing.  I thought we did do that.  There were a couple of times where we didn't finish with touchdowns, and we can get better there.  But there was a lot of good execution, and I thought the coaches had a good plan for it.  And some good things and you're going to look at this tape like always and there's going to be some areas for us to be the best we can be we've got to clean up and get better at.   
 Q.  Dare, you think probably with seven carries for 104 yards, average of 14.70.  Just seems to epitomize who he is.  He takes advantage of his opportunities, plays a role, great leader.  Could you talk about him, what he means as a player and a young man, please?  
COACH CHRYST: I love Dare.  And he means a ton to this team and certainly on the field, but off the field it's a guy that everyone knows in the locker room they can go to, that Dare has their back.  And I think you're right opportunistic.   
And I thought that he ran with a real purpose today.  But the number of things that he does that aren't on a stat sheet and what he brings to this team, it's huge.  And I appreciate being around him and getting to know him and he's one of those guys that he makes us all better.   
We've got a number of those.  And that's where this is a fun team to be around.  It doesn't just happen.  And he means a ton to this team.  He really does.   
 Q.  Was continuity the biggest factor in terms of the success of the O line, or did you see them do some different things today than you had?  
COACH CHRYST: I think continuity helps, but I think it was execution.  Guys did what they should do and I think we'll look at it and there were some good finishes.  You want it up front.  Alec Ingold, he did some really good things.  And I thought if you're going to run the ball it's going to take everyone.  And I think it was -- Rudy put together a really good plan but guys executed.   
I think the continuity is part of that because if there's so many times where you're working with someone in the line, and if you can know how thick he's going to be on a double team and you're coming off, but it's also some young guys with experience, hopefully getting better.   
 Q.  It was 14-0 at the time.  I don't know if you remember this play, but they faced about a third and about 11, and they were in I think a draw.  You guys blitzed.  And it looked like Connelly had blitzed already in the backfield and kind of circled back and got the guy.  Do you remember that play, because it looked like that guy had some space to run?  And if they get a touchdown there, maybe it's not such a blowout.  
COACH CHRYST: It changes the game.  I thought there were a couple of plays like that that guys made.  And when they had some big plays, they had the one drive early and the guys just kind of -- it was the first one, they got the field goal.  But they just kind of kept playing and bowed up on it.  And I think it does -- I think you're right, it changes the game and how you feel.   
And it was big.  And some of those takeaways, I wish we had taken advantage of all of them.  But it was -- it's funny, there's different guys, Ryan shows up and a number of guys that just come up and make a play.  That's what's fun to -- to me it's what's fun to watch about our defense.   
There's a number of different guys, not just contributing, but making key plays in key moments.   
 Q.  You guys had a lot of success with the running game with that counter play where you pulled the backside tight end and guard.  What makes that run so difficult to defend for opposing defenses?  
COACH CHRYST: I don't know, we've run it against some and it doesn't look good at all.  So I think it comes down to execution.  I don't think there's anything magical about the play is my point.   
And when you know how they're going to fit it and guys are on that, that helps.  And so I don't know if the play itself is anything special.   
 Q.  How important is it defensively and from the special teams standpoint to get Natrell back in the mix?  
COACH CHRYST: I think it's been great having -- you guys know what we've gone through, and to get anyone back is a big lift.  And Natrell brings a lot of -- he had a big play on one of the punts, one of the first punts.  And really a valuable player to us.   
And I thought he looked good on the one return that we had that we had a chance to take it out.  And love having him come back.   
And it's been fun to see him back in the fold.  He's a guy that likes playing.  To sit down and not get those opportunities, that's hard on kids.  So when they do get the chance to come back -- but Natrell, he was special teams player of the year last year.  He's got a knack at some things, and I think, like I said, it's been a lift just to get someone back.   
 Q.  Is there a way to quantify, besides the wins, how much better this team is now than it was three, four, five weeks ago?  
COACH CHRYST: I don't know.  You just try to take a step forward.  And who you play, when you play them, all those are different.  And the things that we can control, those are what you try to focus on.  But I don't know.  I don't know.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT