UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 15, 2016
Paul Chryst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ohio State - 30   
Wisconsin - 23   
OT   
COACH CHRYST: Credit to Ohio State certainly, but really appreciate the group in the locker room.  This one is tough, on them, on us, because we didn't come into this one hoping to keep it close, hoping to just be out there.   
Asked the kids on Friday night to put it all out there, and they did.  You guys know, I know, they know, there's things we need to do better, could do to tilt it.  Like I said, obviously it's a good Ohio State team.  They made plays.   
But I was proud of the way our kids competed and played the game and kept playing and did it together.  You know, this one hurts tonight.  Tomorrow we got to come back, and it's about going forward.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  (Question about being up going in the third and what changed.)  
COACH CHRYST: Yeah, I mean, that was not how you'd want to do it.  You know, we didn't have anything going.  I mean, the thing that gave us a chance tonight, offensively I'm talking about, was running the football.  We were able to do that in everything but the third quarter.  Certainly we had some third down opportunities and didn't win there.   
That's why you don't get the plays.  I mean, I'm trying to think through a couple of those others.  We didn't win those plays, right?  That's what makes it harder, and yet that's why I'm also proud of the way they battled back and gave us a chance.   
We've got to do all we can as coaches to help them to, when they get themselves a chance, to find that edge to get over that hump.   
 Q.  Based on the way you ran the ball, you get to the four, have four shots at it there in overtime.  Feeling pretty confident about your chances there?  
COACH CHRYST: Yeah, I did feel good, you know.  I mean, it's easy, okay.  We didn't get it on the first one.  Thought we had an action pass off of it.  Didn't get that.  Credit to them there.   
When it came down to that point, we didn't make the plays, execute, to give ourselves that chance to maybe put it into the second overtime.   
 Q.  How much confidence do you gain in a guy like Endicott?  
COACH CHRYST: Obviously a game like this, Endy came up big.  Yeah, we had confidence with him before this game, you know what I'm saying?   
I think like anyone, it probably gives him as much confidence as it does give us the confidence.  This group, I love and appreciate this group.  They're going to give all of themselves to give this team that chance.   
 Q.  You mentioned the running game and improvement there.  Your line was able to open up a bunch of holes.  What does Ohio State do differently in the passing game that made it tougher on your offensive line?  
COACH CHRYST: They have good players.  They did a nice job of changing up some of the things they were doing.  Enough that you've got to be able to adjust during the play.   
There were a couple of those where we either moved off the spot or didn't get the throw-off, on third down I'm thinking.   
It's a good football team they've got.  We had a lot of good things.  We're going to look at this one like every game.  There's going to be things we've got to build on, we can build on, and I think some areas may be improved, then there's going to be some things that we have to clean up to keep growing and being the best we can be.  That's the quest.   
 Q.  Do any of your team's goals change after a second straight loss or do you feel like everything is still out there for them this season?  
COACH CHRYST: Our team goals, which mean a ton to us, this group has a vision.  Nothing on the outside, nothing will impact this.  Two weeks ago went the undefeated season.  We didn't talk about that one.   
You know what, we got a ton to go forward with.  We're at the halfway point in our season.  We got a lot of football ahead of us and some great challenges ahead of us, great opportunities.   
 Q.  Alex may look at this last play kind of overarching it.  He throws an interception, then leads them down the field.  How gutsy a performance was it for Alex?  
COACH CHRYST: I thought he did some things tonight that were good, and there were some things he's got to clean up.  I think there's a lot of guts on this team.  This group cares about each other.  They also want to be the best football player they can be and contribute to this team.  I think we've got a ton of guys.  Alex is one of them.   
You know what, that's why it hurts this group.  In a weird way, you know, you appreciate that it hurts them because they put it all out there.  Yet we got to come back with resolve, perseverance.  I think the rest of our games are in the west.  We got a lot of football ahead of us.   
 Q.  You were shifting a couple spots on the offensive line throughout the game.  What went into the plan to give a couple of those guys an opportunity?  
COACH CHRYST: Tried to find the best combination of guys.  We'll see going forward.   
 Q.  10-point lead at halftime against this team is nothing to scoff at.  You put up 300 plus yards of total offense.  In the locker room at halftime, did you think you missed a chance to build a bigger cushion?  
COACH CHRYST: Yeah, I thought that even at the end of the half.  You don't know when those chances, opportunities come in a game.  We knew when they come, you've got to take advantage of them.   
Now you look back, that's where a lot of them were, right?  We talked about it earlier.  We didn't do anything in the third quarter.  You know that when you're playing, and yet you just got to keep going.   
I think if you're to look back at this game, absolutely.  Some of those drives, in my mind, playing over and over, how did you attack it, what did you do.  That's the beauty of the game.   
 Q.  I know you said you didn't come here just to keep this game close.  The way you played against Michigan, now Ohio State, do you feel like the Badger program is that much closer to being among the elite?  
COACH CHRYST: Spend no time trying to think about that.  What this group wants to be is the best team it can be.  I'm proud certainly of the program and everything.  This is our window.  This is this year's team's window.  The objective is to be the best we can be.   
I don't want to speak for our guys, right?  They've got voices.  But the bar is set high here.  Yet, you know what, we want to be the best we can be.  I think there's still room for growth.  I love a lot of the things that we've done, but there's still room for growth.  We got to take those steps.   
 Q.  There were four or five times where you had Barrett right where you wanted him, and he managed to flip and make a play.  
COACH CHRYST: You look at those on two things.  How can we finish, right?  We all participated.  You play it over and over and over in your head.  Whether it's T.J. or Cich.  At the same time you say, Hats off, he's a heck of a player.  I thought he was everything that we thought coming in.  Thought he was a guy that competes and makes plays.  He did that.   
Thought he also made some big throws, clutch throws in hard situations.  We got some pressure early, but I don't think we did much at the end.  Even overtime, we had some opportunities for some lost-yardage plays.  We didn't.  They did make those plays.  He's a heck of a player, J.T. I'm talking about.   
 Q.  What makes them so hard to beat when you're right there?  
COACH CHRYST: I think they're a good football team, really good football team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT