HOLIDAY BOWL: WISCONSIN VS USC
December 16, 2015
Paul Chryst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Finally, Wisconsin has never played in the Holiday Bowl until this year.  Bringing the Badgers to San Diego in his first full year as head coach at the University of Wisconsin, Paul Chryst.   
COACH CHRYST: Thank you, Bruce.  When you get the opportunity as a football team and you start the season, you know you've got 12 games, and then you get a chance to earn your right to play in another game.  Couldn't be more proud of our players and coaches and what they've done to earn the opportunity to play in the Holiday Bowl.   
Thank you to National Funding -- bowls are a big deal and for making that possible for our players.  I know they're excited to come here.  I was fortunate to live here for three years and know what a great place this is and for our kids to experience it, it's big-time, and we appreciate it.   
Also, to everyone at the Holiday Bowl for making this happen.  We know our responsibility is to make sure we do all we can so it's a great game, and certainly our kids are excited to come to San Diego and be part of the Holiday Bowl, and then when you find out that you're playing USC, it grabs their attention quick!   
We appreciate that opportunity.  Certainly a lot of admiration, to not just Clay but their team for overcoming and working through adversity, and you know that team's got some substance to it, certainly very talented, and I feel the same and am proud about our team.   
We are very excited to be here.  Couldn't be more appreciative of our players and what they've done to get us to this point and, again, to all that make it happen, sincerely on behalf of our players, our coaches, coaches' families, fans, thank you for selecting us, and couldn't be more proud to be here and do all we can to represent the University of Wisconsin and to pay back all that you've given us.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
COACH CHRYST: Yeah, I feel -- you know, I think there's -- Coach Alvarez is with us, and the program -- I grew up watching Wisconsin football and being part of it.  I'm proud that it's to the point where you do open up with Alabama and get an opportunity to finish with USC, and I think it speaks magnitudes of all that's been done before.  What a great opportunity!  When you sign and get to come to the University of Wisconsin, playing in big games is part of the sell.  We get to do that, and that's why our players are excited.  That's what you dream of.  I remember as a kid watching the Holiday Bowl.   
Our kids -- it's been a heck of a bowl for a long time.  So you've got the bowl component of it and then we all know and understand and appreciate the tradition of USC and the tradition that goes back and also the current team and tradition.  So our kids are excited about that, and I think it's what makes playing at Wisconsin special, and I know it's a big deal for our kids, you know, that we don't necessarily play a lot of west coast teams.  To get the opportunity to play USC, heck of a challenge, but those are also great opportunities.   
 Q.  Coach, Holiday Bowl has a reputation for high-scoring games.  Do you think Wisconsin is going to be able to keep this one down, or do you think you will get caught up in all that?  
COACH CHRYST: No doubt, some of the great high-scoring and last-minute, last-second games, right?  But that's the beauty of the sport and playing.  I'm proud of our defense and what we've done, and I think for us, to give ourselves the best chance, I don't know if we necessarily want it to be a high-scoring game.  But the thing I like about this team is they kind of just react and play.   
USC -- you guys all know it, it's an explosive team and an explosive offense, and it's a challenge for our defense.  Yet, that's also what makes playing college football -- especially at this -- like I said earlier, our guys know -- and this is a big deal playing in the Holiday Bowl.  You're going to face a really good team.  I don't know how the game is going to play out, right?  But I know we're excited to play in it and take advantage of the time that we have to make sure we are as prepared as we can be.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Paul.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT