UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 17, 2015
Paul Chryst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Wisconsin - 24 Purdue - 7

COACH CHRYST: Certainly appreciative of the efforts, and as in each game, goes differently, and you have to come out of it and be able to go into the winner locker room, you appreciate that and all the work that's done by the players and the coaches and that's good.  I think you've got to learn to win different ways.
But again, defensively, was really good.  I thought T.J., flying around and made plays.  I thought Schobs and Vince, maybe showed up in different ways when guys were challenged.  I think they rose up to it.  I thought that was good.
Offensively, we did some early, got the run game going, did some good things.  But some we didn't finish of in the first half, first time in the red zone and we score.  Second time, we got, Joel sails it over across; that's the pick, and I think we had the penalty down there and then the last one we don't finish on the field goal.
So we can get better, but appreciate this group and it was good to win certainly.
Q. Was the plan going into today, did you expect Corey to play, or was he just suited up for an emergency situation?  What was the situation?
COACH CHRYST: We were kind of just seeing how Ramos (ph) went and Corey was able to do with us -- two weeks ago, he was working, kind of rehabbing on the side and this week he was able to get some work with the offense.  He was not ruled out.  We could have played in today, but as it went on and doing what's best for Corey, and after warmups and sitting, decided not to go with him.
Q. Any common threads as to why you're not finishing drives and not leaving points on the field early in these games especially?
COACH CHRYST: I mean, it's the execution, is the common theme, but I think that the penalties, I thought that we can still get better with Joel seeing the field and making some good decisions.  I think it would be better with location and guys running through it.  We're not getting a lot of yards after the catch.
I think that our inconsistency in the run game can hurt you.  And at the same time, boy, I thought Alec's run, and Darius touched on it; those two runs right there, it was not clean at all but great effort.
But I think we're not cleaning all of our execution.  We kind of have our moments, and that's where we have to be strong enough to overcome the adversity.  I think the group owns it.  I like that bottom, and so I feel like we can get better and I think we will.
Q. Is it more difficult when you're having issues maybe sometime with the drop, sometimes it's a narrow throw, sometimes it's a penalty to get more consistent?
COACH CHRYST: I don't know.  You stumped me on that one.  I mean, we've got to execute.  And is it harder when you're not -- yeah, right.  It's harder when you're not -- yeah, we are a team.  We are all owning this thing.
Q. That was kind of an energy buzz kill right there (Laughter).  How much have you gained confidence in Alec Ingold and how much confidence do you think he has gained himself personally as a freshman?
COACH CHRYST: I think you all gain confidence with doing, and we certainly feel confident enough to have him in, and in big moments, when you're down -- and he's been down in the goal line and he's been in third downs, so I think there certainly is confidence on the end of it.  I think when you do it, you learn, but you also do gain confidence through that, and so hopefully he takes that and it kind of starts to multiply.
Q. The offensive line -- just in general how do you think they performed with deter at center and the guards, too?
COACH CHRYST: I thought we were able to move the ball at times.  I thought we were certainly better on third down and that's a big part of it, what they were doing.  I thought -- I give Dietzen a lot of credit to be able to jump in.  We're talking about a freshman now that goes from playing left guard and now jumping in at center and didn't flinch on that.
So you appreciate it.  I think there's going to be some areas we'll see where guys are doing some good things, and then the beauty of this game, especially when you play a target on the offensive line; if you're on a target, it's one thing.  When you're just a little bit or maybe your help you thought was going to be a little bit heavier on one side and it wasn't; those things, it can turn a play negative in a hurry.
And so I think that the group, I do appreciate the group, the way they work.  And they don't try to skirt it and make excuses for when it's not going well.  And that's where I think it gives them a chance to be good.
We've got work to do but they are a fun group to work with and they can get better and guys are gaining a lot of experience.  As long as we learn from those experiences, that can be encouraging then.
Q. With so much more passing over the past few weeks, how much focus is there on winning the time of possession battle, which was very significantly in your favor today?
COACH CHRYST: I've always thought that time of possession was just a byproduct of being able to move the football.  It's never a goal, never has been for me, to:  Let's win time of possession.  It doesn't mean anything if you're not scoring with it.
But I think it's a byproduct of getting first down, staying on the field.  It's a by-product of your defense getting the opposing offense off the field.  So I think it's totally a byproduct and not a significant stat on its own.
Q. This is T.J. Edwards' best day.  What did you like from him today?
COACH CHRYST: It sure seemed like it.  He was flying around.  He was flying the ball.  I thought it was a heck of an effort play on the one pass to the flat and kind of brushed the coverage and just kept coming, and a heck of a strip.
But I think he's just -- he looked like he was playing confident and was believing what he saw, and certainly has some talent.  I just felt like he was playing fast and playing the game, and found myself in watching him, you kept see him show up and watching it -- I thought he was fun to watch today.
Q. Any further indication of the severity of Tindall's injury -- he was on the stationary bike, so can't be too bad.
COACH CHRYST: Walking him off the field.  It seemed a lot better.  I talked to Derrick during the game and he told me it was just kind of a bruise, he thought.  So hopefully we're all right on that one.  They weren't sure when he was down.  But I think he'll be all right.
Q. Your defense played as well as it did today; how much pressure did that take off your offense?
COACH CHRYST: Well, certainly, it's a big part of it.  And I don't know if it -- I mean, I think our guys know on offense.  Our guys know that our defense has been playing well and yet, you still have to do something.  I think that you've got to be productive.  But I think they certainly have a lot of trust in those guys.
And when they take the field, I thought it was a big sequence when we stalled again and we punted and we were on like the 37, 38, 39, and did a nice job.  Natrel did a good job of -- Drew put it up there and we got it on the five.  Then the defense had a stop.  I think that's what led to Corey's drive.  That was good.  The offense can play off the defense, especially when they are playing well.  That's what we've got to be able to do and maybe do more.
Q. Robin and Jazz both stepped up as of late.  What have you seen from them that gives you more confidence in the passing game as a whole?
COACH CHRYST: I think that when their number is called, they have been able to deliver, and that gives them confidence, I think which can give -- Joel comes out big.  Jazz did a nice job after the catch.  He had the shallow cross he took and he won the first third downs on the dig and that was good.
I really enjoyed seeing Jazz's growth, kind of jumped out in spring ball, came back in fall camp and I think he's certainly a player that Joel trusts.  That's a big part of it.  Rob's had a number of opportunities and he's come up in them.  But we need everyone to be as good as we can be.
Q. Joel threw for 300-plus yards this week; given the inconsistencies in the run game, are you getting more comfortable with the offense flowing through Joel and throwing it more?
COACH CHRYST: I think it's our job to make sure however, whatever way we've got to win; and to win, you've got to score points, right.  So whatever way that is, you've got to be able to do it.
Yeah, I've got confidence; had it for a long time in Joel.  I still think that it's not necessarily how you want to keep playing the game but if that's what the game dictates, then got to be able to do it and we've got to be good at it.  And I think we are doing some things in the throw game to give ourselves a chance and yet I still think we can get a lot better there and certainly get better in the run game, and I think we need to.  Got to keep taking steps forward.
Q. You mentioned how Schobert didn't really fill the stat sheet today.  How nice is it to have guys like Edwards that can step up and be impact players for you?
COACH CHRYST: I think it's big for us.  Talk all the time and guys believe this on defense, 1/11th, and that's team defense and whoever gets that stat, so be it.  I think Chikwe had a sack and Joel was a big part of that disruption.
And those numbers, they are real, right.  You keep them and all that.  But I think this defense, the reason it's playing well is that they don't care about the numbers.  They care about playing together and being a part of a good defense, and I think that starts with the leadership from the coaches to -- you guys know, a lot of you guys know, that's who Mike Caputo is; that's who Schobs is.  It's a group like that.
I still think that they don't care about the numbers.  They just care about playing well and playing together, and boy, you love that.
Q. You mentioned the punt -- is that a simple play or a difficult play to execute?  Any update on Endicott?
COACH CHRYST: No update on Endi.  Didn't want to put him back in.  That's where Jack took him at the end.  The play, I think guys are getting better with it, and you're seeing it, we are not the only team that does it.  I think all that stuff, you never want to take it for granted, but I think they are getting better at it.  We practice it a lot -- good awareness, he knew, once the gunner pulls off, he got turned around, found the ball.  And so they executed it.
But you are seeing it more; we should be able to do that, but you also appreciate it when it gets done.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT