UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 19, 2015
Paul Chryst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Troy - 3
  Wisconsin - 28


COACH CHRYST: It was good to win.  And appreciate the efforts, certainly by the players, and coaches, and I thought we were as we anticipated, you know, tested.  I think Tracy had some good football players and they are a well-coached team.  But it was good to get the win.  I thought defensively, again, just proud of their efforts.
And I thought a big play in the game was second half, they had a pretty decent drive going, and Schobs makes a sack fumble and Mike is able to get on it.
Offensively, I thought we did a better job of running the ball consistently, which I think there's some things that we can build on and certainly some areas where we get better.  I think we are very good offensively on third down, and so we've got more work to do.  It's a good win.
Q. On the two targeting calls, what did you see from your vantage point?
COACH CHRYST: Yeah, doesn't matter what I see.  But the officials are good.  At that point, it's all -- really, it's out of their hands at times.  And there's no doubt that every coach that I know wants to -- and this is for all rules, to make this game safer, no question.
And I just want to make sure -- we have taken a lot of pride in coaching good football.  We want to make sure, I look forward to getting the reports and seeing it and make sure that we're doing our part and that our players are -- we want to be a physical team.  It's a physical game.  We want to make sure we're doing it the right way and take pride in that.
Q. What were the reasons for the slow start offensively and then also, how do you feel like Chris Orr played in Leon's spot?
COACH CHRYST: I think the slow start, I don't think we did a good job -- we didn't convert on third down, and hard to put drives together if you're not converting on third down.
I thought Chris did some really good things.  He showed up in the run game, and I know he made a big stop on a pass break-up on a third down, and it was good for him.  I'm sure he'll look -- last week, it was alternating.  This week he was able to because of circumstance, played a lot.  He showed up and it was good I think.
Q. What do you like about your defense, the last couple games, you haven't given up a touchdown?
COACH CHRYST: I think the run, I think you're always -- I thought we did a good job against a good running back, stopping the run.
And I think they are resilient.  Just we talked about the start of the first half, and they had -- I think it was the kickoff and there was a penalty on kickoff.  So I think their drive started from inside their 15 at least, and they were getting some plays.
And yet, we needed a play to be made, and I thought that was huge by Schobs.  So I think they got some confidence about them, some resiliency about them.  Just keep playing and certainly there's some areas we are going to look at and we've got to clean up.  But the last two weeks, they have done a good job and we have to keep building on that.
Q. How frustrating is it when a team throws the ball quickly like that and you can't get to the quarterback?
COACH CHRYST: Right.  You've got to stay with it.  You've got to be precise.  You've got to tackle it.  Some of the plays, bigger plays, we didn't tackle it.  But I thought they did a nice job of that, getting the ball out of the quarterback's hand and I think that's what they want you to do is get frustrated with it.  You can't.
You've got to do your job, and then there's going to be times in that game where you're going to be tested and you've got to rise up to those.  But I felt they did a pretty good job overall.  Go back to what I like about the group; they keep their poise.
Q. You mentioned the running game.  For a kid like Taiwan, is he doing a better job running behind his pads and being a physical runner?
COACH CHRYST: Yeah, I think with experience, and he's just starting to get it, right.  The good runners have a patience to them, and then let the play develop.
We are always talking about slow to, fast through.  And even when he gets fast -- and that's common with young players.  So I think that all the reps are valuable, or invaluable, really.  And I thought both of them were a little bit more on their tracks.  I think we were a little bit cleaner up front.  Anxious to see if that's really what happened.
Everyone takes pride in being part of the run game, and so I think there is some -- seemed like there's a little bit more patience with Taiwan.
Q. Following up on the targeting rule, is there some gray area that makes it difficult to coach, whether it's the speed of the game, or maybe on the second play, where it happened so quickly, obviously Derrick wasn't planning to that have happen.
COACH CHRYST: I think there's always the gray and yet it's been clear:  The officials are going to err on the side of player safety.  And knowing that there is some gray in it, I think that's the right thing.
Q. During the week, Daronte' said that Derrick Tindall was very disappointed with his play -- from what you could see today, do you think he did a better job, just being active, especially in the run game?
COACH CHRYST: Yeah, he did show up in the run game, and yeah, I do think he made a concerted effort to get better, and I think all of us need to do that each week.
There's another guy that I don't think's played a lot of football.  So each time you get to play, those are learning experiences, and we can all grow from those.
Q. Tanner really showed his versatility again just as far as making impact plays.  Just how pleased are you with how he's progressing in playing both sides of the ball and being so versatile?
COACH CHRYST: He's certainly capable of it, but I appreciate his willingness and his competitiveness.  I thought that really, his touchdown run was as much the competitive nature in him as much as it was physical.
We didn't do -- we haven't had him very involved in the throw game, but he still is able to give us something offensively, and certainly did defensively.  We appreciate his approach to it.
Q. Is Joel's efficiency about as good as you could have hoped through three games?
COACH CHRYST: No. (Laughter).
Q. Well, can you elaborate on maybe his progress this season?
COACH CHRYST: I liked what Joel's doing but he can get better, and that's exciting.
Q. Is it a good reminder to your players when they look over and see Troy sidelined, jumping up and down keeping the energy up --
COACH CHRYST: Yeah, the games are fun.  You expect everyone that plays to have energy.  It takes energy to play it.  I didn't look over and see it, so I don't know and I don't know what other guys thought.
Q. There were reports before the game that Kellen Jones was no longer with the team; can you confirm that and maybe why he left the team, if you can reveal that?
COACH CHRYST: Yeah, I can confirm that he's no longer with the team.
Q. And also, can you talk about Caputo (ph) starting on the offensive line and Jacob Maxwell getting his first action, just how those two played?
COACH CHRYST: I thought -- you know, Michael was in there, and I didn't really watch him.  But I thought he's been working and I've liked his progress.  I think he played well.  Played well enough for us to win.
And it was good to get Jacob some snaps.  Really got to go back and watch the film to tell you exactly how he did.  But I thought as a line, we did some good things.
Q. We saw a one-on-one, the safety on defense -- is that a matchup where you were confident your outside corners had that matchup along with the safety at the top, or is that your reaction to the way they spread you out on offense and defense?
COACH CHRYST: It's a little bit of both.  Certainly you've got to cover down and one of the things they are going to do is spread you out to run the ball.  I think that we felt like we did match up.
We thought they had some good receivers coming in, and I thought that they made some plays, and I thought the quarterback did a nice job.  We tried to change it up and some of the pressures, when you do bring them, end up being with a single high.  So we are trying to just do the best we can to defend them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT