UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 4, 2015
Paul Chryst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:   I want to thank everyone for coming out today.   We will turn it over to Coach Chryst for comments and then we can take questions. 
COACH CHRYST:   Certainly today is a big day for any program and I'm excited about the guys that are joining our team and I think in all of recruiting you're looking for a couple things, you know, you're looking for guys that add value to your team.   Certainly on the field, in the locker room, I think we have done that with this group. 
I think you're always looking for guys that you feel can be successful here.   Successful on the field, successful in the classroom, and I think we've got a group certainly that does that and I think for the kids who are players, it's a big day, you know, and it's fun to see and feel their excitement. 
Obviously this was a unique situation in our recruiting with the time that we had.   Appreciate the efforts of a lot of people to make this happen, but certainly feel good about this group and every individual, their story is a little bit different but at the end of the day, you know, they signed and they're a part of our team and I think it is a group that can and will have success here individually and certainly help our team to have some success.   I'm excited about that and I appreciate the efforts of a bunch of people. 

Q.   Paul, can you explain what the last couple weeks was like for you and your staff?   Did it feel like a mad dash to the finish line with players de‑committing and all that?   What was this experience like? 
COACH CHRYST:   You kinda knew going in it was going to be that with the way the calendar, the recruiting calendar fell this year.   You were going to have two‑‑ a little less than two and a half weeks so you anticipated what it would be. 
This part is always a little bit busy, but it was fun.   I had a chance to go see a lot of players and meet their families and see where they're from and I think those are good.   But it was crazy, but you kinda knew that, so kind of enjoyed it. 

Q.   Paul you have a couple of quarterbacks in the class, both of whom are already enrolled, one who obviously committed to Gary before he left, and one that was committed to Pitt and decided to follow you here.   Can you take us through what led those guys to come here, one to stay, one to follow you, and what do you expect from them in the spring and how much of an edge will they get by being here? 
COACH CHRYST:   I think, actually that the two quarterbacks were kind of a microcosm of what our recruiting was this year, and Austin is a guy that was committed and stayed committed to Wisconsin, and Alex was a guy that‑‑ didn't have a long relationship with Austin, never went out to see him, had a chance certainly to watch his film right away and talk to him on the phone. 
With both of them starting early, didn't offer us a chance to go out and see Austin.   You watch him on tape, I'm excited he's here.   And Alex was kind of the more traditional, started recruiting him probably a year and a half, two years ago, and came to campus a number of times and was at our football camp and was at his school a couple of times, parents' home, and yet when he came to take his visit was a time where I couldn't see him, so he never took an official visit here. 
He came and took a campus tour, along with a few other prospective students and never saw his parents when they were here, but both are excited to be here.   I think both add value to our team and when you are talking about those who choose, we have six that are here with us right now and for those six, you love having them here and you appreciate what all they did to get to this point, and I think there certainly is a starting point to each year and it is in January, February, you know before spring ball, so I think for Austin and Alex there is an advantage, when we're installing and you know they're hearing it for the first time. 
Yet I think it's an individual thing.   I don't feel like the guys that aren't‑‑ didn't come mid‑term, that they're any less committed or any‑‑ just‑‑ we got a couple of guys that will probably be wrestling at State, couple guys playing basketball, it's neat for them to finish out their high school career, but for the guys that are here I think it's our job to make sure they gain from the value of being here. 

Q.   Your depth chart looks stacked at least on paper.   Can you breakdown what you see with the two guys coming in, you've got Joel, you've Tanner, how do ‑‑ do you anticipate some changes in positions between now and spring ball or preseason practice? 
COACH CHRYST:   Yeah, I mean, I have to continue to look at it but if we're going to be stacked at one spot, I kinda like it being at the quarterback. 
Alex and Austin are on tape, I think, have different strengths and weaknesses and I'm looking forward to that.   That's the one thing that I'm probably looking most forward to is getting with our players and being able to spend time off the road and get with the quarterbacks. 
We've got a lot of guys right now and obviously Tanner in the bowl game, watched him, played defense and had stats at quarterback.   I'm going to get a chance to visit with him and see kinda where he's at with everything and what he wants to do, too.   I think he's a guy we talked to for a little bit and I feel like he's willing to do whatever he can for this team, and I also want to make sure it's the best thing for him. 

Q.   Coach, can you talk about the efforts of Thomas down the stretch, not only hanging on to Jordan but picking up Bradrick late and looks like in ten minutes he'll have another big pick up for you.   How valuable is he to the staff as a recruiter? 
COACH CHRYST:   I'm certainly excited about the running backs that we're getting, and Thomas is‑‑ he's built good relationships with the kids that I witnessed, and coaches, and I thought everyone jumped in, and I think that was one of the best things, we got some guys on staff that knew each other and some that didn't and no better way to get to know someone than spend time in the car or plane and in schools.   But I was impressed with what he did and that is part of our job.   We've got to coach guys and we've got to recruit and I thought he did his job. 

Q.   You look at the preferred walk‑ons, especially, all the Wisconsin kids that you have there.   How important was it to you to put up that wall around the state as Coach Alvarez once said, "Around the state," and what did you see as the reaction to you and to your staff as you recruited? 
COACH CHRYST:   Certainly I loved the first few days, I was going to be in the state and I enjoyed getting back in the schools and being around them.   It is really important.   Coach Alvarez was right, we were talking about it earlier today.   I think there is certain formulas or pillars to this program that I think are true and for us, our job is we want to be the best team we can be here at Wisconsin and for us to be the best team we need to have the best players in Wisconsin coming here. 
Like you mentioned earlier in the question, some of those best players, how they get here, come in different ways.   Some are so scholarship, some are walk‑ons, but once they are here, they have every opportunity and we all know and have seen the impact they can make and I'm fired up about the group that we have and I think we're going to add a couple more but truly am excited about that group and we're going to have some guys in that group that will impact it, no doubt in my mind. 

Q.   Paul, you mentioned the unique situation you have with this class can you talk about the challenges you have had the last 7 weeks with this class and where does that balance with your familiarity? 
COACH CHRYST:   Trying to understand your question. 

Q.   With the short turn‑around you had you talked about the unique situation for you and your staff.   You touched on some of the challenges you had in that short time frame.   Was that balanced with your familiarity with Wisconsin, too? 
COACH CHRYST:   Yeah, I think it did help, not just me.   We've got a number of coaches that truly know us.   I think the challenge to me in recruiting, the best recruiting is when you know a kid, and they truly get to know the University and the people at the University and that takes time.   With some of these we didn't really have that time, yet I think that as you go out and‑‑ there was still evaluation going on and I think our experiences of kind of the profile for lack of a better term of kids that have done well here and had success I think there is a number of us that feel confident in some of the key qualities that if they have those, they've got a great chance to succeed.   So I think the familiarity with this place and with the guys, you know, that have done well and traditionally do well here, I think it really did help us. 

Q.   Paul, the offensive line has been an issue as far as depth is concerned the last couple of years.   Do you think you're getting closer to replenishing that depth?   And if you could talk about John Betts and David Mormon? 
COACH CHRYST:   I think last year was a real big class, and this year signing three and that's‑‑ two classes‑‑ each position you kind of have target numbers and for us the "O" line it's 15 on scholarship and hoping a Ricky Wagner comes in and all of the sudden ads to the numbers.   But there is kind of a gap there and that's what it is, so we just gotta go and that's why we coach, too.   You got to coach and develop them and looking forward to that.   John being here is big, him having the opportunity to go through certainly spring ball but before that even like you said the introductory meetings you've got Dan Volts and Tyler, after Volts is finished, well their going to be in that first meeting with Rudy and going over, maybe some terminology change.   John has been hearing it so he's going to be‑‑ I think that will be helpful for him and even just the workouts, but certainly love his size only because it's paired up with some‑‑ he can move!   I love the way that he plays.   He's got‑‑ on tape he's got a mean streak that you like.   I think that really all of them, Kevin asked us, who you didn't ask about, but David, they kind of play the way you want them to play and David, incompetent he's got good athleticism, good size, not as big as John but I'm not so sure you're going to bring in many high schoolers that are the same size. 
I like the group.   Like a lot of the linemen here they're going to have to work to develop it, and that's the fun part. 

Q.   Coach, with Alec Ingold and Zach Vaughn those are the two best quarterbacks we saw in Wisconsin this year, what does your staff see in them to make you think they will be good linebackers? 
COACH CHRYST:   I think they're really good football players and I had a chance to kind of know a little bit more about Alex.   You just look at‑‑ he's 28‑0 as a wrestler right now, top in his class as a student.   Player of the year with 2,000 yards rushing and when you watch the tape you say he likes playing the game!   I think he had a big hand in helping that team be successful and when you look at the athleticism of Zach, and you watch his basketball highlights and then you see him playing football and, again, once you get a feel for who they are as a guy and they want to be not just good but they want to be really good, you just feel confident that they're the right kinda guys that will fit and do well here, and I think that linebacker right now is probably where you would start 'em at and see, but I think they both‑‑ different stories but I think they both have a great opportunity here to be special. 

Q.   Paul, later this week the Big Ten athletic directors and administrators are going to talk about football and an early signing period.   How do you feel about an early signing period for football? 
COACH CHRYST:   I think there is‑‑ I know we're kind of adopting‑‑ last thing I heard, been kind of busy, but December15th, they were talking about that.   I think there is a place for it, if it's‑‑ it's interesting I was talking to a couple of coaches about it, and there is‑‑ everything keeps moving up more and more, so to address the early signing kind of fits that.   Sometimes it's not always better. 
I think we do a better job when we have more tape, more information on kids.   But I think there are certain kids, that personally, I believe there are certain kids that know where they want to go and as long as they know and if they can sign early and be done with it, I think it fits.   I think there is still a lot of talk of the best way and if you put ten coaches in the room or ten ADs, they would have a different date as to when it should be and different things, but I think there is a place for it and I'm glad we're discussing it. 

Q.   Tight end group traditionally here has had a bunch of success.   Hoping to get your thoughts on Kyle and where you think he fits in, what he can bring especially with him being an early enrollee. 
COACH CHRYST:   Again, watching him on tape, and we didn't get to know him as well as some of the guys on the road because when he came we were leaving but looking forward to being around him and love what he does on tape.   David Edwards is also going to play tight end for us, a little bit different of a style of tight end but he's certainly athletic and can do a lot of different things. 
He's not one‑dimensional.   We have‑‑ I was impressed with the tight ends that were playing and I've seen on film obvious and knew a lot of them, and there has been a tradition recently of good tight ends.   It's a pretty good bar for him to try to reach but I think he's capable of it. 

Q.   You were talk about the offensive line earlier.   What's the status of Jaden Gualt?   Do you anticipate he's coming in this year?   When does that stand? 
COACH CHRYST:   I don't know exactly.   Like I said, when I got here and was here, he was not around at the time and when I was here for the first morning, I left before classes started so I haven't visited with him, either. 

Q.   Two kids from the Wausau area that came about differently in your recruiting process, what stands out to you about both Jake and Andrew and how you were able to land both of them. 
COACH CHRYST:   Yeah, I mean, it was‑‑ both of them really, really excited that they're part of this, and they said they kinda came about it a little bit differently, but I think both have a chance to certainly make an impact and, you know, Jake first heard about‑‑ I think it was the first or second day I was here, meeting with the high school coaches and asking them who were some guys in the state that we should know, and be aware of, and Jake had been down, Dave knew him, he came to camp and all that.   Andrew, same thing, you know, Ben Strickland told me about him and was excited about him and we had him down for a visit this past weekend. 
When you are around them and around the family, it kinda keeps coming together a little bit more.   So I feel really fortunate that both of them are here. 

Q.   Just to be clear, do you expect any of your quarterbacks to transfer, to leave, that you have on the roster right now? 
COACH CHRYST:   No, not that I know of.   I don't anticipate it, no. 

Q.   Do you have any position changes that have been‑‑
COACH CHRYST:   No, we're just trying to finish the recruiting class.   I'm thinking we will start looking at that‑‑ tomorrow we got one more thing and next week we will start looking at all that.   But no.   There is a good chance some of that will happen, I guess, but we haven't talked at all about it. 

Q.   Coach, some of your preferred walk‑ons declined scholarship offers somewhere else to come here and walk‑on, is that a tough sell job to in‑state kids or do they know about the Jim Leonard's, the Jared Abbrederis's, and they almost just volunteer to do that? 
COACH CHRYST:   I think they absolutely know about them.   You just hit on a couple.   I don't think this whole recruiting thing is‑‑ you asked is it a tough sell job.   You're offering them an opportunity and you want to make sure all these kids‑‑ you want to make sure that they understand what the place is and then they pick it.   So they're excited to be coming, and we're not trying to paint a picture that's not real, you know, that we can't deliver on, and yet they did, a lot of guys for a number of years guys have turned it down and why?   Because I think they understand that they want to go where the best fit is for them.   That's when it's‑‑ when those two sides‑‑ when our side and the recruit's sideline up, that's when you call it a fit.   When it's a good fit, I think you got a chance to be successful. 

Q.   With what recruiting signing day has become, the national attention, the media coverage, how does it compare to when you were a high school senior going through the process and making a decision? 
COACH CHRYST:   There was no celebration when I signed for the fans!   You know, I still think it's a big day.   Take all the peripheral stuff out, it's a big day for that kid to sign, and one he should be really proud of.   I know it was for me, and I think it is for every player and their families.   I think every program‑‑ if we weren't excited about each and every one of these kids, we're making a mistake.   So we're excited as a program to be adding these young men to our team, you know, to our football families.   In that way I think it hasn't changed at all.   Certainly there is a lot more attention and hype and all that comes with it, but the essence of it, it's still pretty big day for a lot of people! 

Q.   Paul, going back to the process you inherited a bunch of commits, a lot of those guys are not here anymore.   What was the process deciding which ones you were going to continue to recruit and which ones you decided not to? 
COACH CHRYST:   You kinda go back to what I was talking about.   The first conversations were, you know, there was an introductory phase, I was introducing myself to them, and certainly‑‑ I think this is a real important decision for all these, at the time, recruits, so, you know, you put everything on the table, and understanding that they‑‑ a lot of them had been to campus and they had seen‑‑ they knew the place, they had seen the place but some of the components had changed, who the head coach was and for a lot of the positions, who the position coach was.   So you just kind of‑‑ like all recruiting, I think it's about being open and honest and making sure you have the right fit.   That's why I appreciated going through it with all those guys.   In the end I think we got the group that fits here and I'm excited about the group. 

Q.   Paul, I don't know how specific you can be but about those guys who did not come here, how many of them were just not academically on par with what needed to be the case to get in here? 
COACH CHRYST:   You know, I mean, obviously one of the first couple meetings I had were just getting a feel for the class and all that, and I think at the end of the day, you know, we got a group that fits here and, yeah, I'm dodging your question a little bit, but it sounds pretty good!   (Laughter.) Just to me! 

Q.   Coach, what is your current comfort level with the assistant coaching staff, obviously somebody like Coach Rudolph has ties here and some of these guys are new and had to be thrust into recruiting but what's the comfort level there? 
COACH CHRYST:   Really comfortable.   Was comfortable with them before I hired 'em, otherwise I shouldn't have hired 'em.   But I do think it was good jumping into this and we were talking about earlier, maybe a little more chaotic, or the rhythm was sped up more because of the time we had, and it was good going through it and being with the guys and getting on the road, having to change planes in midstream, so I thought that part was good, and I think there certainly is‑‑ I think other guys maybe that weren't‑‑ not every one of the assistants was part of the hiring process, so for them to get a chance to spend time together and talk through things, every meeting we had was another chance get to know what certain guys valued.   I had a good feel for it but I think it was good for the group that way. 

Q.   Paul, we hear the term "a Bo recruit" or a "Barry recruit," you know in terms of what the coach is looking for in an athlete, we will able to recognize the "Paul Chryst recruit" and if so, how would you describe that kind of kid?
COACH CHRYST:   I hope they would be a lot like a "Bo recruit" and a "Barry recruit" because those are pretty good coaches who won a lot of games here at Wisconsin.   That's the great thing is I don't have to put any of those titles on 'em.   I think there is a common theme, if you talk about Bo and Berry, and you look at their teams.   And the teams made up of individuals right, because that's who they are, but you talk about tough, smart, dependable, efficient, all those qualities, you know?   We're working, and we will continue to work, to where, you know, we earn that title, right? 
What you're saying is he's a Badger.   If you think‑‑ there has been‑‑ certainly a lot has been‑‑ there have been other basketball coaches than Bo here, and Coach Bennett went to the Final Four, but the run that Bo has been on, he's earned the right to Wisconsin hoops, and certainly Coach Alvarez did that, right?   And if we can mimic that, then I think we're doing a pretty good job. 
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else for Coach?   Thanks, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT