ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 13, 2013
Paul Chryst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  COACH CHRYST:   It was certainly good to win last week.   Hopefully, we can take some of that momentum and carry it forward.   We've got a lot of‑‑ when you watch NorthCarolina on film and feel like they're kind of finding their rhythm offensively, defensively.   I think they're obviously talented and a very well‑coached team.   So it's another good challenge, and looking forward to it this week.

Q.   You mentioned finding a rhythm and I saw that you have some rhythm with the dance moves that you had in your locker room.   I was wondering why you've been holding out on us? 
COACH CHRYST:   The locker rooms used to be sacred.

Q.   They're not anymore, Paul. 
COACH CHRYST:   No, they're not, and shame on me for being so naive.   But we're taking care of measures to make sure that doesn't happen again.

Q.   Okay.   Now that I'm done picking on you.   In all seriousness‑‑
COACH CHRYST:   I refuse to look at it by the way.   My kids looked at it and said thanks a lot, Dad.

Q.   What have you seen from Carolina, especially from their defense.   Larry mentioned them not giving up plays any more.   Is there anything they're doing specifically to have helped cut down on that? 
COACH CHRYST:   You do.   You just see it.   I think their scheme is a good scheme.   It can stress you at different points.   I think they're truly‑‑ you saw some earlier in the year where maybe they weren't all understanding it completely, whatever it was that caused those big plays.   But right now you see a team that's‑‑ I think they've got really good players.   I think they're fast.   I think you see they're explosive.   They'll hit you.   I think their scheme is good, so I think they're playing. 
It's a well‑coached team right now because they're playing within the scheme.   But the scheme allows their players to turn it loose.   I think probably like anything, confidence.   As they start going, that's where the term rhythm seemed to kind of jump at me.   They're in that rhythm.   So you just see them playing, therefore, making plays and playing fast.   That's a challenge for us right now.   I mean, that's what you've got to try to figure out.   We've got to be able to match their speed.   When you get an opportunity to make plays, you have to make them because they're not going to give them to you.

Q.   Is there any one thing in particular that stood out to you in the win that you really wanted to build on and carry on from your perspective against NorthCarolina? 
COACH CHRYST:   I think it started that we had a really good week of preparation, guys just kind of believed in their preparation.   You also want them to have the game by no means was it a perfect game.   But you've just got to keep playing it.   There are going to be those moments where you have to make some plays.   I thought Ray Vinopal had a big strip.   It was a big pass completion, running in and we're in our own red zone and the strip fumble. 
You've got to make some plays and you don't know when they are, you've just got to play every play.   So hopefully we can build on that where you don't have to play perfect, but you've got to make plays.   I think obviously a big part of that was some of those old adages that always hold true.   That is protecting the football on offense and special teams and getting some turnovers, or when there is a chance for a takeaway, you can get it. 
So I think there are some old adages that always hold true, such as the turnovers and that whole thing to keep reinforcing with the guys.   Then the idea of you've just got to play the game and you play it out.   It's not perfect, but you've got to keep playing. 
I think every time you win a game, it's a different formula.   So if you have enough different formulas or reasons why you're in the end able to win it, your guys can kind of draw on those experiences when you're in another game.   So hopefully there are a bunch of lessons you hope we're learning, and hopefully then they can go forward and you can apply them to the next games.

Q.   You mentioned Ray Vinopal.   It seemed not only did he make big plays, but it was the time of the game that he made them that were crucial too.   Can you talk about him and the way he's playing for you? 
COACH CHRYST:   Well, you're exactly right.   When you look back you don't know when those times are, but they're big in timing to get a turnover in the red zone.   So he causes a fumble in the red zone.   He gets a pick in the red zone then really in a time in the game where the momentum swings are going back and forth and his last interception was set up to score to go ahead.   I mean huge, huge plays. 
The thing I like about Ray is Ray is a guy that probably came under criticism earlier in the year but just never wavered.   He was the same guy.   He approached each week the same.   He loves the game, loves to compete.   He's a worker, and he stayed that guy.   He never lost confidence in himself.   We didn't lose confidence in him. 
The game is funny.   I mean, sometimes you can be playing great, but the ball doesn't come your way defensively, so you don't have an opportunity to make a play.   When you do have those opportunities you take advantage of them.   I think what's fun is when you see guys approach it and the game the right way, respect the game, and play it, and they're great teammates, when they do have success it's fun to see.

Q.   What do you do with the big difference between your performance last Saturday and the previous two weeks? 
COACH CHRYST:   I think it's just you made enough plays at the right time.   You could take the game films offensively and defense and special teams you know, probably say you didn't count them up.   But you might say there were as many good plays as there were bad.   But I think offensively, certainly, we were able to run the ball a little bit better which allowed us then‑‑ I think that helped.   I think it always helps you when you're passing in your pass protection. 
I think defensively we were able to get some takeaways.   We gave up some big plays, but the guys also had big stops.   Special teams I thought made some outstanding plays on our coverage units.   So I think that's what we're talking about with our guys.   The game is something you've got to go play and it's be going to be perfect.   But there are moments you feel you need to make a play, and I think that's probably the biggest difference is at the times we need it maybe most we were able to make a play. 
In the end you give yourself a chance to win by doing enough good things.   Then you have to find a way to win, and that is usually a play here, a play there.

Q.   Was that win giving you guys a lift this week could you tell, or was it pretty matter of fact? 
COACH CHRYST:   I think you're always appreciative when it's a week.   Any time you put that into a week, and you go out and play it, you appreciate that.   I think anything different would be wrong.   But it's a clean slate.   Hopefully you draw upon everything that we've gone through this season, and for guys that have played before for their career but the beauty of sport is each week is a new week.   We get an opportunity to do it again, but nothing carries over. 
Certainly there are some things that you can build on then there are some things that you've got to keep working on and try to clean up and do better. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT