THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 8, 2019
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. GOFFIN/F. Verdasco   
7-6, 2-6, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What's basically your analysis of this match?  
FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, I think that obviously the first set was important, because, you know, even if I save breakpoints, and I was break down and I recovered and everything, I was 6-3 up in the tiebreak, and I had a set point, I mean, three set points, but one of them with my serve, and I couldn't do it.  Obviously, you know, I think that would have changed a little bit the way of the match.   
Second set I think I played very good and he missed more.  First game of the third I had breakpoint, I couldn't do it, and then after that, I think that from that moment till the end of the match, on many games I had problems to keep, I mean, to save my serve and he served very good.  I mean, he was not very hard but cleaning the line many times.  More solid than me on the baseline.   
I was trying to be aggressive, but I didn't have -- I mean, aggressive, but obviously, at the same time, solid but I was just missing more than him.  I think that from that second set or that first game of the third set, he was better than me.  He was more solid and he hit more lines.  You know, I think from that moment he played better.   
 Q.  Always the same problem playing against David, because he's a player who is quite steady?  I don't know the right word in English, but he tries to play consistent?  
FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yeah, obviously he's a consistent player.  But no matter how consistent you are, you have better days, better and worse days, you know, and days that you hit more lines and days that you miss less and days that you miss more.   
And I think that, you know, at the end in grass you have to get the little chances that you might have against good players.  Today I had that chance in the tiebreak of the first set.  I was not able to take it.  And then also the beginning of the third set -- because in the second he called the physio, I don't know what problem he had, like, for a pill or something, and the beginning of the third set, if I made that break on the first game, maybe also could have changed a little bit the third set.   
At the end, everything changes, you know.  But like I said, I didn't make that game.  And after that he played better than me.  Second set I was better than him, and third and fourth he was better than me.  He's a consistent player, but I was just trying to be also consistent and be aggressive, but he had a better day than I do.   
 Q.  Do you think it's always difficult to speak like this after losing, but do you think it's still a positive tournament for you?  
FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yeah.  I mean, I played well.  The tournament is positive, because at the end, last year or the last two years I didn't play well here.  I didn't win matches.   
And also, you know, in the last couple of weeks before Wimbledon and also Wimbledon, actually, I was with inflamed knee that, you know, if before the tournament you tell me, like, I would do fourth round, I'd sign it.  But obviously when you are in fourth round, you want more.   
And I have been playing well.  You know, at the end when you are on the court and you have chances and you don't take them, you know, it makes you feel bad, obviously, because at the end you want to take them and you want to win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT