MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2015
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/F. Verdasco
  5‑7, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish, please.   
   
 Q.   Great match, but one second you're not winning here in Madrid.   Was it because of Ferrer?   How did you see yourself out there?   It was a really good match.   
FERNANDO VERDASCO:   Yeah, well, in general, in one way I'm happy because of the way I played compared to the previous two weeks.  
It's true that I had prepared much better for this week, but in the end it's true that whenever you lose a match like today's it hurts.   Of course it hurts to lose.   Now we just need a little bit of time, and I'll try to forget it as soon as possible.   
But what is clear is that I tried everything that I can.   Sometimes you play better and sometimes things work out; sometimes you don't do things as you want to.  
Ferrer is a really difficult opponent.   He doesn't give you any free points.   You just have to be on top and you have to go for your opportunities, the few opportunities that you will have to do a break or to go up in the score.  
In the first game of the second set, with that forehand that just went out by millimeters, and also with the break points in the third set with one of his aces and then another forehand from my side that just went out by some centimeters, those were key points that can change the match.   
It can fall on one side or the other, and he was just a little bit luckier in those points.   That's all.   
   
 Q.   You had played two more matches than David.   Do you think that you were a little bit more tired than him?   
FERNANDO VERDASCO:   Well, it was one match more, not two.   I think that, yeah, I had played four sets more than him.   
But, well, physically I found myself fine.   It's true that maybe I had a few physical problems.   That might also be because of the three sets that I played yesterday or the day before.  
But I think that wasn't the reason.   I didn't lose the match because of that.   As I said before, if I had gone for my opportunities, for those break points in the third set or perhaps in the second, perhaps I could have won the match.   
But in the end, in those matches when you're playing well and you're playing against such good players, you have to go for opportunities, for the few opportunities you might have.   
If you don't do that, the next time whenever he has those opportunities he's going to go for them, and he can beat you.   
   
 Q.   As you were saying, it was really good tennis out there.   We've seen you playing really good tennis in the days before.   What are your short‑term goals?   
FERNANDO VERDASCO:   Well, continue working as good as I can, and I'll continue to give my best in every single match and every tournament that I play.   You know, there are a lot of tournaments, and hopefully I will be doing better and better.   
In the end, it's just like a wheel.   You have to win tournaments, you have to gain confidence, get points, and go up in the ranking.   At the end, it's everything.   It's like a wheel that you have to try to get it going.   
It's not easy, because these tournaments are complicated.   If you're not playing against a top 16 in the first round, then you will have to in the second round.   It's complicated to make it very deep in these tournaments.   
As I said at the beginning, the goal is to continue training as good as possible and to continue preparing for the tournaments at my best possible level.  
   
 Q.   Apart from today's result, which of course you're sad about it, what is your feeling?   How do you leave Madrid?   Do you think you're feeling better?   Playing better?   Hopefully you will do good in Rome and Roland Garros.   I guess you're satisfied with what you did this week.   
FERNANDO VERDASCO:   Well, whenever I'm a little more calmly or time goes by or the hours or whatever, I'll try to stick with the positive things, as every single week.   With every tournament sometimes you have more positive things and sometimes you have less.  
So I'll hold on to the positive things and I'll try to, as I said, just take all the positive things from this week and continue getting better.   For the tournaments that we have, I will try to play even better than this week.   I played well, but as you can see, if you want to have good results you have to play better than I did here.   
In this sport nowadays, if you just accept it‑‑ I have to do better.   You're not going to make it very far if you accept playing well.   You're going to lose.   
   
 Q.   Do you see yourself very far away from the level that you would like to have?   
FERNANDO VERDASCO:   Well, I'm not very far away from that.   Today I wasn't that far away.   Perhaps three points, because there were three key points in the match.  
Two of them he played really well.   It's true if he plays an ace and just touches the line, then bad luck.   But bravo for him, because he just puts the ball on the line.   Good for him.  
But the last one was my mistake.   The first break point in the second set was a high ball.   It was easy.   I didn't want to adjust so much, but I didn't strike the ball flatly and it just went out by a few centimeters.   
After that, the opportunities, the Love‑30 that I had, I just didn't go for them.   In the end, there were two errors on my side until we did the 30‑all.   Points like those were the ones that made the difference.  
That's the difference between playing well and losing against a top 10 and playing well and winning.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT