MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 5, 2014
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. VERDASCO/A. Seppi
  6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Just like to ask you, you seemed to have difficulty finding your rhythm out there.   Was it the weather was heavy or Seppi seemed a bit irregular?
FERNANDO VERDASCO:   No, like I said after the match, it's never easy, the first match here in Madrid, because, I mean, the ball in the air is faster because of the altitude.   As soon as you don't touch the ball perfectly, you start making unforced errors.   Like I said, it's not easy, no? 
But, I mean, I know about that.   I have been playing here all my life. 
I just keep going, even if I had a few games in the second set.   I think I played a very good last game with my serve and in the tiebreak at the end. 
Here is tough to be like super regular the whole match.   You need to be focused mentally, and it's what I did today.
Even if it was not my best match, at the end I'm happy I won.   Hopefully tomorrow I'm going to have like even better feelings and I will be more regular the whole match. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish. 

Q.   After today's hard match, tomorrow you're playing again Roberto.   He has just won Robredo.   How are you going to prepare for the match?
FERNANDO VERDASCO:   Well, you know, nothing special.   I'm going to keep doing my game; I guess he will do his. 
He's a different player, but maybe could be similar to Seppi.   Not the same, but he plays regularly; he moves well in the court; he's physically good; moves his legs well.
Maybe Robredo plays better with his backhand, but I'll try to just, like I said before, do my game and get the best out of me.
I will try to play aggressively, play like I always do here in Madrid.   Sometimes you have to defend; sometimes you have to attack.   I'll try to do the best I can both things, and hopefully I will have a good match tomorrow. 
Obviously it's clear that Roberto is playing at a really good level to beat Robredo.   If I don't play well, it's going to be complicated to beat him. 

Q.   There is always talk about the altitude here, about how fast the ball flies.   Normally you train in Madrid.   Is it easier to prepare for this tournament than other tournaments in altitude where you don't normally play? 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:   Well, I know about the altitude and about the circumstances in Madrid better than anyone because I was born here.   I've raised myself here as a player.
Even though it's tough for me, also it's tough for other players.   It's just another tournament where you have to get used to circumstances of the tournament.   That's all. 
You know, I like that the ball bounces and flies as it does here in Madrid because it's the way I've been playing all my life since I was a kid.
I've been playing even better and better and training here all year, so it's normal that even though the situation during the matches are complicated, in some moments I play well. 
You know, these are circumstances that I like because I'm used to them. 

Q.   You won the Houston tournament and have been playing since 2010 without winning anything.   Has it been a relief towards the rest of the season?   Do you feel differently?   A little bit better?
FERNANDO VERDASCO:   What I'm going to is winning a tournament always gives you confidence.   I had been a long time without winning any tournament, and that tournament of course build up confidence for me.
I have been playing well in Indian Wells.   I did a good tournament.   I beat Gasquet but lost to Isner.   But I was playing on the a good level and have been playing the last tournaments at a high level pretty well.   But the thing was that the scores were not coming my way. 
In Houston I managed to win, but I hurt myself with Nico, my abductor.   I couldn't play Monte‑Carlo, and in Barcelona I wasn't at my 100%.
Well, here I'm feeling very well, and hopefully that doesn't annoy me anymore.   I hope physically I will be at my best level to be able to play the next matches and the next tournaments pretty well.
Madrid is pretty special for me, but then we have Rome and Roland Garros, which are pretty important tournament. 
So I will try to be at my best level and play in the clay tournaments the best I can right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT