AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2011
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. VERDASCO/K. Nishikori
  6-2, 6-4, 6-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. You dominate the game all the time, especially your forehand stroke is so good. How did you look back at that game, that match?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: What I think about the match?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, I think that I started the match today very, very strong, like compare, for example, second round against Tipsarevic I start a little bit slow and he start playing so good. So today I really want to start from the first point 100%, like moving and hitting the ball hard.  
 I saw that he was like stretching with the back, with the leg, lots of time, taking the medical timeout at the end of the first set. So, you know, maybe in his match of second round against Mayer he got a little bit tired and physically he was not 100% today.   
 I was just trying to push hard and try to take advantage in the game fast. You know, I think that I played really good, and he started playing better also the second set and the third set better than the first set.  
 But I think that I did very good my game today, and I didn't let him play his game so much. So I'm happy of how I played today and to be here in fourth round again.   
  
  Q. Did you prepare any strategy coming into the match, or tactics?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No, no. Nothing special. Well, we never played each other before, so I was watching some matches of him that he played, knowing that one of his best matches was against Blake or against David Ferrer.   
 So, you know, I suppose mentally that he wanted to -- or he like to play fast and not like really high balls or with a lot of spin. So I was just trying to serve good, mix my serve, flat but also with spin, and also taking my forehand and hitting hard and with spin to his backhand. Make him run, no?   
 So it was my mentality for that match, and I think that I had a good day today and the things was well for me.   
 Also, like I said before to him, I think he was not 100% physically, so it was, you know, for sure for him not a good feeling, no?   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT