CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2010
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KOHLSCHREIBER/F. Verdasco
  6-2, 7-5 
  
 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Could you just tell us a little bit about what happened out there tonight? Especially in the second set you had some chances to win the set and it didn't quite happen. What happened out there?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yeah, well, I think I guess it was not my day, with the opportunities, with the match in general. I think he played better than me, and in that three set points I had in the second set, he put all the first serves in.   
 Yeah, you know, I know in one maybe I went for too much in one backhand crosscourt, but I think that he played very good the set points. After that he got the confidence and I lost the confidence only to be he break me the next game. So like I said, I guess that it was not my day today.   
  
  Q. So you lost the first round in Bangkok, now the first round in Beijing. What do you think is going to happen with the Masters Series in London? Do you think you can still participate in it, to be in it?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, I am still No. 8, and, well, I think that is the race. Here I don't lose any point. I think that is more important next week, Shanghai, first, because is a Masters Series, and second, because for the entry I lost last year in first round, so I will work hard this week to be 100% in Shanghai and try to play good, try to recover the good feelings from the US Open.   
 You know, is not easy to after the US Open that I took like a week off, and then I was in Madrid just few days and doing a lot of, like, bunch of stuff. I didn't really have time to practice in Bangkok last week. I had problems in my knee during the week practicing.   
 So it was not easy, and all these you feel in the court. So I just hope to have like a good week now to practice, and I will try my best to be in my best shape in Shanghai and get all the points I can there to try to stay inside the eight best players to be in London.   
  
  Q. You're the second seed of this competition to go out in the competition today. Can you just sort of describe the kind of game plan now as you run to the end of the season and try to reach your goals and so forth, how you're trying to prepare yourself mentally and physically? And then, also, you know, is it such that in these tournaments that you step off the gas a bit and try and concentrate on those tournaments that really matter to you?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, of course I think that in the big tournaments all the good players, all the top players try to be better than in the small tournaments, but it's just unconscious. Like you know that the big points are there, and you need to play good, the big tournaments, to be in London, for example.   
 You can play good at 250s, also, but they only count two and that's hard for us, for the top players. We know that the Masters Series all count, so when you are tired, of course, there are players that maybe they look to be good 100% in the big tournaments.   
 Like myself right now, like I tried my best here. The feelings was not good. Like I said, I didn't have -- I didn't have a lot of time to practice before Bangkok, and I think I felt that today and in Bangkok, you know, a little bit that like loss of practice, no?   
 That's why I'm saying I have a week now ahead to practice hard, like really hard, and try to be 100% in Shanghai, because I think that's the big deal next week.  
 So I want to be at least in that one. Now that I lost in these two in first round, at least I want to be in Shanghai good to try to win all of the matches I can.   
  
  Q. I saw on your Twitter that you always write tweets to Arbeloa and Xabi Alonso. As athletes, you share a lot of things in common like how to deal with the difficulties in the games and how to view the strong mind. Do you often share this kind of experience with them or try to find some comforts when you find some difficulties in your games?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No, one thing is to have relationship with or friendship with football players like friends, and another thing is to share the other things, no, like professional things. I don't speak much about like these like difficulties on my game or on soccer.   
 I think that they are completely different sports. Tennis is individual sport than soccer, no? So is different. Is just, you know, is just friendship, but, you know, we know each other. We are all from Spain, and we have good relationship, but that doesn't mean that we speak about mentality or things like that on sport. Maybe we can talk, but is not like the usual conversation.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT