U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2010
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. VERDASCO/D. Nalbandian
  6-2, 3-6, 6-3, 6-2  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Felt like you served very well and he didn't serve maybe as well as could have. Did that feel like the important swing in the match?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, maybe. I think everything is important in one match. When you play like two good players, everything can change the match, no?   
 It was windy, and not as windy as yesterday, but it was windy. Sometimes was tough to play, no? Tough to even serve in one side with the sun.   
 So, you know, I think that, yeah, maybe I served better than him and that gave me a little bit of advantage. But I think also that mentally I was really strong, even like in the first set for four games, almost 40 minutes, I was there all the time. You know, I'm positive and really good and focused.  
 So I think that that was the key. Also, even when I lost the second set, I was feeling good. So I think everything was important today to make the victory.  
  
  Q. Even though you didn't break him the first few games, did you get a sense you had a lot more chances the rest of the match based on how was playing?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, I think that the match, the beginning of the match was tough. I had, like you said, few breakpoints, I didn't do it. It was four games, 40 minutes. But I was feeling great physically all the time.  
 I knew that I was, like, I really need to be all the time focused and be positive to beat one guy like Nalbandian right now in this moment.  
 So, you know, I did it, and I'm happy of how the match goes and how I played today.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about playing David? All the Spaniards are doing well here. What are your feelings on that?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yeah, well, it's good that he's gonna be for sure one Spanish in quarterfinals, and maybe, you know, if Feliciano wins and Rafa wins, also another Spanish in quarterfinals will be in that part of the draw.  
 If that is done today, one semifinals for sure will be Spanish also. So, you know, it's always nice to see all the Spanish winning and being in the last rounds, no? So if you need to lose, it's better to lose against a Spanish player, then at least one guy is gonna be there one round more, no?   
 I'm happy. I hope to play good also the next round, keep doing my work and my job as better as possible. Trying to play the best to be in the quarterfinals like last year.   
  
  Q. Do you feel better now than you did maybe in Washington?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yeah, for sure I am feeling much better. The last weeks before here, the results was really like really tough.   
 I lost with Mardy 7-6, 7-6. With Chardy also with the tiebreaks. It was, you know, like tough matches, close matches. Finally I lost all of them.   
 So I'm happy how is this tournament going, and I'm getting much more confidence. For sure, the match of today, winning Nalbandian that is one of the players in best conditions this summer is gonna help me for my confidence and for get better work and better tennis the next matches.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT