MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2010
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/F. Verdasco
  6-0, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Fernando.   
  
  Q. Is Rafael better than ever before?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I don't know. I think he was pretty good also before than the same like he played today and the same he was playing this week. He was like doing this six years, of course, some moments better than other ones. But if you remember Roland Garros when he beat Federer in three sets really easy, he was also playing unbelievable.   
  
  Q. How tough was it out there?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yeah, no, well, of course, if you see the score, is a big difference. But in some games I had some chances to be closer, you know, to make him think a little bit more.   
 But, you know, I think that he had unbelievable day and he played really good. He didn't let me attack him so good, with balls really high and deep.   
 And then I also didn't have maybe a good day, no, because I was trying to force and making more mistakes than unusual.   
  
  Q. Do you think he's back to his best level?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, I think that he played really good during all the week, no? Not only today. I think he played unbelievable.   
 And on clay, I think last year he lost against Soderling and against Federer because he was like really tired, and also with problems in the knee. If he is not with this, I think he's still the best on clay by far.   
  
  Q. What do you think, generally speaking, you have to do to try to beat this guy on clay? What is the tactic?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, I don't know (smiling). You are asking me something that if I know I will do today on the court.   
  
  Q. What happened when you called the trainer?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: My neck got stuck in the third game of the match.   
  
  Q. He was already giving you a headache?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No, no, nothing with headache.   
  
  Q. Did you feel you became a little nervous towards the end of the match?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No, I was feeling okay. I was feeling the same like yesterday. Yesterday and today, it was my first semifinal, my first final. It was like all the normal nervous that you have when you have important match. Nothing special, I think, out of normal.   
  
  Q. You had lost to him very badly also in Roland Garros. Has it changed anything from there? Is it exactly more or less the same difference?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Every match is different. From Roland Garros to here, pass many times, many matches together. You know, every match is different.   
  
  Q. But you are a much stronger player now than you were probably two years ago. How do you explain the score was still so bad?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Always not the score is the reflection of the game.   
  
  Q. What do you think you needed to do a little bit better today to make it a real contest and have a chance to maybe get some doubt in his head?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I think if he plays like he play today, not only with me, I think if he plays like this, nobody can beat him.   
 So I cannot say something that you guys doesn't know. I think that he was beating everyone during six years here, and I'm one more of all these. I cannot tell you something new, no?   
 I think that if he plays like this, nobody can beat him. What do you want me to tell you?   
  
  Q. Only on clay or all surfaces?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, on clay for sure is the biggest difference. Hard court, more players beat him, you know, in the last year, for example, like Soderling, Davydenko, Federer and other players. On clay, is only two players.   
  
  Q. Behind Nadal, who are the best clay court players that you think are in the top five?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Right now?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I think I can put myself in the top five right now. But also there are very good players. I think Ferrer and Ferrero, they're having unbelievable year. Also Federer is going to be there for sure. I don't know, maybe Djokovic if he's in a good shape also.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT