MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 17, 2010
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. VERDASCO/N. Djokovic
  6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Fernando. 

 Q. What did you do the best today?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: The best? Well, I think just the consistency maybe on the match, like every point. And also, you know, I think I was like tactically playing really good all the match. 

 Q. What kind of tactic was so good for you?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Of course, try to take my forehand as much as I can, try to play deep and high for him to don't make him play easy and inside the court, and move him, no, move him a lot, try to put the points hard and make like long rallies. I think that was my tactic today, no? 

 Q. What does it mean for you to reach a big final like this?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, I am so happy, no, to be for first time in the finals. It was my first semifinals. And beat a player like Djokovic, playing so good, with a score like it was today, is important for me, no? 
 I'm so happy to be in the final tomorrow against Nadal. So is a great experience for me and I'm so happy for reach this final here in Monte-Carlo. 

 Q. Which would you say is the best surface for Fernando Verdasco? Hard court? Clay?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, I think I always said that I like to play in all surface. You know, of course, in a career, you know, you always have one years or one year that you maybe have better results in clay, then another year better results in hard court. 
 You know, but I think I was like in this point, in this moment of my career, if you look for all my years behind me, I was like doing good matches in all the surface, no? 
 Of course, in grass, in Wimbledon, in Queen's, you only have two or three weeks a year playing on grass, so it's tough, no? But I think I can play good in all the surface if I have time to get used to the court, no? 
 But I still like I think more to play in hard court, no, in a court like Indian Wells or like Miami. I think that court, you know, can get my conditions a little bit better. 
 But I also enjoy, when I play good on clay, I also enjoy playing on clay. So is not hard for me, no, to change the surface. 

 Q. What is the best surface for you to face Rafael?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, the fastest (laughter). As fast as it is, the matches always get more close, no, because is tougher to make breaks. And I think that he's the best on clay. So, of course, the clay is the surface that is harder for me to beat Rafa, for to beat Rafa for every player. 
 If I will play against him, I will choose grass or hard court. But now is clay and I cannot change that. I need to play against him in this moment, in this surface, and in this condition. So I will try to play my best here and try to beat him here. 

 Q. Some players say the clay here is faster than Indian Wells. Do you believe?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No. Who said that? 

 Q. Tsonga. 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: That this is faster than Indian Wells? 

 Q. Yes. 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, I dont think so. For me is much faster Indian Wells than this. 

 Q. This year. 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: This year and every year. 
 I think Indian Wells, for be a hard court, is a slow hard court. The ball bounce a lot. But is a little bit of altitude also, and this helps the ball to fly faster. And here you are playing almost in the sea, and clay court. So for me is slower this than Indian Wells and, of course, all the hard court tournaments. 

 Q. When you look back in your career, do you see the match you lost to Nadal at the Australian Open as your biggest lost opportunity or you see it in a different way? 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, like, of course, it was the semifinals of a Grand Slam, so it was the biggest lost of my career. 
 But also it was, with the Davis Cup in Argentina, the best feelings and the best atmosphere I ever played a match. So, of course, you know, right now and after the match, I was so sad and so upset to lost that match. I was so close. But at the same time if you see the positive way, and the positive side, it was unbelievable, no? Reaching the semifinals, he was No. 1 in the world in that moment, and both of us, we play unbelievable that match. So I think was unbelievable match. The longest on the tournament, you know, in Australian Open. 
 So for me anyways is going to be in my memories ever. 

 Q. Especially the match point? 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, of course. Everything is going to be. But, you know, tomorrow is different match. I play against him after in Rome, in Madrid. So I know is going to be very tough for here tomorrow in final in Monte-Carlo. Is my first final of Masters, so I will try to handle the situation as best I can and try to play my best tennis, too, to try to win tomorrow and get the chances, the small chances for sure he will let me. In clay, he don't give you many chances. 

 Q. Talk about the condition you were in before that famous match and now. Do you feel you're in the same shape?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Which? 

 Q. The one in Australia. Do you feel as well?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Is different, I think. There I was playing my best tennis on my career. And also it was hard court. I was injured of my ankle. But the thing was hard court help me to win like much more points free with my serve, and being aggressive, playing flat, going to the net, you know, it was like easier for me to play than here. 
 Here, in the conditions I was in Australia, I would lost 6-2, 6-2, something like that. Now I'm like physically feeling better. And, you know, I will try, like I said, to play my best tennis tomorrow. 
 I need to make a perfect match to beat Rafa on clay. So I will try to make this match happen tomorrow.

 Q. Do you still go sometimes in Vegas to practice or do physical training with Gil Reyes, the Agassi group?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No, I go. Now I can't because I'm in Europe and I don't have time to be going and coming back. But I was there before Australia, before Indian Wells, and I will be there also before Toronto and before maybe US Open. Before the Asian tour also. In pre-season, I will go also there. 
 I will go, and I will go always all the times is going to be possible for me to go, no? Now I will be here four months in Europe and I will not go there. I will not go there to practice for five days to come here. It's not worth it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT