MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 16, 2010
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. VERDASCO/A. Montañes
  6-3, 6-7, 6-0 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Fernando.   
  
  Q. What happened exactly in the second set? You were up, 5-1, match points, then 5-2, match points, then blackout.   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I think, you know, in the first game with my serve, he just play like too very aggressive. These points, he made one inside-out forehand that he almost won the point with that forehand, and then another forehand just like on the line, hitting like all or nothing. He put these two forehands inside.   
 Then after, of course, you know, I lost that serve. I was just trying to be aggressive, but at the same time without a lot of tactic. He didn't make mistakes. I try with my serve with 5-3 to win like free points with my serve, but I didn't make first serves in.   
 So I think it was a little bit of everything. I tried to be aggressive, and I didn't put the serve in. I tried to be aggressive with my forehand, and I make mistakes. He played great. He played good after this 5-1. He didn't make mistakes. He start also to get confidence. I start to lose confidence. He won the second set, I think, because of that.   
  
  Q. You said on the court you hit something?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: The wall.  
  
  Q. Why?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I was upset. After 6-3, 5-1 in one hour, be one set all, I was pissed. I was going to the toilet. I hit the wall just to take the adrenaline out a little bit.   
  
  Q. Were you thinking on the court of the nine losses you got in the quarters in the Masters Series?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Of course, I was not thinking that on the court. I was just thinking to win the match. I was not even thinking that it was like quarterfinals.   
 I thought that when I went to the locker room. After I lost the second set and I was pissed and everything, I started to think that it was, you know, quarterfinals, that I must go again to the court and fight every ball and play good.   
 So I came back really angry. Maybe outside I didn't look like that in the court, but I was really angry every point hitting the ball. I didn't want to lose like one point, no?   
 So I play better tactically. I play good tactically, but like really angry every time I was hitting the ball. I start to play much better. You know, that's why I won the third set 6-0.   
  
  Q. Tomorrow is going to be your first semifinal in a Masters Series. What does it mean for you?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, it's important, no? I'm happy to be in semifinals the first time in the Masters. Here also special tournament. Is very, very special tournament here. For me, you know, is nice to be in my first semifinals here in Monte-Carlo.   
  
  Q. Have you seen Novak's match?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yeah, I was watching a little bit because I was playing right after. So, yeah, of course.   
 I think he's playing better and better every day, getting confidence. You know, he's a great player. I know that is going to be a tough match tomorrow.   
  
  Q. How is your back this week?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: It's tight a little bit. But, you know, I'm just playing with that. I don't have another options.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT