BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 24, 2009
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/F. Verdasco
  6-4, 3-6, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. He kept trying to get away from you, especially in the third set, and you kept coming back. What was the difference for you to keep pulling him back and pull off the tiebreaker in the end? What did you do to get back in the match to force the tiebreak?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Fight.  
  
  Q. How so?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Fight and try to, you know, keep staying at the match, and try to do my best every point to still having chances to win. You know, is only thing I was doing.   
  
  Q. What happened in the tiebreak?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: That I play bad and he didn't make mistakes and I did quite a lot. So that's why I lost and he won, no?   
 He didn't play even one ball long line, you know, in the tiebreak, and I lost maybe four, you know, trying to go not for the winner, but just to move him, no? He was really waiting the cross-court. Just to try to open the court, I miss few forehands long line. I also miss one forehand cross-court long.   
 You know, I did many mistakes in that tiebreak. He also served good few points. The tiebreak was gone.   
  
  Q. Do you feel you lost an opportunity today to have a chance of getting to the semifinals?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Of course, it was a big opportunity. Right now the chances are pretty low. You know, needs to happen many things, no, for me to qualify.   
 So, you know, it was pretty hard, no, for me to lose that match after I recover the first set and after I recover the break with 5-3 on his serve. Is really hard, no?   
 But I tried my best and I was really close.   
  
  Q. How do you feel you've played overall in the two matches?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I feel I play good. But I also play against a very good players. You know, is not enough, no, to play good tennis to beat these guys. You need to play a good tennis and also play very good in the very important moments, no, and don't make mistakes.   
 You know, there are many things, no, that you need to do to beat these guys. I was pretty close both days, but the level of my tennis I think was good. I need to be happy for the level I played, but also at the same time I'm sad because I lost the matches, no? Is normal.   
  
  Q. Did you hurt your leg in the third set?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No, no. It was a nail. I almost break the nail of my foot. But, you know, many times happen during this year in hard court. You know, I really have my nails very bad. You know, I'm taking care about of that. But is not a big deal that, no?   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on playing Murray next?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: What I thought? You know, what I would think, just to go out and try my best. Doesn't matter if I have chances or not to qualify. I'm here to try my best anyway and to enjoy. You know, anyway, if I don't have chances to qualify, I will go out, I will even enjoy more because I know I don't have nothing to lose. You know, I will go next week to play Davis Cup.   
 I need to keep trying to get my best level for that tie also. I will just go there outside and try to play my best anyway. Doesn't matter if I qualified or not.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT