U.S. OPEN
September 9, 2009
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/F. Verdasco
  7-6, 1-6, 7-5, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. If I could just ask, at one point you seemed like you were ill. Were you feeling sick on the court today, or did you have any condition? Was there a turn in the match for you that you could attribute to physical problems?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I think that the problems was there, and everybody knows about it. Just the thing that today I had Djokovic in front of me, and he's a great player, very good player, one of the best.   
 These problems that I have, you know, with one guy like him, there are bigger problems with another players. So, you know, I just try my best, but it was not enough to win today.  
  
  Q. Can you take positives out of this tournament? You've reached the quarterfinals here for the first time. I know it's very soon after the match, but can you take some positives out of the way you played the tournament in general?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yes, of course. I think that for me, so important to reach the quarterfinals here for first time. And also the way I'm playing I think is good. And also reaching the quarterfinals being injured the last two matches is important for me, no, to be able to win anyways don't feeling good and having like handicap in my game.  
 But, you know, of course you are sad when you lost, but for another part I am happy to reach the quarters feeling and having these problem since second round. So I'm happy for that.  
  
  Q. Is the abdominal, the stomach muscle, the reason you're not playing Davis Cup, or is that because of the foot?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Both.  
  
  Q. You just decided you needed a bit of a rest?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yeah, of course I need to rest. First day abdominal, because I have micro tears, and tomorrow I have proof to know how long I need to rest, to recover. But I think it's going to take around one week or ten days.   
 So in that time, I will take that time also to have the surgery on my foot and take the problem I have in the foot also out and come back as soon as possible without any problems.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT