PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 29, 2009
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. VERDASCO/S. Querrey
  6-4, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Fernando, three set points on the tiebreak. Talk about what you did to close it out?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: You know, I think the second set was a little bit strange because I was 4-2 up, playing good. He was a little bit down in that moment. I was almost 5-2 on serve. But, you know, it was a so long game that one. Finally he won that game. He break me the next game. The match change completely, no? He start playing much better; I start playing a little bit worse. 
 I don't know how I turned it around again, you know, with 6-3 down in the tiebreak. I was also a little bit lucky that I served two big serves. I won the two points from 6-3 to 6-5 only with my serve, and also the double-fault he made with his 6-All. 
 I think I was just a little bit lucky today. Also not only now the final, the semifinals against Andreev, two tiebreaks. I had a good day on the tiebreaks, and that's help me also so much to win the tournament. 

 Q. You've had a pretty poor summer, struggled throughout the year after the Australian Open. Does this give you confidence going into the Open?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yeah, but I didn't struggle so much. I reach, you know, the Masters Series quarterfinals. Just in the two of Montréal and Cincinnati, I lost Cincinnati first round and Montréal in third round against Roddick also 7-6 in the third. So I was playing really good. Just I had bad match against Guillermo. Also he played good. He deserved to win that match more than me. I think everybody can have one day bad, no? If I saw all the matches during the year, I think that almost all the matches I been playing good more than that. 
 Of course, win the tournament give me - I hope - big confidence for the US Open and the rest of the year. For sure is also going to help me a lot in the ranking to have more chances for the Masters Cup at the end of the year. So I'm happy to win the tournament, very happy.

 Q. Did you feel fatigued after playing two tiebreakers this afternoon?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No. I play two tiebreaks this morning. I had few hours to rest. And I was feeling pretty good this afternoon. I think both matches was with good rhythm, with Andreev and with Sam. This is also a good test for me, no, to see the US Open and see myself, that I feel fit and I can play good also in the Open in the matches for five sets.

 Q. You handled his serve better than anybody else this week. What was the key to that? 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: You know, I think in the serve I was sometimes just looking to put the first serve in and other times to go more for big serves. Just changing, no? But, of course, sometimes in the second serve I was trying sometimes too much, and that's why I did I a lot of double-faults during the week. But also, you know, I'm happy how I return all the week. I think I made many breaks. I was feeling also very good in the baseline physically and tactically. 
 I need to be happy in general for all the game that I have play all the week. 

 Q. Have you had a tournament where you played the semifinals indoors and the championship match outdoors?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Never. Is the first time for me that I did that. What happened was one time in Nottingham I played all the tournament out in grass, and then the finals in indoor hard court because it was raining also all day. That was even more bigger, no, the change. Because today at least is the same surface. 
 But, you know, I think for everybody is the same. You just need to try to get used to it the best as possible and try to win anyway. 

 Q. You've been here five times now. What does it mean to win this title? 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Like I said, you know, a lot of times I said that this tournament had been special for me because last year, semifinals, the year before quarterfinals, or I think the two years before. I was hoping to win it one time. Also the people treat me unbelievable here, and the tournament director, and also all the girls from the press services, all the people around. So all that makes me feel so happy playing the tournament, no, and so comfortable. 
 I think for me it was special always to play here and win this title, this tournament. This year is gonna be now even more special, for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT