PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 27, 2009
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. VERDASCO/J. Melzer
  6-3, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Was the match as easy as it looked to be from the stands?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I think he had a problem in the neck, he told me, warming up. So, you know, I think that he didn't serve like he usually does, no? 
 So for me it was advantage that he cannot serve like he normally do. 
 But at the same time I feel good. I didn't make many mistakes. I serve better than yesterday. I was feeling physically the same like yesterday. So, you know, for me is important to be playing better every day and to keep winning. 
 So, you know, I don't care about the result so much, just about my feelings and how I play.

 Q. Are you pretty happy with what you've seen today particularly?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: You know, I'm happy and I won and I happy because I feel better than yesterday. So is the most important thing. 

 Q. How important is it for you to be able to build up this kind of momentum going into next week and is that one of the reasons you play a tournament before the US Open?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yes. You know, like I said the first day I came here to get rhythm after I lost in Cincinnati first round and win some matches, try to get the last rounds. I'm in semifinals again, no? So I'm happy for that. 
 Now that I'm in semis, I will try to go for the tournament. Let's see.

 Q. Your thoughts on playing Igor. 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yeah, always the matches against him that I played was really tough. Always so close. You know, he's a great, great player. I lost against him last year in US Open. So, you know, we'll see tomorrow, no? I think every match is a different match in tennis. You have your chances. He have his chances. Let's see how the match is going on. 
 I will try just my best to win the match again. 

 Q. Both of you have had a lot of success here. When you come to a tournament where you go deep into a draw, do you feel confident when you step on the court?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I think helps, no? Always have a good feelings and always play good in one tournament is easier and give you more confidence, no, than when you play other tournaments that you played many times and you didn't feel so good. 
 Of course, helps a little bit. But then after you need to play good. If not... The memory doesn't play.

 Q. Did you watch the draw for the US Open? 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I didn't see it. I want to see it when I finish this tournament. 

 Q. Tournament director said you bring half of Madrid with you to this tournament. Do you have a large rooting section for New York? 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: They are always coming a lot to New York because is summer in Spain. All my family on holidays, and also friends. They are already here, 11. They are coming few more friends to New York. So I will have big problems for tickets. 

 Q. It's a good problem to have, isn't it?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Big problem, but is good. 

 Q. In your off-season at the end of last year you were in Las Vegas and worked with Gil Reyes and Andre Agassi. 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I was February, before Indian Wells, when I got injured in Australia, I've been there for four weeks. Then also just before Montréal I been there for nine days. I will come back I think the next time after Shanghai for like another eight days before Valencia and Paris Bercy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT