WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2009
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. VERDASCO/K. Vliegen
  7-6, 6-7, 7-6, 6-4

 Q. It took so long for a break in serve to arrive. When it did, could you sense it was the moment? Do you smell it, sense it, because it did not seem like it was ever going to happen in that match; it was going to be tiebreaker, tiebreaker, tiebreaker. 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No, I was trying a lot of times and thinking that I can break him, but he really served very good all the match. It was tough to break him in the whole match. But just in the last game, you know, I just think that I can do it, the same like the match, and I did it finally. I had Love-40 in the first set and also breakpoint in a few more sets, and I didn't do it, no? He was serving good all the time, and it was tough to play like this. I really tried all the time. 
 But of course I knew before the 5-4 that maybe I was going to break him in that game. I was really looking forward to doing it, and I did it. 

 Q. Were you surprised how well he played, how tough it was?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No, no. Surprised, no. He's a very good player. He's so talented, and when he plays good, he's so tough to beat. And here on grass, also, when you play with one player that he serves so good, good variation, and also at the baseline he can make a very good slice and go forward to the net. He's a very tough player. I didn't expect that I'm going to win easy anytime.

 Q. And you're Spain's No. 1 at this tournament, and you and the Spanish flag were on the court. Do you feel that's extra weight, responsibility, or do you enjoy that extra responsibility? 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No, I don't feel anything about that. I just feel the pressure of myself in the tournament, and I'm trying to do the best I can in the tournament. I don't think about if I'm the first or the second or whatever of Spain. It doesn't matter. I think that I need to do my best anyway. 

 Q. I think there are probably a few British flags cheering for you, as well. I want to get a sense of how important this tournament is for you and how it compares with the other majors, how you feel about playing on grass. And what's your realistic expectation of how far you can advance in this tournament? 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: For me it's always special here. Why, is just since the first time I came here, it was the most special for me. I love to play here, and I like to play on grass. I know that it is so tough, and the matches, you know, they change in one, two balls, no? Completely different match. 
 Today it was one of these matches because in the first set tiebreaker I was with many breaks down in the tiebreak, and I made one return with the frame, lob to the line, and after that point I won that point, and the match changed, no? I think that it's tough to play on grass mentally, and also you need to change in a short time because you just have two weeks before Wimbledon to prepare. But I always love to play here. It's always special, this tournament. 

 Q. Is the rumor true that after Laura Robson's loss in the first round that you telephoned her to console her about this loss? 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Who? 

 Q. Laura Robson. 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No. Who said that? 

 Q. Rumor. Which part do you admire the most about Federer? 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I don't know. That's tough. I don't know if I need to say something about his game because his game is unbelievable. He's so complete about everything, serve, forehand, volley, touch, whatever, slice, and also all the Grand Slam titles that he has already, like Sampras, 14, but also winning the four Grand Slams. So it's tough to say one thing only about Federer. 

 Q. Could you say how that match, the Australian Open, the five-set semifinal, has that changed you as a player mentally or in terms of your game plan? 
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I think that just -- it's a big -- one more big experience. And of course it helped me a lot for the first time being in the semifinals, playing against No. 1 in the world and playing that level of tennis. It was a new experience for me, and so big. So I learned a lot from that, and I'm trying to reach these rounds again soon of a Grand Slam and trying to have also chances like I had against Rafa that match. 
 Of course there is a lot of things that they give me, the semifinals, mentally, and confidence, and a lot of things.

 Q. Do you feel you can make the semifinal at Wimbledon?
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I believe in my game, but I know -- I'm a realist and I know that I have quarterfinals Federer, that he's the big favorite here, and it's going to be so tough to beat him in quarterfinals to reach the semis, but I need to go match by match and try to keep improving every match, keep playing better every day. If I reach the quarterfinals against him, I need to play my best tennis if I want to beat him.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT