SONY ERICSSON OPEN
April 2, 2009
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/F. Verdasco
  6-1, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It seemed that you were not 100% today. Is that right? You looked physically not very at ease. What happened?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: You know, I had this problem in my gluteals in the second game of the match, and after that, it was tough, no, to keep in the match, to put pressure on him.   
 He played good. He's a great player. He's one of the best players right now. If you're not 100%, you have no chances to win against him.   
 I was feeling pretty good for the match, and I was unlucky that this happened in the second game of the match. So I was all the match a little bit, you know, with this problem.   
 But, you know, I don't want to -- I don't like to also put excuses for the lose. He played better than me and he deserved the victory.  
  
  Q. What exactly happened? Bad move?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No, it was one backhand cross that he made so short. He opened the court so much. I went out of the court to the take it, and just in one movement that I stretch so much I just feel it.   
  
  Q. What makes him so tough to play, do you think?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: You know, he's so solid player. He don't make mistakes, stupid mistakes. He serve good. He put all the returns in. He don't make mistakes. He play deep. He defends so good.   
 He's one of the best players right now. If you don't play 100% and you're not physically 100%, it's impossible beat him.   
 For me it was tough to don't be -- to have this problem in the second game, you know, because it was very important match for me. I was, you know, with a lot motivation to play that match. But, you know, these things can happen.   
 I was unlucky today. I just want to recover right now to be a 100% Monte-Carlo.   
  
  Q. Is this the kind of injury that will take time to recover?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I hope not too much. I didn't push so much after I feel it, so I hope that in few days I will be fine.   
 Anyway, I just finish the match. I decide to come to the press straightaway to then have all the time I need to make the treatment. You know, then with the doctors and the physios, they will tell me what they think I should do.   
 But I think that in a few days if I take rest I will be fine.  
  
  Q. Were you tempted at all to retire completely?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No. You know, when I feeling that I was just saying, like -- well, because normally these things never happen to me. Then I was a little bit with expectation how -- what is going to happen or how -- after few games I will feel better. But as the games was going on, I felt the same.   
 And also, the beginning of the second set a little bit more, so I was thinking to retire with 3-Love in the second set down and two breaks. But, you know, these matches, I also try to play all the match, finish the match.   
 You know, if I cannot walk, then of course I will retire. At least if I can play a little bit, I don't usually retire. I never did it. For me, it's pretty tough do it. Today I was feeling to do it a few times.  
  
  Q. If you are a 100% you will play the clay season? What will be the main goal for you, Madrid or the French? Both?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Both. Madrid for sure is my hometown. It's in all the Masters Series for me the most special one. And Roland Garros is huge. I love to play always in Paris.   
 So it's gonna be the two most important tournaments for me all the clay season. But also Barcelona in Spain is important for me, and Monte-Carlo. Last year I lost in first round, so I don't have points to defend.   
 I will try to play good. You know, in Madrid this year is the week of Hamburg last year, so I defend quarterfinals. Just I will try to keep playing good and be a little bit more lucky with the injuries, no? Because in Australia I had the ankle and now this.   
 I hope to don't have more problems.  
  
  Q. Roland Garros, what is the best way, according to you, to get prepared for this? To play a lot of matches?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Of course. You know, the clay now is a change of surface. The most important thing is to get the rhythm in clay and win matches. You know, as much as you win, it's better to go to Roland Garros. You will get to Roland Garros with more rhythm, and you gonna be also easier to play there and win more matches in Roland Garros.  
  
  Q. Have you already visited the new site in Madrid?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No, I never. I will go now.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT