PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 22, 2008
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  M. FISH/F. Verdasco   
6-0, 1-6, 6-3  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. What happened in that first set?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Well, happen till 4-Love because after 4-Love I didn't find one ball with two breaks with the serve of Mardy. I think it's almost impossible to came back. I didn't do anything more. So I start to put more power in the second set.   
 And I think up the match anyway, I think it was strange because at the beginning he play really good and I play horrible. In the second set I play better. He start to miss much more. And I think it was a strange match, no?   
 And the third set, he break me in the first game, and then I had maybe a few games there, like maybe I had some chances to put more pressure and break him back. But, you know, I think he serve really good in the first and the third set, and I didn't have too many chances to break him, no?   
 Anyway, I think, like I just said, the match was so strange today and it was sometimes like few games so good, all winners, and then another games all mistakes. It's not normal anyway.   
  
  Q. You've played so well going up to today. Why was it different today? Why was it so strange?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I don't know. I came to the court with the same mentality. But, you know, he start playing good. He start hitting the ball so good, and I didn't take the advantage of the points any time in the first set.   
 And then, you know, when one break he start to play with less pressure, and then he break me again. And then, you know, it was much difficult to play, no, like this. And more with a player like Mardy, when you play with a good server, if they break you one time, they serve better, and if they break you two times, then they serve unbelievable.   
 And in the second set was just the opposite. I break him, and then he start to serve worst and to make more mistakes. And everything it changed, no? But the beginning of the third set I think was the key. And the first game he break me, then he start to take confidence again and serve better, and I didn't had the chance to break him back.   
  
  Q. Nine double-faults. Talk about what was going on with the double-faults.   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: The thing is like every time I serve, is touching the net and going out. I don't know. I will practice to serve one meter up to the net to don't touch the net more. I don't know. I only serve the same like every time. And it was, you know, all the time touching the net and out.   
 I think it was a bad day and I need to forget about today and try to practice the best I can to be ready for the Open.   
  
  Q. How difficult is it to serve a double on match point?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: It's tough, no, because you did not have the chance to play the point and to see what happen, no? And it was the same, net and out. Yeah, it's a bad feeling. You know, what can I do when this happen? Tennis is like this.   
  
  Q. Your thoughts of Mardy, do you think he could be a dangerous floater in the draw at the Open?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I think Mardy every year is playing good in the Open. Maybe, I don't know, I didn't see him every year, every match. I am focused on myself. I have enough with me to see a lot of guys more. But, anyway, I think he's a great player on hard court and he can be a tough player, of course, in the Open, no? I think he will be so motivated. Here he's playing so good. Of course, this final, maybe if he wins the final, he will get a lot of confidence and he will be a very dangerous player next week.   
  
  Q. Apart from today, you must be fairly pleased with the way you've been playing generally going into the US Open.   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yeah, no, of course. Like I just said, I need to forget about today, about all the mistakes I made and the serve and everything, and try to be positive and see everything positive for the Open, you know, and think how was I play all this week, no? I think I was playing so good. I need to keep play like this. I think I will be play good, no, there. I hope so.   
  
  Q. Is it just Mardy's serve that makes him dangerous or are there other things you see that make him a dangerous player next week?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: No, of course I think his best hit is the serve. But he have very good backhand. And when he's up on the score, he have a very good forehand, too, no? Sometimes with the forehand he makes more mistakes. He don't have the same timing with the forehand than with the backhand.   
 But I think, you know, that when he have confidence, he's very dangerous because he hits so hard every ball and he didn't let you take the advantage in the point to try to move him, no? Every ball is coming, is coming hard, so is difficult to control and to hit with a lot of power.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT