PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 21, 2008
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  F. VERDASCO/M. Zverev  
6-2, 7-6  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Before we begin Fernando wanted to talk about the tragedy that happened in Madrid two days ago.   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: First of all, I want to dedicate my victory today to all the victims and all the families of the victims in the flight in Madrid and send them all my support and everything of me that I can help of them. I am so sorry about that. Is my hometown. Is so bad when these things happen, no? I really felt so bad yesterday and today. It's really hard, no? But I only want to send them all my support and everything for them.   
  
  Q. Did someone here tell you or did you see it on the news?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Yeah, I saw it on the news. People from Madrid, you know, is my hometown, is where I live. Friends of mine was taking flights yesterday to another parts of the world and Spain, too. I got the news from the news and from friends, too.   
  
  Q. Your thoughts on the match, particularly the tiebreaker?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: First set I think I played so good. I think maybe the best tennis I played in the whole week. Second set with 1-0 I had I think like the game with my serve that I made the double-faults. You know, maybe I lost a little bit of confidence and I give him confidence, too. He started to play a little bit better. He didn't do so many serve and volley like first serves. Then it was more tough to play against him.   
 But I think I played really good all the match and I happy how I feel and how I play.   
  
  Q. A lot of seeds have been eliminated from this tournament. Do you feel good the fact you've been able to avoid all the upsets?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: You know, I don't think it's going to be easier or everything is going to change, no? I think all the players here are pretty good and doesn't matter if they are seeded.   
 So, no, I think tomorrow the semifinals against Levine or Fish are going to be a hard match anyway. Doesn't matter about the ranking. If I win and I play the final, then is gonna be the same. It's going to be so tough anyway.   
 I don't think because the top seeds they lost, it's gonna be easier.   
  
  Q. Do you like playing earlier in the morning?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: Come on, 10:30 is a little bit early (laughter). I'm Spanish. I like to play a little bit maybe 2, 3, 4, 6. You know, I normally have dinner at 9:30, 10 in Spain and here. So for me is tough to go to sleep 10:30. Like yesterday, I was hitting myself to go to sleep.   
 But, you know, the TVs and the referees and the supervisors have the power and the decision. If they say I need to play 10:30, I will play 10:30. You must be able to play every time.   
  
  Q. Will you be playing Davis Cup against the U.S.?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: You must ask to Emilio that. I am not the captain. The team is not already decided. He doesn't say to anybody and to us, too. I think we will know in the Open. Normally they set the team after the US Open. So we will see, no?   
 I hope to keep playing good. I think if I am playing good I have chances to be in the team. But, you know, is the decision of the captain who is gonna be better for that tie. Is my hometown, so for me is going to be so special to play there. I will try my best to be in the team. But if not, I will go to support my partners anyway.   
  
  Q. Will that be a strange setting, considering what's going on in Madrid? Do you think that will be a tough setting with all the tragedy going on?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: I think we need to be a part of that and we need to be focused on the tie and try to play the best we can, try to win, to be in the final. I think we have a great team. I think is gonna be an unbelievable tie in Madrid, Las Ventas, with 24,000 people. I think it's going to be amazing.   
 We need to enjoy that and try to win that tie.   
  
  Q. Do you have any comments about the news this morning that the CEO is going to step down?  
 FERNANDO VERDASCO: You know, I was focused on my match so I didn't know about the news. They told me after the match. You know, I don't have too many things to say about that because I don't know why. I don't know what happened. I don't know anything. So I only want to say like good luck in the future for him. I only wish him all the luck in his life.   
 You know, I didn't have problems with him. I always had a good relation with him when I saw him all the tournaments before. Maybe in the future I will speak with him and he can maybe explain me more or less what happened, no? But now I cannot tell you anything because I don't know so many things.   
  
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports  
1  
  
  
  
  
Document7  
1  
 visit our archives at asapsports.com  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT