ATP MASTER SERIES MADRID
October 16, 2006
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I cannot say that.  He has played a great match.  His serve has been consistent throughout the match.  I had a few chances, and it was not that easy.  Besides I've been under my level.  He has played really well.  But on the other hand my serve was not what it should have been.   
 My volley, on this court, if you're missing serve and volley, confidence goes down.  These last days I haven't been able to train that much until almost Saturday, I haven't been able to train more than two hours a day.  So most of the times you play as you train.  And if you don't train well, you won't play well.   
  
  Q.  Maybe the first match is the most difficult of a tournament when you get to charge your batteries and all.  Have you felt the pressure of being at home and being Madrid's player, the Spaniard?  Is it more pressure to be at home?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO:  No.  In that sense when I play in Spain, I play better.  I don't want to imagine what it would have been if I played outside because here considering my enthusiasm, if I played the way I played, imagine in Russia what could have been.  I don't know.   
 These things happen.  I knew it was going to be difficult to play good tennis because lately I haven't been able to train as I'm telling you, as much as I would have liked.  But things are like that.  Sometimes you don't need to think too much about them.  If not, it's worse.   
  
  Q.  Being a bit optimistic, I would like to ask your opinion about this year.  I think you have improved and you can be proud of yourself now that the season is at its end.  Do you want to go to the King's Cup in Grenada, and do you think you've played a good year in general?   
 FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I think it's been my best year at the moment.  Having a look at the ranking in terms of consistency.  But still I think I need to make a step forward and be more consistent throughout the year, to win points with my serve in these kinds of tournaments, the Masters Series.   
 I'm happy being 26th in the ranking, and that's something I wouldn't have believed five years ago.  I would have been astonished to know that I was going to be 26th in the ranking.  But then I need to grow a little bit more.  You cannot stay at a level.  Unless you reach the top, unless you're number one, you need to keep growing.  I am happy.  I am willing to improve especially in important tournaments such as this one.  I hope to play as well as I wish one of these years in Madrid.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT