NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 25, 2005
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  Are you surprised the way it ended?
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  Surprised, no, because the last match against him, it was so close, too, Indian Wells.  There, after this match, I saw that I could win against him.  
 
Q.  When Andy came over to you to shake your hand and say, I guess, "I can't go on," do you remember almost exactly what he said?
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  What he said, no.  He said like in one ball on the first set, one forehand, he hit the ball, and then the wrist, he bent it.  And then after this point, he can't serve the kick, he only can serve with a slice and flat.  And then he tell me like in the baseline, too, he have pain when he hit the ball with power.  
 
Q.  In the tiebreak, he had three set points.  On the third one, I think it was at 9-8, he had an opportunity to pass, backhand.  Did you think it was a pretty easy shot, that he was going to make it? 
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I don't know.  
 
Q.  He missed it, of course. 
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  Yeah, but in this points, there are no balls easy, you know.  I think when you stay -- when you be 9-8 in the tiebreak, then all the balls is difficult, no?  But I know that that is not so difficult.  But when you stay in the court and you stay 9-8 in the tiebreak, is more difficult that outside. 
 
Q.  Many of the players were in the locker room watching the match on television.  People were saying, "This kid is fantastic, he's going to be Top 10, he doesn't make crazy mistakes on the court." 
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I don't know (smiling).  I didn't heard the players. 
 
Q.  Is it possible they meant your forehand is so fantastic that if you could play with more discipline that you will be Top 10 very soon? 
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I don't know.  I hope so.  But I think to be Top 10 is really difficult and you need to win a lot of matches, no, and a lot of important matches, too.  Then today I won one of these ones.  I play very good the first set, and the second set was a little more relaxed, like after the tiebreak.  He and me too, we play good, but not in the same -- with the same feeling like the first set, no?  But I don't know.  I think like I need to play all the matches like the first set against Andy today to be in Top 10, no?  Is very difficult and I need to work a lot of things in the court to go to Top 10 player. 
 
Q.  Why do you think it is that in the last two matches you've given him so many problems?  Is it something, do you think, especially in your game that upsets the way he wants to play?
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I don't know.  I didn't ask to him this, no.  But I think, like, I am left-handed.  For him is more difficult to play, no, because when he play the backhand cross to my forehand, then I have all the time, you know.  I can play another time to his backhand or hit one, one forehand, to him, you know, his forehand, with more power, and then he goes running and I have always the time to dominate the point.  I think in the baseline, after the serve -- but if he serve good, it's not impossible but so, so difficult to return the serve.  But when I play in the baseline, then I think like I have more chances to win the points like him.  
 
Q.  In the first set, when he broke back and he saved two overheads and the second one began to drift to the sideline and the one you hit into the net, was it a difficult overhead because the ball was drifting? 
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  It was difficult because the balls come very slowly, and with the wind, the balls move a lot.  And then for me was very difficult, too, because all these points was very hard, very tough to all the time go in the baseline then go to the net.  Then I didn't have -- I can't breathe, no, after all these points in the baseline.  I was in the net the first match, then I hit the ball.  I can't explain so well, no, but I was very tired in the end of this point.  And when I missed the second, then I feel like I am dead.  I know with 30-40, there was a very important point.  And then with nervous you have in this point to win the point, then it was a very tough point.  I was so tired.  I don't know, I was unbelievable tired.  
 
Q.  How difficult was it for you to have to come in and play in the Davis Cup tie this year in very, very difficult conditions for you? 
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  No, is easy (smiling). 
 
Q.  How hard was that?
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  For me it was unbelievable experience, no, because it was my first time in Davis Cup in the team.  There was, I feel -- after the Davis Cup, I feel so much better.  This experience for me was very important.  I know that it was very difficult to play in this court in Bratislava with the other team, but I play very good for me.  Against Hrbaty, I play very good match, but I didn't see Hrbaty play like this match - unbelievable.  Like I play very, very good.  But in important points, all the important points, or if he serve, then always the first serve in and then one forehand or backhand directly into the line, no?  I said, like, "I can't believe this."  But all the time, all the after points like this, I feel better and I stay all the time with a lot of power to win all the points and win the match.  But finally I can't, no, because he plays unbelievable.  
 
Q.  If you were to play Rafael in the second round, what sort of match do you think it will be?
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  Spanish match (smiling).  I think there will be a great match with similar styles of games, yeah.  The two players, lefties.  I think it will be a very good match.  
 
Q.  Now for the most important question.  As you probably know, David Beckham is threatening to leave Madrid because the photographers won't leave his family alone.  Do you believe he is serious and will really leave? 
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  No, I don't think so.  I will tell to him like it's impossible to go (laughing).  
 
Q.  Do you know him personally? 
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  Yeah, I know him.  
 
Q.  And you say, no, he's staying?
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  He's staying, yeah, in my home.  My team. 
 
Q.  Is there a rivalry between you few Real Madrid guys and the Barcelona guys? 
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I think that always the people of Madrid and the people of Barcelona, always we have like friendly rivalries, but all with the football, no, all because football teams, soccer.  Feliciano Lopez, Nadal and me are for Real Madrid.  But like all the Barcelona people is from the football team Barcelona.  But it's great, it's okay.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT