ATP MASTERS SERIES- MADRID
October 21, 2004
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in Spanish for Fernando. 


Q.  How are you feeling?  The match seemed to be in your favor during the first set, then things got complicated.  What do you think? 

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  It's clear that I had a good start, that's for sure.  He also had many errors in the first set.  I think he wanted to win all of it at the beginning, and that made him have errors.  So it's been both things.  I started well, and he was missing.  Then during the second set, I don't know if it was 3-3, the opportunity I had, that was the key point.  Maybe that point could have let me win.  He was playing as well as he could.  Everything went well for him.  He started running and didn't miss any balls.  I was trying to give my best, but he returned everything, so what could I do?  I'll just try to keep on. 

Q.  Maybe during the next few weeks, you'll see your participation in the tournament with an optimistic mind? 

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  Well, weeks don't have to go by.  I'm happy to be here right now, although you want to do things well.  I wanted to win today's match, so I'm disappointed.  But that's it.  I would have liked to play in the quarterfinals against Agassi, because it's a player I've always wanted to play against since I was small, since I was a boy.  That would be a dream for me.  But now I have to forget this and think about the next tournament. 

Q.  I don't know if you talked about the point that was given to Robredo, seemed to be out.  That could have given you an opportunity for the third set.  Were you a bit bothered by that?  You lost your concentration?

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I don't think so.  When I see the match on TV, on the video, I'll see if the ball was out or in.  I thought it was out.  The referee thought it was in.  I didn't want to argue any more because that only helps to lose concentration.  It was 15-40, so, yeah, of course I would have had more opportunities to win the match.  But that's over and you cannot think only about one point because then you can die.

Q.  Did you lose your concentration in the end?  Were you angry?  Why did you react like this? 

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  Well, I tried to give my best, do my best.  I was not upset actually.  I couldn't do anything else.  Besides, as I have said before, he returned all my shots and he was able to keep up with my pace from the baseline.  I should have come in a little bit more maybe because he lobbed a lot, and the ball went deep, and that was difficult.  Those were my errors.  I should have come in a little bit more.  It would have been a matter of going up to the net.  That's what I haven't been able to do during this match. 

Q.  What are your feelings after having played on center court with this crowd?

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  Well, I don't think the crowd was supporting me.  I heard more, "Come on, Tommy" than, "Come on, Fernando."  Outsiders, foreigners, have told me the crowd was a bit cold, distant.  Maybe Spaniards were not like they usually -- were not behaving like they usually do towards Spanish players.  But I'm simply happy to have played the matches I've played on the center court.  I've been comfortable.  I've gained experience for the next year, towards playing.  Maybe if I keep my position in the ranking, I can improve next year.  If this tournament stays in Madrid for many years, I do hope to win it someday in the future. 

Q.  What are you going to do right now?  Are you going to Paris? 

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I'm thinking about it because I have to go to Sweden, supposedly, and then Paris.  To think about the whole year traveling, playing tournaments, it's really tiring mentally and physically.  We're exhausted.  It comes to a point when you don't want to travel any more.  If I go to Sweden, I might go Sunday, as I usually go to tournaments, or Saturday, or play.  I told them I was going to go, so that's why I'll go.  But the two tournaments I have left are the final ones this year, then I will have my vacation, which I deserve, because I'm quite tired.  So let's see how these two tournaments go, and then I'll train for next year. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT