ATP MASTERS SERIES- MADRID
October 19, 2004
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions about today's match for Fernando in Spanish. 


Q.  Today you won the match easily.  Are you more confident towards your next matches because of this?  It seems you've already gone through the first round of the tournament. 

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I felt well, considering it was the first match.  I usually find it difficult to get into the match the first time.  Today I found it okay from the beginning.  I also knew I was serving well lately.  I was very comfortable with my serve.  Everything seemed to go well.  It was easy.  It was not only confidence.  Winning the set 7-5 gave me confidence.  Winning easily makes it easier to play well tomorrow. 

Q.  The missing players.  How do you young players feel about this?  Do you think you can make a better showing for yourself in the tournament? 

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  Although the main seeds are not in this tournament, I do think there's still many good players.  I will have played the same, with the same motivation, regardless of whether the seeds are here or not.  I'm a local player, so I'm especially motivated.  I play against my opponent regardless, and the rest of the draw. 

Q.  You're returning really well.  Is this the aspect you've most improved in your game? 

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  Well, lately, because in the tournaments I entered, I tried to concentrate on my serve and my service return, because it is important indoors.  Maybe 10 points are decided this way.  Points go really quickly.  Lately I've been trying to serve and return preparing for this tournament on fast courts.  I'm happy because I didn't miss many returns and I served well.  I didn't give him any chance to volley. 

Q.  Finally the invitation went to Safin instead of you.  What do you think?  That's regarding the doubles. 

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I'd rather not think about it because when I learned about it, me and Feliciano, we were a bit upset.  We were sad because we were going to play at home.  Despite our results this year, we thought it a bit unfair not to have an invitation for the doubles.  Safin, on the other hand, is the only player Tiriac has.  I guess it's normal he wants to give him the invitation.  Well, Feliciano and me are Madrid players and I think we deserved to play doubles because we were going to be really motivated.  However, that's already decided and almost forgotten.  We now have to focus on the singles.  So far so good. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT