TMS - MADRID
October 13, 2003
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in Spanish. 


Q.  It's part your game, your aggressive tennis? 

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  Actually, yes, because I usually make more forced errors than any other player because of my aggressive tennis.  But today I've made more errors than usual because I wasn't really feeling well.  But, anyway, I could not ask a lot of myself because two days ago I was in bed, and I started training.  He was good.  He knew I was in bed two days ago, so he knew I was physically inferior than him and he was going to win.  But I tried to do my best.  I didn't do it.  Also, a tiebreak can be won by anyone.  It's seven points that can go to one or the other.  I have nothing more to say.  I congratulated him and wished him luck. 

Q.  Was it a matter of nerves today? 

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I don't think I was nervous.  It was more a matter of me being ill two days ago.  I had the flu.  I started training yesterday.  I found myself slow, not very good at hitting my shots, especially serving and my backhand.  I was feeling not very well.  But I wasn't nervous.  Besides, the crowd was great.  I gave the best I had, but I couldn't do it. 

Q.  (Question about the tiebreak.) 

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  It's always terrible to lose a set 6-7.  You're always discouraged in a situation like that.  But the crowd was always there.  The backhand he made was because of one of my errors.  He was sure of himself.  I tried my best.  I wasn't able to because of the reasons I told you, but not because of disappointment. 

Q.  Did you still have some hope that you could pull through? 

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  Yes.  Actually I thought, "Come on, I can do it, I can still do it."  I have the serve, and you usually win when you have the serve.  The serve goes like that.  But I made an error after a long point, and three errors in a row, which gave him the result. 

Q.  (Question regarding the tournament.) 

FERNANDO VERDASCO:  Yeah, the tournament is great.  Even if I'm out now, I'm going to see my colleagues, and I'll still be coming here to watch the Spaniards, encourage them.  Let's see what happens. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT