U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2015
Sierra Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. It started out really strong.  It started out really in your favor, so tell me a little bit about this morning, coming back, and the start of the match.SIERRA BROOKS: Yeah, this morning, I mean, I was striping it, and everything was really clicking.  I didn't miss a lot of shots, and I don't think she played her 100 percent in the morning, but when we came back out, she definitely played her 100 percent and she definitely brought it on.  I struggled a little bit, but I still played well, and she just played better, and she made more putts, and in match play that's what it always comes down to.  Definitely a lot of positives to take away from it, and I'm very happy for Hannah.Q. I didn't realize, last summer was a little rough for you.  I didn't realize that.  We looked up some of your scores.  Given how far your game has come in the last year, that's got to be something that you're proud of.SIERRA BROOKS: Oh, yeah.  It's been a whole 360.  Like I was telling you, that last summer was when I was working with all those swing coaches, and really doing things in my swing that I shouldn't have been, and that's when I just made the change just working with my dad and keeping it simple.  Yeah, I've come a long ways, and I'm really proud of myself for that.  But honestly, that terrible summer I had, I would not trade it for anything because I believe it made me to become an even stronger player and person.Q. Was it the Sally that sort of turned your confidence, or I guess the Polo maybe where you felt like, okay, here we go, I've hit a stride?SIERRA BROOKS: I really feel like it was the Junior Ryder Cup.  They sent me off first in the match and they really made me aware that that was their most important position to get the point on, on the board, and I played Emily Pedersen, who won the British Am, and I was talking before I went on, and she was like, oh, I'm going pro.  I'm like, oh, my gosh.  Anyway, I lost seven holes and made birdies on six of the last seven of them and beat her 4 & 3.  Ever since then I gained so much confidence and I won the Polo and Sally, and I think that definitely set it off for me.Q. So the seed was planted in Scotland for what you did here?SIERRA BROOKS: Yeah, the seed was planted in Scotland.Q. It was really cool to watch you and your dad watch through the fairways.  The look on his face seemed like he could not have been happier to be doing this with you.  What's your best memory, the funniest thing he said, the best dinner you guys had, some great piece of wisdom he gave you this week?  What's your best memory of the two of you?SIERRA BROOKS: You know, just -- he just constantly like kept telling me, you can do it, and he constantly -- he's just always like supporting me and telling me he loves me and that I can do it, and that just -- having him by my side, too, just meant so much.  I couldn't be more thankful to have a dad like him.  He's such a positive influence.Q. Where do you go from here?  What do you do?  Take a few days off, take a few weeks off?SIERRA BROOKS: I am taking a few days off with Beth, and then I'm going to China in a week, so I'll be in China for a week and then I have a tournament like the next week, and then two weeks later I go to Germany.  I feel like my summer is just kind of like -- it's not really slowing down just yet, but school is starting, so definitely going to be busy, but I'm really excited because there's some great tournaments that I get to play in coming up.Q. The Women's Open -- now you've had 24 hours to think about that.  What does that mean, something that you really tried to qualify for several times?SIERRA BROOKS: Yeah, it means so much to me.  I couldn't be happier.  I've tried to qualify, haven't made it, so to finally know that I'm locked in and I'm playing in my first LPGA event means so much to me.Q. Tell me about this flag here.SIERRA BROOKS: Yes, the grounds crew, they had flags on their carts the whole entire week, and I wore flags on my shirts the whole entire week, so we made a connection there.  They rolled this up and they gave it to me at the end of my day, and they've been out all day cheering me on.  They definitely have a special place in my heart.  They're awesome people.Q. You definitely got a loud cheering section and I think a lot of it was from the maintenance crew.  That's probably nice to hear when some things didn't go your way on the course, that you always had loud support.SIERRA BROOKS: It was amazing.  I had people on 8.  Hannah made a birdie, and I was 1-down or 2-down, I think 1, and all of a sudden one guy yelled out, go Sierra, and then the whole crowd was like, let's go Sierra, and I started tearing up because it meant so much.  It was just an awesome thing.  It was really cool.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT