U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
Sierra Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. So you closed it out there on the last hole?SIERRA BROOKS: Yes, on our second playoff hole I hit a really good drive and a really good shot in.  I had about 10 feet for birdie, but she unfortunately missed her par putt, so I just had to run it up there close.Q. Has to be a good feeling to finally be done?SIERRA BROOKS: It's a great feeling.  Both my matches today, with Hailee it went to 18 and we were all square going to 18 and I birdied it, and then I actually -- I was 1-down going into 18 in the afternoon and I had the same exact putt I had with Hailee for birdie, so I made that one.  It's been a roller coaster of emotions from the morning to the afternoon.  Yeah, I'm just really happy with it.  I had a good day.Q. How did dad do on the bag today?SIERRA BROOKS: He was good.  He was really good.  He's like my best friend, and I mean, obviously there's the tough times, but I just love having him out there and having him with me.  It's an amazing experience.Q. So you just made the Solheim Cup team?SIERRA BROOKS: Yes.Q. Are you excited about that?SIERRA BROOKS: I am so excited about that.  I played in the Junior Ryder Cup, and ever since I found out about the Junior Ryder Cup, I was like, I just want to be a part of these teams.  Just to be able to compete for your country is such a special thing.  I'm so honored and I'm so excited to be able to play in that.Q. Robin Burke was out following you and she's the captain of next year's Curtis Cup team.  Does that cross your mind at all?SIERRA BROOKS: Oh, yes, that is No. 1 on my radar right now.  That's the biggest goal that I have set.  I'd be so honored to be a part of that team.  I know there's so many amazing players, but it's definitely a goal of mine to be on that U.S. Team.Q. Are you still working with Justin Poynter at the McLean Academy in Texas?SIERRA BROOKS: No, I never did.Q. I thought you were going to move there at some point?SIERRA BROOKS: We were going to move there and I was going to work with him, but it didn't end up working out, so I've just been working with my dad now.Q. So he works on your swing?SIERRA BROOKS: Exactly.Q. You don't have any other kind of coaches or short game -- just your dad?SIERRA BROOKS: I did -- I went through a transition last summer where I was switching coaches a lot.  My golf game wasn't -- it was hard.  It was like too many mechanical thoughts in my swing and whatnot, so my dad knows my swing and I know my swing, so I just wanted to keep it simple, and I just work with my dad now, and it's been good.Q. Does he play with you and stuff?SIERRA BROOKS: Yeah, he does sometimes.  He doesn't really get to play so much now because he's helping me, but every once in a while we'll have some matches out there.  He's very competitive and he holds his own.  It's fun.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT