NCAA WOMEN'S GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2019
Sierra Brooks
Emily Glaser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Sierra, can you talk about the third round, the round today especially.   
SIERRA BROOKS: Yeah, I was really pleased with all three rounds, especially on this golf course.  It took all the shots and it was a great test of golf.  I think first round -- I just felt like I needed a round under my belt, especially under the conditions with the wind and after the first round, I got adjusted.   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, do you want to talk about what you what you talked from Sierra?   
EMILY GLASER: She was playing really well, probably right before Augusta, picked up some momentum and when she played Augusta, she's really done well the rest of the spring.  Sierra plays well on big stages, and we knew this week, obviously the biggest stage in college golf, she would fare well and she came in here with a good game plan.   
Really proud of the way she stuck to her game plan, even today when the pressure was really on, with an interesting situation knowing you're playing against Maria but she's not had her wave.  I thought she managed that really well.  Just super proud of her.   
 Q.  What did you maybe take away from contending until the last round, next to last pairing at the ANWA and bring to here today?  
SIERRA BROOKS: Well, it's a good question.  I feel like the raft round at ANWA, I was back in the hunt again and it hadn't been for a while.  Just to be in that situation, experience those feelings, was something that I had not done in a while, so it was nice being in this situation today, I kind of knew how to handle it.  I was much more prepared for the nerves and the tension that comes.   
 Q.  For Coach, having Sierra on the team and this week, being in that frontrunner position, you guys are always trying to find a spot on the match play bracket.  How did that play into the dynamic of firing up the rest of the girls?  
EMILY GLASER: Yeah, I think there's no doubt that we're our best version of a team when Sierra is her best version of herself.  I think for the team to see that certainly was, you know, I think inspiring and probably what led us to play really well, you know, in the second and third round.  I think we would have been a lot more in the hunt if it weren't for the first day, when we just let it get away from us a little bit too much.   
I think even that day, you know, Sierra grinding out the round that she did that way, I think really helped with everyone's momentum and gave us really something to play for these next couple days, knowing that if she's contending and she's going to try to putt the pedal down for herself, that's going to be great for our team, as well.  It was certainly helpful.   
THE MODERATOR: Did you have a score in mind today?   
SIERRA BROOKS: I really didn't.  I knew I wanted to shoot under par today and this being Maria's home course and the golfer she is, I knew I had to bring it, because she was going to, as well.   
I thought 2-under, build off that, it would have gave her a run for her money a little bit more than what I had, so yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations.  Great round.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT