AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 6, 2019
Sierra Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We got to see something, your name on the leaderboard at Augusta.  Did you take a look at that and think, that's pretty cool?
SIERRA BROOKS: There were so many moments where I felt like I had to pinch myself almost.  It felt like it wasn't real.
Yeah, I mean, and honestly, on 18, coming up 18, there's nothing on that hole to describe that feeling.  I almost started crying.  It was so cool, just having that fan support and on 18 at Augusta National with my dad on the bag, there's nothing else like it.
Q. Walking up 18, the crowd is just like what you would see on TV.  Did you have flashbacks of watching and everything, and you're like, okay, I'm here, this is it?
SIERRA BROOKS: Definitely.  It was everything you see on TV and there we are living it.  It was unbelievable.  I was just trying to soak it all in, every moment I could.  Reality is starting to hit that this tournament's over and I'm kind of sad about it.
Q. But you're a junior, so you could come back next year if you're still playing in college.  Does this light a fire under you to say, I want to come back and try to win this thing?
SIERRA BROOKS: Oh, yeah, for sure.  This event I think is the pinnacle of women's amateur golf, and this is a tournament that I'm definitely going to be itching to go get next year.
Q. You decided to go with your dad on the bag?  What went into that, and when did you guys make the decision?
SIERRA BROOKS: We made the decision yesterday, later in the day.  It was hard.  I kept going back and forth but honestly I knew in my heart, I just wanted him here in this last round with me.  That was the point, having him on the bag, last round at Augusta National, there's nothing that beats that.
Q. Did he say any words, anything after the round?  What did you guys say when it was all said and done?
SIERRA BROOKS: Yesterday?
Q. Today.
SIERRA BROOKS: Oh, gosh, he was so proud.  I think he was crying, but I couldn't really tell, I don't know.  He's trying to keep it all together.  It was a cool moment for both of us.
Q. From all of the prep and interviews and everything you've done leading up to this, the whirlwind, how fast has it gone by, this last year or so?
SIERRA BROOKS: In the blink of an eye.  Even this week, the round of golf yesterday and today, were the fastest rounds, ever, that I've played, and just the year in general.
So I don't know if that's because of getting older and time goes by faster or what, but I want it to slow down.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT