AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 5, 2019
Sierra Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sierra, how was it today?  
SIERRA BROOKS: It's playing pretty much the same from what we've been playing at Champions Retreat, but the greens, aside from the rain last night, they were softer in some areas, so I am expecting it will be soft tomorrow.   
 Q.  Do you have a number in mind?  
SIERRA BROOKS: I'm not going to put a number on it.  I'm just going to give it my all and see what it adds up to.   
 Q.  How many people do you think have a chance to win tomorrow?  
SIERRA BROOKS: The scores are all really close, by a shot.  I think if you're playing Augusta, anything can happen, especially coming into Amen Corner.  I think it will be a tight race and a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Do you think the length is appropriate from what you saw here today?  
SIERRA BROOKS: Definitely.  Honestly, I thought this length was a great challenge.  Champions Retreat was almost a little bit longer.  I haven't really played a lot of golf courses where I've had 4-irons into a lot of the par 4s, and I did out there.  But yeah, no, this one, it was pretty much long irons in on most of the par 4s.   
 Q.  What did you hit into the par 5s?  
SIERRA BROOKS: The par 5s, I could -- I tried to go for it on most of them.  I pretty much could reach all of them, but you know, obviously it's going to be, what's the smart play in the tournament.   
 Q.  And then the lie, too, a lot?  
SIERRA BROOKS: Yeah, like No. 13, it's like above my head almost.   
 Q.  Is there a particular instance where something your local caddie said kind of blew your mind?  
SIERRA BROOKS: Some of the breaks that broke the opposite direction, and the speed he said -- he said this one's lightning, and I'm like, yeah, we'll see what lightning really is, and it went off the green.   
Definitely learned a lot with him on the bag and it was surprising.   
 Q.  Your dad's been your caddie all week.  Will he be tomorrow?  
SIERRA BROOKS: That's still a question that remains question.  Not really sure yet.  That's a tough decision I'm still trying to decide on.  I really do want him on the bag, especially for this event and the last round here.   
We're going to talk about it over lunch.   
 Q.  I heard you talking about feel versus experience.  How does that kind of compare?  
SIERRA BROOKS: Exactly.  Yeah, my dad knows me better than anyone else and I'm comfortable with him on the bag, but Larry, my caddie, you know, it's just like we talked about before, there's so many shots out there, especially around the greens, that you can't just see.  So that experience on this golf course would help.  We'll see.   
 Q.  Some of the women are saying that they would love to have two practice rounds.  You got two, I guess, maybe three if you count the other times you've played.  How many would you like?  
SIERRA BROOKS: I mean, I always think two rounds is always great.  So I'm very thankful that I have got another opportunity to play it a couple years ago, just to feel familiar.   
But it's definitely one of those courses that you can't take enough notes, especially on the greens.   
 Q.  Can you put into perspective the significance of this week for you, the other ladies out here and for women's golf?  
SIERRA BROOKS: It's huge.  It's everything women's golf needs.  I'm just so honored that I get to be a part of this historic event and be a part of history, and I just really hope that this tournament will inspire the next generations, and it's really what Augusta is all about is growing the game in amateur golf, and they are certainly doing it with this event.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT