AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 3, 2019
Sierra Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sierra, how was the round out there?  What were the high points?  
SIERRA BROOKS: It was a solid round overall.  I started off a little rocky but the back nine, the actual back nine is the tough one.  Is your friend out there.  I made some good birdies coming in and was able to keep it together.   
 Q.  Would you say the front nine is more scorable than the back?  
SIERRA BROOKS: Exactly.  Because you can go after a few more shots on the front nine.   
 Q.  So what do you think of the course and the competition so far after the first day?  
SIERRA BROOKS: Oh, it's amazing.  It's just incredible being out here, and I mean, the course is a real challenge and it's a really good test of golf.  All the competitors are the best in the world.   
 Q.  So how was the Chairman's dinner last night?  
SIERRA BROOKS: It was too cool.  I think it's one of those things you dream about, and while you're there, you're just -- it's a surreal moment.   
 Q.  Talk about going into Friday, getting to play that practice round at Augusta.  Have you played at Augusta before?  
SIERRA BROOKS: I have once a few years ago, but it was in like January time.   
 Q.  Did the greens trouble you?  
SIERRA BROOKS: The speed, it's difficult because they are super undulated and the golf ball gets away from you quick.  But I felt like putting was definitely my strong suit today, so hopefully I can keep that going.   
 Q.  To keep playing like you are, obviously you get an invite to the Masters on Saturday.  Are you worried about it at all?  
SIERRA BROOKS: It's definitely crossed my mind.  I'm going to have a caddie come out with me on Friday and hopefully I'll take some notes about the greens.  But I love putting, I think it's one of the best parts of my game.  Hopefully I'll have a decent handle on them.   
 Q.  This is a pretty awesome moment for you guys and just what it means for women's golf.  You did a media tour, but you've probably been more involved than most.  What's it meant to be part of the inaugural event here?  
SIERRA BROOKS: It's meant so much.  I'm really thankful that Augusta gave me the opportunity to support this tournament.  It's incredible for the women's game and just growing the game in general.  I'm just really lucky to be a part of it.   
 Q.  Where does this compare to some of the college or amateur events you've paid?  
SIERRA BROOKS: I said, I felt just before, I felt like being at a U.S. Open, honestly, being amongst the top amateurs in the world, it feels like one of the best events you can play in as an amateur.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT