CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: FLORIDA VS MICHIGAN
December 27, 2018
Zach Gentry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously, Ohio State didn't go the way you wanted it to.  What's the most advice you've gotten since that game?  
ZACH GENTRY: The best advice that I got was from Coach Moore.  I think a couple days after that game, I went into his office early.  I was pretty upset about it.  It was the first time in my life I ever had to leave a game with an injury.  So it was tough for me.  I felt like I kind of let the team down.   
But he told me, you know, I dropped some balls I should have caught, but he told me, I just got done watching Gronk on film.  You dropped three balls in a game.  You dropped two balls in this game.  It's not that big of a deal.   
I think on that stage and that setting, it's disappointing, obviously.  I'm the one who did it.  But, you know, it happens.  I'm a human being.  That's what he basically told me.  So, I mean, it comes with the game.   
Caught a lot of balls all season, and that was the game that, unfortunately, some of that stuff happened.   
 Q.  What's it been like here, year one, with Coach Moore?  
ZACH GENTRY: It's been fantastic.  Coach Moore is a great coach.  He knows everything inside and out, running, passing.  He just gets excited, you know.  Game of football and the -- every little aspect about it, the film breakdown, the practices, he loves it.  He's just totally immersed in it, and he knows his stuff.   
He's also just a great, great guy to be around, a great human being.  I've learned a lot about him.   
 Q.  What about the progress of (no microphone)?  
ZACH GENTRY: He's really come along.  He was out pretty much the entire year with nagging injuries.  But he came back probably about a week ago, and he looks really good.  I mean, he's got some fresh legs on him, obviously.  He's doing a good job.  He really knows the play book well and is making some plays.   
 Q.  During these bowl practices, typically a few young guy, you start to see the light bulb come on, guys who are going to take on bigger roles next year.  Have you seen any guys like that on the offensive side of the ball?  
ZACH GENTRY: Yeah, I mean, I mentioned a little earlier, I think mud ma'am looks good, study maker looks good and Ronnie Bell's been doing a fantastic job.  Joe Milton is throwing the ball well and running well.  I think there's a lot of young talent on our team.  It's hard to pick out a few of them because I think everybody is progressing really well.  About your future?   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT