INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 8, 2020
Jerome Hunter
Trayce Jackson-Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Purdue - 74, Indiana - 62
Q. You guys pulled within 56-50 and you had a couple of break opportunities. I think both of you guys took shots. What were you trying to do? Did you rush it? Seemed like that was the real opportunity for you to get back in it.
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: When you're in the flow of the game, you make a big play on one end of the floor, the defensive end, and you feel good about yourself, so you let one fire. I think that's what it was. We've got confidence to make those types of shots; they just didn't fall.
Q. Defending the 3-point line, they seemed to get going early. What were some of the breakdowns and how tough were those 3s after they were hit?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: We know that some of their players, big emphasis on the 3-point line, but for Purdue away they really rely heavy on their post players, so we were kind of crowding and digging deep, especially on Trevion Williams because I think he accounted for 20 percent of their shots. We try to take him out of the play and it kind of left some shooters open.
Q. Broader question on defense, felt like there were spells there like you talked about, where you string a few stops together, but couldn't take control of the game, especially in the second half. What were they doing that wasn't allowing that?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Just small defensive lapses, left the shooters open. Really just little things that hurt us. We would string a few together and maybe we didn't make a shot on one end and then they got it on the other. It's really hard to play catch up in the second half. They did a really good job holding the lead.
Q. This team seems to continue to struggle with turnovers. I think eight different guys had a turnover today, 14 total. Why do you think maybe that that hasn't clicked as it was earlier in the season?
JEROME HUNTER: I just think we need to slow down when we get on the court. When we get out there, we just need to realize it's just us and it's just another game. So we've just got to be more comfortable when we get out there.
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: I agree with that. I think there's one segment in the first half where we had five turnovers in a four-minute segment. That's a big thing. I think after we get one we start stringing them together. We've just got to keep our composure and play through it.
Q. There was a big ceremony at halftime to honor Coach Knight. Did you talk to him at all? Did he meet with you guys? And do you have any thoughts on him or his time here at all?
JEROME HUNTER: He talked to us before the game. It was really nice talking to him, having him here. He's an IU legend. It was nice -- it was nice talking to him and he was talking to us, and he told us to play hard and that's really it.
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: I agree with him. He came in, talked to us, told us to play hard, which I thought we played really hard. Just not the outcome we wanted. But like Jerome said, he's a legend. He's the reason why people talk about IU basketball, really.
Q. Do you feel effort -- did you match their effort for all 40 minutes, or maybe were there lapses there? Or was it more execution as opposed to effort in your eyes?
JEROME HUNTER: Purdue played real hard. We played hard, too. They played harder this game. We have to find a way to come back from it.
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: I don't think it was an effort standpoint. I think we played hard. We knew what was at stake, especially against a rival opponent. I don't think it was a question of playing hard. I think just mental lapses, leaving shooters open in that sense.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT