NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2008
Joe Alexander
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  (No. 8 Overall Selection, Milwaukee Bucks)

 Q. Your thoughts on being drafted? 
 JOE ALEXANDER: I've been waiting for this day for 11 long years and it's the happiest day of my life. I'm happy to be a Buck and I'm thankful to the Bucks organization for taking me in and having faith in me and I promise them and the fans in Milwaukee, I won't let you down.

 Q. How do you feel you're going to fit in with Milwaukee and the roster and everything? 
 JOE ALEXANDER: Like I said earlier, I feel like I'm a good fit for Milwaukee. I think Coach Skiles and I are going to match very well, and I'm going to go to work for him. 

 Q. How do you feel you're going to be able to mesh your talents with Andrew Bogut and Richard Jefferson?
 JOE ALEXANDER: I think chemistry-wise, they have good guys on the Bucks, and you know, we'll all be able to get along and as everyone knows, chemistry wins games in this league, and I think I'll add to that. 

 Q. What happened to our little marketing story with Yi? 
 JOE ALEXANDER: I don't remember that. 

 Q. That you speak Mandarin and Yi was going to be on the team; what's your reaction now?
 JOE ALEXANDER: I guess that's not happening now. 

 Q. Did you hear about the trade at all today that Milwaukee had made and did you feel that that was going to affect your draft status with Milwaukee?
 JOE ALEXANDER: Yeah, I did hear about it. I hoped that it wouldn't, and it turns out that it didn't. 
 So, everything turned out good. 

 Q. Do you think you can step in and contribute right off the bat?
 JOE ALEXANDER: I plan on stepping in and getting as many minutes as I deserve and working for every one of them. 
 You know, whatever that is, is up to them to decide. 

 Q. Throughout your career, you've been improving, what are you going to have to do now to contribute as soon as you possibly can?
 JOE ALEXANDER: I think the biggest thing is to listen to the vets and the coaching staff, because they know what's best. I'm just a rookie. 

 Q. You had quite the cheering section from your hometown there today, a lot of local kids came up to see you. What was it like hearing them cheering for you? 
 JOE ALEXANDER: It reminded me of my freshman year at WV where there was a large section of the crowd chanting "Alexander" and that's what I was thinking when I heard them yell that. It just makes you smile uncontrollably.

 Q. Can you talk about spending time with your family; I was talking to your dad and he said you got to hang out and talk stories today and worked out today; what was it like? 
 JOE ALEXANDER: Yeah, my family is the most important thing to me in my life, and being able to spend these last couple of days with them has been really valuable to me, and this is such an important time for me; and to be able to share it with people that I care about is important. 

 Q. Is there any way -- you mentioned all of the work and all of the stories of how you used to sleep in the gym and all of the work that you put in even before you got to WV -- to put all of that in context with how it worked out for you today? 
 JOE ALEXANDER: I think just me sitting here is putting it into context. 

 Q. Did you have a hunch when you went back the second time that you might be their guy?
 JOE ALEXANDER: Yeah, any time you go back and they want a second look at you, it's a great indication that they are pretty serious. 
 The feel I got was a really positive one, so I had a good indication. 

 Q. What are your impressions of Coach Skiles? 
 JOE ALEXANDER: He's a lot like Coach Huggins and expects a lot out of you and I can't Wake to get to work for him. He's a coach that I'll work well with, and just from the meetings that I've had with him so far, we seem to get along. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT