NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: DUCKS VS PREDATORS
May 15, 2017
Filip Forsberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you think another level from the fans is possible for this home game that's coming up, and if so, how could they maybe spur you guys on?
FILIP FORSBERG: I mean, there's two answers.  It shouldn't be possible, but I mean they proved us wrong a lot of times they can be even more loud.  Look forward to tomorrow.
Q. Can you compare this series to Anaheim last year?  Is there any more physical play this series, or was it...
FILIP FORSBERG: I think the style of play is pretty much the same.  But I think just the stakes are higher.  Obviously first round last year and third round this year, just even more intense.
Q. To that point, is the edge that the Ducks play with heavier or higher than other teams in the NHL that I've faced on a regular basis?
FILIP FORSBERG: They're one of the tougher teams, for sure.  They play a physical game.  And a lot of even their skilled players can definitely bang bodies, too, and I think that's something that they've been trying to create that identity and obviously that brought them a lot of success over the years.
Q. Would you like to see the pushback from Joey, he's certainly not backing down from any of the rough stuff?
FILIP FORSBERG: No, I think he's been our best player in the first two games, especially in the first period last night, he was dominating out there.  I'm just fortunate to catch up as good as I can with him.
Q. Do you think with home ice you might have an edge you can get Johansen away from Kesler at times?
FILIP FORSBERG: That's all up to the coaches to decide.  But at the same time we have the last change.  If they want to do it we sure can.
Q. How do you like facing a guy like Kesler?
FILIP FORSBERG: I think it's fine.  It's a big challenge.  To be honest it's a good line and it's a good challenge for our line and it's been fun so far.
Q. Do you feel sometimes he crosses the line?
FILIP FORSBERG: It's the Playoffs.  I think it's a battle out there.  And everyone's just trying to do whatever it takes to win.
Q. The Playoff experience on this team is not as much as the Ducks, for instance, but for a guy like P.K. now in his third Conference Final, how much has that been a benefit to you and your teammates?
FILIP FORSBERG: I think he proved himself to be a clutch player.  He's played as you said in a couple of big games in his career.  And I mean just the way he's been improving his game throughout the Playoffs I think it obviously speaks for itself.
Q. Has the a Playoff P.K. been even more enthusiastic or boisterous than regular season P.K.?  Because watching the celebrations with you guys, seemed like they've gone up a notch.
FILIP FORSBERG: I think it goes for everyone.  We're all fired up and excited to be here.  That goes for P.K. as well.
Q. Home ice question for you.  You get the split on the road and you come back to a place you've been undefeated in.  Is there almost a feeling of like we're going back to a place where we do not lose, and that's a comfort to you guys?
FILIP FORSBERG: Yeah, we know what to expect.  We know the crowd is going to be as I touched on earlier probably even more loud than it's been before.  And it's just -- I mean, it gets you fired up.  It's more than 24 hours ago, but it still gets you fired up just thinking about it.  It's going to be a lot of fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT