NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v BRUINS
May 24, 2011
Dominic Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Question about Chara) (indiscernible)?  
 DOMINIC MOORE: Well, it's something that they do a lot, just to have a big body down there, and I don't think it changes the way we need to approach things. We're always -- we're always focusing on the same things defensively regardless of what personnel are out there.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the faceoff circle. The team that's won that category has won every game so far. How do you manage that since it see-saws back and forth?  
 DOMINIC MOORE: The faceoff is our thing. Whether obviously you're on the road or at home, it's always a little bit of a different dynamic. But we just need to continue to hone in and do the best we can.  
  
  Q. Dominic, who do you expect to start at goalie for you guys tomorrow? And does it, for the 18 skaters, really make a difference?  
 DOMINIC MOORE: I think the way we play all season long, and we pride ourselves on team structure, and top to bottom, all the lines worked together, all the Ds work together, and everyone plays the same way. So who's in, who's out never really makes a difference for our team the way we want to play.  
  
  Q. You guys had 30 shots last night, but Guy is still calling for more. Seems to think that'll be the difference, throwing more pucks on the net. Is that basically what the mindset will be going into this final game?   
 DOMINIC MOORE: I think we're a team that's, all season long, been playing with a hungry attitude, hungry to get to the net, and we have to continue to do that to have success.  
  
  Q. Do you think the team's aware of Roli's record in all these games?  
 DOMINIC MOORE: I don't know, Roli's -- Roli's got a great record in those games, but he's got a great record overall. So we feel good with (indiscernible).   
  
  Q. I'm not sure of the status of Sean Bergenheim for Game 6, but if he can't go, just given the contribution he's given you guys here in two and a half rounds, what kind of hole will that be for you?  
 DOMINIC MOORE: Bergie's been great. It's the kind of thing that for our team, all the pieces fit together. The way we've played all season long, it's been everyone on the same page and whether the lines change, you know, we all play the same way. So things should work.  
  
  Q. Describe playing in an elimination game now that you guys have experience with that, is it a looser atmosphere around the locker room because there's really nothing to lose at this point?  
 DOMINIC MOORE: I don't know if it's -- if you can describe it that way. But I think anytime your back's against the wall, you have to play your best.   
 And we've just got to continue to work at it and see what happens.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT