RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 14, 1995
Kent Kinnear
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What happened out there today?
 
KENT KINNEAR:  Well, I had a bad -- I didn't start out too well which kind of hurt me.  I felt like I was missing a lot an awful lot of returns and an awful lot of volleys.  Only thing that maybe was working fairly well for me was my first serve; even that wasn't too great.  So when that stuff happens to you, it is going to be a tough set.  And the first set was definitely pretty tough.  I felt like the second set I got in there a little bit better; threatened him a few times on his serve, but I still missed too many.  I felt like I missed too many second serve returns and altogether I think I made a few too many unforced errors.  At the same time, he is a tough player.  His style of play, I think, maybe is a little tough for me to play against because he does return so well, and he takes pressure real well, as far as me coming in a lot stuff like that because he has such good passing shots, so all that stuff combined made it a little bit rough for me today. 
 

Q.  The heat a factor at all? 
 
KENT KINNEAR:  If I had been out there much longer, it might have been.  I wasn't out there too long, so -- but it was pretty hot.  It was pretty hot, but the points weren't too long, so I think if the points would have been longer, the match would have been longer; probably would have been a factor. 
 

Q.  Talk about your doubles this week, you play with David this week?
 
KENT KINNEAR:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  How are you feeling?
 
KENT KINNEAR:  Well, I think we have both been playing pretty good doubles lately.  We haven't been able to play a whole lot together, though.  We played a little bit together at the beginning of the year, and didn't have any real great results, but overall, last year we had a good year together, so I am anxious to play with him again and since we both have recently been doing pretty well with other partners, I am looking forward to playing with him and hopefully we will have a good week. 
 

Q.  You have won in L.A., you have played with how many different partners --
 
KENT KINNEAR:  Yeah, recently over the summer, I was playing with just about a different guy every week; kind of got into that rut a couple of years  ago too, and that is kind of a tough way to go, but fortunately the Canadian Open, I played with Paul Kilderry.  We got to the third round last week with Brent Haygarth; worked out real well; had a couple of wins.  It is a tough way to go sometimes.  It worked out all right in spots, but it is something that I don't want to do much longer.  Hopefully I will get with the regular partner, and I think David and I will probably play a little bit this fall, but we will see what happens as far as the regular partner week-in and week-out, hoping I will work into that. 
 

Q.  The Open?
 
KENT KINNEAR:  Paul Kilderry.  It was the quarterfinals in the Canadian Open. 
 

Q.  It was with Brent you won in L.A.?
 
KENT KINNEAR:  Haygarth, yeah, it was one of those strange things.  We hooked up a couple of hours before sign-in and we just -- I don't know, we started playing real well together.  It was strange; really clicked.  We had some really good wins over there.  It was a lot of fun, so we will probably -- the first couple of tournaments right after the Open, I think maybe Brent and I are going to hook up. 
 

Q.  What main draw singles is this for you this year; how many times have you qualified? 
 
KENT KINNEAR:  I got into Dubai and won a round against Volkov. I lost to Ferreira.  I qualified in L.A. last week and lost to Rostagno.  I guess this is the third. 
 

Q.  From the standpoint of the doubles competition, would you have liked the singles to have stayed -- would you like to have stayed in the singles longer?
 
KENT KINNEAR:  Sure, I mean, last year I did pretty well in both.  I loved it that way.  The way the scheduling worked out, I never had to play more than one match a day which is nice, so, yeah, I would have definitely liked to have stayed in singles.  It helps your doubles.  They both kind of help each other, I think, so it certainly wouldn't have hurt my doubles to win a few singles matches here. 
 
KENT KINNEAR:  Yep. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT