NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 2, 2017
Mike Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Coach, there's obviously an ESPN report out that Steve Kerr might be returning for Game 2.  Can you provide any update on that?
COACH BROWN: Well, no, it's the same. I'm going to coach until they tell me it's different.  So I haven't heard anything from him.  The plan is I'm going to continue to coach until either he or Bob Myers tells me anything different.
Q. And if I could follow up, Tyronn Lue said yesterday that their game plan was backwards; they were focused too much on running out to the shooters in transition.  Would you expect them to try and pack the paint a lot more when you guys are in transition in Game 2?
COACH BROWN: Well, yes, they will have to -- I don't know about packing the paint, but definitely somebody will have to do a better job at stopping the dribble drive.  We all knew and saw that they were very concerned with the three-point shooters, and that allowed the others to bring the ball up, and in a lot of cases it was Kevin Durant, it allowed him to be able to dribble drive to the rim with uncontested dunks.
So they're a good team.  They're going to make adjustments.  You'll definitely see them doing a better job in that area.
Q. Can you sort of speak to the development that you've seen in Ian Clark this season?  It seems like he's really starting to take advantage of the more minutes that he's got.  What you have you seen in his development that has allowed him to grow in that rotation?
COACH BROWN: Ian's development started last year probably.  I thought he had a couple of big Playoff games for him, for the Warriors, stepping in when guys were injured or when he was called upon.  But this year, especially with the amount of time he's got throughout the year, and then when his time was consistent with that second unit, he's shown the ability not only to shoot the ball from range, but to move well without the basketball.
And when he's out there and he has a guy like David West on the floor, who is a tremendous passing big, it opens the game up not only just for everybody on the floor with David, but especially for Ian because of his ability to shoot the ball and because of his uncanniness to know how to cut and so on and so forth.  And you combine those two things offensively, with his ability to shoot the floater, you have a dynamic offensive player, especially when it comes to him playing against second-tier guys.
And then for us defensively, he's gotten a little bit of experience in the past, he's a very willing defender, and he does a great job of following the game plan.  So even though he's a smaller guard, we like him out on the floor because he's going to give us some toughness and he's going to give us great defense, too.
Q. I think you touched on it briefly, but since you know some of the Cavaliers anyway, how do you expect them to respond in Game 2?
COACH BROWN: I'm sorry, say that one more time.
Q. How do you expect the Cavaliers to respond in Game 2?  I mean, you know a bunch of those guys.
COACH BROWN: We expect them to play better.  We know that they felt like they didn't play their best game, and so they are going to be more focused in terms of what they want to accomplish on both ends of the floor.  And I think, as LeBron said in his press conference, it's hard to simulate the way we play the game.
And after putting this game under their belt, having film to be able to go back and watch, make adjustments from, get used to the tempo and so on, so forth, will allow them to come in feeling better about their game plan and trying to do things they feel they need to do to get a win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT