NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2009
Mike Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How big was their size advantage?   
 COACH BROWN: Yeah, their size advantage, anybody and everybody could tell was a big factor. We started out of the gates very well when we had the first five out there.  
 My goal going into it was trying to get the guys as equal minutes as possible. And at the end of the day, you hope the results are a win but you want everybody to play a nice chunk of minutes. You don't want anybody walking away from this experience saying "I wish I could have been out there longer" or "I didn't get an opportunity."   
 I felt we accomplished that. Everybody played equal minutes. But when we went with the next five off the bench, I think our biggest guy was Rashard Lewis and that's the tough assignment to ask him to guard Shaq.  
  
  Q. How much did Shaq and Kobe look like the Shaq and Kobe you used to play with the Lakers?   
 COACH BROWN: I tell you what, those two guys together, that's a deadly combination as we all saw tonight and we have all seen in the past.   
 It is what it is. They are where they are right now, but if they were to stay together, no telling how many more rings they would have had on their fingers and toes.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about having Bill Russell right there next to the bench? I don't know if you got to exchange any words with him and what that meant to you to have him right there.   
 COACH BROWN: I did. I tell you, when I started in this business, I started as an unpaid intern. It kind of hit me at the beginning of the game after the introductions and so on and so forth, he was sitting right there.   
 I walked over to him and he shook my hand and we exchanged words and he talked to me like he knew me. And to think back to how I got started in this business and where I came from in a short amount of time, knowing that I'm sitting here speaking to Bill Russell, it was just an amazing feeling. It was an amazing feeling and honor to be out there on the floor, too.  
  
  Q. Was it the height in the third quarter that was the difference when they pulled away?  
 COACH BROWN: I thought they started to pull away in the second quarter when we made subs.   
 Again, it is just a tough assignment. They scored real easy. Because they were scoring real easy and we were missing 3s, it took a little bit of the juices out of the guys -- competitive juices out of the guys.   
 But everybody seemed like they had fun, and they enjoyed it. For me, that was the big thing. I wanted to make sure everybody enjoyed it. And I enjoyed it. We wish it would have been different, but hats off to those guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT