NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 22, 2017
Mike Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Warriors - 129, Spurs - 115
COACH BROWN: I'd like to first acknowledge the Spurs.  Obviously, it was a difficult series for them injury-wise and circumstantially.  So they're a class organization.  They've been doing it year after year after year for it seems like decades, and it's unfortunate how it went down for them, but they're definitely an organization that will bounce back.  I'm sure of it.  They've done it many times before.  Our guys, I've got to give them credit too, they've been phenomenal so far in our postseason run.  They've tried to do everything that we've asked them to, tried to stay focused, tried to stay locked in defensively, and it's paid off in our wins and most of our performances.
You look down at the boxscore, and K.D. had a heck of a game scoring.  He was very efficient with his scoring.  He had 29 points for us.  I thought tonight he was great defensively.  Very few breakdowns on the defensive end on his part.  He was locked in, he followed the game plan, and I thought he was spectacular for us on that end of the floor.
Steph was Steph.  He scored the ball, he shot the ball well for us, and he got us going.  He helped get us going.  When they go on a run, it seemed like K.D. or Steph more often than not would hit a big three to keep the separation at hand.  Our guys continually shared the basketball with the 30 assists.  At the end of the day it's a good win for us, and it's hard.  I don't care who you're playing to make it to the NBA Finals to win your Conference Finals.  It's a big task.  It's a huge accomplishment, and I tip my hat off to all of our players, our coaching staff was phenomenal.  Management and ownership, and all our fans back in the Bay Area.
Q. Mike, you spent a lot of time around Manu, and certainly he could be retiring.  How do you see his legacy, and for you personally, what kind of memories come to mind as far as who he is and the way he competed?
COACH BROWN: Wow, I've done this thing since 1992, and just as a person, he's one of the all-time greatest that I've come across.  I don't know if there are many people better than him as individuals.  It's a sad day, but it's also a joyful day, because he's brought a lot not only to the Spurs organization, but to basketball all around the world.  I mean, he's brought a lot of joy for a lot of people for many years.  Yeah, he's going to be remembered for the titles and the scoring and all of that other stuff, but you talk about a guy that's as talented as he is, could have done anything in the NBA for many years, he was humble enough to be one of the first to accept coming off the bench graciously.  That speaks volumes.
In my opinion, it's helped set a trend going forward, because I know I have used it.  I'm sure other coaches have used it.  But you can always look back and say, hey, remember that guy named Manu Ginobili?  He graciously did it, and they won umpteen titles because of it.  That just embodies who that guy is from day one.
Q. You guys have had three closeout games, and each time you guys have really taken control of the game right away.  You didn't leave anything to chance.  You seemed to play with a lot of aggressiveness, and there was no let-up.  What does that focus say about your team?
COACH BROWN: Again, my opinion, it starts with Steve Kerr.  He's our head coach, he's our leader.  He's been saying it from day one, lock in defensively and keep it simple offensively.  We had a couple breakdowns defensively.  We turned the ball over a couple times on the offensive end of the floor, but our veteran leaders, they tried to right the ship early, and it showed as time went on and we were able to create some separation.  So I give credit to Steve and all the guys in the locker room for locking in defensively and keeping it simple offensively.
Q. Does a start to a closeout game like that when it happens now consistently and one playoff year say anything --
COACH BROWN: Say that again?
Q. When you have three starts like that each time in a closeout game, does that say anything about the make-up and approach of this team?
COACH BROWN: It does.  That's why, again, even though Steve was not on the sidelines tonight, that's why I give him credit because he's laid such a terrific foundation with this group and he's given them ownership.  Been saying it the whole series.  Been saying it the whole playoff run, and our guys have handled it the right way.  They know a lot of times they know before we do what they need to do in order to right the ship if they're not playing the correct way.  So give credit to Steve.  Give credit to that group for coming out and trying to close the game the right way tonight.
Q. Back to Manu for a moment.  When the crowd was chanting Manu, Manu, and all the emotions were flying around the gym, did it seem like you were part of an historical moment?
COACH BROWN: As crazy as it sounds, yes.  I know that I'm looking forward to the day to tell my grandkids I was there for his last game.  Lot of great players and great people have come through this organization.  I feel that way about Manu.  I feel that way about Tim [Duncan], Tony [Parker] one day, David Robinson, was not only great players but great people.  To hear the crowd serenade them like that was fun.  I was glad that I was here for it.
Q. Given the injuries to the Spurs and your relationship with Coach Pop, how do you feel or how much sympathy do you have, although you know you have to compete and you have to come out and win, for him, but what do you tell him after the game?
COACH BROWN: I let him talk to me.  I just responded.  He's been here, done it many times, and he's about as gracious to me and my family as anybody has been through my entire life.  So I just listen to him.  But, yeah, it was tough for those guys.  But he said it before the series even started.  He called, we talked, we laughed.  He said, hey, I love you.  I told him I loved him, and he said, but you know once this starts, we're going to try to kick your ass (laughing).  I said, okay.  It's on, then.
So, you know, the injuries happen.  It's part of the game.  But at the end of the day, they still wanted to win and we did too.
Q. As dominant as y'all have been in the postseason, do you worry about any type of lack of edge in close games when things are right down to the wire?
COACH BROWN: Well, we feel like the score is kind of misleading, because we feel like we can play better.  There are things on both sides of the ball that we can clean up, and that's what's, I guess, got our guys' attention or focus because we've been preaching certain things, and for the most part they've been doing it, but we've had lapses to where they've been big enough so our guys know that in order to, you know, get to our ultimate goal of winning the whole thing, we've got to be better on both ends of the floor.
So our guys are aware.  We feel like if anybody, or if there is any game that's close down the stretch, we have enough talent to win it on both ends of the floor.  Our execution will help pay off if we're ever put in that position.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT