NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 22, 2017
Mike Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kevin Durant's gotten some flack for that "If you don't like it, don't watch it" comment when he was talking about the Playoffs.  What is your reaction to that comment, and did you have any thoughts on that?
COACH BROWN: You know, I know K.D., and I don't think he meant anything malicious by saying that in his mind.  People take things the wrong way.  I know he's apologized for it and he regrets saying it that way because of how it could be misunderstood, but he loves the game of basketball, just like we all do.
The fans have been terrific.  Not only do us as the Warriors, but to the NBA in general.  You can see the prosperity of the league has increased year after year.  Hopefully that continues, but it will only continue if we have fans watching and coming to games and buying the jerseys and stuff like that.
So we're thankful to be in the spot we're in, and I know he feels the same way.
Q. Update on Zaza?
COACH BROWN: He's going to be out.
Q. JaVale starting?
COACH BROWN: Not sure.  Depends on what they go with.  But there is a decent chance he'll start.  But not 100 percent.
Q. Steve [Kerr] has been running the team now for pretty much the last week and a half or so.  Is he still able to sort of participate in helping you guys out as coaches and just being involved with the players?
COACH BROWN: Yeah, he has.  The only time he wasn't around the team is when he went back east during the Utah series.  But, again, we communicated by phone at least twice a day.  So it's no different now.  Even though he's around the team, we still communicate quite a bit by phone.  He's been to all the coaches meetings.  He's been to all the practices, all the shootarounds.  He definitely has his stamp on this whole process.
Q. In what ways has he been able to help?
COACH BROWN: You know, he watches film, and he watches the game.  So he gives his perspective from where he is.  He gives insight on what we should be doing going forward, what he felt we could have done better, what we did that was good.
So he just gives his input, mainly.  He addresses the team every once in a while.  He doesn't always do that, but he'll address the team from time to time.
Q. You said your starting lineup's going to be dependent on what they throw out there.
COACH BROWN: Yeah.
Q. How does that work?  Do you just stay and wait until they get started on the court or...
COACH BROWN: For us, it's not that big of a deal.  We're either going to start JaVale or Patrick McCaw.  We haven't made a decision yet, and I don't know when we're going to make a decision, but we'll go between those two guys.
Q. Manu told us the other night they need to play at a 10 level and hope y'all play at a 7 level.  Does that math sound about right to you for Game 4?
COACH BROWN: No.  I hope we play at a 10 and they play at a 7.
Q. What would the score be?
COACH BROWN: I don't know, but that math sounds better to me.
Q. So do you talk about complacency and do the Cavs look complacent to you when they lost to the Celtics?
COACH BROWN: I don't know if the Cavs look complacent.  Obviously Boston played a very good game, and I know Cleveland feels like they could have played better.  But we've talked about just trying to play the right way.  Even in Game 3, we felt we came out and we just had too many mistakes.  We were really sloppy, especially with the basketball.  We fouled too much.
And Steve has the whole year, at least the whole time I've been around, from day one he's been preaching win the possession game, win the possession game, win the possession game.  We didn't do a great job of it in Game 3.  We found a way to win in the second half down the stretch.  But we addressed what we felt was our sloppiness from Game 3.  Hopefully that won't happen as much tonight.
Q. Did K.D. watch the game?
COACH BROWN: The Celtics game?
Q. Yeah.
COACH BROWN: I think he did, yeah, I think he did (laughing).  I think all our guys did.  I did.  My son did.  This is my shy one.  He's got his hat on.  He's trying to hide his eyes.  It was entertaining, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT