NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 10, 2012
IIya Kovalchuk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Ilya Kovalchuk. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   It's the game.   Anything can happen.   Just like I said, the hardest working team gonna win.   Going to prove once more who won the last game.   Just have to go out there and play your best. 

Q.   The way you played last year, falling behind 3‑0 give you confidence, how far you've come?
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   No, didn't give you any confidence.   Whatever you do, you don't want to go down 3‑0 against a team like L.A. 
But we just find a way how to do it in the last two games, and we got to go out there and do the same thing tomorrow night. 

Q.   People talk about how your team now has the momentum.   Is that a concept that you think is a narrative or is that something that you feel you have regained some momentum?
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   Whoever win the last game, that's what the people said, they got momentum. 
Like I said, you just got to go out there and try to play your best.   What in the past is all behind you.   You can't do anything about it.   You can only control what you're going to do next. 
You have to go out there and play your best.

Q.   Did you sense them getting frustrated last game for the first time?
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   I don't think it was a big deal. 
We were in their shoes.   We know how they feel.   But like I said, you got to control your emotions.   I think the team that gonna do it better, gonna win. 

Q.   When you see them getting frustrated, does it feel like you're getting under their skin?
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   We don't care.   Like I said, we're going to go out there and play the team. 

Q.   What about your best players, the last couple of games have been taking a step forward.   Do you think you're winning that battle as far as top guys against top guys?
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   I don't think in the finals it's any battles, one‑on‑one battles, line‑on‑line battles, goal‑on‑goal battles.   It's a team game.   Like you said, Sal scored a huge goal for us.   Those kind of guys step up.   The team got to be good as a team whole playoffs long to get where we at. 
I'm not going to talk about one guy.   It's a team sport.   To be successful, you've got to be a good team. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT