NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 20, 2012
IIya Kovalchuk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What has to happen to score?  
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   We just have to do what we were doing all three games.   We've gotta do the same thing.   We don't have to push too hard, because we gotta‑ we gotta put more pucks on net, create more traffic, same things.   
They played a good game.   We have to make sure we don't let them play the same game tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   If you move back to the left side, is that an easy adjustment to make at this time?   
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   I don't think that's going to happen.   So I don't have to worry about it.   
   
 Q.   Were you on the right side today?   
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   Yes.   I was everywhere today.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday you had that point‑blank shot, you wind up, and he caught it and then the look on your face was did he really just do that?   Were you as stunned as you looked?   Did you think that was passing and it was going to be a goal?  
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   I thought it was a pretty good shot.   Fired in a good spot, but he made a good save.   I'm pretty sure he's watching the tape, he knows where I shoot most of the time.   And he ‑ like I said, he played a perfect game.   So tomorrow we just have to play our game, put a lot of pucks on net.   Create more traffic.   We anticipate a little more.   
We'll be okay.   We'll play exactly the way we want to play.   So we don't want to change anything.  
   
 Q.   Is it difficult to not get frustrated when you had so many chances, put one past him yesterday?  
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   It's good we got chances.   It will be frustrating if we don't have any chances.   Then it's a problem.   When there's a chances, you just‑ sometimes you gotta take it a little easier and don't think about it and it will go in.   So Playoffs (indiscernible) create chances, so we just have to stick to it.  
   
 Q.   You've been a captain.   Have you ever not spoken after the game, and what do you think about that?  
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   What do you mean by that?   
   
 Q.   Zach chose not to speak last night.   He said he just was afraid of what he was going to say.   Have you ever not spoken after a game?  
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   You know, he's a grown man.   That's his decision.   He's a great captain and he's our leader.   So I'm pretty sure you guys know him as a great human being and great leader and sportsman.   
So he chose to do that, and we support him 100percent.   
   
 Q.   It appears line changes are likely tomorrow.   What would you expect would be the difference with the line that you're playing (indiscernible)?  
ILYA KOVALCHUK:   We'll see tomorrow.   We'll have an answer tomorrow after the game.   But when the team is struggling to score goals, we're trying to mix, and that always happens.   So we'll play together before, during the season.   And he's a great playmaker.   He's always in a great position.   So I think we can help each other a lot and create a lot of chances and hang in there.   And he can skate, and he's great with the puck.   So I'm really excited to play (indiscernible) tomorrow night.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT