NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 1, 2002
IIya Kovalchuk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Six goals tonight.  Were you trying to put on a show for the fans?  Were you taking this game seriously? 
 
ILYA KOVALCHUK:  He just showed what he wanted to.  He can't say that he took it very seriously.  He just showed everything he could.  
 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about what it's like with Heatley, the two of them competing for the trophy on the same team.  You don't usually see that very much in this league. 
 
ILYA KOVALCHUK:  They are just going to the ice to help each other.  Dany helps him and he helps Dany.  They just don't mind about Calder Trophy.  They're just going to the ice to do what they're supposed to do.  
 

Q.  Would you like to play in the four-on-four all the time? 
 
ILYA KOVALCHUK:  Yeah, sure, and without the red line also (laughter).  
 

Q.  Did you think that you would do this well in the NHL so quickly or did you think it would take more time to have success in this league?
 
ILYA KOVALCHUK:  He didn't predict  -- he doesn't like to predict.  He just went on the ice and did what he can do.  He didn't think a lot about his future.  Is he going to be well right away or after some time.  He just went and done. 
 

Q.  Who do you want to play hockey like?  When you dream about playing the game, who is your great hero as a player?
 
ILYA KOVALCHUK:  Valeri Kharlamov, great Russian player.  Hero of '72 series. 
 

Q.  Did you ever see him play? 
 
ILYA KOVALCHUK:  He died in automobile crash in '81 a couple years before he was born.  But he saw a lot of tapes that his father showed him. 
 

Q.  Mario Lemieux said you had all the tools to be one of the great ones in this game.  Do you feel that's a destiny that's laid out before you? 
 
ILYA KOVALCHUK:  Mario is a great player.  If he said that, I just will try to follow his advice. 
 

Q.  Of all your assets, what makes you the goal-scorer you are  - your shot, speed, quickness of your release? 
 
ILYA KOVALCHUK:  It should be everything.  The goal-scorer should be complete player, and he cannot have only speed or only shot to be a goal-scorer.  He has to have everything in combo.  
 

Q.  When we saw you this year with the Flyers, we did not see your proclivity with the wrist shot, which we saw tonight.  Is that something you've been working on since the fall? 
 
ILYA KOVALCHUK:  On each practice, he shoots like 70, 80 times.  He says that he just get used to the NHL, NHL goalies, NHL ice rink.  He feels more comfortable than at the beginning of the season.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT