THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 3, 2014
Joe Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I guess this is part of the going back and forth between both tours things and it's working out?  
JOE DURANT:   Yeah.   It worked out good today.   I mean I didn't get in here until yesterday afternoon about 4:00, though.   We sold our house at home, so I had to go home for a closing.   Played a charity pro am Monday, flew home Monday night, did that Tuesday, then flew up Wednesday.  
But I've played here.   This is such a good course.   It's straightforward, no tricks really, and I've played it several times.  
   
 Q.   Is there a different feel?   I mean you're still‑‑ you've got the same clubs.   You're hitting the same ball.   Is there a different feel, though, when you come off the Champions Tour to here?  
JOE DURANT:   Well, these courses are a little longer, obviously.   But golf anywhere is good golf, you know, and I've been playing good over there and I've had some good rounds over here, too.   I just haven't put four together.   Maybe I can do it this week.  
   
 Q.   You talk about this course.   This has been‑‑ all the players seem to love it, all the activity around here.   I know you got in late yesterday, but what's your take of the whole area?  
JOE DURANT:   Oh, it's a beautiful spot.   The hotel is gorgeous.   A lot of tradition obviously.   I used to come here when CSX Railroad owned it.   Played here for a nobody of years, and then Mr.Justice bought it and really turned it around again.   And we have such a great welcoming here.   They roll out the red carpet for us, and it's just a great place to have a tournament.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round today in general.   Had to be pretty happy to shoot 5‑under.   
JOE DURANT:   I played very solid.   Only missed one shot today.   It was my tee shot on my second hole and made bogey.   But other than that, I drove it in the fairway, hit a lot of greens.   You know, if you can do that around here, you can shoot some good numbers.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT