SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 25, 2014
Joe Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you walk us through your eagle on 15. 
JOE DURANT:   I hit a drive down the left side, it got way down there, only had 6‑iron into the green.   I hit a really good 6‑iron in there about six feet.   I had an easy putt, right up the gut, and knocked it right in.   That was a pretty easy three.

Q.   What was your number?
JOE DURANT:   185.   Which is a perfect 6‑iron for me, too.   There wasn't much wind, there wasn't that much to deal with today on a lot of shots.   I had plenty of good numbers today and that was really the reason why I shot a good score today, I had a lot of good numbers into holes today and just got them in there.

Q.   Talk us through the lie there on 18 and what happened there. 
JOE DURANT:   18 was fine.   I hit a perfect drive, I had a great number my second shot with a 7‑iron and I just fanned it, I just didn't hit a good shot. 
Only thing I was asking as I was walking up there was "don't plug" and it was plugged.   So to that tight of a pin, I didn't have much of a shot.   So five was about as good as I could do from there.   Just didn't execute on the second shot.

Q.   Did you have to play sideways on that shot?
JOE DURANT:   I had to play left of it a little bit, just to give myself a chance to keep it on the green.   But just a poor second, that's all I can say.

Q.   Would you rather have 18 back or Friday or Saturday?
JOE DURANT:   I would love to have 16 back on Friday.   I made triple there.   Actually thought I hit a decent tee shot, but didn't work out very well.   After that I made a mess of it as well. 
You hate to have it come down to the last hole, there's plenty of holes that come out during the week and you say, gosh, if I would have just had that one over, but it would be 16 this week.

Q.   Just to come back after two rough days and do what you did today, how does that feel?
JOE DURANT:   It feels good.   That was my goal today, was to try to go out and shoot a low number, because I felt like ‑‑ I knew the weather was going to be good and I have been hitting my irons well and I felt like I could shoot a good number today.   I actually had like 63 in my mind today, if I could have gone out and hit all the shots and birdied a couple of the 5's on the front.   So I'm very, very happy with how I played today.

Q.   What's your plan now?
JOE DURANT:   I'm going to hang out a little while until somebody posts a score lower and then if they do, then I'm going to get on the road and try to catch a flight home.

Q.   Just going to sit back and hope a couple shots go the correct way for you?
JOE DURANT:   I did the best I could do.   I don't root against anybody.   These guys all play great.   I'm just happy to give myself a chance. 

Q.   Overall, this whole experience this week, obviously the leader Thursday and then to have a great round, what's this whole experience been like here?
JOE DURANT:   Oh, it's been a ball.   The fan reception has been great.   You guys have had great galleries all week.   The golf course has been immaculate.   So it's just been lot of fun.   Finally got some summer‑type weather today, which was nice. 

Q.   How long was your par putt on 18?
JOE DURANT:   It was probably almost 30 feet.   I splashed it to the back of the green and had to go up over a ridge and I hit a good putt, but you just can't expect to make those.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT