HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2012
Joe Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You got it going out there!  
JOE DURANT:   You never know.   You just go out and play the best you can.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel momentum building?   
JOE DURANT:   A little bit I did, certainly after I birdied 6 and eagled 7.   
   
 Q.   You were the last guy in the field‑‑ (Away from mic.)  
JOE DURANT:   Joe Ogilvie pulled out, and he gave me the "no go, you're in," I will have to send him a case of wine.   
   
 Q.   What were did you go?   
JOE DURANT:   I drove to Greenville, South Carolina Monday night because I was going to play the Nationwide event.   They called me Tuesday morning and said, "You're first alternate," so I drove my car to Atlanta, flew here, played a quick practice round Tuesday afternoon and hung out all day Wednesday, no one pulled out.   Came out Thursday morning, and it wasn't looking promising but Joe Ogilvie, bless his heart, pulled out for me.   I got in.   
   
 Q.   Owe him one now, huh?   
JOE DURANT:   Owe him several.   
   
 Q.   You always liked Joe?  
JOE DURANT:   Right.   They only had to change the last name on the pairing sheet.   
   
 Q.   Have you talked to him?   
JOE DURANT:   I said, "I'm sorry you're not feeling well," and he said, "Go take advantage of it."     
   
 Q.   Does that happen very often where you get rushed in and don't think ‑‑  
JOE DURANT:   I was a little unnerved the first couple of holes, because now I have to settle down and play golf.   The anticipation phase is over and I have to get settled down now.   On Friday I shot even and was pleased with that and played well over the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Tell me the story about getting in.   You were the last guy in the field.   
JOE DURANT:   Yeah, it was Mr.Toad's Wild Ride this week!   I started out playing the BMW in Greenville, and I got a call that said I was the first alternate, so I said I got to try and get in.   I played Tuesday afternoon quick practice round, came out Thursday.   
And Joe Ogilvie was hurting and he pulled out and told me to, "Go get 'em," and fortunate to have a chance to play.   
   
 Q.   You started out this final round in the hunt, bogeyed your first and second holes.   You had to feel like, okay, another grinding week?   
JOE DURANT:   I have done that so many times the past couple of years where I have been in decent shape going into Sunday and you feel like you're pedaling upstream, and my caddie said, "Hey, no one is going to die out here today.   Let's play and give ourselves opportunities" and from that point on I did.   I hit greens and loaded the ball well.  
   
 Q.   When did you know you were in it?   
JOE DURANT:   When we got close to the end.   I birdied 15, and 16 I hit a wedge and it spun back but had a good putt there, and‑‑ made birdie there!   And hit two good shots on 17 and 18, finding the edges on all of them.   
   
 Q.   You gave yourself a million chances and the good thing is this gets you going and in a couple weeks from now in Memphis.   
JOE DURANT:   I am looking forward to that.   I love playing Memphis, and this will help me out with FedEx points, build off this.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT