THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 10, 2010
Joe Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Joe, you finished right where you started the day, but boy, it was quite an adventure in the middle.  
 JOE DURANT: Yeah, it was kind of Mr. Toad's Wild Ride today. I got off to the kind of start I wanted to. I hit it really close the first two holes, and I don't know, I just never could get real settled today for some reason.   
 And my speed, my putting was just not quite there today. I was trying really hard, and I was riding it out to the end, but it didn't quite work out.  
  
  Q. You talked all week about giving yourself chances and after those first two, you really didn't have very many until deep on the back side.  
 JOE DURANT: No, I really didn't, and you need those out here, especially, you know, Heath was playing well. I saw how he got off to a good start after three or four holes, and you know, it's just one of those things, I'm getting close, I'm getting closer. I'm encouraged, I've got a chance next week to go out and try to do it again.  
  
  Q. I was going to say, that's the small picture about this week. The big picture is, last look at the numbers, you're about 115 now. You've got a little bit of breathing room, and you're in for a while, so that's good.  
 JOE DURANT: Yeah, yeah. You know, I'm doing a lot of things well. And that's the key. I've gotta just be patient. We've only got three events left. Just play the kind of golf I can play and I'll be fine.  
  
  Q. David Toms just told me this course won't let you get aggressive. If you get aggressive here, you pay a price. Did that get you a little bit today?  
 JOE DURANT: It did, Bob. You're right. I did on No. 9. I tried to cut one in there and I got over it a little bit and hit it long and made bogey, and on 16 or 17 rather, he was trying to do the same thing. He was trying to hit it close. He probably took a little too much club and hit it long and made bogey. So it's just kind of riding that wire a little bit, and sometimes it'll bite you.  
  
  Q. Good luck out West. We'll see you there.  
 JOE DURANT: Thanks. Appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT