THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 7, 2010
Joe Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Joe, a 65 is a great way to start. Beautiful day. Everything worked out well for you. 
 JOE DURANT: I played real well. I'm just so thankful to have the opportunity to get to play here. The tournament extended me an invitation to play this week, and I don't know if I would have gotten in otherwise, so I really wanted to go out and take advantage of it. 
 The golf course is perfect. It's just a beautiful place to be right now.

 Q. You know, we've followed you a lot over the years. Your iron play is always good. And today it was really good. You were hitting some super iron shots, especially the back nine. 
 JOE DURANT: I did. You know, you've gotta be very careful on this golf course, though, because there's some runoffs and some fall-offs and if you just push it a little bit or pull it a little bit, you can end up, you know, 30, 40 feet away with a really difficult shot. So I tried to be somewhat conservative with my approach, but I was trying to come in from the wide side and play that way, and so far, so good.

 Q. You know, you've been out here a long time. Three rounds to go, three more tournaments to go, and you know where you stand on the Money List. I know you do. So how do you approach this final stretch?
 JOE DURANT: You know, as mundane as it sounds or whatever, you just gotta take it one shot at a time. You can't get ahead of yourself. You just gotta go play golf and not worry about the outcome too much, which is what every sports psychologist tells you, you know, but you have to go do it. And that's the real trick is to just do the best with what you got right now and add them up when it's over.

 Q. And lastly, talk about the golf course, because our listeners, you know, it's ocean side, beautiful. How tough is it out there?
 JOE DURANT: You know what, today, starting out is actually tougher than it probably is now at the end of the round. It was a little breezy this morning and cool and the ball wasn't going very far there. It was heavy. Now the ball is seeming to travel a little better. 
 But it's just one of those courses where, you know, the wind certainly has a major effect on the ball, and wind direction is everything, too. Some holes that we played today were dead opposite from when I played Tuesday. So you just have to hit -- the big key is to strike it solid. If you hit the ball solid, you're going to be okay.

 Q. And that's what you did today. It was fun to follow you, Joe. 
 JOE DURANT: Well, thanks. I appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT