HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2010
Joe Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Joe, 1-over par with three holes left and then just an incredible finish. If we can get you to talk about that. 
 JOE DURANT: I got up on the 7th hole of the par 5 and I hit a mediocre drive, and I was short, and I knocked it on the green, hit a good second shot to get it to about, I would say 20 or 25 feet and right in the middle, made a good putt. 
 Then 8 is one of the best driving holes on the course. Hit it in the fairway, had 180 to the hole, hit a 6-iron and just looped it, it went in the hole, so I had back-to-back eagles there. And we were pushing darkness but we were fortunate to get to tee off on No. 9 and I hit it down the middle, and I made that one, so eagle, eagle, birdie, so it turned the day around, that's for sure. 

 Q. What was your mind-set after 15 holes, 1-over not bad, with the way that everything was going today, but what was your mind-set going into those last three? 
 JOE DURANT: Well, yeah, you're right I was 1-over, I wasn't playing great, but I was hanging in there. I was thinking if we can birdie the last three or -- I was thinking three birdie putts the last three holes, if I could do that, I could sneak out even or 1-under, I would have been happy with that. 
 The scores weren't tremendously low, and in the afternoon we had great scoring conditions, but it doesn't seem like anybody was lighting it up, so tried to stay patient all day and a couple of good iron shots, fortunate to do the way I did. 

 Q. Phil Mickelson was the last guy to hit back-to-back eagles, and he did that at Augusta this year. Have you done that before? 
 JOE DURANT: I was 16 years old at the Dixie Derby in Florida, and I made a hole-in-one on the par 3, which was at the 9th hole, and I made an 80-footer for an eagle on the 10th. That would be the only time in any kind of tournament. 
 THE MODERATOR: Great, Joe, keep it going tomorrow. 
 JOE DURANT: Thanks, a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT