WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 25, 2010
Joe Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously a great week last week down in Mexico and it's continuing. Talk about it. 
 JOE DURANT: I played good today, hit a lot of good shots. I was very pleased with my round today. The wind came up a little bit this afternoon and started to dry things out, so the greens got a little quick in spots. But I'm pleased with how I'm playing.

 Q. What have you been doing? Have you been practicing, doing something different?
 JOE DURANT: I have. I've been working on a few different things in my golf swing. I just got in bad positions for a couple years and had to fight my way out of it, but I feel like I'm on the right track now. I've just got to keep the course. Between that and working on the putting every day, that's really just the plan.

 Q. Did somebody help you figure that out, that you were in a bad position?
 JOE DURANT: Well, I had been really struggling with things, and I talked to Rocco at Turning Stone last fall, and he said, why don't you go see Jimmy Ballard and just get him -- I thought I was more of an upright swinger, and I had really gotten flat and around, and Jimmy, he just kind of took a couple looks at me and said, hey, let's see you get the club a little more up instead of around, and I feel like I'm tracking the club down a much better plane now. I'm still working on it, got a ways to go, but I'm hitting a lot better shots.

 Q. Does it feel familiar?
 JOE DURANT: It does, actually, yeah. It does feel very familiar. I was getting to the point where I was thinking that my body was starting to hurt. It had never hurt before, but because of the swings that I had been making, I couldn't keep doing it. It feels pretty good.

 Q. In the off-season had you been doing a lot more work than you had in the past? 
 JOE DURANT: You know, yeah, I went out and hit some balls, and it was some real bad weather, but I made myself get out there and do it, and I was trying to go out there every day with a plan and a purpose, and I did a pretty good job of that. You know, just got to keep working. 

 Q. So you've got to be pretty happy with the round. 
 JOE DURANT: Yeah, I'm very pleased. The greens are pretty quick. They're much quicker than Mayakoba last week, so it was kind of an adjustment coming here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT