THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 27, 2005
Joe Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
A lot of stopping and starting and stuff like that, but nice to have your second round done yesterday and not to have to come early this morning.
JOE DURANT:  Yeah, it was nice to sleep in for a day.  But again, too, you're not sure exactly what's going to transpire so you kind of get up a little early and check out the computer and check if they're actually playing or whatnot, so it's been one of those unfortunate peaks where everything is up in the air.
Q.  How are things going around for you?
JOE DURANT:  Okay so far.  I made a good birdie on the 1st, hit driver and a wedge about eight feet, made birdie.

Then made a good save for par on 2 after driving it in the rough, hitting my second in the rough, made a good up-and-down.

3, made par from off the fringe, and I'm in the first cut on No. 4, so far so good, but it seemed like every time we took a step we were looking up in the air to see what the clouds were doing because we knew it was coming.
Q.  The weather conditions, obviously it's been soft since Thursday, but now it's going to be really soft.  Are the fairways getting hard to keep the ball in a dry place?
JOE DURANT:  Actually we were down No. 1 and we noticed they cut the fairway, so it was not too bad at that point, but after this deluge we just went through, who knows what's going to be out there now, so it's going to be sloppy again.
Q.  Assuming we don't get any -- what's your mindset going into tomorrow and possibly Tuesday?
JOE DURANT:  You just have to, again, just be prepared for whatever comes.  Tomorrow is going to be a long day obviously.  Even if we don't go out today, if we can get out early enough tomorrow, maybe complete the whole thing tomorrow, I don't know.  At this point everybody is just, like, let's go.  We want to get this thing done.
Q.  Talk about being in contention.  It's got to be a good feeling, especially in a tournament as prestigious as this one?
JOE DURANT:  Absolutely.  I've always felt like this golf course will show you the state of your game in every aspect.  For me the position I'm in right now, I'm pleased with how I'm playing and I'm excited about the fact that I'm playing better.  I hope to keep building and keep working on the things I'm working on.  I had no illusions about what could or could not happen this week, I'm not worried about that.  I'm playing each hole as it comes and seeing what happens.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT