BUICK OPEN
June 30, 2007
Tripp Isenhour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You put yourself right there, didn't you? 
 TRIPP ISENHOUR:  Yes, it's nice.  I really started hitting the ball well coming in yesterday, the last couple of holes and it carried over into today nicely.  So hopefully it will keep going tomorrow. 

 Q.  Go through your round. 
 TRIPP ISENHOUR:  I birdied both the par 5s on the front and played real solid and birdied 12, 13, 14, and 15.  So those four in a row really helped. 

 Q.  You have to take advantage of 13 and 14, if you don't do that, you're in trouble? 
 TRIPP ISENHOUR:  Right.  But like I said, you've got to hit the ball in the fairway, and it's not necessarily easy to do.  But if you do hit it in the fairway on this golf you can take advantage of it.  That's why you'll see some guys struggle and maybe a higher score than you would think, because they're not hitting in these tight fairways.  It's easier said than done. 

 Q.  Do you look at the scoreboard, the leaderboard and you see what Jesper did and you're thinking I need to do something here? 
 TRIPP ISENHOUR:  Not really, I don't really pay any attention.  I go about my business and try to keep my head down and just keep doing it.  I looked over at the leaderboard once and saw that I was up there, and I thought, okay, let's just keep doing it.  Today is a perfect day.  This is Chamber of Commerce weather here.  You can't beat it. 

 Q.  Is the course firming up?  Any trouble, or did you seem to do okay? 
 TRIPP ISENHOUR:  The course is firming up nicely.  The greens are starting to get a little bounce to them, and the fairways are starting to run out a little bit.  I guess we're drying out from that rain we had earlier.  That enables us to get to maybe a few more of the Par 5s. 
 You still have got to go out there and hit the ball in the fairway and then take advantage of it after that? 

 Q.  Do you put a number in your head for tomorrow or do you just go out and, hey, let's do it again? 
 TRIPP ISENHOUR:  Yes, I go out and do it again.  I just go out and try to, like I say, keep my head down and play my game.  That's the great thing about golf, it's all up to me.  I can't control what anybody else does.  If I can walk off the course and say I did the best I could do on every shot, then I did all I could do. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT