JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 22, 2002
Tripp Isenhour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TODD BUDNICK:  We have Tripp Isenhour, 6-under 65 tied for second place.  Tripp has made 8 of 11 cuts this year and has one Top-10 and T-5 at the Fed. Ex. St. Jude Classic. 
Let's start with the round.  Looks like you kind of a slow front, but went off on the backside.
TRIPP ISENHOUR:  She had the Palm score wrong.  I made a par on No. 2 and I didn't make a bogey.  So made par and she had me for bogey on 11. 
Just a slow start.  I was hitting the ball solid from the 1st tee on so it was -- then on 4 I knocked one in there about ten feet, made it.  That kind of got things rolling a little bit had a lot of good chances on the front nine then the back 9 made a lot of birdies.  10 hit the green in 2-putted from about 25 feet. 
12, hit a 3-iron in about 20 feet, made it. 
13, I made about 30-footer.
14, was a tap-in.
15 was about six feet. 
TODD BUDNICK:  When you get on a roll like that it just keeps you going?
TRIPP ISENHOUR: Yeah.  But like I said, the front side was nice because I hit every green and except for one, I think I missed No. 6.  But to go and give yourself a lot of opportunities, like I did today, that makes for a nice easy round. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Questions.

Q.   What was clicking for you primarily today?
TRIPP ISENHOUR:  I hit the ball really solid with my irons for a change.  Last week at B.C. I did it for 3 roundS.  On Sunday I was in contention there, and made a couple of bad swings and fortunately I did that because I fixed it this week early on, and hit a lot of good solid iron shots. 

Q.   It is nice converting those once you hit them.  That's got to be frustrating hitting great iron shots and it doesn't pay-off?
TRIPP ISENHOUR: Oh, yeah.  Kind of been the story of my year.  But the greens are just beautiful here.  I can't say enough good things about the golf course.  It's matured so nicely and it's just a pleasure to play and the golf course flows beautifully, and I really like the way a lot of the holes look.  So it's a joy to play. 
TODD BUDNICK:  The numbers are kind of deceiving, Tripp, like you said you made 8 of 11 cuts but you are 140 on the money list.  I think early on you didn't get in too many events correct.
TRIPP ISENHOUR: Yeah, my category is the 126 to 150 off last year's money list so I think I played 5 tournaments through May, so that's not a lot of golf.  And I have played a lot lately.  This is my 6th in a row.  And it looks like after the PGA I am going to have 7 in a row.  So it's not the preferred way to do it, but if you are playing solid golf, you keep putting yourself in the positions and eventually good things are going to happen. 

Q.   What is your normal schedule, how many weeks in a row do you like to play?
TRIPP ISENHOUR:  I will play four max is normally how I do it, and this year like I said, I am going to have two stretches this one where I play 6 and then after the PGA probably 7 in a row.  So  it is a bunch of golf, but fortunately I am playing solid so it would be tougher if I wasn't and that's the good thing about it. 

Q.   Do you change anything in your routine when you are in a stretch like that, a longer stretch?
TRIPP ISENHOUR: Well, yes.  Normally I practice a lot.  I like -- when I am out on the road I hit a lot of balls and I putt a lot and really work hard on my game when I am out here.  But I have kind of backed off a little this week.  I probably will not hit very many balls after a round and just hit a few putts.  I am not going  -- because this is my last week out.  So yes, I do change what I normally do. 

Q.   Probably get this about every time you are in the pressroom - "Tripp,"  can you explain Tripp?
TRIPP ISENHOUR:  My real name is John Isenhour III and it's "triple" that's where it comes from.  So if you ever see a Tripp or a Tray they are usually a third.

Q.   Not for triple bogey?
TRIPP ISENHOUR: (Laughs).  No, fortunately let's hope I don't do any of those. 

Q.   That has been with you since day 1?
TRIPP ISENHOUR: Yeah.  The I.R.S. is the only one that gives me a hard time about it. 

Q.   They want to see your tax return in triplicate?
TRIPP ISENHOUR: Right. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT