MLB WORLD SERIES: MARLINS v YANKEES
October 23, 2003
Miguel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Can you talk about signing with the Marlins originally, what teams were interested in you and maybe who bid the most and why you chose the Marlins? 
 
MIGUEL CABRERA:  I can't really answer that question because my father and my mother, they tell me, "You want to sign for the Marlins?"  I say, "I don't care where, what thing I sign.  The only thing I care right now, is I want to play baseball."  
 
Q.  Can you go into a little how you started?  We're doing a special with the little leaguers.  How young were you?  Your dad, your coaching, your little league experience, the age you started? 
 
MIGUEL CABRERA:  Well, I start when I got three years, I remember.  I start with my uncle.  He got a little school.  I play over there like 10 years.  When I got like 14 years old, I move my hometown.  When I get older, I sign for the Marlins. 
 
Q.  You were about two or three months old when Clemens began his pro career.  I mean, hitting a home run off him in his final game, what was that like for you?  When did you first know about Roger Clemens?  When was the first time you ever heard of him? 
 
MIGUEL CABRERA:  I know about too much him.  I think got a good contact from the ball.  When I hit it, I can't explain, I think I got look in this at-bat.  
 
 
Q.  How many friends and family do you have up from Venezuela that's come to the games? 
 
MIGUEL CABRERA:  No, I no got anybody now.  My family in Venezuela. 
 
Q.  None came up for the games?
 
MIGUEL CABRERA:  No.  
 
Q.  You started this year playing in Double A.  Now you're in the World Series.  Has this year been like a dream for you?  Can you even believe all the good things that have happened to you this season? 
 
MIGUEL CABRERA:  Yeah.  When I start in Double A I got a good season over there.  When I come here, I see that we believe and we say we gonna play.  I see they want to play, they want to win.  I say we got a chance to win this.  We now in the World Series.  We play that way we want to play.  We play hard.  We play 100 percent.  We want to win.  
 
Q.  What do you consider your real natural position?  As you were growing up, what was the one you really thought you played best at?  How have you adjusted to playing in so many different places this year? 
 
MIGUEL CABRERA:  (Through translation) when I was younger, it was shortstop, when I came up.  But now I feel like my natural position is third base.  To play leftfield, it required adjustments.  Rightfield, as well.  But wherever it is, that's where I'm gonna be because I want to be here.  
 
Q.  You seem so calm and relaxed, like this is not affecting you whatsoever.  Really, I mean, have you had a case of the nerves?  Have you been nervous at all?  Not only in the World Series, but any time you've been up in the majors?
 
MIGUEL CABRERA:  No.  When first time I come here, I say, "You now here.  You want to play, you play now.  Play your best.  Do your job.  You play well, 100 percent.  Really, no matter what happen."  It's just fun for me, though.  I really never feel nervous.  I'm always just playing to win.  
 
Q.  Who did you idolize growing up?  Was there a player you followed?  Did you follow American baseball very much growing up? 
 
MIGUEL CABRERA:  (Through translation) I always admired Davey Concepcion and then Ozzie Guillen.  As I got older, Alex Rodriguez.   I followed, I was watching Ozzie Guillen and then I watched to see Alex Rodriguez.  
 
Q.  Your family influence, age, little league experience, can you talk about that? 
 
MIGUEL CABRERA:  (Through translation) I started playing when I was three years old with my family, and then with friends and neighbors all the way up.  There were other relatives who helped me out when I was real young.  
 
Q.  What is the most fun part of being in the Major Leagues for you? 
 
MIGUEL CABRERA:  Winning (laughter).  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT