NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 1997
Mika Noronen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Yeah, a little bit because usually European goalies wouldn't get first round pick.  I am very happy for this.

I was meeting with them and they said something, but they promised nothing.

I try to play stand up and stand right ahead of the puck and try to read game and my -- when I play stick, it is pretty good, but it is good to be better maybe that -- well, I think so.

I know Hasek and I don't know much about Buffalo Sabres.  But, I have seen few games and I think it is very good team.  Few Sabres games I have seen, but not much.  In Finland they only show about once a week, you know, NHL Weekly, this is best part of week.  There is not much game in NHL on TV.

(Who has he met with with the Sabres organization) I don't know names. 

Q.  Anybody talk to you prior to the draft that they would be interested?

MIKA NORONEN:  Yeah, I talk to all those scouts and I meet their team.  I think there is general manager and scouts, I speak with them for a while and they didn't promise anything.  But, they said that they like me, like that.  I think that one to three, I hope, so, and now game I get first round pick.  I am very happy.

Q.  You didn't play with the World Junior Championships. How come?

MIKA NORONEN:  Yes, I play.  Two games.  But, there was the other goalie was 95th draft, 93 picks (inaudible) and so I don't play so much.  Only two games.  I don't know.  But I hope that only two or three years or one year.  You never know.

Q.  Looking forward to going to training camp and meeting the players?

MIKA NORONEN:  Yes, I haven't met Patrick before, but I like to meet him.  He play his own style.  I try to look at all goalies and look what they have good and try to learn that way.  But I don't have some special person.  I try to watch all goalies.  I just hope that some team pick me up.  I don't have a special team.  I am happy because Sabres choose me.  It surprised me.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT