OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE PRO-AM
April 17, 2010
Mike Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVE SENKO: Mike, thanks for joining us. You followed up your 66 from yesterday with a 3-under 68 today, and stand at 8-under, right now one back from Bernhard. But maybe just a quick synopsis of your round.   
 MIKE REID: Well, again, a tale of two nines today. If you look at the nines that I had, a 37 and a 31, if you had seen me play the opening nine, I started off No. 10, and basically the type of shots I was hitting and the birdie putts I had, compare that to the other nine that I had, you would have easily thought that I had the 31 on the opening nine and the 37 on the other nine. But it was such an interesting day, because I bogeyed the 10th hole, my first hole, and then from 11 through 15, I had putts 12 feet or less, just excellent chances.   
 3-putted the 12th from over the green for a par. Gosh, you know, then I bogeyed 16, but then I hit a good shot into 17 and then started knocking putts in from every corner of the green for a while sinking long putts. Everyone was kidding me about, "Now you've found your distance." You know, it was a resourceful round and just an interesting round, other than the fact that I had a lot of opportunities on in the first nine that I didn't capitalize on and to all of the world it looked like I would be happy with two putts on several on the second nine and they dropped in.   
 68 is a good score, though. I think we had the better end of the pairing today because the wind wasn't blowing and the greens were a little more receptive for us than I think they were for the fellas yesterday afternoon. I think the fellas finishing up now got a break on the weather conditions.   
 DAVE SENKO: Just take us through your birdies, bogeys, No. 10.  
 MIKE REID: I hit a drive in the left rough and a 9-iron left of the green, pitched it to 15 feet and missed that.   
 Then pars through 16. I hit it in the fairway bunker and came out short and hit a wedge about 15 feet there and almost made it. But I had some good chances, like I say, between 11 and 15. Every one of those were pretty good approach shots that -- two of the putts were right in the hole short, and then a couple others ran over the edge.   
 Let's see, 17, I hit a hybrid club from 200 yards to about ten feet. I made that.   
 Rounding the turn, parred No. 1 and 2. Another par, a good chance, but I missed it, and then 3, I hit an 8-iron probably 40 feet and made that one for birdie.   
 4 was playing into the wind. It was a pretty good hole. I hit a drive and a hybrid just off the edge of the green on the right and again from 40 feet, made it.   
 6, fairway, 2-putt, or 5, rather.   
 6, I hit a 9-iron which wasn't enough club, but left me I would say 35 feet there and that one went in.   
 7, I hit a good drive and a 5-wood on the front part of the green and got it going in two putts from probably 50 feet. And that was no small feat, and hit the fairway.  
 8 was a 7-iron, 2-putt par.   
 9, I missed the fairway on the right and got it up on the edge of the green and 2-putt for par.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about what kind of day it's shaping up to be tomorrow with everybody bunched right there? It seems like it's going to be a sprint?  
 MIKE REID: That's the way it normally is on this tour. You have to play aggressively and play well, and I think that will be the case tomorrow, particularly if we get the rain they are forecasting and the greens bit a little bit softer.   
 I think that's the way you have to think on this Champions Tour to win, I think is I think the nature of 54-hole tournaments doesn't give fellas a chance to separate themselves much. I'm happy to be in the mix tomorrow, and look forward to whatever the day will bring.   
  
  Q. What adjustments to you make to the inclement weather there to be tomorrow, the possibility of rain, compared to a better day like today as far as that goes, what adjustments to you make on your game?   
 MIKE REID: Well, if there's enough rain, it might give you the luxury of taking the yardage a little more all the way to the pin rather than having to calculate the bounce and roll, which is what I've had to do for the last couple of days.   
 And I think the other thing, you've got to discipline yourself, too, that the ball is just not going to go as far. When you've got 80 degrees and good conditions, the ball can really go. But I think you just have gear yourself to the fact that you are not going to hit it as far, but it might stop quicker.   
  
  Q. The way that you've started each of your rounds here this week, do you try to sneak in a hole at Provo before coming here?  
 MIKE REID: I think maybe a feature they ought to add out here is just give us a mulligan.   
  
  Q. How big of a factor is the overall confidence of you or anybody with this bunch going into tomorrow, just how you're feeling about yourself and your game and the mentality you take into Sunday?  
 MIKE REID: You know what, I think at least for the most part of the day tomorrow, I think just my game is to set up chances, to set up opportunities, and I really have to pay strict attention to what I'm doing with my swing, especially my tempo.   
 That's a challenge for me. I think if I can just keep my mind in the present tense and not -- you just can't worry about what the other fellas are going to do or try to figure out those kind of scenarios. I've just got to pay attention to what -- just making good swings and creating chances to make birdies, and then as I said before, I think you've got to play aggressively. That's what I've noticed out here. The two tournaments I've won out here have been four-round tournaments on major courses, which are typically a little bit harder. I'd like to win a track race, which is, you know, what most of our tournaments are.   
 But this is a little bit tougher course, so there's a lot to be said for patience here. Tomorrow, with so many guys right up there around the lead, somebody is going to bust out and shoot some good golf. You would like to hope that it's going to be you, but you've got to create chances. That's my game. Hit the fairways, hit the greens, maybe some of the putts will go in.   
  
  Q. Playing in one of the final groups tomorrow, is that what keeps you out here is getting yourself in contention?   
 MIKE REID: It really is. It's a lot of fun. I think the fellowship is great, and to be among friends that we have known and competed, there's a lot of history with a lot of us, a lot of great friendships, and that's a big attraction.   
 But I think, you know, to be able to have a chance to win on Sunday is what you work hard for and practice and it's an honor to have that opportunity tomorrow.   
 DAVE SENKO: Thank you, Mike.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT