SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2006
Mike Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKE REID:  I felt like I played better than that, but I think that's what the wind does to you.  It is what it is.
Q.  Well, 75 was probably like only 1 over par today.
MIKE REID:  Yeah.
Q.  Or maybe it's even, I don't know.
MIKE REID:  Yeah.  It's Oklahoma and you're going to get days like this and it might well be like this tomorrow.

So we'll see.
Q.  How many different club difference was there out there on some of those holes today with the wind?
MIKE REID:  Oh, I think at times at least for me it was an at least a two and sometimes a three club wind.  But if all you had to deal with was into it and down, it would be a different matter.  But the crosswinds were what got so confusing.  You could toss up grass and get three different angles.  So then it's not what you hit, so much as when you hit it.

And that brings in the element of intuition.  And I think that, frankly, if you love a challenge, and that's what it was today, it was a challenge, the challenge was being able to kind of approach each shot, to have a shot in mind and yet still be a little intuitive enough to say, you know, it might be a little bit off of it or it might be a little bit lower or you might want to drive this one a little bit or you might want to go ahead and let the wind have this one a little.  So all day it was    and when I was in that mode and being challenged and enjoying, saying, what kind of fun can I have with this shot, that's when I hit better shots.

But when I was going, oh, my gosh, it could go here, it could go there, you know, when you start looking at it that way, it's never, it never produces a very good result.
Q.  What's that Pete Dye wanted.  He wanted you to go, look at all the trouble I put out for you fellows.  The wind is tough, because it will blow 10 miles an hour for 10 seconds, so instead of 20, it's 30 or 35.
MIKE REID:  Well, and it seemed to be more exposed on the front than most of the holes on the back.  So it's    you're always aware of what it's doing or what you think it's doing.  And the biggest challenge is to try to keep it simple and play golf and realize that, there's the ball, there's the hole, get it up there someplace and try to scratch it in.  And maybe with a good shot you'll have a birdie chance.  But I didn't have too many chances today.
Q.  Just let your raw power or your raw swing over power the golf course?
MIKE REID:  Man handle it.
Q.  Yeah, man handle it, like you normally do?
MIKE REID:  Yeah.
Q.  Next time you come back here they will have to Reid proof this place.
MIKE REID:  That's right.  Put that tee on top of the club house on No. 1.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT