LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 6, 2016
Carlos Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Western Kentucky - 52, Louisiana Tech - 55
Q. Carlos, what was it like, that first half, specifically, you're back out on the field and putting on quite a show, getting these long bombs from Ryan.  How rewarding is that?
CARLOS HENDERSON: I've got to commend my offensive line and the quarterback.  I've got to commend the offensive line for giving the line enough time to throw me the ball and commend Ryan for finding me to get it down deep.  I mean, I play how Coach tell me to, play technique.  I commend my offensive line and my quarterback.  They had me in the first half.
Q. The first half, touchdown reception, seemed like you pretty wide open.  What kind of coverage did you see and what was going through your mind?
CARLOS HENDERSON: It was place bell (ph).  Coach called my number -- inaudible -- you got to make a play, and so I just saw the ball in the air and caught it and made a play for my team.  That's the move, making a play for the team.  Did it for the team.
Q. How excited were you to be back on the field?
CARLOS HENDERSON: It feels great.  It feels great.  It feels great.  I've missed it.  I've missed it.  I love this team, I love this game.  It felt wonderful, great, to be back on the field with my team and to get the W like we did tonight, it's a great feeling.  No feeling like it.
Q. Your first game back --
CARLOS HENDERSON: Yes, I feel good, but like I said, I commend my offensive line and my quarterback for finding me and getting me the ball.
Q. Like we were talking with Ryan, to get a win over this team where it seems like kind of a rivalry slowly building and them coming in, depending conference champions, 13-game conference win streak, for you to handle your business and get past this tough opponent, how important is this for setting yourselves up well for the rest of the season?
CARLOS HENDERSON: This was very important.  Them having -- Western Kentucky has a very great football team, and them having a 13-game win streak and for us to break that, that's big time.  I commend my defense and my offensive teammates for making the stops and making the plays we need to make when they are supposed to be made.
I couldn't ask for -- got some great teammates in there and they did their job.  When their number was called, they made the play and they played well, real well.
Q. What did you see in the end zone -- in the ground and also the air?
CARLOS HENDERSON: Jarred Craft is a good player.  You never know when Jarred Craft is going to break a line (ph) -- he bounces off tackles good, he do what Coach tell him to do.
I think Jarred Craft is a great player and we need him and we're going to continue to need him throughout the season and throughout the conference.   It's great to have him.  He's a good player to have.
Q. Everything you've done on offense, getting all the points and yards, still having to be on the sideline last few minutes and expecting your defense to come up with a stop and they do, on that first play, what was that moment of excitement like?
CARLOS HENDERSON: It was very exciting.  It was breathtaking.  Like Ryan said, we have faith in our defense and they made a play when they need to make a play.  They came up big, and that was a big-time play in a big-time situation.  I couldn't commend them enough for doing what they did.  Fundamentally sound, coached, making a tackle and getting a fumble.  That was great.  That was an awesome feeling.  That was an awesome feeling.
Q. Is that a budding rivalry --
CARLOS HENDERSON: Yes, going into every game, we know we've got to score a lot of points.  We've got to score.  It's our job to score.  That's what we do as an offense.  So yes, I think we came into the game knowing we had to score a lot of points.
Q. Did you necessarily think it had to be 55?
CARLOS HENDERSON: No, no, I'm not going to lie, no, no.  But I'm glad we did score 55, but I'm glad.  I appreciate we did.
Q. Surrendering the big one, what do you think contributed -- when they were able to get back in the game?
CARLOS HENDERSON: That's a bad taste in our mouth, when we come from Middle Tennessee losing a game like that. So I guess we kind of had (inaudible). The defense stepped up and made a big play when they needed to make it and that was good.  That was good.  That was good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT