NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS vs CELTICS
May 20, 2018
Marcus Smart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  After watching film, what's the game plan heading into Game 4?  
MARCUS SMART: We've got to stay consistent with our coverages and our game plan.  You know, we had a game plan, we didn't execute it, and they did a good job exploiting us on that end.   
 Q.  How confident are you you're going to bounce back, and what's the key?  
MARCUS SMART: We're tremendously confident.  And the key for us is we watched the film, we've seen what we did wrong.  We've seen the things that worked, and we've just got to take more time to focus on those things that worked and keep doing that more than we did.   
 Q.  A lot of young guys obviously could learn from a night like last night where it was so loud you couldn't communicate and things like that.  How much do you take that, and how much do you think of it as mental, too, and what you guys need to do to come out and establish yourselves?  
MARCUS SMART: It's huge, it's playoff basketball, and we're on the road.  It's going to be loud.  But that can't be an excuse for us.  The young guys know that.  It's alright, it's one game.  The one thing about this sport, you get a chance to go out there and do it again, so it's a blessing to have that opportunity.   
 Q.  You guys actually had a great road record in the regular season.  How much different is it in the Playoffs?  
MARCUS SMART: Everything is amped up.  You know, everybody's intensity is amped up.  Everybody's game and play is amped up.  You know, you've just got to come ready.  Every game, every possession is crucial.   
 Q.  Jaylen [Brown] was saying he couldn't wait to play and get right back out there?  
MARCUS SMART: Yeah, we're all anxious to play.  We're ready to get back out there.  That left a bad taste in our mouths, so we want a chance to redeem ourselves.   
 Q.  How is your mom doing, and how much is that motivating you?  
MARCUS SMART: She's doing well.  Everything is up to par, the treatments are working, and it's a big motivation for me.  It gives me hope.  It allows me to keep fighting and gives me the strength to keep going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT