NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Marcus Smart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When you talk about clicking, one of the things most of us noticed is you guys have kind of ratcheted it up since you returned.  Talk about that and your role as a defender for this team.
MARCUS SMART: I'm just going to go out there.  I'm one of those guys that, when you come off the bench, you get a little spark to keep it going.  So my teammates will feed off of it.
Q. For a guy who is really feisty, how does that blend with an event like this, where it's a little bit more free flowing and guys get lay-ups?  Not really that kind of Marcus Smart kind of game.
MARCUS SMART: It's going to be hard, but I definitely know when to turn it on and off with the defense, especially if we're going to go hard, especially in an event like this.  It's more for show and fun.  You don't want anybody to get hurt.  You just want to kind of want to be able to finish off the second half of the season.
Q. A scout told me about you while you were going through the draft process, that you always find a way to affect the game, whether it's with your play or with your energy.  Where does that come from?  Is that your mindset?  Is that the way you approach things, even if you're not playing all that well?
MARCUS SMART: Yeah, that's exactly how I've approached things.  That's my mindset.  That was instilled to me early.  I'm the youngest of four boys, so being the youngest of four boys in one household, you have to fend for yourself.  You kind of build up a reputation and an attitude about yourself.  A type of swagger where you have to be aggressive.  You can't take nothing from nobody.  You've got to be that strong-minded type of player.
Q. Seems there is a real chemistry growing with this group.  Does that come from Brad Stevens?  Is it the guys just really enjoy each other as well as a combination of that?
MARCUS SMART: A little bit of a combination.  Brad is a wonderful coach.  He puts us every night in situations to win the game.  You know, when you have a team who wants to play the game of basketball and actually care more about winning themselves there are some good things coming out of there.
Q. A lot of times young guys who are drafted as high as you were, you're kind of coming off the bench now and some guys can get frustrated with that.  You're kind of growing into that role.  Do you feel that way?
MARCUS SMART: Definitely.  I understand that I do a lot of things on the court that are going to keep me on the court.  So regardless, if I'm a starter or coming off the bench, I know I'm going to play and have a chance to affect the game.
Q. What's your favorite thing about this weekend so far?  Is there anything you're looking forward to outside of maybe the game itself?
MARCUS SMART: Getting to go home and see my mom.  I'm not staying the whole weekend.  I leave tomorrow evening, so I'm getting to back to some warm weather.  It's too cold out here for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT