AUSTIN REGIONAL NCAA WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
December 14, 2019
Dani Busboom Kelly
Tori Dilfer
Aiko Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Minnesota 3   
Louisville 0   
HEAD COACH DANI BUSBOOM KELLY: Hats off to Minnesota. They obviously played really well tonight. When you are taking over a match from the service line, it's going to be hard for anybody to beat you. They served so tough, and we just could not get in a rhythm and play our game.   
We are proud of what we did this year and especially in this regional. It's exciting to see what the future will hold for Louisville volleyball.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on the match tonight?  
AIKO JONES: We came out trusting our scout and knowing that it was going to be hard. It wasn't going to be easy. They sort of really brought the fight to us, and we tried to fight back as hard as we could. Just didn't go our way. But we had fun. We played hard I think. We played together. What we have done this season is bigger than what we did not accomplish tonight and I think that's what we take away today.   
TORI DILFER: Yeah, I totally agree. Obviously it isn't fun to go out like that, but like I just said what we accomplished this year is set a new standard for Louisville volleyball. We're really proud of that. But you know, we said in the locker room, we wanted to end our season on a win -- we're not that team this year. It's fuelled us with fire.   
I'm super proud of what happened this year. But I think we all really want more. We want to be back in this position and bring it more next year.   
 Q.  You mentioned the serve. Can you talk specifically about the problems the serving were causing?  
HEAD COACH DANI BUSBOOM KELLY: We got aced nine times, and that's clearly a lot for a three-game match. Their serves were dropping out and we just couldn't get under them. Even when we were passing okay, you know, it's just really hard as a setter to get in a rhythm. The hitters don't really know where the ball is going to go. It starts with the serve and pass game, and you know, volleyball, you win by serving and passing, and they definitely beat us in those categories tonight.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT