VIZIO FIESTA BOWL: BOISE STATE v ARIZONA
December 27, 2014
Jourdon Grandon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JOURDON GRANDON:   With all the emotions, your eyes can get caught.   You have to make sure your eyes are locked in.   Our coach likes to see, Burn your eyes on your key. 

Q.   Does Boise State not remind you of a team you played before?
JOURDON GRANDON:   They might remind me a little bit of UTSA, the motioning, all the shifts, try to get you messed up.   That's what they remind me of the most. 

Q.   (Question about their runningback.) 
JOURDON GRANDON:   He's a big, strong kid, just like Ka'Deem.   They have similar traits.   Built well, good feet in the hole.   It will be great to see what we can do against them. 

Q.   What has it been like for the seniors?   Three bowl games in the last three years, this one the most prestigious.   Have you had a chance to sit back and think about the last three years?
JOURDON GRANDON:   It's been a rollercoaster ride.   Even going further back than the past three years, as seniors, we've all been through different coaches, two different head coaches. 
As far as DBs go, we've been through five different position coaches.   To see where we came from, to continuously get better, it's been a blessing. 
The 19 seniors, to see how far we've came, we feel blessed to be part of this. 

Q.   You go back before the last three years, was there any doubt in your mind, any fear about the future when all the change took place? 
JOURDON GRANDON:   That's not something you worry about.   You just have to take it as it comes.   You have to accept the new coaching staff and buy into it. 
As far as like when we got the new coaching staff, we knew they had been to BCS bowls, had BCS bowls under their belt.   They knew how to win, how to get here.   We felt good about knowing we had coaches coming in that knew how to get here. 

Q.   The last three years, how do you credit the improvement in the defense?   Can you specifically say, This is why we're better?
JOURDON GRANDON:   I think it just has to do with maturity mainly.   When they first got here, we were all really young, it was a new scheme.   It was a lot to take in.   As a young guy, you've played for a year, year and a half. 
To have a new scheme that's so complicated, complex, 3‑2‑5 is pretty complex, to have to be able to learn that, be able to mature in the system, is the biggest tribute to how well we've done.

Q.   What do you do in the days leading up to the bowl game?   Practice is important.   Does practice take any different tone than it does during the regular season?
JOURDON GRANDON:   It's a little bit different.   It's a bigger game.   Everybody is on more of an edge.   Everything has to be more crisp, tight.   When it's time to come to practice and work, that's when you have to get your work in and get what you need to get done. 

Q.   Some people will say, It's a bowl game, fun, et cetera.   Is there that desire to win the game?   Is that something that every player looks at other than having a good time?
JOURDON GRANDON:   Of course.   If you love football, you love winning.   If you're out here to have a good time, go sight‑seeing, this probably isn't where you should be. 
Coach harps on it all the time.   As the 19 seniors, that's our job, to keep everybody's eyes on the ultimate goal. 

Q.   Do you ever think about writing a book on coach's sayings?
JOURDON GRANDON:   It's funny.   I wonder how coaches have their punchlines, what they're saying.   You're out there sometimes, Wow, he came up with that? 
You could write a book about some of the things you hear, but it would have to be an explicit book. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT