U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2011
Damon Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Even par today. Can you give me overall thoughts on your play today?  
 DAMON GREEN: Sloppy, very sloppy. I think I got a little tired today. My legs gave out on me. I was hitting every shot left, left and left, and I just fought to shoot even par. It was a battle.  
  
  Q. Do you think some of the fatigue is because of your busy schedule? I know you've been -- this is the first time in the United States in a few weeks.   
 DAMON GREEN: Could be. This is the first time -- I haven't been home since May hardly. It's been go, go, go, go, go. I don't think that was it. I think it was just waiting around all day, and I think that's probably it.  
  
  Q. You said it was sloppy but you still shot even par, which is a solid round. How did you keep from going off the rails?  
 DAMON GREEN: Every time I hit it in the rough I had decent lies. I still hit a lot of greens, I think. So you know, I think just getting lucky in the rough basically. I hit it so far off line, I was where people walk.   
  
  Q. Have you heard from Zach this week?  
 DAMON GREEN: Yeah, he texted me last night, gave me a little speech where he said, just remember tomorrow is Friday and play like it's Friday. Don't worry about where you're at in the tournament, just tomorrow is Friday and go play golf.  
  
  Q. Is that a similar speech that you give him when you're on his bag?  
 DAMON GREEN: I do that, but it sounds like Dr. Mo Pickens. I'm sure he's heard it so many times from Dr. Mo that it's stuck in his head.  
  
  Q. So you're 4-under, five back right now. What's your game plan heading into the weekend?  
 DAMON GREEN: I'm going to go try to straighten out my golf swing somehow. Maybe I can watch it on the tube tonight and see if there's something I see. I'm just going to keep playing golf. I'm here to compete and play golf. That's all I'm going to do.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT