NBA ALL-STAR 2018
February 17, 2018
Jimmy Butler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If they made a movie about you, what would it be called?  
JIMMY BUTLER: If we were in Hollywood?  I know we are, but I don't know.  You just put me on the spot a little bit.  I don't know.  That's a good question.  What would -- something about being weird, though.  Maybe weird life of myself.  Because I'm weird.  I'm a strange individual.  I don't know.  It will be a sight to see, I'll tell you that.   
 Q.  If had you to give any Winter Olympic sport a try, what would it be?  
JIMMY BUTLER: Bobsledding.   
 Q.  Bobsledding.  Being more of a runner or driver on the bobsled?  
JIMMY BUTLER: Runner.  Because if I've got to drive, we ain't going to make it to the finish line.   
 Q.  No rearview mirrors?  
JIMMY BUTLER: You know it.  You know how it goes.  You know the motto around here.   
 Q.  Commissioner Silver had a lot of comments about you and your childhood, just being so impressed with your resilience and everything you've overcome.  
JIMMY BUTLER: A lot, but that's not the reason I'm at where I'm at today.  I think I work hard.  I don't like taking no as an answer to almost anything.  I continue to work the way I've worked every single day, so nobody can tell me what I can and can't do.  As long as I focus in on that, I think I'll keep going in the right direction.   
 Q.  How did that happen?  Did you develop it?  
JIMMY BUTLER: When you don't have too much growing up, you kind of just figure a way to go and get everything that you ever wanted.  So I think that's where it starts.  Then I had some great people like Buzz Williams that showed me what hard work can get you.   
So with all of that, you add all of that up and you get the guy that's in front of you today.   
 Q.  Since it's Black History Month, how do you think that black history has affected you or any contribution from anybody that you can mention?  
JIMMY BUTLER: The strong black presence that I've always had in my life was so big because everybody pointed to somebody, MLK or Malcolm X, to model the way I do things after them.  Maybe it's on the basketball floor.  Maybe it's in the classroom, whatever.  Excel for excellence and try to be remembered for what you bring to the table each and every day.  That's what it's all about on my side of the table.   
 Q.  Do you have a favorite emoji?  
JIMMY BUTLER: Not really.  I don't use emojis.   
 Q.  Hashtags?  
JIMMY BUTLER: I got a BlackBerry.  I don't even know if we've got that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT