NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Jimmy Butler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What kind of rehab are you doing?
JIMMY BUTLER: Just a lot of icing and contrast, hot and cold, massage, just making sure that my knee can move.  I don't want to be stiff.
Q. When you say be back, how long do you think you'll be out?
JIMMY BUTLER: I don't know.  I have to listen to my body and be smart about it.  Of course, I want to be out there on the floor.  I want to be out there so I can help.
Q. What is the biggest challenge you're facing now that physically you're injured, but mentally, how do you keep yourself into the game?
JIMMY BUTLER: I've always got my brothers and my trainers around me, so they keep me humble and remind me I'm not just a basketball player.  So I think that's how I stay mentally strong, having my people around me telling me I'll be fine.
Q. A lot of video games?
JIMMY BUTLER: I don't play video games.  I play dominos.
Q. What was your first thought when it happened and they brought the wheelchair out there?  Was the concern of something super serious?
JIMMY BUTLER: Yeah, most definitely.  I was scared.  That's all I was asking, do I have to have surgery?  How long do I have to be out?  Can I play in the All-Star Game?  And things like that.  Because I didn't want it to be over with.  I was scared.  Obviously knowing the history of the knee.
Q. Your role has changed over the last few years.  Now you're the focal point of the offense, also being one of the best defensive players.
JIMMY BUTLER: I'm not going to say I'm the focal point of the offense.  I think I can put the ball in the basket a little bit as well as others.  I don't think that's the focal point.  But I'm the role player that I am, playing the role I have to this team.  Defense, we need to figure that out as a team anyways.
Q. Is it the role that you wanted?  Did you say give it to me, or was it something that the coaches said now you need to take more on the offensive end?
JIMMY BUTLER: I think it speaks for itself.  I just signed a contract, and that's what you're supposed to do.  They don't give anybody a max deal just for anything.  I have to be better.  I have to help this team win more games.  I think I'm doing that by being out on the floor.
Q. Going forward, what do you need as a team to get over that hump to win that championship?
JIMMY BUTLER: Start playing some defense.  I think that's where we're lacking.  I think when people go up against us, (indiscernible) right now the way that we're playing as a team, I think we're excited.
Q. How much is it bothering you the way the team is going that you won't be able to come out and help?
JIMMY BUTLER: I don't like not playing.  I damn sure don't like losing.  I don't think anybody on our roster does.  But we've got great guys and we all buy into things on the defensive end.  If we do get back to guard where we're capable of, we'll be okay.
Q. Why did you decide to come to Toronto?
JIMMY BUTLER: Because I like being around these guys.  Being with my brothers, being around all of this because they worked so hard to get me here.  I think it's the right thing to do.  Plus just like being around these vets, seeing the way they handle themselves.  Hopefully that can be me one day.
Q. Are you concerned with what you've seen from your team the last few weeks?
JIMMY BUTLER: I'm not concerned.  I know know the group of guys and their intentions.  We've just got to toughen up and be a consummate tough team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT