NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2015
Tyler Wilps
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We welcome 174‑pound finalist, Tyler Wilps of Pittsburgh.   First off, Tyler, we'll start with an opening statement discussing your match tonight. 
TYLER WILPS:   Well, I wrestled him before and I've had the same mindset through this whole tournament.   One match at a time, focus on my stuff.   You know, small, tactile things and not worry about my opponent too much. 
I had the same mindset, and I just wanted to push him the whole 7 minutes plus, and that's what I did and I was able to come out on top.

Q.   I need to take you back to the quarterfinal this afternoon.   You talked about you handled the same mindset.   You had that same mindset going against Kokesh? 
TYLER WILPS:   Absolutely.

Q.   How could you have done that for a guy who seemed to be dominant at this weight this year? 
TYLER WILPS:   I was under the impression that I could beat every guy in my weight class, and I truly believe that.   So starting from there, then I could have that mindset about same match playing every time, except a few little tweaks.   So that's my plan, and I'm just focusing on the next guy.

Q.   You said it should have been better? 
TYLER WILPS:   I said I was under the impression that I can beat everybody in the weight class.

Q.   But you were not doing that?   Was it somebody told you that and you weren't believing in yourself? 
TYLER WILPS:   No, I believed that.   I suffered some losses like most wrestlers.   There are only a few people in this tournament that are undefeated, but that didn't change the fact that I thought I could win those matches.

Q.   Tyler, could you explain your winning technique, how you got to that position and what it felt like when you finished it? 
TYLER WILPS:   Like I said, he's a tough wrestler.   He's very defensive.   I knew I was going to have to push the pace for the whole match.   So I was just pushing and pushing and pushing until I found that time that I could score, and I took advantage of it.   He got lazy on the edge.   I got on a leg and had to keep him in the finish, and I got it.

Q.   What do you know about Matt Brown and what makes him so dangerous?   Are you looking forward to having a Penn State guy in the finals? 
TYLER WILPS:   Yeah, it's going to be an awesome match.   I've wrestled Matt Brown earlier this year.   We had a good bout.   He's good.   He's a guy that wrestles the full match hard.   He's heavy on your head, and it's going to be a hard‑fought match for both guys.   I plan on coming out on top, but it's going to be fun.   I'm excited to wrestle. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT