MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Doc Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (No Microphone.)
DOC REDMAN: It was a lot of fun. It was fun playing with those guys. Not the result I wanted really, I think I threw away a good round, which is frustrating. But come out tomorrow and try and build on some good stuff and shoot a good score.

Q. What were the nerves like on the very first hole?
DOC REDMAN: Yeah, I was pretty nervous, but I was able to lock in pretty good and hit a pretty good first shot. I think that made a big difference. I was pretty comfortable after then and, yeah, so I think that the nerves weren't a factor. 

Q. How rough was it to get off to just a fantastic start on the first four, ball striking it well and really could have had just an incredible, be 2‑, 3‑under at least and I think you were 1‑under through four. 
DOC REDMAN: Yeah, I even hit a lot of good putts the first three holes and yeah, probably could have been 3‑under through three. But it was still a really good start and just kind of a few bad shots here and there throughout the rest of the nine, which really cost me, and that's what in place will do to you. 

Q. What was it like seeing Sergio going through that at 15?
DOC REDMAN: It was tough. You don't want to see anyone go through that. So like I said, it was very difficult and you wouldn't wish that on anyone. 

Q. What were the emotions like on your shot just before that where your ball actually was a little bit further right and hung up on the bank?
DOC REDMAN: Yeah, that pin was really difficult today and obviously so thankful it hung up and I was able to make par. 

Q. Are you staying in the Crow's Nest?
DOC REDMAN: No, I'm not, I'm staying at the condo I stayed at last Sunday:

Q. Were you able to concentrate during all the stuff that Sergio was going through?
DOC REDMAN: I think that you definitely got to reset after that, especially it was quite a break since we last hit a shot. It was kind of similar on 4, really, we hung out a lot on the tee on 4. So you just have to reset and kind of get back into the game. 

Q. Obviously you had no trouble handling the big stage, you have a little bit of experience at Bay Hill, but could you kind of just talk us through your emotions with these kind of crowds and at this golf course?
DOC REDMAN: Yeah, definitely pretty nervous on the first hole, but I was more excited just to get started with the tournament, especially after practicing for three or four days and kind of leading up to it. So I was excited to get out there and just play, really, that's what's fun about it is coming out here and competing and so it was a great time. 

Q. What was the pairing like for you out there? Obviously it's, everybody's out there to take care of their own business, was there a lot of give and take with you three out there or was it more everybody to themselves?
DOC REDMAN: I guess a little bit in between. Yeah, we talked occasionally walking down the fairways and they were really nice to me and very helpful in situations and so we had a great time. It was just kind of not the finish any of us wanted, which I want to say it took the air out of the balloon, which was tough.

Q. What class or classes did you specifically miss today?
DOC REDMAN: I just missed one class, Probability.

Q. What are you thinking watching what happened to Sergio on 15 as that's going on?
DOC REDMAN: Oh, man, I just wanted one of those to stay up for him, really. Even the first one, any of them, just because, like I said, you don't want that to happen to anyone, so it was very difficult to watch. And he handled it really well, I thought and especially after bouncing back with that birdie. 

Q. Did you have a goal in mind coming into today, whether it was a specific number or a specific shot you wanted to hit? Did you have any kind of a goal target you wanted to do?
DOC REDMAN: No, I just wanted to go through my routine every shot and give every shot I could the most attention and try and play it as best as I could and don't think I quite reached that goal, which is unfortunate, but hit a lot of really good shots out there and it was a lot of fun. 

Q. Takes some getting used to, just the shear amount of people and also the movement and you guys were close to the Tiger kind of circus out there. 
DOC REDMAN: Yeah, I think it is, but it's kind of a nice, usually just a nice hum to it, so you can get used to it pretty easily, I think. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT