U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2017
Doc Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome Doc Redman, a 1-up winner over Travis Smyth in the quarterfinals of the U.S. Am.  Your match seemed to be the typical of the trend of the matches we watched today.  Pretty back and forth; stressful.  Give is your quick assessment of your victory.   
DOC REDMAN: I think it was just a grind-out victory, like I am sure most of them are.  The course is playing very difficult now.  It's windy, it's firm, it's fast, so you really just got to stick to it and wait for good things to happen.  Can't force anything.   
THE MODERATOR: If someone says Doc Redman, U.S. Amateur semifinalist, how does that sound to you?   
DOC REDMAN: It sounds great.  I guess it hasn't really hit me yet.  I said that yesterday, too.   
Maybe after the fact it'll dawn upon me, but I'm just enjoying it right now.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Doc, so you were 2-down with six holes to play.  Was there anything that you said to yourself or your caddie said to you that kind of sparked you or just hit good golf shots?  
DOC REDMAN: Yeah, I think we were both just trying to reassure myself that I was playing well and that good shots were going to come.  And especially those holes coming in are really difficult.   
You know, besides 17, the wind is up, most of them are into the wind.  Pars and birdie looks are great, so I just stuck with it.   
 Q.  Who is caddying for you?  
DOC REDMAN: My buddy Dean Emerson.  He's a member of the club I caddie at.   
 Q.  What club is that?  
DOC REDMAN: Old Chatham Golf Club in Durham.   
 Q.  Would you be caddying there right now if you weren't playing in this?  
DOC REDMAN: More than likely, yes.   
 Q.  When did you start caddying there?  What was the decision behind doing it?  
DOC REDMAN: Started about three years ago.  It's nice to be out on a golf course and it's nice to make some money, so I thought those two things would go great together.   
 Q.  Did you feel like it ever affected your golf game?  
DOC REDMAN: No, no, not at all.  I think at least for me it was great to get away from the game a little as well.   
You know, I learned a lot of social skills as well, which I think was great.   
 Q.  Is it similar to the Camp Sankaty thing?  
DOC REDMAN: I don't know what that is, man, I'm sorry.   
 Q.  It's like a caddie -- you go and you live there.  
DOC REDMAN: No, no.  It's like 20 minutes from my hose so I'll just go there whenever.   
 Q.  You made it to the finals of the Western, which is arguably as much of a grind as the U.S. Amateur.  Now you've made it to the semis of the U.S. Amateur.  How did what happened with you at the Western help you get ready for where you are now?  
DOC REDMAN: It just gave me a lot of confidence that I could win, I could win every match that I was in.  So going into that playoff I knew all I needed to was get through it and I would be fine no matter what seed I was, no matter who I was playing.   
 Q.  Is this the best golf you've played?  
DOC REDMAN: This week it hasn't felt great.  Last week was really, really good.  This week I guess it's just tough because the course is really hard.   
But I'm playing really well at the same time.  Yeah, I'm sticking to my game plan, being patient, and hitting good shots.   
 Q.  Did you entertain thoughts about getting this far in the tournament coming in?  
DOC REDMAN: I mean, I knew I could do it.  I tried not to get ahead of myself and just play one round, one shot at time.   
Doesn't surprise me, I guess.   
 Q.  So like every match today, tight matches for at least a good portion of them.  Does one word come to mind to describe your feeling on this match?  
DOC REDMAN: Man, it was stressful.  It was like you said, tight.  I think it was very competitive, too.  I think we were both there obviously doing our best and playing pretty good golf.   
You know, I'm sure it was fun to watch.  It was fun to play.   
 Q.  Doc, I think you played in the 2014 U.S. Junior and made match play at Carlton Woods.  
DOC REDMAN: Yep.   
 Q.  Did you feel back then that you belonged with the top players your age?  If not, was there a turning point that you felt that you belonged?  
DOC REDMAN: I think, yeah, back then, one thing I specifically remember from that tournament is the match I lost against Andy Zhang.  He's a great player now, and back then he was amazing.  I think he was kind of an otherworldly figure in junior golf.   
I remember he had all these college coaches out there watching him, the best ones you can imagine.  I'm out there and I just committed it Clemson.  I wasn't a big name.  I went out there and hung tough with him for 18 holes, and he got me on the last one.   
Right then I knew I could be good if I stuck to it.   
 Q.  How many times have you caddied this summer?  
DOC REDMAN: I haven't caddied much this summer.  Maybe ten times.  I've I played a lot this summer.  I made it one of my goals to try and make the Walker Cup team, and so I haven't been out there much.  I try to as much as I can.   
 Q.  Have you got a chance to talk to Spider at all.  
DOC REDMAN: Briefly in the past week really just saying hi.  He's a really nice guy.  It's great to just check in with him.  He's been very encouraging, too, which is nice.   
 Q.  As you know, at the start of the summer you name probably wasn't at the top of the list.  Now with the Western runner-up, obviously being a semifinalist, you've rocked it up there.  How do you handle that in terms of not trying to put too much pressure on yourself?  That goal is almost there.  
DOC REDMAN: Right, right.  I guess it's one of the things I always think about.  It's out of my hands.  I'm just trying to play the best I can, and hopefully Spider and the committee, whoever that is, thinks I deserve it.  At the end of the day I've done the best I can.  It's out of my control now.   
 Q.  What do you like to do besides golf?  
DOC REDMAN: I just like to hang out with my friends.  Back at school my teammates are my best friends.  We go, you know, play tennis, just hang out, watch TV.  It's a great time.   
I guess when I'm home in the summer I hang out with my girlfriend a lot, too.  She's great.   
 Q.  What's your first memory in terms of U.S. Amateur that you watched maybe not on TV or you followed online?  
DOC REDMAN: Man, that is a good question.  Honestly only thing I can think about is watching I think it was the last guy who was a 60 seed.   
 Q.  Steven Fox.  
DOC REDMAN: Yeah.  I remember watching him a little bit.  Nothing really in particular of it, but, yeah, to be honest with you, I don't watch a whole lot of golf on TV so I don't have an a lot of recollection on.   
It's always a dream of mine seeing friends, just other guys from my region playing.  I guess I follow along a little.   
 Q.  Would you say that tomorrow's match has more pressure on it than maybe Sunday considering if you lose Sunday you still have a couple cool opportunities to fall back on?  
DOC REDMAN: I'm going to try not to look at it that way.  It's just another match.  Don't make it anything more than it is.  It's semifinals, which is great and there is obviously a lot riding on it like you had, but I a, just going to go try and do my best ask see what happens.   
THE MODERATOR: Very good, congratulations.  Well played.   
DOC REDMAN: Thank you, guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT