U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Jason Schultz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So you had a lead and he came back at you then you turned on the jokes again. (Laughter.)
JASON SCHULTZ: I guess that's one way to look at it. Yeah, it was ugly from the beginning. I think we were both just happy to be playing each other the way we started.
And then, you know, it's just trying to play one hole at a time. It's so cliche, but once you get up, you try to keep the pedal down. Never felt like it was over until it was over.
Q. Tell me what happened at 11. Obviously that gave you the lead for good then, the par-3.
JASON SCHULTZ: Oh, yeah, 11. Actually, so I had -- 9 and 10 were rough, but funny thing is I hit a provisional on 10 and it was kind of like a free swing. I kind of just cleaned things out, and from that point on I got a little bit more comfortable.
I hit 11. I hit probably the best swing of the day. Hit it up there two feet and made birdie.
Q. What club was that?
JASON SCHULTZ: It was 6-iron.
Then I hit great shot on the next two holes and three-putted. Like once I thought I was in control I just couldn't get comfortable on the greens; something happened.
Because the greens were so firm and fast that even when you were six feet, it wasn't like you wanted to be too aggressive.
Q. Was 13 conceded?
JASON SCHULTZ: Which hole is 13?
Q. The par-4 before the short one.
JASON SCHULTZ: Par-4.
Q. Where you're going up and there is trees on the left.
JASON SCHULTZ: Yes. I was in there about five feet and he hit it right. Yeah, it was conceded, but I was in a good position there to make birdie.
Then 14, 15, 16, I hit two -- probably the best two shots I hit all week and got up and down.
Q. Got up and down on which hole?
JASON SCHULTZ: 16, last hole. Pin high right almost, which anywhere near that green it's a crapshoot, to be honest with you.
Luckily the ball stayed up and I was able to chip it close.
Q. How close was it?
JASON SCHULTZ: Probably about four feet.
Q. What club did you use to chip with?
JASON SCHULTZ: Chip with?
Q. Or did you putt it?
JASON SCHULTZ: No. I chipped with a gap wedge. So it was kind of like on one these (indiscernible), so just of the edge. Kind of flopped it up there about four feet and made it.
Q. How are you feeling now that you maybe got over the rough part this morning?
JASON SCHULTZ: This is more golf than I've played in nine years, to be brutally -- don't spread that yet. But this is more golf than I've played since I stopped playing, and it all happened in one week. I play like every six weeks.
So the thing is, like I feel like I get better the more I play, so feeling good. Ready to go. See what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT