U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2019
Jason Schultz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Let's start with the first match. That one went down to the wire. How do you think that went, and how did you pull it out?  
JASON SCHULTZ: First match, it was more like I was hanging on. He played great. He played great all the way around. I just kind of hung around and had a couple opportunities there, and we kind of gave it back and forth at the end, and then looked like I was able to make a putt on 18 to finally get up. I don't think I was ever up in the match.   
 Q.  How long was that putt on 18?  
JASON SCHULTZ: Probably about 10 feet. But it broke about a cup, so it wasn't like it was an uphill putt. But it was good. I was very fortunate?   
 Q.  And then in the second match, you got up on him on the front.  
JASON SCHULTZ: Yeah, he struggled. I just tried to -- as the day went on, I knew that honestly it was center of the green and try to make pars because the wind picked up and the greens are firm, so if you just -- it's almost like you play damage control a little bit. You don't try to do anything silly, you just try to hit it in the fairway and hit it in the middle of the greens and take your chances on the greens. Especially on these greens, if you attack some of the pins, even with wedges in your hands, it can backfire.   
 Q.  I know you're busy with your business, but once you got here, what was your goal this week?  
JASON SCHULTZ: I think the goal is what everybody's goal is, to win the tournament. I wouldn't be here if I didn't have that as a goal. It's just fun to compete, so I kind of have a different approach. I'm not really taking it -- I'm not losing sleep over this. It's just fun to kind of play good golf courses that are set up in good conditions and just compete and see how we do, so that's kind of how I've approached it.   
 Q.  Most of your life as a pro was in stroke play. How much match play have you played before this point?  
JASON SCHULTZ: I was thinking about that, I was talking to my friend yesterday, and I said, I don't think I've played match play in 20 plus years. It's different. I mean, it took me a while yesterday to kind of acclimate myself. But it's fun. It's different. It's a different approach, but like I said, you kind of just play, pick your spots more than anything.   
 Q.  When you get to this point, do you feel the old juices coming back?  
JASON SCHULTZ: Yeah, absolutely. That's why I'm here, honestly, because you don't ever lose that competitive drive or that spirit, and it's hard to get (indiscernible) or something like that. It's just fun to play (indiscernible). Obviously the conditions are such here, and the USGA does such a good job with the preparation to make you feel like you're in a big event that it's fun. So that's kind of the approach that I've taken.   
 Q.  In this match you birdied 7 and 8, the par-5 and the short par-4 to really take a stranglehold on the lead. How did you do that?  
JASON SCHULTZ: You know what's funny is that I couldn't tell you any of the holes how I played them. I'd have to think about it. I birdied -- that's the par-5, right? It's kind of like I got up near the green and two-putted, and then I've kind of taken the approach this week like -- I don't want to say who cares, but let's just see what happens. I've played a little bit more aggressively than I've played historically let's say, but the birdie on 8 I know I drove it in the greenside bunker, and I was able to get up by the green in two and two-putt.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT