U.S. SENIOR OPEN
July 1, 2018
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Start with 18.  
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah, that was the highlight of my day, my only birdie.  It's playing really short and I noticed Paul hit it through the fairway, I don't know what he hit off the tee, but it's playing, I hit a hybrid, sand wedge.  The course played very different today.  But I hit a hybrid, sand wedge and made about a 15-footer.  But the course played so different today.  It was really firm, fairways were very fast, unfortunately I did not drive the ball very well today and I made one birdie and three bogeys, but I just never really got in any kind of rhythm at all.  I was doing a lot of driving and hacking and surviving.   
 Q.  Back nine pretty tough.  
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: It is tough.  It's very tough.  You got to get the ball in the fairway.  I didn't do a good job of that today.  So as a result I didn't have much of an opportunity to shoot something under par.  I had really only one good uphill look at a birdie and that was on 18.  I didn't do a good enough job of making sure I stayed underneath the hole.  I hit some wedge shots -- I actually did hit the fairway -- I just hit too hard and hit them above the hole and just can't be aggressive from there.  I was a little disappointed I didn't play better today and but that's the way it goes.   
 Q.  You got a Top-8 finish, looking back on it, give us some thoughts.  You got to be pleased?  
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I'm happy with how I played, the first three days I played very well.  I felt like I played a lot better when I shot 5-over than I did today.  I had a bad, I four-chipped number 4 for a triple that kind of set me back a little bit the second day.  But the second day I actually played very well to shoot 5-over, but today I just didn't have it.  Top-8 finish is good and it's encouraging and I feel like I'm playing better and but I like to think I could have shot 3-under par today and had a chance to win.   
 Q.  You played well in this championship before, what do you, is this a style of golf you like, what, why do you play so well?  
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I think mostly because I hit the ball well and it really favors that.  It really, I hit the first three days I really can't hit the ball much better than I did.  So it kind of favors -- the USGA wants to reward good ball striking and I think that's why I've had a good run here the last four or five years in this tournament and I think it's just because of that.  I wish we played more tournaments like this, but it's impossible to set a course up like this every week.  It's a lot of fun, I like the fact that par's rewarded and that's the way it was this week, I thought they did a great job.  I really did.  I thought it was well setup and there was some really hard pins today, 5 and 8 were about as hard as you can get.  But the rest of it was pretty good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT