U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2015
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  HOLLY SONDERS: We welcome in somebody who's very accustomed to the weather here and the heat, Kevin Sutherland.  A 2 under par round of 68.  You said you live two miles away?   KEVIN SUTHERLAND: About three miles.   Q.  Is it always this hot, my friend?  KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Not always this hot.  This was exceptionally hot.  I was feeling it out there today.  About 15, I felt like my legs were starting to go, and I got a little bit of a headache.   Q.  You're the young buck.  Some of these guys out here have to be struggling.  KEVIN SUTHERLAND: It's hot.  There's no way around it.  It's just hot.  Hopefully, Saturday is supposed to be a lot nicer, and Sunday I hope it's better too.   Q.  More importantly, tell us about your round today.  A really nice start for you.  KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I felt I drove the ball well today for the most part.  Keeping it out of the rough, which is a nice thing.  I hit a lot of greens.  I had a lot of tap-in pars.  I left a lot of it short today.  A little bit of pressure, I think, I was putting on myself today.   Q.  Pressure?  KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah.  I think I was a little bit short on a lot of putts because I wasn't getting the stroke back.  I made a nice putt on 18 for par.  So it was a nice way to finish the day.   Q.  Little tougher playing in front of the home crowd, you think?  KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I wasn't expecting the ovation I got on the 1st hole.  That caught me completely by surprise.  Yeah, it's been fantastic.  It's been amazing.  The crowds, the way they've been rooting me on and stuff, I couldn't ask for anything more.   Q.  So obviously, you play a lot of golf around here, but I want to ask you, how different now is the setup that the U.S. Senior Open has here than when you normally play golf here at Del Paso?  KEVIN SUTHERLAND: The USGA came out about two years ago and changed the width of the fairways.  As a general rule, the membership loves it.  It's given the course a lot more definition, and it's really made the course a better golf course. The rough is not normal.  The rough around the greens is definitely not normal.  You can usually play out of it, and now you're just kind of hacking out of it.  I know the membership this spring was having a hard time getting around the course, but I know they're enjoying this week.  They're having a great time.   Q.  So as a member, one of the member benefits, getting to choose a foursome or a threesome, you get to play with your friend Paul Goydos, who you seem to play with every week out there.  KEVIN SUTHERLAND: We play every practice round together, and we spend a lot of time together.  But that was the USGA that put us together.  It was nice of them to do that.  It gave us a nice -- a comfortable pairing, I should say.   Q.  You played with him on Tuesday and Wednesday as well so you might as well play with him again on Thursday.  KEVIN SUTHERLAND: And Friday too.   Q.  How different will it be tomorrow morning?  KEVIN SUTHERLAND: It will be a lot cooler.  Our temperature fluctuates a lot here from our highs to our lows.  It could be 40 degrees cooler tomorrow morning.  It warms up really fast.   Q.  You're chasing a 65-year-old.  KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Exactly.  Tom played an unbelievable round today.   HOLLY SONDERS: Thanks for joining us.  Hopefully, you can come back tomorrow and play an equally awesome round tomorrow.   KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Thank you.  Appreciate it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT