RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2010
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. When you talk about playing in the rain and how it softens up the course, does it also make you think a little bit harder because you know you gotta --  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: You know, sometimes yes. Sometimes when it's raining, it really kind of gets you focused on what you're just doing right at the time, and I know that for me that's the way it is. You know, you don't have the time really to be thinking about anything else, trying to keep the clubs dry, trying to keep yourself dry, your glove dry; and so you're working on all that and you hit some good shots.   
 I played really well when it was raining, and like I said, except for that last tee shot on 18, I hit the ball very well.  
  
  Q. Which is the way you want to play, shot to shot?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: That's the way you want to play. It just seems easier when it's raining, but obviously you should do it when it's sunny, too, but it just seems a little easier when it's raining.  
  
  Q. Provided no one goes crazy today on the back nine, could be a whole lot of guys within three or four strokes. What do you think of that?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah. Should be an interesting day tomorrow. Everybody seems to be packed together a little bit, which is always entertaining for the gallery and the fans and the viewers on TV. So should be a lot of fun tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised with the way the course is that no one's really gone like low, low? There's been 60s, a bunch of 62s, but it's still right --   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah.  
  
  Q. It's not a crazy low score overall.  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I guess. I mean, yeah. I can just speak for myself. I mean I had a 62, 65 and 73, you know. And you know, I was happy how I backed up my 62 today, but the 73, I just wasn't driving the ball on the fairway. And got out of position.   
 It's easy to string some bogeys out here, too, as much as it is birdies. It's a matter of just getting the ball in the fairway.   
  
  Q. Thanks for your time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT