RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2010
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It took 42 years. It's been broken now twice in two days.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah. I don't know. For me it was just -- you know, it got kind of silly. The hole just got so big for me, I was just making putts from everywhere. I made a putt on the last hole that I don't even know how far it was. 70 feet, I'm guessing, 60 feet. I have no idea.  
 It was just one of those days. You know, it's a little easier out there with lift, clean and place. The greens are soft. When we played, the wind wasn't blowing. It's starting to pick up a little bit now. So we had a good part of the day to shoot a good score.  
  
  Q. Is it just about staying in the fairway here?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Seems to me if you can do that, the numbers are really, really low.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: If you drive the ball in the fairway, with the greens being soft, it's not that hard. If you get in the rough, this golf course can really beat you up.   
 And I did a pretty good job of keeping the ball in the fairway. I hit it in the rough a couple of times, and I made a bogey on 18, and I made about a 20-footer for par on 7 out of the rough.   
 So everything came out right for me today, and I got off to an unbelievable start, birdie, birdie, eagle, birdie. So I was 5-under after four holes.   
  
  Q. Usually that's going to lead to a good day. Did you have a hole-in-one last year, if I'm not mistaken on your last round?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah, had a hole-in-one on the third hole at Glen Abbey, and 62 there. So I like it up there.  
  
  Q. After shooting a couple over yesterday, did you wake up today and think 62 was in your bag?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: You know, no. I mean I'm not going to lie. No, I didn't. Honestly, I hit the ball, I didn't hit the ball that bad yesterday. I didn't putt very well, and I kind of think I let the putter affect the rest of my game a little bit. And I was starting to hit some loose shots towards the end of the day.   
 And I even talked about that after I was done with my caddie. I said, you know, I was letting my putter kind of bother me a little bit. And you know, today everything was going in, so the putter wasn't bothering me.  
  
  Q. You often see it the other way, too. Guy goes real long. Why does that happen? Hit low one day and come back 18 hours later?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: You know, I don't know. Every day seems a little different. Sometimes you got a little different feel. You know, it's hard to say.   
 Momentum is a big part of this game. You do what I did and get off to 5-under after four holes, you start to feel really good about how you're playing, and that's what happened today. I started off playing with a lot of confidence and helped getting off to that start and just kind of rolled through the rest of the day.  
  
  Q. Many guys went on record saying 8-under would maybe win this tournament.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: When I played here on Tuesday, I thought the scores were not going to be very good. And I don't know. I guess, you know, guys driving the ball in the fairway, the greens are a little bit soft and not really quick.   
 They're good speed to make putts, and I think that's what it is. Guys have been driving the ball in the fairway, and if you do that, you're going to make birdie shots, and there's going to be a few guys out there who are going to make some. And I was one of those guys today.  
  
  Q. Do you think the low expectations kind of contributed to those low scores?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Maybe, a little bit. You know, guys -- you know, sometimes you come in here and you get a feeling for the course being pretty tough, so you stay a little bit more patient. And hopefully you roll off some birdies and get a little momentum.   
 And there's a stretch out there where you can make some birdies, and that's 9, 10, 11, and 12. And I took advantage of those holes today, but those two par-5s are very reachable, and it kind of helped propel you through the rest of the day.  
  
  Q. Are guys almost backing off with the driver just to make sure they are on the fairway, just being a little more conservative?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I think yesterday, the fairways being so fast, they were. But today the course is playing longer today than it did yesterday.   
 But if you're playing well, that doesn't bother you. The greens are soft, and if you're hitting a 6-iron instead of an 8-iron, that's not that big of a deal.   
 So if you get the ball in the fairway and you got some good iron shots, you're going to get a lot of good birdie putts.  
  
  Q. You know, Paul said something about you being 10-under and (indiscernible) being in the playoff?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah. I heard something about that from somebody in the paper. I'm sorry. I don't know why he thinks I'm the one who's not going to be can't find me for a playoff. Trust me, if I'm in a playoff, I'm going to be found. So he doesn't have to worry about that.  
  
  Q. Your caddie estimated that you had putts over 200 feet.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I had a lot -- I made a ridiculous amount of putts from distance. I don't know what the number is.   
 You know, the last hole was -- I wasn't actually on the green. I was on the fringe. I made 70 feet, I'm guessing. I made a 20-footer on the hole before for birdie from off the fringe. So right there was 90 feet. It's probably easy to find another 110 somewhere.  
  
  Q. So do you feel like you played really well then?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I did. I played well. You don't make bogey, you still shoot 65 or 66 or 64, you know. To shoot 62, sometimes you gotta have some things go your way, and they did for me.  
  
  Q. Have you had a 62?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I had a 63. I shot 63 at Hamilton three or four years ago, if I remember right. And I shot that a number of times. 62 is the lowest for me.   
  
  Q. Okay. Thank you.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Thanks, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT