TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2010
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: I'd like to welcome Kevin Sutherland. Kevin got to 10-under today after the second round. Kevin, if you'd kind of go over your round today and talk a little bit about your position going into the weekend.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: You know, I played solid today, no bogeys, five birdies, pretty low-stress round.   
 I was really only out of position on one hole, on No. 7 after a bad tee shot, but ended up only having about a 2-footer for par. So the rest of the time was pretty much just tapping in for pars and making birdies, made five birdies, so it was an easy day. Those are always nice. They don't sometimes come as often as you like, but it was nice to have that day today.   
 And I'm looking forward to it. I played with Justin Rose four or five times this year, and he's an enjoyable guy to play with. And obviously he's playing terrific golf, he's been playing terrific golf all year, especially of late, so I'm actually looking forward to it.  
 MARK STEVENS: Thank you. Questions?   
  
  Q. Did you feel any pressure to keep up or catch up?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Not really. I didn't. I knew where he was at, but I knew it was going to take a lot of birdies, you know, so I was just trying to go out there and make as many birdies as I could, and I was able to make five today.   
 But that's what it's going to take this week. The course is in great shape. There hasn't been that much wind the first two days, and the greens are soft, so the scores are going to be good. So you're just going to have to make a bunch of birdies, and so when I saw Justin shot the score he did today, I wasn't that surprised, but obviously it puts a lot of pressure on everybody else.  
  
  Q. A change from last year, you started the year with a couple of half points. Why has that not continued and how much does that frustrate you to not get that done?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah. I played TOUR Championship two years ago, I think, 2008.   
 Yeah, this year hasn't gone as I would have hoped. It's been -- it's been a strange year. I don't really think I've necessarily played badly, but I haven't necessarily resulted in much in the way of results.   
 So I've had basically -- I think I've had one Top 10, and my best tournaments were the first three tournaments of the year. So I got off to a nice start, but hasn't really translated into the rest of the year.   
 So I'm hoping that this week I've played very well, and so I'm hoping this will start up maybe a good summer.  
  
  Q. Your name's been on the leaderboard here a lot of times. What is it about this course that you like?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: You know, I've always liked this course. I was just talking -- I think this is my 15th year here, and I've been here every year. This is my 15th year on TOUR, and I've been here every year.  
 I've always enjoyed coming here. I've had some success, and it's a course I've always enjoyed playing. I think it's a golf course you have to kind of get it around the golf course by putting it in the right spots.   
 And you know, there was a number of years there where this course played really hard and fast, and it played really tough. The greens were fast and firm. This course was a hard golf course, but unfortunately the last few years we haven't really had that condition because of rain or whatever it may be, so it's been a little bit on the soft side. So the scoring's been really good.   
 But it would be really nice some day to get it the way it was maybe 10 years ago, but that's for another question, I guess.  
  
  Q. What have you done since Memorial? What's your schedule been the last couple of weeks?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I've been home. I've been home the last two weeks, took a lot of time off. I took about 10 days where I didn't touch a club, and then about the last five days before I came here I practiced a little bit. And maybe the rest did me some good because I feel really good about it, and I feel refreshed and I feel good.  
  
  Q. (No microphone).   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: No. I don't feel rusty at all. I think that sometimes being a little bit mentally sharp is a little bit better than being physically rusty a little bit.   
 So I feel like I've been really patient this week, and obviously it's easy to be patient when you haven't made a bogey and you've had 10 birdies. Patience is a bit overrated. I haven't had to deal with much in the way of adversity yet. You know, I just feel good about where I'm at.  
  
  Q. Are you the kind of player that would rather not know what the leader is doing when you're in second place? You're going to be playing with the leader tomorrow and seeing his every move. Do you have any thoughts on that?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: No. I don't know. I was very much aware before I teed off that the leader -- where Justin Rose was at.   
 I always kind of scoreboard watch a little bit. I'm a golfer, but I'm also kind of a fan a little bit, too. So I kind of enjoy seeing what other guys are doing and stuff. And when I see a score like Justin Rose, I just go, yeah, that's good playing.   
 As much as I'm a golfer, I'm a fan of some of these guys out here, too, watching them play. I know they shoot good scores, and I enjoy seeing what they're doing. So yeah, I watch the scoreboard a lot. I guess to answer your question, I do.  
  
  Q. You'll have the scoreboard right there --  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I'll have it right next to me tomorrow. Even if I was in the third-to-the-last group I would be paying attention.   
  
  Q. Your last win was Match Play. You really haven't won a PGA TOUR event in stroke play. Does that bother you at all or does it matter? How much do you pay attention to that kind of thing?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I think it bothers me less now than it did maybe a few years ago. And to answer that question, I don't know why that is. It just is.   
 You know, I kind of figured that if I sit there and worry about it and stress about it, that ain't gonna help. So you go out there and just go on and play golf, and in 2008 I lost in two playoffs that year, and I was doing the same thing. I was just playing golf, and the results -- I came close, but didn't get the job done.   
 So I just kind of keep playing and not worry so much about trying to change what I've done in the past, and you know, say, oh, my gosh, I've gotta get a win to validate myself. I don't think about it that way. It's disappointing, but I don't think about it that way.   
 MARK STEVENS: Anything else? Thanks a lot, Kevin. Good luck tomorrow.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT