SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2010
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Kevin, 4-under, 68. You had it going there on the front-9. At one point, took the bogey at 9.  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah, I birdied 4 of the first 58. Kind of a fast start. Actually I 3-putted 9. I was. I played solid on the back. It was a tough day.  
  
  Q. Talk about the greens. I've been hearing 13 on the stimpmeter. How quick are these greens?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: They're quick. You got to be paying attention, especially when it gets breezy like this, you know, when you get downwind --  
  
  Q. Obviously, you're putting into the wind. It's a little bit on the slower side. You got to be paying attention to that stuff.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: The course is fabulous. Unbelievable conditions. Playing tough. The winds are whipping out there today.  
  
  Q. The winds, especially last few holes you guys played, it was really howling?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: For us, it was. At least we got 18 downwind, so I hit a pitching wedge in. That makes the hole quite a bit easier. And so we -- 17, you know, is cross. It got so bad. We probably got the good side to be on, especially 18 downwind.  
  
  Q. Well, congratulations on this round. Good luck the rest of the week.  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Thank you very much.  
  
  Q. What did you do well today?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: You know, I putted very well. I made some 20-footers for birdie, and those are also a bonus, and I hit the ball good, though. When I wasn't making a birdie, I was having a lot of easy pars, and I had my only one bogey was on No. 9. That was a 3-putt. But --  
  
  Q. How far?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I was a long ways away. Probably 60 feet. I missed about a 5-footer. I putted very well today.  
  
  Q. How much does the wind -- seems like it picked up as the day went on.  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: It's playing hard and tough. It's tough. I hope it won't be like this tomorrow. Back in the trees, it's really hard to judge. With the direction of the winds going, there's a lot of crosswinds, so cross hurting, cross helping. You're not really sure exactly what it's doing. Kind of swirls a little bit in the trees back there. You get out here on 18, it's a straight downwind. It's not so far to figure out what it's doing.  
  
  Q. You have played very well here over the last few years. Is that a positive thing when you some to a place here?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: For some reason I've always seemed to play well in Houston. I played well at The Woodlands and this golf course here. I don't know. I don't try to figure it out. I like coming here. I've been here every year and really enjoyed it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT