U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 30, 2018
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You got yourself back in this one.
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah, you know, I played really well today.  You know, I hit a lot of greens today.  And some of them weren't that close to the hole.  I made some really nice lag putts.  And, like anybody else, you're always thinking, God, I left a couple out there.  I would have taken 3-under par at the start of the day.
Q. Nobody's birdied 10.  How did you do it?
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I made about a 30-footer.  Hit it in the middle of the green.  Hit a really good drive and hit a 9-iron in there, chipped a little 9, was almost thinking of hitting a wedge.  Made a 30-footer.  I guess that's how you birdie that hole.  I don't know how many birdies there have been there but it's a hard hole.
Q. The way this course is now do you feel you're close enough to still win the championship?
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I don't know, it's going to depend on how the leaders play.  I will say this:  This course is really hard.  But if you do drive the ball in the fairway, you are going to have some shorter clubs.  And you're going to have some putts.
It's really hard to get really good looks, you know, because I had a putt today on No. 6, couldn't have been more than five feet from the hole but I'm playing a foot and a half of break.  So it's really hard to be aggressive with that.  So if you get in the right spots you can really shoot a really low score here, it's just really hard to do.  But it's capable for someone to come from out of the pack and maybe tomorrow will be the day for someone to do that.
Q. You're four back now.  So what do you think going into tomorrow?
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I just gotta shoot a really good score and make some birdies early.  And that's one thing about this course is you can get some birdies early.  2 and 3 and -- not 4, 4 is hard.  I did birdie it today, but I 4-chipped it yesterday.  I'll take a par there any day.
5 and 6, those are holes where you're going to have some wedges in your hand if you hit a good drive.  If you can get birdies early and you have nine, which is a reachable par-5.  But the back side is really hard.  Need to get birdies early.  I did that today.  I made three birdies on the front and was able to shoot even par on the back, but that's how you're going to catch up is get off to a fast start.
Q. What did you hit into 4 and how close was it?
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I hit a 9-iron.  Longer putt.  Probably 35 feet.  But I wasn't going to hit it where I hit it yesterday.  So I was very pleased.
Q. You hit a few long ones today.
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I made two long ones today.  I did.  We sit here as golfers and think about all the short ones we missed.  I 3-putted, missed about a three and a half footer on 12 but two holes before on 10 I made about a 30-footer so it has a tendency to even out in the end.
Q. Did you approach any holes differently today than the first two rounds?
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I didn't.  I'm sure some guys might try to make up ground.  But I hit a lot of drivers the first two days and where it was the right play I hit a lot of drivers today.  Some holes -- they moved the tee up on 13 the last two days, so I hit 3-wood there.  But most of the holes I'm hitting drivers, so I haven't really changed my game plan much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT