FRYS.COM OPEN
October 26, 2008
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: We'd like to thank Kevin Sutherland for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the FRYS.com Open. I know you are disappointed right now, but as the evening goes on and you think about the season, like you were talking about yesterday, you still have to be awful proud of what you have accomplished this year and walk away at some point with a smile on your face.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah, right now it's hard to see that. But yeah, I've had a great year. I played good today, I really did. I played terrific. I had a couple putts to win that -- the one in regulation, I hit it on-line, I just didn't hit it hard enough, and then I pulled the one in the playoff.   
 I think I was in a ball mark in the fairway on 17, so I didn't have a very good lie, and it just kind of squirted right on me.   
  
  Q. You've been here before this year, I guess, to some degree.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Is this the toughest way to lose them?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah, I mean, this one seems a little harder than Barclays for some reason. I had a nice lead on the back side, and it was really nothing that I did wrong. I guess the bogey on 16 hurt. But Cameron played terrific, he really did. I don't know what he shot on the back side, but it was something -- he was making a lot of birdies. So my hat's off to him. He played terrific. He did everything he had to do to win, and he played terrific today.   
 You know, when you have a three-stroke lead, usually you feel like if you just play solid golf coming in -- I did that and I still didn't win. So my hat's off to him. He played terrific.  
  
  Q. You've been pretty accurate with greens and fairways all week. On the last playoff hole, the shot into 17, what happened on that one?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Well, I got in the fairway, and my ball was in a ball mark. It was like a quarter plugged. You know, the ball really squirted right. I made pretty good contact on it, but it was right all the way. It wasn't the lie I was looking for, but that's the way it goes. That's the way it is.   
  
  Q. Heading into the playoff, were you still pretty confident about the way you were hitting the ball?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Oh, yeah. I hit three of my four shots really well. Obviously the fourth one was the killer. But the tee shots on both holes, the 7-iron I hit on 18, I can't hit it much better. I just didn't take advantage of my opportunity there on 18. You know, I'm disappointed, but I played some really good golf this whole year, so I'm looking forward to next year.  
  
  Q. You talked about how you just were coming over here for fun this week. When did it turn into some work and some pressure for you?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: You know, somewhere on the back side, I guess, is where I really started thinking, this is an opportunity. But you're right, I did come here -- I was just going to come here and have fun, and I did that for the most part.   
 I feel good about how I played. A second-place finish is nothing to sneeze at. But right now it's a little hard to see that through the disappointment a little bit. But that's the way it is. Only one person wins every week, and Cameron played terrific.   
  
  Q. Can you empathize a little bit from where he was coming from, where he was on the Money List?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I know it was a huge week for him, just an enormous week. He was playing with a lot more pressure than I was playing with this week, and so he really had a great week for him. Not only did he win, but to do what he did just in his situation was tremendous.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: Thanks, Kevin.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT