FRYS.COM OPEN
October 25, 2008
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER: Thank you, Kevin, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the FRYS.com Open. Thanks for joining us. Nice round today. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah.
 JOHN BUSH: And moved up the leaderboard nicely. Looks like you're going to be in good position going into tomorrow. I don't know if you'll end up having the lead, but we'll see what happens with these last couple groups. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah, I felt great about how I played today. I hit the ball very well, but I putted even better. I putted terrific, especially on the front side. 
 You know, you need to drive the ball in the fairway out here, obviously. The fairways are fairly generous, but you need to be in the fairway. If you do that, you're going to give yourself some opportunities to make birdies, and that's what I did today. 

 Q. I think you've got about, what, 38, 39 holes without a bogey now, something like that? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I guess so. I haven't been counting, but I know I've gone a couple days without bogeys.

 Q. And you hit 17 fairways today. Was that kind of the key, you kept everything kind of under control?
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah, if you hit it in the fairway here you're obviously going to make life a lot easier, and I did that today. With the exception of the 5th hole, where I made about a 15-footer for par, it was a par-3 and I hit a poor tee shot, I really wasn't in much jeopardy of making a bogey today. I had a lot of tap-ins, just made life easy, hit it in the fairway and knocked it on the green. If I wasn't making a birdie, I was tapping it in for par, which is always -- always makes for a low-stress day.

 Q. Having such a fantastic season, do you feel about the only thing missing may be a victory, and now you find yourself obviously in great position for that?
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I've played terrific all year. Obviously I haven't won. Yeah, it would be great to cap off -- this is my last tournament of the year so it would be great to cap it off with a win. But I'm so pleased with how I played all year, and I feel good about it.

 Q. Was one of the goals kind of to get to the Top 30 for the U.S. Open?
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah, well, I'm already in those tournaments. I was in that because I finished 11th in the FedExCup, so I'm already in the three majors, and for the PGA it's like a Money List deal, so I'm already in those. So I came here just to play and have fun and just kind of finish out the year, and I plan on doing that tomorrow. 
 I didn't really have any real goals. I wasn't saying I need to get in the Top 30 because there really wasn't much for me to do there. I just came here to have a lot of fun, and I think my play has shown that a little bit. 
 I haven't been getting too far ahead of myself. I haven't been thinking about what all this means, just been playing golf. For me to play well tomorrow, I need to do the same thing. 

 Q. How many other belly putter guys are there other than you right now playing? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: You know, I don't know. There's a few. A lot of them kind of go back and forth, but I don't know that number. You see them every once in a while. I think J.J. -- guys switch, so you lose track. One guy is using a belly one week and all of a sudden he's got a short putter the next week. I've been pretty faithful with the belly, been putting with it for about a year and a half, and don't plan on changing.

 Q. So if everybody else is switching, why are you the one guy that's not?
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I don't switch anything, really. I'm using some new -- basically just a copy of what I was using before as far as irons, but I used irons all the way up through the FedExCup that were five years old. They didn't have any grooves left, so I decided maybe it was time to switch, so I used them last week and this week were my first two weeks. 
 I don't switch much. I kind of stay with what I think is going to produce good shots, so if I feel good about the belly putter -- I don't even have a short putter with me to switch to, unless I were to cut it off (laughter).

 Q. Going into tomorrow with a lead, you want to just try to keep the same relaxed approach that you've had this week?
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah, I'm going to try to do the same thing I did the last three days, just have a good time. I just come here with such a relaxed attitude, kind of just playing, because I know that come Sunday afternoon, Sunday evening, that I'm going to be going home for almost three months. It's kind of nice to have that as your fallback, to spend some time with the family and just enjoy life a little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT