THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2008
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts on the day. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: You know, I played well all day. I played well all week, really consistent. I shot four solid rounds, and unfortunately I just didn't make the birdie on last hole here in this playoff. I hit a bad tee shot again on this hole and I hit a lot of bad tee shots again this whole week, I don't know what it is. Didn't fit my eye very well. 
 I'm happy and disappointed at the same time.

 Q. You'll take a nice big jump in the FedExCup points standings; your thoughts?
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I feel good about how I'm playing. You know, I really am happy with how I played and obviously disappointed I wasn't able to play a little bit better in the playoff. 
 But you know, I've got to forget about that and think about the other 72 holes I played this week and I was pleased with that. 

 Q. Watching the two long putts go in; surprising? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: You know, it was pretty special golf. I wish I was the one making them. (Laughing).
 Those guys are great players, and great players do those kind of things. 

 Q. Your emotions obviously have to be conflicted. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I'm obviously disappointed, but I'm also happy with how I'm playing. You know, I did all I could today before the playoff, and I shot 3-under par, which is a pretty solid round of golf today. 
 I'm disappointed with the playoff. I wish I had played the playoff a little better. I kind of put myself in that same spot again off the tee on the second shot and I was able to pull it off in regulation but wasn't able to pull it off again. Obviously I needed to hole it because of the two birdie putts that were made.

 Q. Is it tough to have to wait so long and then have to come back out? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I don't think so. I felt fine. 
 I was really -- I felt great. I thought I was in the mindset to play good golf on that last hole and I gave myself a chance at the birdie. But that tee shot for some reason, it's been a bugaboo all week and I hit poor tee shots all week and I hit a another bad one today.

 Q. What does a third place finish mean; is it something you're proud of looking back on? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: You know, I'm happy with how I played. You know, I was really happy with how I played. I was happy with how I played all week. I didn't get in my own way. I hit a lot of good shots. I'm happy with how I played. I'm not happy with how I played in the playoff, but I'm really happy with how I played all week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT