JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2008
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You had a great round today. You did move up on the leaderboard. What did you think and how was your finish here?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: You know, I played well. I hit the ball in fairway a lot. I hit the ball well. You know, like everybody, I made some, missed some. I probably made more than I missed. I had a good week. I got to 3-under par early today. I was hoping to maybe make a big round but it just didn't happen.  
  
  Q. The conditions today cooler but windier, did that play a part?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: It's got to be playing a stroke or two tougher than it has all week, I would be guessing. It definitely is playing harder. The pins are tougher. You know, if you hit good shots out here, you're still going to have some birdie chances, and that's what happened for me today.  
  
  Q. Any one part of your game stand out today?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I drove it well. I was in the fairway a lot. I would say that was what stood out the most. That's about it, I guess.  
  
  Q. Where does this take you going forward from here?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I am going forward next week, I am not playing. I have been playing well all year. I've got no complaints about how I played. I feel like this is a continuation of how I have been doing.  
  
  Q. What were the one or two problems that you had today where you might not have gotten where you hoped to?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: The hole that hurt me, I birdied 7 and 8. On No. 9, I hit two good shots right in the middle of the green, 30 feet from the hole, and I three-putted. It really took a little bit of the wind out of the sail. I got something rolling, thought maybe I could get to 16 or 17 under. I was at 13 at that point. You know, it just didn't happen.  
  
  Q. Obviously given your performance today, what can you take from this?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I hit the ball well, that is what I take from it. I made some putts, which is always nice.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised by the scores today? Nobody has jumped out or leapfrogged over anybody. I mean, everybody has been closer as today has gone on. Did you expect that?  
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND: It's playing hard. It is hard to get the ball close to the hole. The first three days it was playing easier than today. It's a gusty wind and hard to judge. It played hard today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT