NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 15, 2008
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  West Coast, good golf for you it seems like. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Yeah, I seem to like California quite a bit.  Guess that's why I live here. 

 Q.  What is it about this course that you like so much and that you play well here, specifically, at Riviera? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  You know, everybody loves this place.  I don't know anybody who doesn't.  It's a great golf course, and unfortunately they don't build them like this very often anymore.  It's just a tremendous course.  You have to hit a lot of different shots, and when the wind is blowing like it was yesterday and this morning, it just plays really hard. 

 Q.  Is the ball moving on the green at all?  I heard it's close. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I had some balls wiggling yesterday, nothing today, but yesterday when we were on the 15th green, my ball was shaking pretty good and that's a little unnerving.  You obviously don't want your ball to move.  I never saw the ball move, but they were definitely getting close. 

 Q.  Any minor adjustments that you're going to make for the weekend? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I'm hoping to drive it a little better than I did today, and for the most part yesterday.  I've been doing a lot of scrambling, so I'm going to go out and hit a few balls right now and see if I can find something with the driver and 3-wood.  I ended up hitting a lot of 3-woods because I wasn't driving the ball very well.  Hopefully I can find something. 

 Q.  How are you playing 10? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I've hit two 3-woods.  One time was just off the green.  I mean, I was on the fringe but I had to pitch it over the corner.  It was a good spot to be but it wasn't perfect and then I hit left today. 
 I think when it's playing like so downwind like it is, that wedge shot's not all that easy.  I mean, I don't always go for the green in two -- I mean, go for the green in one, but in these conditions, I will every time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT