FBR OPEN
February 2, 2008
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Overall how did your round go today?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I played a lot better than I did yesterday.  I mean, I hit the ball better.  I had a couple -- I'd like to have the shot back on No. 15 I hit in the water.  That was just a terrible swing.  But for the most part played very well and putted well.   
  
  Q.  The leaders are making birdies and making bogeys.  No one is really separating themselves.  Why do you think that, that that isn't happening, because there's birdies to be had, right?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  There's birdies out there.  I don't know.  I haven't seen them play (laughing).   
  
  Q.  Are some holes playing a lot tougher than others?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  You know, I don't know the answer to that question.  It seems like there's a lot of birdies out there to be made, but sometimes, some days, some guys, it just doesn't happen.  I have no answers for that.  It seems like a golf course right now that could be -- you know, like the pin on 17 is a tough pin.  You know, it's hard to get it -- you get up around that green and it's hard to chip it anywhere near that pin.  And the pin on 18 is a tough pin, actually.  So there are some tough pins out there.  Maybe that would explain it a little bit.   
  
  Q.  You'll be probably two, maybe three shots behind tomorrow.  Will it be another 66-type round that's going to have to be shot by you to at least be in contention?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I would say at least that, yeah.  I would think that a bare minimum to win would be at least a 66.  But you know, I don't know.  We'll go out and see what happens tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  As crazy as this week is normally, is there any heightened thing because of the Super Bowl this week?  Have you noticed more fans, louder, or is it not that much of a discernible --   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  It seems like there's more people and louder, it does to me.  It definitely seems like there's a lot of people out here and it's definitely louder.   
 I always felt like maybe they kind of fudged the numbers in the attendance.  I don't think they fudged anything on this one.  There's a ton of people out there.  This is crazy.  11 tee, 16, 17 and 18 is just nuts.   
  
  Q.  How is that tee shot on 11 when you know your back is right to the amphitheater?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  You just hit it.  You really don't ask anyone to be quiet, you just go ahead and swing.  I mean, that's the way it should be out there.   
 I've putted well every day.  Ball-striking has been a little bit erratic, but it was probably the best of the three days.  It feels like it's starting to go in the right direction.  Yesterday was a struggle.   
  
  Q.  Talk about after 15, going to 16, 17, 18.  What was it like with the noise?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  16 was crazy.  It's fun.  It's a blast, but it's absolutely crazy.  I can't even imagine how many people are on that hole.  And they're definitely having a good time.   
 I think the players are having a good time, too.  It's fun.   
  
  Q.  What about the excitement of all the people here surrounding this tournament?  Does that help you?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  It's a blast.  There's so many people here it's unbelievable.  They're going crazy and they're having a good time.  You know, there's 170,000 up there, and there's just people everywhere.  It's a lot of fun to play in front of them.   
  
  Q.  They're talking about some rain tomorrow.  Any worries about that?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I haven't seen the forecast.  I've heard there might be some rain tomorrow.  It doesn't really change a whole lot.  I guess it depends on how hard it rains.  Sometimes if it just rains a little bit, it actually makes it a little easier.  We'll see what it's like tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  You're near to being in the last group.  Is that where you want to be?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Absolutely.  That's where it's fun.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT