FBR OPEN
January 31, 2008
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH:  We've got our current co-leader Kevin Sutherland here with us after a 6-under 65.  No bogeys on the card today, great playing. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Yeah, I played very well.  I putted very well.  In the middle of the round I didn't hit -- in the middle of my round, which I teed off on the back, I really struggled hitting the ball.  But I just kept making some putts for par and then all of a sudden it clicked again and I started hitting the ball good again.  Who knows why that happens, but it just -- I putted -- one thing I did do well all day is I putted well. 
 JOHN BUSH:  Issue with one of your clubs today? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Yeah, on 13, which was my fourth hole.  There's that desert area between the two air fairways, and I hit it into the desert area, and there was a -- I don't know what kind, I don't know my cactuses, but there was some cactus.  My ball was maybe a yard short of it and to the right, and it wasn't really in my line of flight at all.  I wasn't worried about the cactus, but I had to stand right up against it. 
 So I called an official, Jon Brendle came out and I wanted to know if I could wrap a towel around my leg so when my leg was up against the cactus or when I followed through into the cactus it wouldn't stick me.  And he said that's fine.  So we got some rubber bands and we wrapped a towel around my leg and we put some rubber bands around it. 
 So I kind of leaned up against the cactus with my leg and it wasn't sticking me.  I thought, this is great, this is going to be terrific.  I swung my 9-iron and the 9-iron went into the cactus and it just broke, and I was shocked.  I was so worried about my leg, it just never occurred to me the club was going to break. 
 I didn't really hit the cactus that hard, I was so surprised.  But that stuff is so sturdy and thick that in hindsight it never really had a chance. 
 I didn't have a 9-iron, and I'm a Ping player, and as people from this area know, the Ping factory is in Phoenix, so Jon Brendle had a cell phone and we made a quick phone call to the -- going down the 13th fairway, made a phone call to the Tour rep for Ping, Matt Rollins, and said, "Hey, I need a 9-iron."  I was kind of half expecting it would be coming tomorrow, but it showed up six holes later, which was pretty amazing. 
 I broke it on 13, I actually made birdie on 13, so 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, and then 1, and Steve Zeke, who is also a Tour rep who happens to live in this area, I guess that's why he brought it because I talked to Matt Rollins, but Steve Zeke was sitting behind the green with a 9-iron and gave it to me on the next tee.  Pretty impressive for Ping to be able to get me a 9-iron in six holes. 

 Q.  That's a great story. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  It was an amazing story.  The whole towel and the fact that they got me a club in basically six holes.  And I used it on the 9th hole and made birdie. 

 Q.  Were you worried about the towel maybe causing a penalty or something? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I was concerned, and that's why I didn't do it until I talked to a rules official.  I didn't know if I could wrap a towel around my leg.  I was concerned that maybe that would be a rules violation, so that's why I called an official, and he told me that as long as it's tied to your body, you're okay.  But if I was to lay it on the ground or drape it on me or something, but as long as it was tied to my leg I was okay. 
 So we just wrapped a towel around, put a rubber band around it and it held it on there and I didn't get stuck.  I could see the stuff going into the towel but it never went into my leg.  And unfortunately the 9-iron paid a price. 

 Q.  Did you miss the 9-iron in the six holes you didn't have it? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I needed it at the very next hole, actually. 

 Q.  The cactus actually broke the 9-iron? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  The cactus broke the 9-iron. 

 Q.  It wasn't a saguaro, though? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  It's like this high in the air maybe and it has a bunch of round branches or whatever coming out of it. 

 Q.  Cholla? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  It has the needles about that long. 

 Q.  Is it one cactus? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  It's not like a round thing going up in the air.  It's kind of like a bush but it has -- 

 Q.  Branching out? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Little round branches and it has long needles on it. 

 Q.  And you broke the club -- 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  It went right there.  It didn't get past my hip, maybe not even that far. 

 Q.  Did it break the shaft? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Shaft right in the middle. 

 Q.  Did you hit a good shot? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Right down the fairway.  I made birdie on the hole. 
 JOHN BUSH:  So the moral of the story is? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Break your club in Phoenix so you get a 9-iron in six holes. 

 Q.  But you said you needed it on the next hole.  What did you do? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I kind of just bunted an 8-iron up there.  I was just short of the green but the pin was on the right front edge, so I actually putted it and I was only maybe 30 feet from the hole.  You know, I would have loved to have it there but it didn't hurt me at all, and actually I never needed it again until the very last hole and I used it and made birdie on the hole. 
 JOHN BUSH:  Kevin, thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT