JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2007
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Kevin, congratulations, 9-under par at the halfway mark of the John Deere Classic.  You have to be pleased. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Yeah, I've played well.  I've putted really well, which I think you probably need to do.  I hit some good shots at times.  But I'm happy with how I played.  I'm happy how I played in the first nine holes today.  Everything went well. 

 Q.  You opened with birdies at 10, 13, 17 and 18 and then you picked up a deuce on the hardest hole of the golf course, which is playing that way, the par 3, 3rd hole. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Yeah, I kind of let one get away on the hole before, and all of a sudden you make one on 3, and it was like, wow, I kind of made up for the one on the hole before.  That was just a blessing.  It kind of just fell in the hole.  It's a tough hole.  You know, I've hit a lot of good shots and I'm making some putts. 

 Q.  And you almost make a birdie on the other par 3 on your back nine, the 7th hole? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Yeah, I hit a good shot in there and I really hit a pretty good putt, it just didn't go in.  It broke more than I expected.  That happens. 

 Q.  You didn't make a bogey in the opening round and you did not have your first bogey in the tournament until No. 8, the 17th hole of the day for you. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Yeah, I haven't had too many par putts.  I've had a few and I've made them obviously.  That hole a hit I 3-wood off the tee and did not make a good swing, hit it out to the right and hit the trees, and the best I could do from there is hit in the greenside bunker and get up-and-down.  That happens.  You're going to make some bogeys. 

 Q.  You were a tournament winner in 2002, you picked up the Accenture World Match Play Championship title, and then you finished 2nd at the AT & T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am this year.  That has to just set up your year; you don't have to worry about playing privileges or anything, you can just go out and play golf, and it looks like that's what you're doing this week. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Yeah, I had a really good tournament out there at Pebble Beach.  Played really solid, had a couple really good rounds there at Spyglass and Poppy, and it does take a little bit of the pressure off for the rest of the year. 
 You know, I've had a fairly solid year besides that, and I've been playing this will this week. 

 Q.  You've made cuts in 13 of 17 tournaments, I believe.  Your thoughts on the weekend? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I'm looking forward to it.  I'm obviously hitting some good shots, and I feel like I'm going to make some putts, and that's all you can ask for. 

 Q.  Keep that putter hot because it looks to me like you're rolling it beautifully. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Yeah, I have hit a lot of good putts this week.  I think towards the end I wasn't as aggressive as I was in the earlier rounds, so I just need to get back to that. 

 Q.  How about that for a second round?  You're getting right into the mix as you get ready for the weekend. 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Yeah, I got off to a fast start this morning.  I birdied my 1st hole and made three more birdies on that side to shoot 4-under par.  The back side didn't play badly, I just didn't hit the ball close enough to the hole, and when I did, I just didn't convert it, and I had that one bogey on No. 8.  But I feel pretty good how I'm playing. 

 Q.  You get off to a quick start, momentum, a good thing to just roll on through the day? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  You just want to ride it as much as you can.  Some days it just goes the whole day, and other days, like what happened to me today, you just kind of stall out a little bit.  Like I said, I didn't play badly that side; shooting even par is not a crime.  But it seems like you need to make a lot of birdies out here today. 

 Q.  You haven't had many par putts to make.  How well are you striking the ball right now? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I'm hitting the ball really well.  I'm hitting a lot of greens, a good percentage of the fairways.  I really haven't had too many par putts.  Today I really didn't have any until No. 8, the one that I had about a 15-footer or whatever it was and I hit a good putt, it just didn't go in.  I've had a lot of tap-ins and it takes a little bit of the pressure off. 

 Q.  You're in contention, but this course is so attackable.  Will your mindset stay just as aggressive for the weekend? 
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Yeah, it needs to be aggressive.  In fact, if there was anything on that back side, I think I wasn't quite aggressive enough.  I didn't think I was being -- not so much from the fairway but on my putts.  My putts could have been hit a little more forcefully and aggressively, and that's something I was doing earlier in the round and yesterday.  I need to get back to doing that because you're going to have to make a lot of birdies. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT