ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 19, 2007
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Kevin, for joining us for a few minutes.  You're the first player we have had in today.  Talk a little bit about the course conditions, the weather, whether it changed at all when you were out there.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Well, no, I mean, it was perfect all day.  You know, I was first off, and we got done with very little wind, ideal conditions.  And the course is in perfect condition to shoot good scores.  I think there's going to be some good scores this afternoon.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Was there any indication that the wind was starting to blow?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  It's picked up a little bit since then.  When we teed off there was no wind, and now it's just a little bit.  It's not much.   
  
  Q.  How much difference in the course from two years ago in your eyes?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  You know, they softened some of the little nooks off the bunkers and stuff, which I think I like that better.  And obviously they made 9 and 17 more difficult with the water coming right up to the edge of the green.  There used to be a bunker on both those holes between the water and the green.  You know, besides that, it's very similar.  I haven't noticed too much in the way of differences.  Some of the greens are a little smaller, which I like.  I like the golf course.  I enjoy it.   
  
  Q.  You said there was no wind at all when you teed off this morning?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  When we teed off this morning, there was nothing.  If there was, I didn't notice it.  And now it's probably blowing five, at the most, ten miles an hour, so not much.   
  
  Q.  How important was your driving today?  I saw you hit 13 out of 14 fairways.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I drove the ball great today.  I really drove the ball well and I putted well today.  My iron play was a little hit and miss, but if you drive the ball in the fairway and you're putting well, you're most likely going to have a pretty good score at the end of the day, and that's pretty much what I did today.   
  
  Q.  2-under both nines, just kind of going along pretty well there.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  You know, I birdied three of the four par 5s and then I threw a birdie in on 13, the short par 4.  And the rest of the day, if I needed to make a save more par, it seemed like -- my last hole, 9th hole, I made about a six- or seven-footer for par.  I did that a couple times today, make some nice par putts and just kind of kept the round going.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Let's go through your round.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I teed off on 10.  On No. 11, I had like maybe 60 yards to the green and hit a lob wedge to three feet and made that.   
 Then my other birdie was on 13, hit a pitching wedge from about 120 yards roughly, I can't remember, and I made about a nine-footer probably.   
 And then on -- I birdied 2, the par 5, and I had like 85 yards I think it was, hit a lob wedge to 15 feet.   
 And then on 7, I hit it over the green in two on the par 5 and chipped it back, hit a fairly poor chip to 12 feet and made that.   
 I made a couple nice par putts on 9, and I made another one somewhere along the way.  The rest of the way it was driving it in the fairway and getting on the green pretty much.   
  
  Q.  Do you think the scores are going to continue to be low all week?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  If the weather stays like this, absolutely.  If the wind blows and it dries the course out a little bit, it will play obviously a lot more difficult.  But right now for the most part most of the greens are holding pretty well, and there's really not much wind.   
 Everybody who has played here knows the wind can blow pretty good, so we'll have to wait and see what the weather has for us.   
  
  Q.  Did you like the course two years ago?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I did.   
  
  Q.  Like you said, everybody wants to change something.   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Yeah, I think some of the changes -- the consensus of the players, we weren't really fond of all the little hooks or nooks, or whatever you want to call them, off the edges of the bunkers, on the edges of the fairway, and for the most part they softened all those.  I think that might have been the biggest complaint of all the players.   
 I kind of think that in some ways they made the course a little more difficult with what they've done on 9 and 17, and in other ways they've made it a little easier by softening the nooks.  I would say it's going to play pretty similar as far as difficult level, and I like the golf course.   
  
  Q.  Did the winds have a factor at all for you this morning?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  Not at all.  It picked up a little bit towards the end of our round, but it wasn't much.  It wasn't changing the way you were thinking about playing the hole or anything like that.   
 When we played this morning, we played easily nine or ten, 11 holes before there was even a breath of wind.   
  
  Q.  If the winds stay like this through the weekend, I'm not sure about the forecast, what do you think the winning score could be?   
 KEVIN SUTHERLAND:  I don't know, it's tough to tell this early, it really is.  I couldn't even hazard a guess.  I think this, though, the scores will be pretty good if the weather stays like this.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT