WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2002
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk about your match today. 
KEVIN SUTHERLAND:   You know, Jim didn't play well today.  He missed a lot of short putts, which is very unlike Jim to do.  And so I was fortunate from that standpoint that Jim just didn't play well today.  I was struggling on the front.  I made all pars, but I was struggling. 
Then I kind of started playing a little bit better on the back.  I didn't have a bogey today, so that's good.  I wasn't giving him any holes, and I only had an eagle and a birdie.

Q.  As far as all of the talk, there's been a lot of talk about players that have a lot of Ryder Cup experience, Presidents Cup experience, that really just seems to go out the window; it's just the better player that day wins.
KEVIN SUTHERLAND:   I really think who is playing better is going to win. 

Q.  But the talk about match-play experience, is that overrated?
KEVIN SUTHERLAND:   I think there's a little bit of experience in it.  But I still think if you just try to play golf and not try to make it more than it is, then I think the better player will probably win.

Q.  How important is conditioning; there's a possibility of playing 72 holes over the next few day, is that an important factor?
KEVIN SUTHERLAND:   I think so.  I'm going to take it easy this afternoon.  I'm not going to practice a lot or anything.  Just going to try to stay fresh for tomorrow.

Q.  When is the last time you played 36 in a day? 
KEVIN SUTHERLAND:   I guess it would have been last  -- the U.S. Open qualifying back in May. 

Q.  What are your plans as far as, quarterfinals, you have a big chunk of change coming; but what do you plan on doing on the golf course tomorrow?
KEVIN SUTHERLAND:   Same as I did today.  Just stay relaxed and just play golf and not  -- not get too involved in everything that's going on.  Just play my game and it's working well. 
Actually, I will need to play very well tomorrow to win. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT