U.S. SENIOR OPEN
August 15, 2016
Kevin Sutherland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Next up on flash, Kevin Sutherland, 3 under for today, 1 over for the Championship.   
 Q.  Much different golf course?  
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yes, it was obviously a lot more soft, obviously, a lot more gettable.  The fairways, when they get soft, they get a lot bigger, and the greens get a little easier to hit.   
I hit the ball better today than I did the first three days.  And unfortunately, I didn't putt as well as -- the first three days I putted fantastically just to kind of stay in the game a little bit.   
It's funny, I was putting for birdies instead of pars, and I was hitting the same putts, but it wasn't going in.  I hit the ball good today.   
Do you want to go through the round a little bit?   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: Yeah, that 1st hole -- hello!  I chipped in for par on the 1st hole, and so it was kind of a nice way to start the day.  Kind of was -- almost felt like a birdie.  Then I played solid golf the rest of the way.  I had some good birdie putts and didn't make any, just rolled off pars.   
Then all of a sudden, I caught a little bit of fire, birdied three in a row, and then just kind of rolled off some more pars.  Had a good chance on 15, didn't make it.  Hit it really close on 16, made birdie.  Unfortunately, I bogeyed 17.  It's a hard hole.  I tried to hit a little draw in there with a 6 iron, and I just kind of blocked it out to the right and ended up missing about a ten-footer for par.  Then solid 18, made par.   
 Q.  The course, obviously, the first couple days, you had to play a little more defensive.  You weren't throwing shots today where they're hitting and sticking.  It is more enjoyable this way or more fun, the toughness of it?  
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: I enjoyed the last three days.  It's obviously a lot easier today.  It's not as much work.  It's a little more traditional golf in the sense that you don't have to think about where the ball's going to bounce, where it's going to end up.  Where it's going to stick is where it's going to stay.   
I enjoy what we did the first three days, though.  That's when golf's a lot of fun.  You have to really kind of grind it out.  Today wasn't quite that way.   
 Q.  A few shots off the pace going into a day like today, does that make it easier for you or harder, knowing the guys at the top are probably going to play the golf course the same way?  
KEVIN SUTHERLAND: It's easier to come back when the course is playing harder.  Today, I had to shoot a really good score to get there.  I didn't have an idea what was going on.  I thought if I got to one or two, if I could birdie the last two holes, get to 2 under, I'd have a chance, but it didn't happen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT