NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 24, 2012
Ron Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   If you wouldn't mind making an opening comment about tonight's game. 
RON ADAMS:   There were a lot of dunks.   I think the guys had fun.   I hope we didn't set a Guinness Book of World Records record for dunks given, but it was a fun game, interesting game.   It's always interesting to see how different players play in these games.   Some of the guys on our team were tired, and we tried to rest them, but I thought Blake was good in the beginning of the second half, and showed what he can do.   His mastery of playing above the rim was fun to see. 

Q.   You don't sound too impressed with the defensive intensity. 
RON ADAMS:   It's not quite what I'm used to.   We knew we had to make some threes, and I thought we'd shoot the three a little bit better.   Kyrie really shot it.   He's got a great three‑point stroke.   And George has really improved in a year.   Obviously they're in our division.   But he really shoots the three well now, and he's shooting about 40 percent. 
So we were small.   We needed to make some three‑point shots, more three‑point shots.   But it's always interesting sitting there and just watching human nature and who just responds and who doesn't respond in these kind of settings. 

Q.   Norris Cole was one of the last guys to get invited to the game, but it seemed like he came out with a lot of energy, especially early.   What were your impressions of him tonight?
RON ADAMS:   I like Norris.   I really enjoyed him when we had him in for our postseason work last year.   But I think his shooting will come around.   His three‑point shot kind of comes and goes, but it's well within the range of acceptability.   I think he'll get a lot better.   But what I like about him, he's got a tremendous spirit.   That's what impressed me about him when he came in last year to work out for us.   He also has a real strong defensive component to his game.   Tonight it would have been hard to pick up that in any player in this kind of game on either side.   But he just has a nice balanced game, but I think he's got a big heart.   I think he competes hard.   I like that about him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT