AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2003
Virginia Ruano Pascual
Paola Suarez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You made an interesting comment on the court, you said that you didn't think you could win.  Do you get a feeling that you can't beat them, that they're too good? 
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  I think it's really tough to beat them, you know.  I think if I have to say all that, I think now it's gonna be...(laughing).  But, yeah, I think they have very good serve, you know.  They play good doubles.  But I think the more  -- the points more important is they serve very well.  In some games they can, if they going 15-40 down, they can go the other way with three, four very good serves.  Yeah, I don't know.  I mean, they are on the tour.  We have to play with them.  I think we have chance today.  We play well.  Okay, we try to see them in clay court and maybe we can win them, I don't know (smiling).  But I think it's tough to play with them.  They have much power.  
 
Q.  Could you contrast your styles with theirs. 
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  What?  
 
Q.  Your style of play versus theirs, could you contrast? 
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  Yeah, I think we don't have the power that they have in our serves, in our hits, you know.  We have to talk about how we play, you know.  We cannot do like three good serve per game.  But we know exactly where, what she going to do and what I going to do.  We know exactly how to move in the court.  I think to play with them, is not enough that things, you know.  I think we have to talk and to try to improve on other things to beat them. 
 
Q.  They had so many shots that looked like winners that you got back.  Is that one of your specialties, running everything down? 
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  Yeah, yeah.  Our specialist is our return, you know.  We return very good.  It's like we know each other so well, I know what she is gonna do in every moment.  I think that it's the more important thing with us, you know.  Like we have a lot of chemic, you know.  We know each other so well.  
 
Q.  Virginia, on at least two occasions Serena hit the ball straight at you. (Inaudible)? 
 
VIRGINIA RUANO PASCUAL:  Maybe, I don't know.  Normally, I don't go to hit anybody in the court, but I hit on doubles too many times to the opponent.  Is the game.  Maybe she do like just one point  -- three point in the game, no.  But I think is the game.  (Inaudible).  It's not too many space, you know, to put the ball in.  Sometimes is good to hit the other opponent.  
 
Q.  Could you talk about the first point, you were up 3-2, Venus hit it at your head and everybody thought the point was over, and yet Paola ran back and got it. 
 
VIRGINIA RUANO PASCUAL:  Yeah, I play football tennis today (laughter).  But the umpire doesn't do it, doesn't know what happen.  
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  Yeah, she didn't know.  She didn't see that she hit it.  
 
VIRGINIA RUANO PASCUAL:  I was laughing, of course.  
 
Q.  Can I ask, you played so well today.  Are you serious when you say that the Williamses don't have to show up for you to win?  Because it was so close, it could have gone either way.  During your TV press conference, you had said you hope they don't show up next year so you can win.  Were you serious?  Were you joking? 
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  No.  
 
VIRGINIA RUANO PASCUAL:  No.  
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  No, we are joking.  I know there is a tough match, you know.  When we go into the court, we don't think that  -- we always think that we can win the match, otherwise we cannot go on to the court.  But I know that it's really, really tough to play with them.  But obviously I think that we can win.  If not, I not going on to the court to win.  
 
Q.  Do you have certain things you want to achieve as a doubles team?
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  I don't understand.  
 
Q.  How long do you want to play together?  What are the things you want to achieve?  Do you want to win 20 Grand Slams together? 
 
PAOLA SUAREZ:  If we can.  We want to win all the tournament that we can.  No, I think this year we want to play together for sure.  No, I think we gonna play together until we still enjoying the game and we still have fun.  I hope can be, I don't know, three, four, who knows.  I don't know how many years.  But I think that  -- for me, I'm sure that I'm gonna finish my career with her to play with me.  If not, I kill her (laughing).  No, but, yeah... 
 
Q.  You must enjoy playing together.  You are smiling all through the match.  You are always smiling at each other.  You must enjoy really.  You have some synergy.  You enjoy playing with each other a lot.  Why is that? 
 
VIRGINIA RUANO PASCUAL:  Why?  Because I am so funny, no, on court (laughing).  I am joking every time.  No, I know Paola for a long time ago.  She knows me.  We like to play together.  We tell all the time it's so fun to play doubles together.  That's it.  It's not like to play a great final, great match, very nervous, very tense, no.  We play relax and try to enjoy.  Just have fun.  Easy, no.  
 
Q.  What do the two of you do outside the court together besides playing doubles?  Are you friends outside the court? 
 
VIRGINIA RUANO PASCUAL:  No, we are not friends (laughing).  No, we are friends, of course, outside the court.  We going to cinema, we going to dinner.  If I don't play anymore with Paola after this tournament, we gonna be very good friends anyway so... 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT