NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 22, 2012
Shane Doan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Shane Doan.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding establishing dominance.)   
SHANE DOAN:   We have to find a way to win one at home.   Yeah, obviously recognize everything they've done, they've accomplished with winning seven in a row.   It's going to be difficult.   Have to find a way to do it.   
   
 Q.   Is that something this team can still improve on?   
SHANE DOAN:   Yeah, I mean, you know, don't take as many penalties.   I think you talk to guys, they're having a hard time figuring out what's being called and what isn't.   Doesn't really matter, just have to find a way not to take any.  
   
 Q.   How challenging is it to stave off elimination, go to bed, wake up and do it all again?  
SHANE DOAN:   Yeah, it's going to be big for us to find a way to just pick our game up and be as good as we can be, not have any type of letdown.   Obviously they're going to be coming hard.   
I don't think that's going to happen on our team.   Our team, pretty confident in our group, expect good things.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think getting the first goal is so advantageous, especially in the playoffs?   
SHANE DOAN:   For sure.   I think it just calms down to a certain degree, so they know we're doing things right, things are going your way.   I think confidence is everything in the playoffs just because everyone is so, so close.   With everyone being that close, feeling confident is big.   
   
 Q.   Important stuff coming up regarding ownership.   How has this community been for you to live in with your family?  
SHANE DOAN:   I've been here for 16 years this August.   It's been great to my family and I.   I have a 13‑year‑old daughter that this is home.   Never lived anywhere else.   All her friends, their families are all here.   This is home for us.   
We enjoy it.   It's something that we hope gets settled.   
   
 Q.   And the fans?  
SHANE DOAN:   You're fortunate when you live here and play here.   You get all the benefits of playing professional sports.   I get to go down and meet the Diamondbacks, do the fun things you enjoy, get great tickets to fun things.   
At the same time you have the amenity of being just a regular dad, a regular husband.   You go out and do the normal things with your wife and the normal things with your kids.   It's a great situation for us with the fans.   They've been unbelievable.   They've been supportive of me, always made me feel so welcome.   That's special.   
   
 Q.   Are you getting recognized more?   
SHANE DOAN:   Yeah, for sure.   I don't know if it's the beards.   Maybe it is for Ray (laughter).   
I think, yeah, for sure, it's not even close.   Going into grocery stores, wherever you go now, for sure.   
   
 Q.   The last team to rally from 0‑3 was the Flyers a couple years ago.   Danny Briere played for the Flyers.   Have you spoken to him?  
SHANE DOAN:   I talked to him.   We've sent each other texts all the time.   When we found a way to get a win there, he wished me luck.   I sent him one back.   Got to texting about how it can be done.   It's hard, but you can do it.   
It would be nice to have someone like Danny be on your team (laughter).   But it's one of those things, when you talk to him, you realize it's doable.   I think it gives you a little more confidence.  
   
 Q.   What have you learned about this mountain that you're still climbing?  
SHANE DOAN:   It doesn't get any easier or any less painful when you lose a game.   Yeah, it doesn't get any easier.   At the same time it gets more and more exciting, for sure.   I think getting out of the first round, once you get out of the first round, everything is still as difficult, painful with every loss.   It might even be more.   
When you win, you're another step closer.   When you lose, it's that much more painful.   I think the emotion that goes along with it gets even higher.   I'm loving it.   It's been great.   Got to find a way to get the next one.  
   
 Q.   Was there that sense of reality you talked before you went out for Game4?  
SHANE DOAN:   For sure.   That's one of those things that you don't want it to end.   You want to keep it going.   Really all we've talked about is just we're good enough to win one game.   We know that.   We're good enough to win one game.   That's really been our focus.  
   
 Q.   How has your Fantasy Baseball game been?  
SHANE DOAN:   I killed last week.   I got Oaky this week, so I have my hands full.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Shane.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT