NHL ENTRY DRAFT
July 8, 1995
Shane Doan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
No, actually I was kind of surprised that that was happening.  I was very kind of surprised what they did, actually, so -- 
 
It is so unique.  I will never experience something like that again, so it is really neat.  It is a great experience to be here for the past 2, three days.  I have loved it.  I am so happy to be going to Winnipeg.  It is a first class organization and I am just -- I don't know what to say. 
 
That is excellent my mom and dad were really hoping for something like that and I guess they got what they wanted and not too often that happens.  I am just so lucky.  I am very thankful. 
 
Yeah.  Bill came to the ran  much.  We had a great time up there and just it was really informal.  Just really got to get to know him, I guess, and it was good, but you know, pretty nice to everybody.  It is pretty hard to tell. 
 
Q.   Pretty good for you and Jarome to go to 7 and 11?
 
Yeah, AGEE went 11.  That is great.  He deserved to go higher.  He is a great guy. He is -- I really like him as a player and he is a great friend too. 
 
He went down the COO.  It just rained down there.  It was a little muddy. 
 
I don't know, I mean, it was really unique.  I mean, I will never experience another summer like this.  This June was phenomenal to have all the interviews and everything.  It is kind of an ego boost.  I guess with all -- it was really neat.  I had a great time.  So at the same time, I wanted to get it over with, but it was really neat to experience it. 
 
I don't know.  I mean, Edmonton is a great team.  Winnipeg is phenomenal.  They have so much talent there.  They had a few injuries that hurt them this year and next year they are going to have a great team and in the future they probably have the best sentiment in the whole league with ZHAMNOV.  A guy  like I pattern myself after KEITH; to have someone to watch, it is great. 
 
Q.   What about the feeling of having 12,000 people chanting your name?
 
It was kind of different.  I didn't expect that. 
 
It is so exciting.  I wasn't nervous until I actually got in the building.  Then they say said first WEEK SENATORS, oh, then I was really nervous.  It didn't hit me until then. 
 
I don't know.  It is tough. Everybody wants to play NHL, but I mean, you don't want to wreck your development, so it wouldn't hurt me to go back to Junior but at the same time, I would want to learn from the best and the best is in the NHL and Winnipeg, so I'd love to go there and watch and learn and so I will just have to let the coaching staff decide on make that decision. 
 
Yeah, I mean, to have this opportunity given to you, it is an honor and so I am really excited to have a chance to do well and to go to a team that I did.        
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT