NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 19, 2012
Shane Doan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Shane Doan. 

Q.   How important was taking yesterday off?
SHANE DOAN:   Yeah, I mean, obviously things haven't went the way we wanted it.   To get away from it, not think about it for a day might be good.   There wasn't any other games on.   Hockey was out of your mind. 
Back at it today and excited for tomorrow. 

Q.   Shane, can you talk to us about this mountain in front of you guys, the mentality of tomorrow. 
SHANE DOAN:   Yeah, obviously no one wants to be in this position.   But it's been done before.   That's kind of what we're holding on to.   I mean, it's funny 'cause we said everything kind of before Game3, all the right things. 
But really do have confidence in this group.   No matter what, you feel this group's capable of doing something special.   I think we can. 

Q.   Is the key staying focused in the moment, not getting caught up of winning four in a row?
SHANE DOAN:   Yeah, for sure.   We just have to win the next game.   Once you find a way to do that, get ready for the one after that. 
That's kind of been our mantra for the last two and a half months.   But it's never been more prevalent than right now.

Q.   You have been frustrated in a lot of facets.   Have you felt they've gotten you away from your bread and butter, the way you need to win and play? 
SHANE DOAN:   I think the last game was a little bit closer.   They're finding ways to score goals, answer big goals at right times, and we haven't.   I think that's been it more than anything, we haven't found ways to score. 
There's a group of us that have to step up and be a lot better.   It starts with myself. 

Q.   Scoring, how much of that comes from your talent and skill versus the work ethic? 
SHANE DOAN:   Both.   It takes a lot of both.   We got a group of guys that probably we rely more on work ethic than maybe skill.   We have some guys that have a lot of skill.   I mean, it takes both of that working together. 
We can be better.   We can find ways to score.   We have to. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
SHANE DOAN:   Yeah, we're pretty comfortable with everyone writing us off.   We've been told that for three years now, so... 
I mean, like I said, we said all the right things kind of going into Game3.   Have to just find a way to do it now.   We have to find a way to do it in Game4.   Win Game4, not worry about it. 
But I do believe it galvanized us as a group.   We're pretty comfortable in that position.   I got a lot of confidence in our group, I do.   I think it's a special group. 

Q.   Are you beating yourself up over this?   You feel like you need to do more? 
SHANE DOAN:   No.   I mean, I think whenever you lose, every player on every team feels they can do more and be better.   It's funny because people say stuff about how this guy is being hard on himself.   I haven't met a hockey player that's not hard on themselves when their team doesn't win. 
I think everyone wants to do more and contribute more, help this team win more.   But we just got to find a way to do it.   We don't need to worry about anything other than finding a way to do it. 

Q.   What the Flyers were able to do a couple years ago, is that any type of motivation for you?
SHANE DOAN:   I definitely recognize it.   I remember it.   Danny was on that team.   We were pretty close.   How excited he was in the capabilities of their team.   Obviously it doesn't happen very often.   You're going to remember the last time it did. 

Q.   Scoring by committee, Tip said you have to get that committee back together. 
SHANE DOAN:   It would be nice if we could get somebody hot, get something going.   Playoffs, it's like that.   You look at King for them.   He's been a huge asset for them.   He wasn't exactly the guy they were counting on at the beginning of the year, This is one of the guys that will help us win in the playoffs.   Now he's stepped in and performed so well for them, been such a key contributor in every game. 
We need that.   We need guys to contribute.   We need guys to step up. 

Q.   Is that maybe unfortunately sometimes the way it goes, you have certain guys that get you here, then you expect certain guys to push you along?
SHANE DOAN:   We need both, everybody, everything involved for the game tomorrow.   It's going to be a fun one.   We're going to enjoy it.   It's one thing that group does, is we enjoy playing the game. 

Q.   There's been some uncertainty with the team in the past couple years.   Is this any different for you?
SHANE DOAN:   No.   We've been completely uncertain for three years.   I mean, I've been told what's going to happen a hundred times, and it's never, ever happened.   I think we're pretty comfortable with that. 
It's disappointing that that's part of what's gone on here for the last three years.   But it is what it is.   We're pretty callous to it.   I haven't given it a second thought. 

Q.   With you personally, your contract situation. 
SHANE DOAN:   I haven't really given a second thought to it.   Like I said, other than in here, this is the only time it really crosses my mind, is when you have to answer questions about it.   Other than that, it will be fine.   Everything will be fine. 

Q.   You know they're going to go for the jugular.   How do you manage some of their emotion?
SHANE DOAN:   Well, we don't really have a lot to save it for.   We have pretty much the ability to play as wide open as we can and as hard as we can, leave everything that you can out there.   It's all the clichés. 
But with them coming out with energy, emotion, you have to be willing to match it and push back.   Like I said, it sounds kind of cheesy, I really like our group.   I think we have an incredible group of guys that have the ability when everything kind of seems like it's not going right, the writing is on the wall, find a way to win a game. 
That's really where we're at right now.   We just have to find a way to win a game.   This group has done it, performed, when everything seems to be against it time and time again.   That track record I think gives you confidence to know that we're capable of doing it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT