NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 16, 2012
Shane Doan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Shane Doan. 

Q.   Shane, with a little bit of time having passed, can you evaluate last night, the hit, the way that went for you.   A little disappointing?
SHANE DOAN:   Obviously.   Incredibly disappointed.   I can't believe it's a five‑minute major.   Incredibly disappointed in the fact that was the call.   But it is what it is. 

Q.   Based on how you described the play to us, you saw him, were trying to play the puck.   Not surprising there's no supplemental discipline coming your way. 
SHANE DOAN:   None whatsoever. 

Q.   0‑2 going to L.A., can you talk about the psyche of the team?
SHANE DOAN:   We got to find a way to win.   That's all everyone is talking about.   Looking forward to getting back on the ice.   We got a great group of guys that think we can win.   That's what we're focused on and thinking about. 
Nothing you can do about being down 2‑0 now. 

Q.   What do you have to do to get the offense, specifically the power play, going? 
SHANE DOAN:   Have a few more chances on it would be nice.   Once you get your chances, get shots in the net.   Simple things like that.   It's funny how once it starts coming, it comes easier.   Till it does come... 
You just have to have some success doing it, taste a little bit of it. 

Q.   Making it difficult for Quick, making it a harder game for them, is that what it's about?
SHANE DOAN:   You have to be better overall in our game.   Our game hasn't been to the standard that we set for ourselves. 
Give them credit.   They've played well.   They've put us in a difficult situation. 

Q.   Where is your game at personally?
SHANE DOAN:   Had a couple good chances in the first game.   Last game had some chances early on.   Obviously disappointed with the way we finished. 

Q.   Do you feel like the team senses maybe getting to this point was a good enough accomplishment?
SHANE DOAN:   No, no. 

Q.   Last night after the game, Mike Smith was pretty honest about what he felt went wrong for you guys.   He's a leader in that room.   He's earned the right to say what he has to say. 
SHANE DOAN:   Yeah.   I didn't hear what he said.   Obviously he's a guy that cares and wants to win.   He's a competitive guy, so... 
After every game, I think anyone that's competitive is going to be upset or want to win.   Again, I truly haven't heard anything that he said. 

Q.   You were able to kind of negate the impact of the Kopitar/Brown line.   You shut them down, then Jeff Carter's line comes right at you. 
SHANE DOAN:   Yeah, they got good players.   Obviously getting a couple lucky bounces for Carter gets him going.   Confidence is an amazing thing.   So far everything's went right in the playoffs for them.   That's a credit to the way they've played and the way they've been coached.   Their players, they've been playing great. 
Once it starts a roll, it seems easy.   We got to find a way to get ours going. 

Q.   Penns would be a great loss if he can't go for Game3. 
SHANE DOAN:   A huge part of our team, big part of it.   Hopefully they understand it's a situation where he doesn't have a choice. 

Q.   Shane, is there frustration that creeps into the game a little bit at times, and is it important not to let a level of frustration creep in?
SHANE DOAN:   Yeah.   We got a pretty good group to deal with it, pretty businesslike.   We'll stay that way. 
Like I said, we're not happy with the way things have gone.   We'll handle it in the next game. 

Q.   The lines, did you feel maybe that was something that can give you a spark?   Did you like how that changed with you? 
SHANE DOAN:   I mean, we're fortunate that our group of guys, we can play with everybody.   Anyone you play with on our team is a good player.   You're excited to have an opportunity to play with anybody.   We'll find a way to get it going in the next game. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Shane. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT