NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 14, 2012
Shane Doan
Mike Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Mike Smith.   
   
 Q.   Why haven't you cut your hair in a year?  
MIKE SMITH:   I shaved it for cancer at the end of last year for the charity in Tampa.   Have a friendly wager going with Ryan Malone.   So far we're tied.   
   
 Q.   Somebody said you got a little bit of it nicked off by a skate.   
MIKE SMITH:   Got a little bit of a trim.   I don't know if that counts as losing the bet or not.   But it is what it is.   
   
 Q.   Mike, obviously down a game now in this series.   Can you talk to us about the team's approach.   
MIKE SMITH:   Yeah, just put that game behind us.   Obviously we were not close to the level we needed to be at.   It showed in the score, in the result in the game.   We need to be a lot better.   
Like I said, that game's behind us now.   We have to worry about Game2 and come out with a way better effort.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding practice and meetings.)   
MIKE SMITH:   I think today was obviously we had some stuff to talk about, some stuff to sort out.   Just get on the ice, get the legs moving.   6:00 game tomorrow.   
Like I said, we know we can be a lot better.   We need to play a lot better in order to beat a team like that.   Today was just getting the legs going a little bit and get ready to go tomorrow night.   
   
 Q.   You have home ice.   Does that mean less when you're playing against a divisional rivalry?  
MIKE SMITH:   I don't think it matters.   It's playoff hockey.   You have to win both at home and on the road.   
Obviously they've been a good team in both areas.   We're going to have to come with a lot better effort in Game2, and hopefully even the series up.   
   
 Q.   You went through this in the Nashville series.   Came back.   
MIKE SMITH:   I think in both series, obviously the Chicago series, too, we didn't play the way we were capable of.   Managed to find ways to win those hockey games.   
Last night was another instance of that.   I think we were the ones feeling them out and they came at us with everything they had.   
We need to be, you know, more aggressive, play more to our capabilities, not let them come at us so hard.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Shane Doan.   
   
 Q.   Sense of urgency and panic?   
SHANE DOAN:   Yeah, it's one game.   We're obviously disappointed in the results and the way we played.   We just got to be better.   That's really what all the talk is about.   We know we can be better and we have to get better.   
   
 Q.   You came back from losses before in the playoffs.   That is the key to this team's resiliency?   
SHANE DOAN:   You know what, we pretty much stay the same for the most part.   We're pretty businesslike.   Last night's loss, I think it was disappointing in the fact we didn't play our best game.   You're in the conference final and you didn't play your best game.   
Nothing you can do about it now.   That's kind of our attitude, you just got to be better.   Every guy can be a lot better than we were last night.   
And give them credit, they played well, they played really well.   I mean, they dominated.   
   
 Q.   Their physicality and size is something you don't get to see during the playoffs.   How do you combat that?  
SHANE DOAN:   It's been pretty physical.   They're a physical team.   They play hard.   They come hard.   You know, Nashville and Chicago were just as physical.   We just have to find ways to be better as a group.   That's for the most part it.   We can be better.   
In saying that, you don't want to take any credit away from them.   They played really well.   They played their game plan exactly the way they wanted.   Some of us not playing well due to them playing really well.   
We know we can be better and we will be better.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding the first goal.)   
SHANE DOAN:   As much as it puts us on our heels, it gives them more jump.   They're a confident group right now.   They feel they can win in every building.   I think they've won six in a row on the road.   
We know they're a confident group.   Giving them that first goal gives them more confidence they're going to continue to have success.   So you understand that's a big goal.   We as a team have to be better.   
We had our chances.   At the end of the second, we took control of the game.   Obviously had a big goal by Brown.   
   
 Q.   Is that encouraging?   It was a 2‑2 game in the third.   
SHANE DOAN:   We only really lost one period by a goal.   That's the way it goes sometimes.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT