BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2002
Mike Brey
Ryan Humphrey
Chris Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH MIKE BREY:  I thought it was a heck of a game.  If you would have told me we'd shoot 32 percent from the floor and score 77 and take care of the ball like that, I figured it would be enough.  I didn't think we could get stops when we really needed to get stops.  They hit big shots and got big offensive rebounds when they needed them.  I thought those were back-breakers for us.  
 
Q.  Mike, how much did their quickness throw your offense out of synch early especially?
 
COACH MIKE BREY:  I thought we played a little too fast early.  You know what, I think it was a combination of their quickness and the atmosphere.  This is new territory for us as a basketball program, too.  And a lot of that was being excited to play, and it's a fine line you want to keep attacking.  But I thought maybe we played a little bit too fast.   But their speed and quickness has a lot to do with it.  They are the quickest team we've played.  
 
Q.  Mike, the stretch where you couldn't get a field goal in the second half, Coach Calhoun talked about how the atmosphere is different on a Friday evening.  Did you get caught up in that?
 
COACH MIKE BREY:  Well, we definitely felt we were on the road tonight when they introduced both teams.  I thought maybe I was in the State of Connecticut.  That's a tribute to Connecticut's fans and following and how excellent their program is.  We'd love to get to that point where maybe we can take over the building on a Friday.  But it was electric.  I mean, it was a great experience for our guys.  Again, it was some new territory to be playing in here on Friday night.  I'm proud of our team.  I thought we came here thinking we had a chance to win it.  We played like that.  We left it all out there.  I think this gives us some momentum for the next tournament.  
 
 
Q.  David had only three points for the game.  Didn't score in the last 24, 27.  You rely on him so much to come up with those big baskets.  How difficult was that psychologically?
 
COACH MIKE BREY:  That's a tough night.  You look at the box score.  You got what you usually get out of Ryan, Matty and Chris as far as offense.  We need Dave to score for us.  He's got to keep shooting the basketball.  He had a tough night.  I mean, you know, Dave's the kind of guy that came out of this tournament last year and went seven for seven in the first round of the NCAA tournament.  That's why you got to hang with him.  He can knock down two or three at any time.  It wasn't his night, but we're going to need him to make a few on Thursday or Friday, whenever we play.  
 
Q.  Chris, just wondering if you can talk about how difficult it was setting up the offense early.  Then you seemed to catch up with that pace and settle down after that. 
 
CHRIS THOMAS:  I think I was a little bit caught up in the atmosphere, the environment.  It was definitely, I mean, it surprised me that UCONN had so much following just from the announcements and the introduction.  But, yeah, we forced offense in the first half, and, you know, later in the game.  Especially in the second half, Coach told me come out, control tempo.  That's what we did.  We got good shots.  Unfortunately we couldn't stop them on the other end.  That's why we could never close the gap on them.  
 
Q.  This league is such a good league.  How many teams do you think the tournament committee will take from this conference?
 
COACH MIKE BREY:  I think we're a six-team league.  Don't ask me to tell you who five and six are.  I would hope our league would get six.  We've been a power conference.  I think we're still fourth as a conference in the RPI.  We beath each other all year, and I think we're deserving of that.  I hope we get that.  All I know is I'm going to sleep good Saturday night.  I know our name's flashing up on Sunday.  Some other guys won't.  
 
Q.  It seemed like in the second half they clogged up the middle offensively.  What did they do differently? 
 
RYAN HUMPHREY:  They sent five guys out there.  Seemed like they had more guys coming than we had on the floor.  It seemed like everybody on the bench was coming for the offensive rebound.  It's tough.  They're athletic, big, strong, fast.  When they clog it up, they was just playing tip with each other.  
 
Q.  UCONN has been here before.  How much of an advantage is that to their program?
 
COACH MIKE BREY:  I think, you know, with the success that that program's had and how they've advanced in both tournaments, there's certainly an advantage there.  You know, we'd like  -- I'd like to get us to that point, where we have a little bit more of a swagger when we come into New York City.  They've earned that.  They deserve that.  They certainly had a lot of their people come down  - again, which I say is just a tribute to their program - to make them feel comfortable even here in New York City.  
 
Q.  Can you imagine coming into the tournament, there's two freshmen in their first two games at The Garden, giving performances like Ben Gordon and Chris Thomas did.  Did it surprise guys like you? 
 
RYAN HUMPHREY:  Didn't surprise me at all about Chris.  He came in with a lot of hype.  He's excelled everyone's expectations.  Chris is a good point guard.  It's sad I only get to play with him one year.  I wish me and him could develop together.  I wasn't shocked at all.  Ben Gordon, he's another talented player.  I was shocked that he came in and shot with as much confidence as he did.  I knew he was a good shooter, but I didn't realize he was that good of a shooter. 
 
COACH MIKE BREY:  I think you've got two guys  -- that's one thing Ben and Chris have in them, they both have a poise about them that's not in your typical freshman.  Again, on that stage, their first time in that atmosphere, they looked like juniors and seniors out there.  I know Jim is thanking God Ben's a freshman, and I'm very grateful this guy's a freshman.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT