U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2019
Julia Potter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. For the Mid-Ams you might be the one carrying the banner unless Kelsey can -- she's at 4-over.
JULIA POTTER: What did Greenlief shoot?
Q. 77.  She's going to miss.
JULIA POTTER: Yeah, I guess my expectation, honestly, was pretty low.  I hate to say it, for this week.  I've been really busy coming into this, but I really focused a lot on what I could do maybe not on the golf course, just researching the course, getting my bag all ready, and nothing amazing the last two days, but I've been able to make a lot of pars, and I think that's going to help along the way on this course.
Q. You almost put together a round of all pars today until you got to 7.
JULIA POTTER: Yeah, 7 was a bad one.  I hit a beautiful shot, and it just hit and rolled into the pine straw up against a root, skulled that next shoot over the green and then got on and two-putted.  Yeah, other than that, it was a pretty consistent -- I made a lot of pars, but I made a really clutch up-and-down from 86 yards on my second hole, No. 11, that I felt like kind of got me a little more comfortable out there.
Q. Obviously you're a veteran of match play.  Even though you're a Mid-Am you don't play as much as these kids, but do you have a little bit of a shot because of your experience.
JULIA POTTER: Yeah, I wouldn't have played in this event if I didn't think I had a shot at winning.  I know I probably have -- my odds are a little different than those who are playing collegiately and juniors, but I've been here before, I've played match play, I've been successful at match play, and I know that the tournament doesn't really start until tomorrow, and you've got to take it one match at a time.
Q. You missed last year in a playoff, right?
JULIA POTTER: Mm-hmm.
Q. Did you make match play the year before?
JULIA POTTER: No, I made match play back in '08, so this is the first time.  It's a lot of years, and honestly, in the playoff last year I shanked it on the last playoff hole.  I really wanted to avoid doing a playoff again, so I'm happy to make a birdie on the last hole and avoid that.
Q. '08 you would have been a senior at Missouri?
JULIA POTTER: I was going to be a junior.  That was also the last time I had qualified for the Am, just straight qualified, not an exemption.  Yeah, I feel like a young 20-year old right now, a little bit of a throwback.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT