USGA WOMEN'S STATE TEAM CHAMPIONSHIP
September 28, 2017
Julia Potter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. 70, 70, 70. Remarkable consistency. Kind of compare your performance across the three rounds.   
JULIA POTTER: I think the first round was definitely more up and down; yesterday was probably my most consistent play; and then definitely today my putting was really what saved me.  
So it was kind of three different 70s, but I'm totally happy with it.   
   
 Q. What were your expectations for your game coming into this?  
JULIA POTTER: I haven't been able to play as much as of late with a lot of personal and work stuff going on, so I just wanted to put some solid scores out there for Team Indiana.   
I felt comfortable during my two practice rounds and just knew that putting was going to be really important. I focused on that, and thankfully I didn't have one three‑putt out there this entire tournament. I think that's when really helped me.   
   
 Q. So safe to say this is a confidence builder for you with the Women's Mid‑Am in six weeks or so?  
JULIA POTTER: Yeah, that's what I've kind of looking at event to begin with the original schedule, was to be kind of a warmup to the Mid‑Am and try and defend.   
To be able to come out here and ‑‑ you know finishing medalist is wonderful, but really for me it was just putting consist scores, consistent swings out there gets me pumped for the Mid‑Am.  
   
 Q. Talk about what it would mean to win another piece of USGA hardware if you do get the individual medal.   
JULIA POTTER: I mean, it's amazing. I've been lucky enough to be medal twice and mid‑am, and it's not easy. It's hard. It's a grind to make it happen, and so it means a lot.   
Yeah, it just means a lot to me, because it just shows for me that I was able to play consistently throughout they three days against some amazing, amazing competitors.  
   
 Q. You've a lot going on in your personal life now. How much golf do you think you'll be able to get in before the women's event?  
JULIA POTTER: I think my worry is more about the weather. In Indianapolis I could be playing at the beginning of November or there could be some snow the ground.  
I just have to be smart and try to get out there when I can and really do my due diligence with researching the course prior, so when I get there I'm ready to compete and play against the best.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT