U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2016
Julia Potter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another day, another two matches.  
JULIA POTTER: Yeah.  I mean, there's been so many times where I felt like I was out, like it wasn't going to happen.  I was going to be driving home.  Not only just today but yesterday, as well.  So just to be here and be back, this is the third time in four years, I am basically just as giddy as the first time it happened.   
 Q.  Given that it is your third time, you've won the championship match, you've lost the championship match, what are you going to think about tonight as you prepare, the difference between '13 and '14?  
JULIA POTTER: You know, just really pull from the positives.  I played really well this morning, not so great in the afternoon but was still able to pull out a win, so just kind of remembering that.  I'm not really sure if I'll ever -- of course you can draw from those experiences, but I honestly think one of the reasons why I won in '13 was I had no experience to go on.  You just kind of really enjoy the situation.  It's really hard to get back to this position.  I realized that last year when I didn't.  Just really enjoy the moment.   
 Q.  Kind of similar today.  Yesterday you had a long match in the morning, closed it out on 15.  Same thing.  Do you feel like instead of fatigued as the day goes on, you just feel a little bit more confident?  
JULIA POTTER: Yeah, I mean, when you're able to take two out of your five matches that you've played into extra holes and be able to pull out a win, that's always a confidence booster.  I think what it really shows is really anything can happen in match play and you never know what's going to happen and what the next shot is going to be.  So just really remember that throughout the round, good and bad, and that's how it can go.   
 Q.  You've played well throughout.  I mean, co-medalist.  You struggled a little bit on Monday, but what has been the strongest part of your game so far this week?  
JULIA POTTER: I'd have to say for the most part, putting.  I had only one three-putt today between both the matches, and that's steadily improved.  That was my strong point on Monday.  But definitely Tuesday and today, and as well through the qualifying, my putting is really what held me together and saved me when other things kind of failed.   
 Q.  More or less nervous than you were the first time you were in the championship match?  
JULIA POTTER: Ooh, gosh, I would just say probably the same in that it really is -- I'm probably less nervous than '14, because really all I'm trying to do is enjoy the moment.  I know how hard it is to get back here, and take that in and hopefully take that momentum into tomorrow, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT