U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2014
Julia Potter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We're here with Julia Potter, runner‑up in the 2014 Women's Mid‑Am TOUR Championship.   Can you talk about the final match, how it started out for you, how you were feeling?  
JULIE POTTER:   I mean, she made a 30‑footer on the first hole.   I knew what kind of match it was going to be.   I was going to need birdies to beat her.   I just wasn't knocking them close enough or really sinking putts to be able to put any pressure on her.   She played an amazing round, an amazing front nine, and she's much deserving of this championship.   
   
 Q.   I also know that in these matches, par is a very good score, and if you get behind, it's difficult to gain‑‑  
JULIE POTTER:   Correct.  
   
 Q.       ‑‑ momentum, correct?  
JULIE POTTER:   Yeah, it was just going to be difficult to gain momentum on her.   Pars is a really good score, but with her, par wasn't going to do it.   It needed to be birdies.   As you can see, at the end I was trying to push and trying to hit some closer shots.   It didn't work out, and that was really one of the reasons why I missed that putt so badly on 13 was because at that point I need to make, I can't just tie with her.  
   
 Q.   The one you knocked it past the hole‑‑  
JULIE POTTER:   Yeah.   And those things happen.   I pressed and it didn't work out.   But the way she played today, par wasn't going to be good enough to win the event.   
   
 Q.   Did you struggle at all with your swing a little bit?   I know it's a long week.   
JULIE POTTER:   I mean, I didn't hit every shot perfect, but I did‑‑ I didn't feel like my swing was that bad.   I had an errant shot on 10 tee, but other than that‑‑ and then that bad shot on 15.   I don't know what it was, but I did that twice with the same iron today in the semifinal match as well as the final match.   But my swing I felt kept up for as much golf as we played and how long of a week it was.   
   
 Q.   And the camaraderie between you two, can you talk a little bit about that?   Was last year's final the first time you really got to know Margaret?  
JULIE POTTER:   Actually we played a practice round together last year and I got to know her a little bit, and then we sat together at the dinner, and then I kind of really didn't see her until the final.   It was one of those events and matches that we felt comfortable just chitchatting with each other, and you don't see that from time to time.   There's more intense players, there's less intense players.   I would say both of us are probably on the less intense spectrum, and that makes it fun for us.   
But honestly, I don't think‑‑ I actually had not spoken to her until last year's final until we got here just because I knew it was such a hard final for her, I didn't want to say or do anything.   But her attitude towards last year and her attitude towards this tournament and just in general as a person is quite impressive.   It makes me want to be her friend.   It's why I knew I was going to have fun, win or lose, out there, because of her attitude and things like that.   
   
 Q.   Obviously your fathers both on the bag.   
JULIE POTTER:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   Also a nice touch.   They provide support but they also sort of add to that general‑‑  
JULIE POTTER:   Yeah, I mean, it's always nice to have‑‑ I mean, your father is going to be your biggest support out there.   They're going to believe in you when you don't even believe in yourself.   That's what my dad was out there for me, and I'm sure that's the same for Margaret.   At times of course we're going to butt heads; we're still father and daughter.   But it's fun, it's just fun and it's fun that we both had that experience.   I mean, we both literally have had the same experience.   
I was 1 seed last year, she was 1 seed this year, I was 3 seed this year, she was 3 seed last year and we both meet in the finals.   Clearly we have a lot in common and a lot to talk about, but I'm very happy for her and her family to experience what my family and I experienced last year.   
   
 Q.   You said pars weren't going to be good enough today.   She only lost two holes out of her last 33 that she played out of her last two and a half rounds.   You ran into a hot player.   Talk about how she was playing.   
JULIE POTTER:   Yeah, I mean, three bogeys in the last 32 holes and she made three birdies on really good holes to make birdies.   I mean, this course with it playing a little longer and being a little wet made it more difficult for me to score than it had in previous rounds.   I mean, you just run into that, and when the player is hot, the player is hot, and that's why they're deserving of a USGA championship.   
   
 Q.   You won five matches coming in today.   
JULIE POTTER:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Did it feel different from last year in many ways?   
JULIE POTTER:   It definitely‑‑ I mean, last year I came in not having any expectation, and this year I don't know if my expectations changed, but I know outside expectations change, and I'm going to be really honest, I didn't expect myself to get this far.   There's pressure playing in your home state.   There's pressure being the defending champion.   And then to add those both together, to make it this far, even though it's not a W, I still feel good about my performance, and I'm excited for next year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT