ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2014
Robert-Jan Derksen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How does it feel to go around a course like that and play a round like that?
    ROBERT‑JAN DERKSEN:   It's very nice.   Yeah, of course it's great still to shoot that score on any course on any day.   I have to say I thought it was ideal conditions, the fairways being so soft.   I think these greens are much better than the other two, and I seem to read them better here.   I had a 64 a long time ago, as well, here. 
    To be honest I thought it played quite easy but I played lovely.   Didn't actually make any mistakes.   Never really got in trouble, and, yeah, great to get back in the tournament like this. 

Q.   What was the key?   Were you holing big putts out there? 
    ROBERT‑JAN DERKSEN:   I think the start was good.   It was good it was delayed for an hour.   I was happy with that.   But I birdied the first.   I birdied the third by holing a green‑side bunker shot from I would say eight yards or something, so that was a good start and I took it from there more or less.   Putted nicely and kept on going.

Q.   How does that rate in your career?   Must be one of the lowest rounds. 
    ROBERT‑JAN DERKSEN:   It is the lowest rounds in my career, because I shot 8‑under before, was my lowest, as is today, 9‑under.   As I said these courses are made for wind and for difficult conditions and I don't think you can get it easier than this.   Of course you can get it warmer and maybe less wind but then of course it's going to be firmer and harder.   So today it was I thought as easy as you can get it.   I mean, you still have to play well and shoot the score, don't get me wrong.   Yeah, it was a nice day of golf, and if everybody day could be like this, yeah, there's no complaints. 

Q.   Last time here for this tournament.   Are you going to these events just thinking, this is my last time, let's have a go? 
    ROBERT‑JAN DERKSEN:   No, I've played here before the last few years and we always have a good time, so it's fun for me to play with him.   Of course it was nice to display a good round of golf, and he enjoyed watching it. 
    So yeah, I mean, you enjoy it, and of course it's a great round but it's difficult to say that every time you come somewhere, you think, oh, this is my last.   That's not really how it works because you still want to do well and I was still nervous the last few holes because they are tough, 16, 17 and 18, and the best score I made was 9‑under‑‑ good 2‑putt on 16 for par, 17 I just parred and 18 just parred it.   It was good.   But still was nervous to sort of like get that score.   I know it doesn't really matter, but you're still eager and I think, therefore, we are pros and you want to get the best out of it.

Q.   Going to St. Andrews tomorrow within a shot of the lead, what a position to be in. 
    ROBERT‑JAN DERKSEN:   Yeah, fantastic.   I mean, it's nice.   I always prefer this course.   I thought if the weather is gone, you can get a good score.   I had some good rounds at St. Andrews but going in more or less in the Top‑10, it's great and with a low one tomorrow, who knows. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT