UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 28, 2011
Blaine Irby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Talking about Baylor defense, I know they've played well against a bunch of teams. 
BLAINE IRBY:   You know, after coming off an emotional win at A&M, we've really got to focus this week.   Baylor has got a great team.   I think they're on a winning streak this second half of the season, and I think they're undefeated at home in Waco.   It's going to be a pretty big test for us.   We've got to come, start fast, and really bring our "A" game and get after them.

Q.   Seeing what their offense can do as far as putting points on the board, does that put any extra pressure on you guys knowing that you have to match up?
BLAINE IRBY:   Yeah, I think we've definitely tried to emphasize that over the last couple weeks.   We're trying to take ownership on offense, and that's what we really need to do.   I think every individual on the offensive side of the ball really needs to take ownership in their playing.   I think we definitely need to start faster than we did this last week, and Baylor definitely can score some points, and our defense is going to help us out, but we can't really rely on our defense that much.   We've got to take ownership on the offensive side of the ball and really put more points on the board.

Q.   Mack said that one of the assignments this weekend was to watch that Tech and Baylor game.   What did you think about that one? 
BLAINE IRBY:   You know, what I thought, I mean, Baylor is a great team.   They score a lot of points.   I mean, they're a really good team, I mean, compared to the last‑‑ not last year, but the years prior, they're a completely different team than what they have been in the past.   Robert Griffin, you can tell he's a Heisman candidate, he's the leader on that team.   They're going to be a tough team to play, and you know, we've got to bring our "A" game or else they're going to beat us like they did last year, so we don't want that to happen again. 

Q.   What was it like to have Jaxon Shipley back, his arm, his hand and his leg?
BLAINE IRBY:   You know, Jaxon is a playmaker, and missing him these last three weeks or the three weeks prior, it's been a little tough.   We needed some other guys to step up, and definitely when he came back, you could see throughout the game, especially in that first catch, that really helped us out, getting the ball moving just because before that I don't think we got a 1st down in the first five possessions.   He's a playmaker.   He plays hard.   He does that every day during practice, plays like it's his last play in the game. 
He's a competitor, and I'm just actually real excited to see what he does here at UT in the next couple years. 

Q.   How important is it getting this win off Baylor, your eighth win, the in‑state rivalry?
BLAINE IRBY:   I think all that really comes down to it.   It's our state rivalry, it's our state championship really, and now that A&M is leaving, who knows, Baylor might be our biggest rival.   It's going to be a tough game.   They're actually really good this year, but we want to get as many wins as we can.   So having that eighth win before a Bowl game is going to be big, and so we‑‑ I mean, really we've just got to step it up. 

Q.   When you were coming back all those years, could you imagine not only getting back but actually starting to make an impact like you are now? 
BLAINE IRBY:   I think that's definitely what I wanted to do coming back.   Throughout my rehab process I didn't really want to just make it back and play a couple plays throughout the season.   I wanted to come back and be a contributor toward the offense and help the young guys out.   Yeah, it's been‑‑ the last couple weeks have been pretty fun.   I've been fortunate enough to get a couple balls thrown to me.   As an offense we've got to step it up as a whole and start faster versus Baylor. 

Q.   Can you just speak to Case and the job he's done taking that role? 
BLAINE IRBY:   You know, Case walked into‑‑ I felt like he was very poised and very confident while walking into a hostile environment like A&M.   Nobody really knows how it is playing in Kyle Field unless they've done it, and you're in the huddle and he's yelling out the play, you can't hear one word he's saying.   I think he handled it great, especially on that last drive.   I mean, that was definitely the biggest drive of the night.   We had a lot of young guys on that drive make plays.   Miles Onyegbule had a nice catch on the sideline, and Case making that scramble at the end, he showed a lot of poise, a lot of confidence, and I'm excited to see how he does this next week.

Q.   Do you think you guys can kind of feed off of that going into next week?
BLAINE IRBY:   Yeah, I think so.   Definitely Case and David have been battling for the starting position this whole year, and both quarterbacks are‑‑ we're confident in both quarterbacks, and I think Case definitely deserved the job after this last week.   I think just the competitiveness that he has and the‑‑ really the determination and just how focused he is on preparing for the games, it definitely trickles down to the rest of the offense.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT