UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 31, 2011
Blaine Irby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. It's Halloween, coach was a joker last night. Do you have a favorite costume from when you were growing up?
     BLAINE IRBY: Oh, man, I think I was definitely a Power Ranger for a couple years straight, maybe just a generic superhero. I haven't been able to celebrate Halloween the last couple years, but yeah, they threw out candy to us yesterday during the meeting, so that was pretty nice.

 Q. Did you ever consider being Thor?
     BLAINE IRBY: Yeah, a couple players have called me that. I haven't considered that yet, though. I don't know if I could pull that off. I could probably pull off maybe Wendy from the fast food joint because of my long hair. I'm goofy like that, so obviously I'm weird. 

 Q. What about these Red Raiders? Apparently now they're playing defense over there and are going to pose a stern test this Saturday. 
     BLAINE IRBY: Yeah, we have to expect Tech to come in with a lot of emotion. The team that played against OU a couple weeks ago, that's the team that we're expecting to come in here. So we've got to be ready, we've got to start fast like we did this week and really just get after them. 

 Q. How much confidence does a win like that give you going into the rest of the season? 
     BLAINE IRBY: Yeah, I mean, this is the first game of our second season. Our offensive line did a tremendous job. We had two young running backs get over 100 yards, which is pretty special, and defense completely shut them out. I think the bye week was really good for us, kind of just getting everyone together and kind of buying into our offensive and defensive schemes, and so I think we just have to keep playing one week at a time, and Tech is our next game, and so we're going to be ready for them.

 Q. How much would it mean to you to get that sixth win of the season?
     BLAINE IRBY: Yeah, you know, last year was a little eerie feeling just because we didn't get to that. Sixth win is a Bowl game, and that's what our goal is right now. Right now we're still trying to get to the Bowl game, and after this sixth win it's just going to determine what Bowl game we're going to. It's a pretty important game for us. 

 Q. What's the mentality from -- you played in the spread with Colt running the read and things like that, now to more of a traditional power running game. What's kind of the mentality for your position and just the offense and kind of the change? 
     BLAINE IRBY: You know, it's just a hard-nosed offense. You have to really just bite down on your mouthpiece and just get after it. You've got to expect going into the game that you're going to hit them at the end, O-linemen just kind of running downhill the whole game. Like I said before, the offensive line did great this last game. We had I don't know how many yards of total offense or rushing, but I just know we were pounding the ball the whole game, and I felt like every drive, the only time that our drive stopped was because of us, little mistakes that we had on offense. I felt like if we can continue to do that, we're not going to...

 Q. I've known you for a long time, and I can't help but notice your hair keeps on growing longer and longer. What kind of shampoo are you using?
     BLAINE IRBY: Oh, man. I don't know what it's called. I couldn't tell you. It's in a green bottle. 

 Q. Do you rinse it? 
     BLAINE IRBY: Do I rinse it? Yeah, I try to. 

 Q. Do you repeat? 
     BLAINE IRBY: I don't know, I just try and have fun with it right now. I know in about ten years I'm not going to be able to do this. I appreciate it, though.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT