UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2011
Blaine Irby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. How does it feel to be playing this team?
 BLAINE IRBY: It's a great feeling. Haven't played in it in about three years but there's nothing like it walking down that tunnel and it's something that I definitely have been thinking about throughout my rehab process, playing in big games like this and it's definitely exciting. 

 Q. Have you been there the last few years?
 BLAINE IRBY: The only game I didn't go to was the game, I think it was like 45-35. I remember -- about a week early, just off and kind of watching in my bed. 

 Q. How excited are you about the offense this career and what you guys are doing?
 BLAINE IRBY: Definitely something that's pretty exciting just to see what coach hard son brings, and it's one of those deals where I know more and more are going to come throughout the season, so I'm just excited about that. It's pretty cool seeing how everything comes together during spring work outs and summer work outs and working on our technique and shifts and motions and seeing how everything comes together and how we are winning ballgames because of it. 

 Q. What's your thoughts on being out there with all of these different innovative plays?
 BLAINE IRBY: I like it. It brings a little flavor to the offense, and I mean, I don't know if you guys saw the last game, but the one with the quarterback right before the snap, I thought that was pretty exciting. 
 Hopefully get a play where we actually get the ball from the quarterback -- I don't think Coach Harsin has trust in my throwing ability. But yeah, it brings new flavor and it's always fun when you're learning -- we are learning everything, we are learning new things every week about this offense and so it's fun going through every practice with Coach Harsin and seeing the way he works. It's definitely a pleasure working and playing for him. 

 Q. How thick is that playbook?
 BLAINE IRBY: Pretty thick. Just the offensive scheme before camp, it took just about all spring and summer to get it down. Every week we are coming in with new ideas and new plays. So I mean it's just something that you have to constantly keep studying and you have to just constantly take care of business. 

 Q. Why do you feel you're ready for the challenge? 
 BLAINE IRBY: I think this team has definitely grown up in the first four games of the year. You know, we are 4-0 but we still have a lot of improvement to be done, and we saw that watching film of all of our games. I just think this team definitely prepares for every game, and this week, we are going to be just as prepared, if not more, because we know the challenges ahead of us. 

 Q. What are your impressions of the Oklahoma defense? 
 BLAINE IRBY: The OU defense, they are always one of the best defenses in the nation. It's always a game that each one of us has to kind of do our part. We don't have to do too much on offense, or as individuals, we really just have to do our part and make everything work together, and you know it's one of those deals where you have to jump on them fast and keep playing all 60 minutes, or else we are going to get bitten. 
 OU is definitely a game where we have to bring our A Game and if not, then it's going to be a tough game. But I think that we are going to be prepared for this one. 

 Q. What was tougher on you when you were a freshman, the OU defense or the OU fans? 
 BLAINE IRBY: Oh, man, I'll say the OU defense. But OU fans are very passionate about their team and you know, it's usually fun -- it's really fun walking down that tunnel and seeing the OU fans first. Just they have got a lot of fun things to say to us. 
 It's the overall atmosphere at the Cotton Bowl, it's a fun experience and I've missed it and I'm glad to be back. 

 Q. The fans, grandparents -- inaudible.
 BLAINE IRBY: Yeah, they are real passionate about their team and about the game. It's a real exciting atmosphere, and you know, they always -- you've seen the game. It's just one of those games where there's not that many like it in college football or in the sports industry. 
 So I'm excited, I know our guys are excited and we are definitely going to be focused this week and we are going to definitely be prepared. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 BLAINE IRBY: I've seen a couple grandparents making little gestures at us. It's always fun. It's a fun time and you just have to smile about it and love the game of football and what this games and the passion of the fans and I'm sure on our side, they are probably more passionate, and it's a great atmosphere. 

 Q. Do you warn the freshmen on your team to be ready to see grandparents --
 BLAINE IRBY: You know, you can try and warn them about the atmosphere, but it's something that they are going to have to experience. I think every freshman experiences the Texas - OU weekend, and it's just a fun deal and I think that we have done a good job playing at UCLA and playing Iowa, both of those teams, their fans are real passionate and loud during the game. 
 It's definitely going to be a new experience for them but all freshmen have to go through it and it's just time for them to grow up. 

 Q. Both being ranked high and knocking off No. 1 -- does it get any better?
 BLAINE IRBY: We are 4-0 but we have a ton of room to improve. That's what is so exciting about it is we are not even close to our finished product right now. 
 OU is a great team and they are probably the best team in the nation right now, and they are ranked best in the nation, I'll say that. This gives us a chance to really show the nation what we can do. It's exciting. Texas - OU weekends is always exciting but both of us coming in undefeated just pumps it up a little bit.

 Q. Everybody is talking about what is going on with the new offense and new defense, but do you have to remind yourself that if you win this game, you're in the hunt for something that nobody thought you guys would be in the hunt for. 
 BLAINE IRBY: I think everybody in the locker room expected us to be at this point. I think, you know, even during spring ball, brick by brick, we are taking it one game at a time but we all know that if we play well, we can every game this year OU is our next game and that's the game we are preparing for right now and that's the game that we are also going to try and win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT