UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2011
Blaine Irby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. What's the feeling of being out there? Is it almost unbelievable to be back in a game?
 BLAINE IRBY: Yeah, it was a pretty cool feeling. I was so nervous coming out with the captains that I forgot my gloves. I didn't realize it until right when we were walking to the huddle. I looked at my hands, and one of our trainers had to go get my gloves. I mean, it was awesome being in front of the fans. The fans are great. Yeah, I mean, it's hard to explain, but just being out there with everybody, it's great. 

 Q. Were your eyes big on the one pass?
 BLAINE IRBY: I knew that question was going to come. I can't say I'm not a little disappointed I didn't make that grab, but it happens. I'm glad I got that drop out of the way. But you know, we got the win. My family was there, and they got to see me play football again. Nothing gets bigger than that.

 Q. You laughed it off pretty quick just to get it out of your mind?
 BLAINE IRBY: I tried to. I was a little upset with myself. Yeah, the worst is that you already know -- you want to erase it from your memory, but everyone on the sideline is patting you on the back telling you to shake it off, and you want to go, I've got it, I've got it. Like I said, I'm glad we got the win and I'm glad I played. I'm glad I'm back out there. It was exciting. I was real nervous before the game. I don't know if it was nervousness or just excitement, but -- and my brother is there, and it was pretty cool playing in front of all them.

 Q. You're a West Coast guy. What does it mean to you to play a team like BYU?
 BLAINE IRBY: BYU has always been traditionally a great team. They've been a very big team. I think that we definitely have to play to our best ability to beat them. I know they're going to come in and they're going to play us real hard, and I think -- I don't remember the last time Texas played BYU, but they've always been traditionally a great team. It's a game we definitely have to step up for.

 Q. (Indiscernible.)
 BLAINE IRBY: I love seeing that stuff. I mean, right now I have to worry about BYU, and I'm excited to play them, and then the next week I'll be more excited about -- I'll be excited about playing UCLA, but I can't think about UCLA right now. But I do like how we've kind of have a couple teams on the West Coast. I know a couple guys on each team. Yeah, right now I'm worried about BYU and starting preparation for them. 

 Q. Is it a chance now to kind of switch gears and say, I've got the game out of the way? I've got the first-game questions out of the way? Now it's just back to being a football player?
 BLAINE IRBY: Yes, yes. I'm real excited about that. I got everything out of the way, I got the first game, so now I want to say I'm just a football player now. I'm not the hurt football player, the guy that's coming back, I'm just a football player. I mean, just like everyone else, today we're going to start preparing for BYU and getting ready during this practice. I'm going to try my best to prepare just a little bit more than I did with Rice. On offense we definitely can make some improvements. I'm just glad we got the win. Next week all we need is a win. That's really all that counts right now.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT