BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 26, 2002
Bobby Frankel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BOBBY FRANKEL: Not necessarily.  It's a bitter  sweet win, too, because my best client I just beat, so I might not have a job tomorrow.  To be honest with you, if I'd have finished second and she would have beat me, I would have been happy, honest to God.

BOBBY FRANKEL:  That's not true, but the difference between these two is STARINE is an absolute freak in the soft going.  When she ran the Matriarch she killed GOLDEN APPLES.  When I ran her at Saratoga to Diana it was soft and she made it look like a fast racetrack.

BOBBY FRANKEL:  I thought so but after I saw my other two running the race before I thought, oh, no, another Breeders' Cup to be honest with you.

BOBBY FRANKEL:  It can't be a disaster.  What do I got, three more chances?  We'll see what happens.  My other one likes it soft, too.  I might be lucky with it.


Q.  Why doesn't somebody else own that horse? 

BOBBY FRANKEL:  I own other horses.  This isn't the own one I own.

Q.  Did you ever shop this horse around?

BOBBY FRANKEL: Not really.  At the beginning after she ran second I put her up for sale and nobody wanted her at the price I put up, so I got stuck with her.

Q.  What does she cost now, Bobby?

BOBBY FRANKEL:  I don't know what she's going to cost now.  She's a sweet filly.  Actually she rang for a claiming price three different times.

Q.  The question was STARINE during her European career was, relatively speaking, not rated all that highly as she was here during her U.S. career.  A lot of times horses perk up when they come from Europe to here.  Do you think that was the case with her?

BOBBY FRANKEL: Well, that was the case.  They were running her a lot over there to be honest with you.  They were running her every week almost.  If you look back in the form she ran with ENGLISH LEGEND and some other decent fillies.  She ran with some good fillies over here that are running good here in the states.  She wasn't that far off and that's why I bought her.  Her form when I bought her was improving, but obviously I never thought anything like this, but when she ran at Saratoga on the soft ground she showed she really can run.  That was a phenomenal race.

Q.   There was a lot of talk if the ground came up soft Banks Hill wasn't going to run.  Was that an issue yesterday or this morning? 

BOBBY FRANKEL:  It definitely was an issue.

BOBBY FRANKEL:  Well, it wasn't my decision and nobody says to me  -- they inquired about the turf this morning, and I didn't know if they wanted to scratch her or not.  The horse broke down earlier so I was waiting for a call to say let's not run her, but she ran a very good race on a surface.  That shows how really good she is, or a surface she really doesn't favor.

Q.  Are either STARINE or Banks Hill might run next year?

BOBBY FRANKEL:  I don't know about Banks Hill and STARINE I'm leaning towards retiring her, maybe running her in the Matriarch and retiring her, hopefully get the same kind of turf for the Matriarch like we did last year.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT