WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL C
March 10, 2017
Adam Jones
Christian Yelich
Chris Archer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
United States - 3, Colombia - 2   
 Q.  Chris, when you're having a game like the one today, with four perfect innings, was it hard to get out of the game that early when you had still more than 25 pitches to go?  
CHRIS ARCHER: For sure, certainly.  It was tough but fortunately Leyland and Jeff Jones and everybody they were completely on board.  We knew coming into this four or five months ago when I committed what it was going to be, and we stuck to the plan.  I tip my hat to Quintana for going out there and taking the ball for his country, because I'm sure he only threw three innings in his last Spring Training start.  It's early so for him to go out there and do that and do what he did is extremely impressive.  And tough loss, I'm glad I'm on our side, definitely, but it was impressive what he did.   
 Q.  Adam, I know you had a lot of big moments in your career, but winning a game like this with a game-winning hit for Team USA does is that rank up there at all for you in thrills as far as the moment?  
ADAM JONES: Big time.  Obviously I had a lot of good moments with the Orioles playing against Major League Baseball teams, but this one playing against countries, obviously everything is individualized from country to country, this ranks up there pretty high.  The group of guys we have -- I tip my cap to Team Colombia; they played their tails off.  Quintana and their defense, they completely I think just impressed everybody and hopefully that country, the baseball in that country continues to grow and grow and grow, because they got a bright future as a country with baseball.   
And this ranks up there, but now I'm able to breathe a little bit and let's get some dinner in us and get ready for DR tomorrow.   
 Q.  Chris, you talked a lot in the lead-up to this about how exciting it would be for you and the pride you would feel.  Can you just kind of describe that moment at the start of the game and obviously also how you ended up doing.  
CHRIS ARCHER: It was definitely a special moment.  I haven't pitched in -- I haven't started in a postseason game in my career, and the last time I played in the postseason was four years ago.  So, to go out there and have that type of atmosphere, honestly, I got chill bumps four or five times before the game and just like kind of thinking to myself, is this real?   
Wearing "USA" across my chest and representing for the country and most importantly the look on my parents' face when I was walking in, just knowing what they did for me growing up, it's like the American story:  Anything's possible.  There's so many opportunities here and I'm glad we fought until the end and demonstrated what USA is all about.   
 Q.  Christian, for you, the same type of question:  Was there a moment where you realized the magnitude, your first time representing U.S. and the World Baseball Classic actually being out there?  
CHRISTIAN YELICH: Yeah, I mean that atmosphere was unbelievable.  I've never played in a postseason game and I imagine it's something like that.  You had the adrenaline going.  Everybody was into it.  The crowd was unbelievable, both USA and Colombia.  And like they said, tip of the cap to those guys, they gave us a run for our money and they were playing unbelievable, and that's a game that you remember for a long time and a great way to kick things off.   
 Q.  Just wondering what the feeling was like for you guys watching the play when Arenado goes driving across first base, and you tie the score?  And then also after Christian scores the run at the end of the game the celebration.  Is there a statement in there about just how all in Team USA is for this WBC?  
ADAM JONES: I think what it says across our chest is what we're about.  Individually, obviously we do our own special things, but right now we're taking a back seat to our own egos and doing what we have to do for Team USA.  Right now this is who we play for, so we're trying to do anything and anything possible just to win the game.   
And it showed throughout the game, we are willing to sacrifice our on personal betterments for the greater good, and obviously we just kept fighting and fighting and fighting, and we just was able to pull this one out.   
 Q.  For Adam or Christian, playing the Dominican Republic tomorrow as competitors, how exciting is that, knowing that they're the defending champs and how stacked that lineup is?  How much are you looking forward to that now?  
ADAM JONES: Obviously it's the game that everybody circled on their calendar.  It's going to be a sold-out crowd and I'm expecting noise throughout all nine innings.  I played against them last year and it's exciting.  Both teams are stacked top to bottom, defensively, offensively, pitching staff.  So I think this is what people are paying their good money for, for tomorrow's game.   
And like I said, we can't think about it this second, we're still riding our high, but we know that tomorrow, once we wake up tomorrow we have a tremendous challenge ahead of us.   
 Q.  Christian, for a crowd that seemed very Colombian I guess at first, for them to switch gears for you and Giancarlo when you guys came up and to be so strongly behind you and to have that at home at Marlins Park for you, what's that like?  
CHRISTIAN YELICH: That was really special.  I feel like they were behind our entire team all night.  You could hear the "USA!" chants.  They started right after the National Anthem and throughout the game.  And just to have that atmosphere here is really cool, and to see the fans in Miami come out in support like that, that was really cool.   
Like I said, we're expecting a big one tomorrow, too, and I think we're all looking forward to it.  It should be a great time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT