OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 26, 2019
Justin Fields
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ohio State - 38, Wisconsin - 7   
 Q.  Justin, this one looked like the most physical game you guys have played so far and it took a while to get your footing. What made the difference for you guys once the ball started rolling your way?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Really just kind of getting in the rhythm. I think we were doing pretty good at the beginning but it would be like one play, it would be a big loss. So I think that kind of affected the overall drive. But I think in the second quarter we kind of got it together and we played well.   
 Q.  What will this win do for this team do you think heading forward? You said it could be getting better week by week. What's your sense of where you guys are now, 38-7?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: I think the team definitely has more confidence now, but we can't get complacent at all we have to keep working because we know there can be one week where we can slip up. And of course nobody wants that to happen so we just keep on rolling and just keep on practicing.   
 Q.  How banged up did you get today? You had to go in the tent even?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: It was just from the touchdown. I kind of went on my back a little bit, but I should be good.   
 Q.  How did the weather affect things, and what kind of statement are you guys are trying to make, but what kind of statement was this?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: The weather affected us I think more in the first quarter so we just had to get adjusted to that a little bit but overall I think we handled it well towards the second quarter and the rest of the game. So that was kind of a big thing coach wanted to focus on just playing through it because they had to play through it too.   
 Q.  And in terms of the statement, is this something you guys wanted to make?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Of course, every time we play we want to make a statement. Of course the teams here that were tough, they hear that we're good, but we want to prove it and go out on the field and prove it to them. So I think the team played well on defense, offense and also special teams.   
 Q.  To dominate the No. 1 defense in the country like that; they were giving up 199 -- I think you went 431 yardage. Impress you? Was there something here that you hadn't seen from your team?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Not really. I think in all honesty we could have put up 50. I think if the weather was different I think we could have threw the ball more and put up way more points than we did. Overall I'm just glad we got the win and we're 8-0.   
 Q.  When you're in practice you have your noncontact jersey on. But can you put us in the shoes of a quarterback who has to stare down Chase Young and what that's like?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Yeah, I just feel bad for him to be honest because Chase in practice he can get back there pretty much whenever he wants. Chase is a great player, everybody knows that. He's probably the best defensive player in the country, so I'm just glad he's on my team.   
 Q.  I want to ask you about your relationship with Chris Olave. Everybody knew about him at the end of last year, but he seems to be coming along and he made a couple of huge plays for you guys today. What are you guys developing between you and he?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Chris is a hard worker. He does everything right on and off the field. He's one of the hardest workers I've seen. He's always doing the right thing never doing anything wrong. He's a great leader and he just puts his head down and works.   
 Q.  Was the first touchdown the same as the Northwestern play last week or was it different?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: It was a little bit different, but it was kind of similar.   
 Q.  You were asked about Chris and Chase. J.K. obviously had a really big game today. Seems like your guys' star players really stepped up to the plate when you needed them to today. Is there something to that when you're in a big game like this, guys step up really have career performances?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Coach Day told us earlier in the week big-time players make plays in big-time games. And I think all the big-time players of the team definitely stepped up and made great plays today.   
 Q.  They came out and scored to start the second half. Can you tell us what it felt like going back on the field knowing you guys as an offense kind of needed to answer that and take the momentum back?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: I think our motto as an offense is nobody can stop us except us. We knew what we had to do out there. We just had to go out there and actually execute it, so we weren't worried at all we just had to go out and execute the play and just everybody do their job.   
 Q.  Along those lines, did anybody say anything after that touchdown or --  
JUSTIN FIELDS: No, we didn't think about it. We just kept our heads straight and just went on the field and just played our game.   
 Q.  What does that say about you guys that it doesn't need to be said?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: I feel like the team, we react well to adversity. So just when stuff doesn't go our way, Coach tells us all the time, we're going to get punched in the face, but it's how you react to getting punched in the face, what you do after, that kind of determines the game.   
 Q.  Jonathan Taylor came in with the Heisman hype with J.K. But you really kind of outran him today. Did you get a sense that was going to happen, that it was a personal thing for J.K.?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: We were messing with J.K. the whole week talking about the best Big Ten running back is coming at the shoe. So, J.K. is a great running back, of course, and I thought he played very well today in the passing game and running game also. He was a big help into winning this game.   
 Q.  Is that the hardest you've seen him run?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: He runs hard every game. Can't really compare him to one game, but, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT