OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 21, 2019
Justin Fields
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ohio State - 76, Miami (Ohio) - 5   
 Q.  Justin, just about the second quarter there, tell us about the rhythm you discovered. It seemed unique. Is that the best stretch you all had as an offense this year?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: I think it was a pretty good stretch. I don't know about the best stretch we've had. But it was a good stretch and I think we did a great job in the second quarter executing and doing our job.   
 Q.  Anything said after the first quarter, just the fact that they led for a short time, you got the touchdown to go ahead? But anything expressed from Coach or a player?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: No, not really. I mean, Coach always tells us that we're going to eventually get punched in the face so it's about how we responded. I think we responded in a great way. Just have to keep doing it.   
 Q.  Was the strip sack a punch in the face there early? How did you personally rebound from that? What did you tell yourself?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: I mean, I wasn't worried about it at all. I had faith in the team. So when that happens you really can't do anything about it. You just move on to the next play. I wasn't worried about it personally and the offense didn't seem worried about it. So we were good.   
 Q.  You guys are about to really dive into that meat of the schedule now go on the road to Nebraska. How do you feel coming in out of this one, that performance? How ready are you guys to head into the big games?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: I think we've prepared the winter/summer, and I think this team is mentally and physically prepared, so we'll get in the film room tomorrow, see what we can get better at and just get ready for Nebraska.   
 Q.  What did you think about (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Probably the one to Bin, maybe. I like that one.   
 Q.  It looked like that showed what you do well, you throw that great deep ball. (Indiscernible). Does that ring true to you?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Yeah, definitely. We have a lot of deep threats on the team, so I just -- seeing that executed in the game, it was great to see.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) making plays like that all day. What's the difference?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: He's an all-around receiver. He's physical even though he's not that big. He probably needs to gain some weight. But he's physical, he's a great route runner. He has great hands. He's explosive, so he's a great receiver to have.   
 Q.  You've kind of not really run the ball as much as people thought you might have to begin the season. Now that you guys get into this Big Ten slate do you think that might increase a little more as you guys open the offense up even more than you guys already have?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Depends on how the game goes, so whatever Coach game plans up and whatever he draws up, I'm going to do for the team. So, it's really whatever we have to do to win.   
 Q.  We saw touchdowns from Garrett Wilson and Jameson Williams today. What have you seen from them in practice and how good can they be?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Garrett, that was a good catch, but he's definitely had better catches in practice. That wasn't surprising to see.   
And Jameson, on that slant, when he kind of stopped and started running, I already knew, like, right away he was going to score because he's definitely one of the fastest guys on the team. His explosiveness -- he's going to be a great receiver in the future.   
 Q.  You guys got off to a little bit of a slow start. What was the feeling midway through the first quarter? What was the feeling, what did you guys do to get jump-started in the middle of the first quarter?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: We didn't really change anything up. We knew we started out slow and we had to do something about it. Just the way we reacted, I think that was kind of the first time we hit a little bit of adversity this year. So just seeing that bounce-back, that was great.   
 Q.  In the red zone, how do you think your ability to (indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: I think it's a great thing that I can do. And I think it opens up the offense a lot. J.K. and I, just the defense doesn't know where to go. And plus our receivers down there, they're great receivers and that opens up the offense a bit.   
 Q.  What is your role as the second- and third-stringers come in? How do you embrace that role helping to lead the others?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: I mean, I think those guys do a great job in the film room. I don't really have to coach those guys up at all. But it's really getting the whole offense, the whole second-, third-string offense energized and just kind of ready to go, because it's late in the game, the game's pretty much over. But just kind of getting those guys in getting reps, working on their craft, that's what I try to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT