OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 7, 2019
Justin Fields
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Ohio State - 42, Cincinnati - 0
Q. Justin, can you compare how you felt, looked like you were in complete command out there today. How did that compare to last week?
JUSTIN FIELDS: I mean, I felt really comfortable before the game. So just really that confidence from last week that I gained. I felt like it was a big help in today's game.
Q. What does it mean for J.K. Dobbins to kind of get off today, launch, et cetera, for the offense going forward?
JUSTIN FIELDS: Yeah, I think that kind of gave him a big dose of confidence too. The O Line did a great job with the run game and pass game. It all starts up front.
Q. Last week obviously you had the fast start and then the whole team kind of tailed off. This was much more of a complete effort. When you watch what you guys did, see what you guys did, what's the potential for this team? How good do you feel based on where you guys can be based on today?
JUSTIN FIELDS: I think we can be as good as we want to be. If everybody stays focused, we limit the injuries on the team, I think we can do big things this year.
Q. You made a comment during fall camp about when you went into games at Georgia, you always wanted to make that extra yard or do something to get your coach's attention. Seems like you've played very smart football for the first two weeks, no crazy turnovers, not trying to force things. How hard has that been or maybe it was easy for you to stay within yourself, take what the defense gives you and just play smart football?
JUSTIN FIELDS: Coach Day emphasized taking care of the football and just being smart. Having him in my ear here after every drive just reminds me to do that.
Q. How good can you be playing like that?
JUSTIN FIELDS: I mean, as I said, myself and the team, I think we can be as good as we want to be this year.
Q. Justin, you mentioned after last week's game a play would break down there were moments when you didn't feel like you and the receivers were on the same page as far as scramble moments. Seemed like you made big plays in that area today. Can you talk about the week of prep and where you all went to work in that regard, how it paid off today?
JUSTIN FIELDS: We worked on it a good bit this week. We're still not where we need to be. But I think we're going to keep improving and just be where we want to be by the end of the season. It's just like practice and scramble, scramble drill, just run around, even plays on air, kind of running around, having the receivers float with me. So just all that practice.
Q. Justin, the one you threw to Chris down the sideline, is that an example of what you're talking about there?
JUSTIN FIELDS: Yeah, that particular play, the corner was playing off, and I think he pushed Chris out of bounds. But really just finding an open space and getting open. And just making a play.
Q. I think it was your second touchdown run, J.K. threw you a pretty good block. Do you see that happening (indiscernible)?
JUSTIN FIELDS: I mean J.K. told me before the play just follow me. So I followed him and we got in the end zone.
Q. What did you anticipate today? Was this -- seemed fairly methodical, just boom, boom, boom. Were you expecting a tougher fight from the other side?
JUSTIN FIELDS: I really wasn't expecting anything really. I just know if our team focuses and executes on both sides of the ball that it will be a good outcome.
Q. Justin, when the offense makes, is able to continue doing what you start the game doing, unlike last week, what are the things that you think you were able to do as an offense this week so that they wouldn't be able to adjust, they wouldn't be able to take you out of your game?
JUSTIN FIELDS: We are just the same, the tempo we had at first, like, start of the game last week we kind of tailed off. So this week Coach emphasized (indiscernible) all the tempo as the game goes on. So I think we did a pretty good job of that.
Q. How do you think you've improved over the past week just as a pocket passer?
JUSTIN FIELDS: I mean, I don't really know, to be honest. But I think the receivers and I are getting a better feel of each other. So we just gotta keep going and just get ready for Indiana next week.
Q. At times you were kind of forcing yourself a little bit to have a little bit more patience than you had week one.
JUSTIN FIELDS: Not really. I have faith in the O line. So I know I'll have time. But I really wasn't forcing myself to stay back there, I was just kind of feeling it out, really.
Q. The play with Garrett the touchdown, looked like you threw a blooper over the guy go over what you're looking for, what's it mean for his first year career catch for a touchdown for Ohio State?
JUSTIN FIELDS: For me and Garrett, and I think everybody else on the team, they know that's not a circus catch for Garrett; that's pretty much routine for him. So, he definitely has my trust. He gained all that in the spring and just this summer. So when I saw that, I already knew he was going to catch the ball.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT