OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 31, 2019
Justin Fields
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ohio State - 45, Florida Atlantic - 21   
 Q.  Justin (indiscernible) spring game. Your first start here. How would you evaluate this and how were you able to do that?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: I think I did good overall. Of course there's always room to improve but we just have to keep working as a unit and just keep getting better in all aspects of the game.   
 Q.  What surprised you today and what was it like playing in The Shoe?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Of course it's always great playing in The Shoe. But there wasn't really anything that surprised me. I think us as a team we prepared well for like their looks. They did give us some crazy looks. But overall I enjoyed it.   
 Q.  Could you have had a better start personally than you did? Touchdown passes and (indiscernible) No. 36 hit you really hard after a pass. Did you have a little bit of a time to recover from that?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: That was my first time getting hit in a while. So I have to get used to that one. But I think overall I did a good job so just getting ready for next week.   
 Q.  Obviously first collegiate start. You can only do so much in practice. You can simulate only so much. The game starting to slow down a little bit as you got in a bit of a rhythm, did you start to feel --  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Yeah, I think that goes on like with any player, really. So just when you get to know more stuff and just be able to anticipate what they're going to do, the game definitely slows down.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you guys for the most part got what you were doing when you were doing the under center stuff, I think you guys ran a lot more than anybody anticipated and you got two touchdowns out of it?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Yeah, we've been working on that a lot this offseason. So I think we did a good job doing it. And, yeah.   
 Q.  The one in the red zone where you threw it to Jeremy in the back and Luke was kind of like a fully, is look the first read there and looked like it was taken away?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Yes, Luke was the first read on that.   
 Q.  You said you weren't surprised by anything. But the 51-yard TD, that was about as wide of a hole as you can find. Did that shock you at all that it was that wide?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Honestly, it did. So when I was running it, I was like thinking to myself like that was kind of easy. But it definitely surprised me a little bit. So, yeah.   
 Q.  What do you need to work on? As you're coming out of this what maybe are you disappointed in yourself that you can see?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: All aspects of the game of my game can get better and improve. I'm just going to get back in the film room and see what mistakes we had and just fix those and get ready for Cincinnati.   
 Q.  Was there any point after you guys got up big second quarter, third quarter, where you were told or you decided to just give the ball on the zone replays or not to run it yourself?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Well, I was just reading the play out early. So most of the reads were gives. So just reading the play and doing the play.   
 Q.  Red hot first quarter. Tail off a little bit in the second. Can you talk about the ebb and flow of the game of sort of everything working to nothing and then you come back from --  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Yeah, we jumped on them early but we just gotta keep that tempo up and just be able to score all game long.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: I mean, Coach Day does a great job scheming for the team. And our tight ends are very talented. So that wasn't surprising for me at all. It happens in practice a lot. So I think those guys did a great job today.   
 Q.  Just want to ask you, first two touchdowns appeared to be complete coverage by them where Jeremy cut inside there and there's nobody there. (Indiscernible) multiple plays you can simply walk out there hand it to them and how do you not mess something like that up?  
JUSTIN FIELDS: Those were definitely surprising. When I see him like wide open I just make sure there's nobody else around him because it just doesn't seem like it's supposed to be that wide open. So it was good, though.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT