ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 27, 2013
Jim Grobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  COACH GROBE:   We had another typical battle with Duke this past weekend.   Seems like the majority of our games have gone right to the wire, and this one was no exception.   Duke got us.   
We're disappointed.   I thought the game was really a well‑fought game, one of those games where you really enjoy watching if you don't care who wins.   Unfortunately, we came out on the short end.   
Trying to get the guys back up and hopefully we can bounce back this week in Nashville.   
   
 Q.   I was interesting, you guys are playing one of four games the ACC is playing against the SEC this weekend.   The ACC is 2‑2 against the SEC, which is widely recognized as the best conference in the country.   What would it mean to take care of business this weekend and win a majority of those games?  
COACH GROBE:   I think it would be huge.   I think anytime your league goes outside to play, people take notice.   
In this case with the ACC getting a little bit more national recognition this year with some great teams in the league, I think for the league to go against the SEC and win their share would be great.   
   
 Q.   We have to vote on the All‑ACC this week.   As a writer, it's tough for me to come up with three offensive lines.   Can you talk about some of your guys that might deserve consideration at those positions.   
COACH GROBE:   In the offensive line?   
   
 Q.   Yes, sir.   We can do skill people okay, looking at numbers, but don't have much to go on for the offensive line.   
COACH GROBE:   I would not think that any of my guys right now have played well enough to be All‑Conference guys.   A couple freshmen have played really, really good for us.   Cory Helms and Josh Harris have played a lot of good football for us so far this year.   
The rest of the positions, whether it's performance, being banged up, probably nobody up front for us.   We've gone against some pretty good offensive line groups.   
I don't think that anybody's got a better group of five guys than Florida State does.   We felt like they had two or three of the best players in the ACC this year.   I think Miami had a really, really good offensive line.   
Those are things that jump out at you probably more than even individual players.   You kind of come out of a game and feel like a group of offensive linemen were the strongest.   
There's a lot of good guys in the league, but I know they're hard to pick because they don't have a lot of stats.   
   
 Q.   Nikita, is he a contender for defensive player of the year?  
COACH GROBE:   He's played awful good for us this year.   Last year he stayed banged up.   For us this year, defensively, it's all started with him.   I don't know about player of the year stuff, but certainly for us he's been our real impact player on defense this year.   
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to identify what their look is?   They let their guys run around and be versatile in a lot of different ways.   
COACH GROBE:   I think that's the deal.   Keeping things mixed up, kind of keeping you off balance a little bit.   I think the key is guys that can make plays, get off blocks, do those kind of things.   But I think kind of being able to keep you off balance is important.   
   
 Q.   Was it tough for your quarterbacks to identify what they were doing?   They had a couple of interceptions against you guys.   
COACH GROBE:   Yeah, I think that's one thing that is probably the toughest for quarterbacks, is to on one hand sometimes you just force balls.   You're really trying to make plays and trying to get balls into tight spaces.   
But I think at times people show up that you don't expect to be there, and that's usually because they've done a good job disguising coverage.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT