ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 13, 2013
Jim Grobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  COACH GROBE:   We had a really poor performance, obviously, this past weekend, very disappointing.   But very impressed with Florida State's football team.   I think they're really pretty special.   But at the same time I thought our guys didn't compete very well at all.   So we're looking forward to trying to get things back on track and hopefully these last couple of weeks will be a better football team.   
   
 Q.   Just wondering, moving forward, what you're going to do at quarterback.   And Tanner going to go ahead and start the next time you play or is that going to be open here now during the buy?  
COACH GROBE:   Tanner is our guy, he's just got to play better.   I was disappointed, we made some really poor decisions early in the Florida State game.   And Tanner was responsible for three turnovers.   And that's just not what you can have out of a veteran quarterback.  
So I think going forward our best chances to win are with Tanner.   I like Tyler Cameron, the young kid, but he's just really not played at all.   It's hard to put a young guy with no experience on the field and think that you're going to win.  
So while we've got a kid with Tyler Cameron, I think he's very talented, but I think Tanner is the one we have to win football games with.  
   
 Q.   What happened last week, was that an is matter of facing a good Florida defense, or was he not on top of his game?   
COACH GROBE:   I think a couple of poor decisions on his part led to a couple of turnovers.   I thought Florida State made a nice play on a couple of turnovers, there were times when our quarterback play was shaky.   And Josh Harris fumbled the ball, got picked up running to the end zone.  
I think in some cases it was us.   In some cases them.   I think Tanner had a couple of that he could have thought his way through a little bit better.   And one, I thought Florida State just made great plays.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you see Florida State every year.   How, just off the top of your head, how does this stack up against some of the better teams you play?   
COACH GROBE:   This is a team that's a disciplined football team.   They don't have very many penalties.   They're playing really disciplined football.   Talent has always been at Florida State.   They've always had really, really good talent.   I think their quarterbacks probably play better than any of the quarterbacks we faced.   I thought E.J. Manuel was a great quarterback, but I think this kid, from a talent standpoint is maybe as accurate a thrower as we've seen, moves around in the pocket really, really well.   I think from top to bottom if you look at offensive teams and offense and defense, this is the most solid Florida State team we've played in the 13 years I've played them.   
   
 Q.   I guess despite the struggles, you guys still have the possibility of a bowl game out there.   How much do you use that as a source of motivation.   What would it mean to this team to achieve that?   
COACH GROBE:   Obviously it would be huge for us if we could win a couple of games and get into a bowl game.   The problem is we're playing a really good Duke team and a really good Vanderbilt team, so it's not going to be easy for us.   But I think from our perspective we've got to just find a way to make first downs and score points.   Our defense has really played pretty good football most of the season.   I think against Clemson we didn't play real well defensively.   But I think the offense always has a little bit to do with that.   They need to get out there and make some first downs and have some possession time.   And then the past weekend against Florida State, seven turnovers, I mean we've had seasons I think where we didn't have ten turnovers for a year.   And we had seven in one game.   And I think they've led about 38 points that basically our offense gave up.   I think defensively we need to try to play good defensive.   But if the offense gets things going it's going to be tough.   Certainly we can't turn the ball over like we are.   
   
 Q.   I tried to watch part of the game.   It looked like early, before it got out of hand, you actually had a little success, maybe a little more than you've had in the recent weeks with running the ball with Josh Harris, was I seeing that right?   
COACH GROBE:   Yeah, I think so.   That was something that we've talked about all year long, is that something we need to do better.   But I think the problem we got into, you know, running the football is when we got behind so quick.   Before you could blink we turned the ball over three times and given up 21 points.   Once you get behind you're really still trying to win the football game.   You're trying to figure out ways to move the football and score points.   And we kind of lost the momentum ‑‑ not the momentum, but we kind of lost the ability to be patient and run the football, we probably should have stayed that way.   I think Florida State adjusted to what we were doing pretty well.   We started early in the game running the football.   And as the game went on they did a little bit better job.   They did some things with their scheme that was causing problems as the game went on.   But early on that was something that was good to us.   
   
 Q.   I know statistics can be incredibly misleading and the turnovers have a lot to do with it.   The short fields.   But you held them to 200 yards less than any other team they played this year.   Is that all a function of the turnovers or was it a function of some things you were doing well on defense?  
COACH GROBE:   I think it's more a function of the turnovers.   I do think that the one thing that our defensive kids did a nice job of is even when the score was out of hand and the offense had given up so many points, I thought our kids still played really, really hard of the but certainly the ability for them to score as quickly with all the offensive turnovers limited their possessions.   And they had ‑‑ Jameis was out of the game probably midway through the third quarter.   And they used their other quarterbacks.   And so I think ‑‑ I was proud of the way our defense played, how hard they played.   But it's a little bit misleading to see the final stats because they really didn't need to have the offense on the field very much to score as many points as they did, because of the seven turnovers.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT