BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2016
Jim Grobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TCU - 62, Baylor - 22   
JIM GROBE: That was disappointing.  I really thought we had a pretty good week of practice.  I worried, after Texas that was a tough loss for us, and I worried how we would bounce back.  Obviously, not good.  I didn't sense that the end of the week and I think we talked earlier, I thought that early in the week our kids were really down, but later in the week, I thought our guys kind of bounced back a little bit.   
I really felt like coming out of the locker room today that we were ready to play.  But, obviously not.  And I would like to give a lot of credit to TCU's kid, I thought they played really, really good.  In the locker room after the game, I told our players, in this league, with the people we play, teams can put points on you in a hurry.  We got to be able to certainly play better.  I didn't think we played good in any aspect defensively, run or pass.   
And then, offensively, we just were really flat early and kind of got out of the game by halftime and really never got it going again in the second half.   
So, I think that it's a team effort.  I think both sides of the ball certainly have to play better as we go into Oklahoma week.  We'll get back tomorrow and look at the video and figure out how much of it was our players not doing what they were supposed to do and how much of it was our scheme.  I think that's the thing you've got to do as a football coach, is make sure that the blame doesn't all go on the players, that coaches have a big responsibility to put in a game plan that gives the kids a chance, and that the kids are able to execute that plan.   
And so we'll look at both, we'll look at how we played, and we'll look at how we coached, and we'll try to, certainly, have a better plan this week.   
 Q.  The assistant coaches tweeting in support of Coach Briles last night, was that a distraction coming into the game?  
JIM GROBE: You know, we talked about it last week for Texas.  We had the Wall Street Journal article come out before we played Texas and that was the question.  I really don't know.  I think we -- I think TCU played great.  I hate to make excuses, but I really don't know how to put my finger on that.  I think from what I saw today, I just don't think we fit our gaps very well defensively.  We gave up too many big plays again this week, second week in a row, in the throw game.   
And then it's the flattest I've seen us, offensively, so far.  So, I have no idea.  I know we just didn't play as well as we needed to, and I hate to say anything that takes away from TCU's effort because I think they played really good.   
 Q.  After these two games, is it incumbent upon the coaches or is it more the senior leadership to try and get this thing back on track and keep it together here?  
JIM GROBE: Well, I think it starts with coaches.  We got to bring the guys in and show them not only where we didn't play very well, but also where we could have made better calls, maybe have done some things differently.   
But, obviously, when you are in these situations, you need the old guys that have been around the block a couple times to step up and show the younger guys how to do it.  And right now, guys are embarrassed, coaches are embarrassed, we just didn't play very good.  So, I think it's going to be a little bit of both.  We need leadership out of our old guys and we need our coaches to really do a good job, not only correcting the mistakes that the players made, but figuring out away to put them in a little better position to win.   
 Q.  How much do you worry after, especially, the last two weeks of everything that's gone on since you've been here that the emotional gas tank can't get filled up again for these kids?  
JIM GROBE: Well, I do think that we had things going on the first six weeks and found a way to overcome it.  I think we played a good Texas team last week on the road.  I think that the combination of distractions and playing Texas on the road was hard to overcome.   
I was surprised today, to be honest with you.  I felt we played better than we did today.  But I think that once you get, have a couple tough losses like we have had the last two times out, I think it may be a little bit easier to just start playing football.  Kind of just regroup, get your feet back on the ground and, hey, let's get ready to play some football.   
 Q.  Back to last night.  Did they tell you they were going to put that out kind of as a mass tweet, all together, all the assistant coaches and support staff, the majority of them?  
JIM GROBE: No.   
 Q.  Were you disappointed that they did that?  
JIM GROBE: Well, I think our coaches wanted their perspective known.  And I'm not going to step in the way of that.   
 Q.  You talked about maybe not fitting your gaps.  Was that the biggest thing on the run, because it seemed like they were getting a lot of yardage on, like, the cut backs and stuff like that.  
JIM GROBE: Yeah, absolutely.  I think that it can be a couple of things.  It can be the back side edge not doing a good job squeezing or times when we ran stunts and got underneath and we would get the linebackers out the back side.  Sometimes if they don't fit tight enough, that crease gets back there.  So I think that from our perspective, we're trying with some undersized guys to slant and angle a little bit and get those guys moving their feet.   
But at the same time, it just takes one guy not going with everybody else, if it's not in sync, then it creates a little bit more seam.  So I think that we got to look at it really, really hard.  I think that as much movement as we're doing, we may need to look at just holding points a little bit better and not doing as much movement.  But it could be a lot of different things.   
But I think that we're asking our secondary guys to help us in run support and the combination, trying to play the pass and the run can be hard sometimes.  Getting those guys fitted up right and getting them to be aggressive when it's run, and then get out there when it's pass and play well.  It's just tough, it's tough.  I thought TCU did a nice job tonight.   
 Q.  Wanted to get your thoughts, there was, I believe, reports that Shock Linwood kind of shoved an assistant coach on the sidelines.  Wanted to get your thoughts on that.  
JIM GROBE: I didn't see that.  And I know that sometimes coaches and the kids get emotional on the sidelines, but I don't know of any real problem.  Nobody came to me if it was a problem.   
 Q.  In same line with that, Shock didn't play early in the game, Terrence started the game.  Shock, after said incident with I believe it was Tate Wallis, was in for a series after that.  Is -- what's the situation with Shock?  You said he had a good week of practice, but didn't play a whole lot today.  Where does he kind of stand right now?  
JIM GROBE: Well, I thought Shock practiced better Wednesday.  And you know, it's just, it's easy, you practice good and you play good and you play more.  I mean, that's just the bottom line.  The better you practice, typically the better you play, but you got to carry it to the game and play good and he did not have a very good game against Texas, but we know he's got ability, so he's got competition with TW and J-Mike and so, all three of those guys, we don't really care who is on the field.  So you're starting your reps and that kind of thing, it's really production is what it's all about.   
 Q.  Do you feel that all coaches and all players on your staff are 100 percent still bought in?  
JIM GROBE: Well, I don't think it's good right now as far as mentally, just because we have lost two games.  I've never been on a team that loses that feels good about it.   
So, I would be disappointed if our guys felt good about losing.  So we'll regroup.  We got good kids and our kids will bounce back, and we'll do the right things with them and get them going in the right direction.   
 Q.  You said you didn't want to get in the way of them giving their perspective with the tweets on Friday night.  Do you think all of this now is starting to get in the way of what the goals are of this football team?  
JIM GROBE: You know, I don't know, that's what John had asked earlier.  I do think that these last two weeks have not been good on the field.  We lost a really heart breaker at Texas and today, really played poorly and lost to a team that, themselves, played really, really good.  But it could be kind of a cleansing thing for us, it could maybe get us to put all that stuff out of the way and start focusing on football.  I will tell you, football's a hard game, it's a really hard game, especially when you're playing good football teams and you got to go through a week and you got all the other stuff, your academics and all the things, your family and things that can distract you.  But a lot of distractions don't help.  This is a game you really got to spend all your focus on for 12 games during the season to play well and if you don't, this is what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT