BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2008
John Bickerton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Bonus for you getting out?   
 JOHN BICKERTON: I thought it played fantastically well considering the rain they had.   
 It does make a difference, because the fairways are so tight, that when it's wet and the ball is collecting, so that's why I think we had preferred lies, in that third fairway this morning, it was so wet. I think they had to move the tee forward to make sure you hit over the wet parts. They did an absolutely fantastic job. End of the day, the greens improved a tremendous amount since I've been here, so they have made a big effort and yeah, they are doing a good job.   
  
  Q. One of your best starts this year?  
 JOHN BICKERTON: Good question, I don't know. I'm not one of those people that look at rounds, I'm not that way. I just get on with it, if I'm playing well, just enjoy it and if not try to get in next week.   
  
  Q. Bogeyed 16 and birdied 17?   
 JOHN BICKERTON: Yeah, 16 is a tough hole. I hit a good drive as well and second shot got out of the neck and cleared the water on the bank and hit a good putt and horseshoed out and you can imagine, there's a few footprints in the afternoon. It's going to be pretty bad this afternoon for the guys going out. Just hoping there's no more rain. So bumpy around the hole.   
 On 17, kicked it towards the flag and holed it, and it was a bonus.   
  
  Q. What's next for you goals-wise? Are you a goal-setter?   
 JOHN BICKERTON: I said I wanted to finish top 20 on the Order of Merit this year at start of the year. Had a tough year last year, my mum died and a few things happened and you have to regroup. And this year has been a bonus, winning early in the season, because I don't normally play that time of year, so it was a nice start to the season.   
 I'd like a good week here and I've got a month off I think, by choice. My son, he's coming to see me for two weeks and I'll have a bit of time with him.   
  
  Q. Although ...   
 JOHN BICKERTON: Yeah, but you can't plan your whole season around one tournament. It's like the Qualifying; my opinion, it's just too much to come between tournaments. You know, this is a four-week run I've had and to try to fit another two rounds in one day between two big tournaments and drive in from Paris, as well, to London, it's just too much for me. I'm not a spring chicken anymore.   
  
  Q. Obviously if you get into The Open --  
 JOHN BICKERTON: It would be a bonus, but my first thought is have a good week here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT