BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2008
John Bickerton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Starting the day ten behind, not really thinking of winning, I would have thought.   
 JOHN BICKERTON: Well, no, obviously I think second place was looming and that was the target to try to get within a few shots of that. And all of a sudden you come off the course, you're 5-under and you're in amongst it again. So, a nice feeling.   
  
  Q. Did you have a sense on the course that you were moving forwards and he was moving backwards?   
 JOHN BICKERTON: I didn't really look at the leaderboard until the last hole, and I thought, crickey, if this goes in, I've a chance. You never know what's around the corner in this game, and there's no gimmies and anything can happen.  
  
  Q. What about shades of Leopard Creek?  
 JOHN BICKERTON: You never want to wish ill upon other people, but that was a nice surprise and I hope there's many more of them around the corner.  
  
  Q. All of the local people wish for a German winner, but if they don't get one, at least somebody who lives in Germany.   
 JOHN BICKERTON: Well, I do a couple months of the year, and I have a German girlfriend, so it's nearly there; so it's as good as.  
  
  Q. What will you do now?  
 JOHN BICKERTON: Now I'll chill out and have a bite to eat in the players lounge and see what's going on and enjoy it.   
  
  Q. The putt, did that make it more difficult?  
 JOHN BICKERTON: It wasn't a bad putt, but just turned a lot sharper at the end. You know, sometimes they drop and sometimes they don't.   
 Probably the best I've played tee-to-green all year, even more so than Leopard Creek and didn't hole the putts and the last two days holed a few more, which certainly makes you feel a bit better.   
  
  Q. You've got this ability to do it on the final day.   
 JOHN BICKERTON: When you're feeling happy and you can knock the ball close a few times, it's just about holing the putts. And it's not through lack of work this week; I've put the time in and hopefully get the rewards back.   
 Like I say, you don't know what's around the corner in this game and when you get your chance you try and take it. But I've left a few out there this week, there's no doubt about that, but I'm not complaining obviously.   
  
  Q. Did South Africa tell you that anything is possible?   
 JOHN BICKERTON: Exactly. That's golf, isn't it; anything can happen. I stood on the 16th the other day in the second round and I hit the best shot I hit all week, straight at the flag, hit the flag, one bounce, backspin, straight in the water. And so you look at it and you birdie it today, and you think, a bit of justice there.   
  
  Q. Pitch in today at 16?   
 JOHN BICKERTON: It was about 18 inches, stopped about three feet.   
  
  Q. Any really long ones?   
 JOHN BICKERTON: No, I played nicely. Started with a birdie on the first which really helps, from eight feet.   
 The course, I have to say, this week, they have done a fantastic job and it really is a quality tournament. You know, you go back, this is the 20th edition. I didn't play obviously then but I've played in a fair few and I think it's most improved course we've played over the years, without a doubt and condition-wise, fantastic. Every credit to the guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT