THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2006
John Bickerton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. John, you've just come off with a smile on your face.  That was a good end to the round?
JOHN BICKERTON:  Yes, those last three holes are good holes to get a score back and I managed to birdie all three of them.
Q.  What about the round as a whole?
JOHN BICKERTON:  It was a pleasure being there with one of the game's legends.  It was a special occasion.
Q.  What did Tom Watson say to you?
JOHN BICKERTON:  He said, "Good morning, John."  Actually I spoke to his wife in the car the other day.  They were very good to me.  He's given me a signed flag because my mum has motor neuron disease.  I've got the signed flag in my locker, so maybe I'll get a few pence towards that for a charity.  So it was a fine and generous offer.
Q.  He's a class man on and off the course?
JOHN BICKERTON:  Very much so; very much a professional.  He's a real asset to the game.
Q.  You put yourself in real position for the final round?
JOHN BICKERTON:  Yeah, I'm 4 under par.  I don't think it's going to win, but it's going to be in position to make    to get a decent check, and that's what I'll try to do.
Q.  How were the crowds?
JOHN BICKERTON:  Honestly, every hole out there, especially playing with Tom.  He's got many majors to his name.  They just love him, so it was nice to be part of that.
Q.  Do you have friends and family up supporting you?
JOHN BICKERTON:  Yeah, but you don't see them out there, unfortunately, because there are so many people.  But it's been a lovely week.
Q.  More of the same tomorrow?
JOHN BICKERTON:  Yep, it would be nice to shoot a low one, but it's tricky out there.  The wind was into us on the front nine and then it changed on the 11th.  The two par 5s at the end can make or break your score.

On the 16th I put it in the bunker off the tee.  I hit an 8 iron and left myself 127 yards and knocked it to about six feet from the tee and holed that.

17 was a drive and a 3 iron to about 12 feet and holed that.

The last I was on the edge of the green for two, pitching around the bunker and holed about a five or six footer for birdie there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT