OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 16, 2014
Oscar Fraustro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'll get a statement from Oscar and then take questions. 
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Hello, good afternoon.   Thank you very much, to all of you who traveled here who supported our Mexican players. 
I'm very happy for the tournament.   It could have been better, as usual, but I'm happy with the score, I'm willing to improve, with this small break that I have, to improve to have a very good beginning to 2015. 

Q.   Good afternoon.   You are in ninth place with Carlos and for the first time two Mexican players are in the top‑10 of this tournament.   You are able to play for the next PGA TOUR.   Are you a part of the top‑10.   What does it mean for you?
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Very nice that Carlos and I were able to have a good game and we were able to give joy to all our supporters. 
It was very good to see all the supporters and it showed it was very important to me to be part of it. 
And I'm not sure, but now that you're telling me I'm in the ninth place, this is the first time I hear it.   It's very important for the reshuffle for the reclassification on the TOUR, to have access to the first events of next year.   So this was a very good objective that I fulfilled. 

Q.   We have you and Carlos here, have you identified other Mexican players also on the same age on your same age that are about to go to the next page?
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   There's a couple good players, I don't know what was their results, I know one is very close to be part of the WEB.COM. 
There are many other Mexican players in college that there are many players and I feel like I'm an old guy compared to them.   There are like a bunch of kids, but I'm very glad that there are so many Mexican talented players here. 

Q.   Now, with the reshuffle you mentioned, according to your last score, you increased almost 80 positions from there.   170.   So you are right now in the 98 position.   98.   So this change, what does it imply to you to be part of the best 100 players in PGA?
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Well, it does not imply a lot.   We have been playing four tournaments, so it's not going to change a lot.
But what is important is the number that I have in my mind that I was 43 out of 55 players last week and I increased to 37 and after this week I hope I am part of the first top‑10.   I don't know the changes of this position.   I know many who come from the WEB.COM will have very good games and that's important thing about it, because I'll be able to have more access to play at the beginning of next year and to get close to the playoffs. 
That is my objective for this year, to be part of the playoffs, to keep my card, to have my full card for to 2016 and 2017 season and this is a very good step for it. 

Q.   The world has been able to get to know you, you are here because of all the hard work you do.   As you are that kind of person, you mentioned you could have improved on something.   After two weeks of vacation, what are you going to improve on?   What do you think you need to improve for this tournament?
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Well, my game on the greens, except for the bunker, that normally is my strong area, except for yesterday it was very, very bad.   Today I have several very easy chips that I was able to have some of them, some of them I failed them.   So to be able to improve on that area.
For the longer game, I have a very good jump towards the good level, like a couple of weeks ago working with my coach and then keep working on that to go to Hawaii, that will be the first tournament for next year, in a very good shape or even better shape compared to this week. 

Q.   It was due to the weather, moisture, humidity, because this year with many under par round, something that we have not seen in other tournaments in this same field. 
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   So what is your question? 

Q.   Did you see that the field was a little bit slow and it contributed to your game?
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Yes, I mentioned this in the first day.   Greens were soft, the field was soft, so we were able to be more aggressive hitting our irons to the hole and that's why we had lower scores compared to previous years, except for last year. 
THE MODERATOR:   One last question. 

Q.   What is the plan for these next six weeks that you will not be participating in any tournament?   Will you do any physical work?   Will you train?   Will you have some social tournaments?
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   No, this is preseason.   First, I rest, then I need to do physical work for the next two weeks to go back into shape to be able to go through the whole season.
Then I need to start working on all the other areas of my game like a normal season that we normally do hopefully here. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much, Oscar.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT