OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 15, 2014
Oscar Fraustro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Let's start with the press conference.   Oscar Fraustro, 2‑under today.   We'll start with his comments. 
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Good afternoon.   I'm a little bit wet, as you all expected.   This was a very more difficult day on the golf course than the previous two days.   But we have had a very good under par round and in a very good position to advance more position for tomorrow. 
THE MODERATOR:   Let's start with the questions, please. 

Q.   How was the golf course different with the southern rain where you were starting the second round?   What about the weather conditions for the golf course?
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Well, this was totally different.   This made the golf course longer, first of all.   And it also changed the way the ball reacts when you chip.   It was a little bit slippery. 
So it transformed this course into a monster for the last nine holes.   It was difficult, I adjusted to everything.   I had a very good game, except for a couple of mistakes, but that's the way golf is. 

Q.   Very good round, the score you got according to the weather conditions and the golf course conditions. 
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Yes, as I mentioned, a round under par and with this weather that we have for last nine holes, I'm very happy with my score. 
I tried to get a lower round in order to skip more positions, but I'm still going towards the right direction.   And let's see what happens tomorrow. 

Q.   If it still rains tomorrow, will that affect the golf course conditions?   Do you think you will face a different golf course?
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Well, it wasn't a very little soft rain, maybe when you left on hole 8.   Right now it's raining heavier.   Sometimes it is lighter at the golf course. 
The golf course is receiving the water in a wonderful way.   Any other golf course?   Well, not any other golf course, but 90 percent of other golf courses that could get this amount of water could have stopped the tournament after half an hour, because of the amount of water. 
But we didn't have any mud on the ball.   Tomorrow, if it doesn't rain, maybe we could get it to the fairway.   It doesn't change anything at all, but I'm calm, because I'm sure the golf course will be perfect conditions. 

Q.   The weather forecast for tomorrow is not very positive.   We have very good possibility of rain tomorrow as I'm checking right now.   What about the strategy that you will apply?   What are you going to do, because we all know rain is a little bit difficult when cleaning the clubs, the gloves, etcetera.   So what are you going to do to face tomorrow's round and to take advantage of the weather conditions?
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Well, first of all, I will include a second dry towel in my golf bag, because I would have paid a lot of money to have one today. 
My grips were very wet.   My towel was totally wet.   It was never dry.   And at the end I felt I was losing the club. 
So, the truth is, that the most difficult thing is for the caddies, because they're in charge of many things, but also they're in charge of keeping our clubs dry. 
Now the good thing is that if it continues to rain like this, we will have a difficult golf course, and with a low round I can still skip more people. 

Q.   You are one step from going to the top‑10 of the PGA TOUR players, but you're just needing a couple more positions to be in the top‑10.   You're about to be a part of those top‑10 players. 
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   I play to win.   Not to be top‑5 or ‑10.   I play to win. 
It would be great.   The last result, a top‑10 is a very good golf tournament, but I don't see it that way.   When I establish my objectives, I try to win.   Not to be one of the top‑10. 

Q.   I would like to ask you two things:   First of all, under these weather conditions, is this the first time you have played under these weather conditions?   And number two, in case you are one of the top‑10, do you get any type of privilege in the PGA TOUR for the following tournament?
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Well, for question number one, it would be great if it was the first time that I played under these weather conditions.   I played with these weather conditions hundreds of times.   When I was in college, most of the tournaments were like this, but in a cold weather, and carrying my own bag. 
As many other players who are here, we have gone through this, everybody has experience with these weather conditions and I don't like it, but that is the way it is. 
What was your question number two?   Oh, yeah, the privileges.   Okay, top‑10 in a PGA TOUR gets you to go to the following tournament automatically.   The next one is the Sony Open in Hawaii.   I think that I would be part of it.   So nothing would change. 

Q.   I'm glad to see you.   Last year the rain was heavier than this year, but this year it's good to see, first of all, that you have a lot of support in social media, people are going with you throughout different holes, they recognize you as a Mexican player and representing us on the PGA TOUR.   How do you feel with all this support from all the people now that they know that are you a PGA player?
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   The difference with last year we didn't play with this type of rain. 
And for the support, I feel great to see that all these people are supporting me and they do not personally get to know me and I'm lucky enough to get it, since a long time ago, in little amounts. 
Now we have more people following me, who recognize me.   The only thing I would like to do is to encourage more kids to play golf to see that we could achieve our dreams.   That Mexicans can achieve their dreams.
And I really enjoyed it and I feel grateful for it and this is a great motivation to keep moving. 

Q.   You are more experienced than Carlos, even though you are competitors, you are still friends, Mexicans?   What would be the suggestion for him and to the other Mexican players that are not part of this tournament?
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Well, for Carlos, just as I told him at the beginning of the WEB.COM, okay, let's go to have dinner, hello, and how are you, and that's it, because I don't need to tell him anything.   He has demonstrated that he has enough maturity, not just to be part of a tournament, but to be the winner, because he has a very good international experience.
And having a good performance in this tournament with all the attention he's had before, even before we started on Thursday, he is having a good management of that social pressure.
Before we started the tournament I told him to play your game, just keep doing what you normally do, it's the same golf you played before when you had all the flashlights surrounding you.   And for the other Mexican players, I would tell them the same. 
As I have experienced, participating for the first time in an international tournament, you have different emotions.   If you are going to have a good performance and sometimes you would like to do more than what you need to just ‑‑ you just need to do the normal things you do when you're in a Mexican tournament or any other tournament and you will have a good result here. 
I'm glad they are trying to play at the international level because that's the only way you get maturity, participating in international tournaments. 
THE MODERATOR:   Is there any other questions for Oscar?   Okay.   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT