OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 14, 2014
Oscar Fraustro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Okay, let's start with Oscar Fraustro.   You have 4‑under par.   Let's get your comments on the day? 
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Good morning.   I think it's still morning.   I'm happy with my round today again, very good score again.   It could have been better, but I found with better control of my game compared to yesterday, so I'm happy to keep fighting for the tournament during the weekend.

Q.   Oscar, what is the moment that you keep from this day? 
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   With the eagle that I had on hole 11 that was the second hole.   I started with a bad bogey on the first hole in hole 10, and on hole 11 I put it with 98 yards to the hole, very nice shot.

Q.   Very good round.   I think you had an understanding on the golf course today?
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Well, not exactly, but I hit more shots the way I was imagining them.   I just had a better picture of the shot I was going to have.   I had more control off the tee, so I had better opportunities from the fairway, and that was the difference for today.

Q.   Carlos and you are going into the second round, and if Efren has a good round this afternoon, he can go into the weekend.   There is a possibility of having three Mexican players that can go into the second round, and this would be very good, and this is something that we rarely see.   We haven't seen this before, three Mexican players in the final rounds. 
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Well, this could be great that Efren or somebody who is playing in the afternoon could have a good game and to be part of the weekend rounds.   But I think Mexico is the winner with the fact that we have seven Mexican players, two as members of the PGA, and hopefully the ones who go to the following round, right now Carlos and myself, could give joy to all of our Mexican people who are following us here during the weekend.

Q.   What would be your response for the second round of this tournament? 
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Well, I will keep the same strategy I've applied these two days.   But I need to be more aggressive.   I need more opportunities for birdies.   I will be several shots away from the leaders, so I need to have two very good rounds during the weekend if I would like to win this tournament.

Q.   Now after two days in this tournament, how do you feel playing here at home with the support of all the Mexican people? 
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   I feel great.   I love playing whenever I play in Mexico and in the area we are right now.   I feel very happy, and playing with the PGA tournament is incredible for me.   The truth is I felt more comfortable and relaxed, and I've been able to enjoy it compared to previous years because of the fact that I have more experienced for this year.

Q.   Right now the situation is changing.   Now you are having different cuts for PGA tournaments that allows you to go over in the classification.   The cut for today will give you very good points that will allow you to be part of other tournaments that would be easier for you to be part of other tournaments? 
OSCAR FRAUSTRO:   Yes, it's very important what I can do in these first tournaments.   This is the first reshuffle, restart if I'm going to access to the tournaments that we'll play to next year.   It's very important that I make the cut for this week, but I'm not paying attention to it.   I would like to win, not just to make the cut.   I just play to win and I hope I can do it more than once in my career. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT