RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2017
Lindy Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 6-under par, currently two off the lead in what is your debut in the Ricoh Women's British Open.  That must have been a pretty nice start.
LINDY DUNCAN: Yeah, really good start.  Hit a lot of fairways and greens today, and just having fun with my caddie, so it was just a good day all around.
Q. Incredible front nine, 5-under par, and then the winds picked up a little bit on the back nine.  Describe the changing conditions you experienced out there towards the end.
LINDY DUNCAN: Well, it's interesting because a lot of the holes on the front, the wind is coming from the right, and I struggle a little bit with a wind that goes to the right because my ball flight is a fade.  So when we got to the back nine, those were some tougher holes for me because I felt like I had to draw it into the wind a lot, so I really just had to kind of trust my swing and trust my aim and was able to do that pretty nicely.
Q. You made the cut at the weekend of the KPMG Women's PGA Championship, so this isn't your first major, but this is your first time playing in the Women's British Open.  Didn't play the Ladies' Scottish last week, so a bit of a learning curve I imagine arriving in Scotland.  How have you found the experience?
LINDY DUNCAN: It's amazing.  This golf course is so beautiful.  I got lucky, I got a great local caddie.  He tells me where to hit it and I try to hit it there, and sometimes I'm like, really?  But yeah, he's been right on the whole time, and I told him in the practice rounds, I was just joking with him, I was like, remind me to listen to you because you know your way around here.  He's had hundreds of rounds out here.  I really relied on him a lot.
Q. What's your caddie's name?
LINDY DUNCAN: His name is Ruairí Roberts.  It's like a crazy spelling.  R-u-a-i-r -- it's crazy.
Q. Do you know how long he's been caddying here?
LINDY DUNCAN: Since he was 16.  He's in his low 20s.  He's probably 23, 22.
Q. Is it nice having a younger caddie with you?
LINDY DUNCAN: Yeah, he's really calm, so we just kind of talk about normal stuff.  Yeah, he just really knows the lines off the tees, and I think out here it's a little bit deceptive.  In the practice rounds, I was like, some of the lines I was like really unsure, but pretty much I hit it there, and before you know it, fairways are sloped, and you can't see that from the tee, and so when the wind kind of changes, he's just been really helpful with that.
Q. How did you get hooked up with him?
LINDY DUNCAN: Just called the caddie master.  I don't have a full-time caddie, so really my only option.  I just got lucky.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT