MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
June 10, 2017
Lindy Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 16 under par through three rounds.  What's been working well for you so far through the first three rounds?
LINDY DUNCAN: Hit my driver well today, and I would say I've been hitting fairways and hitting greens and really rolling the putter well.
When I have gotten in trouble, I've been able to get up and downs for par.  Those have been key up and downs.
Q. Does this golf course suit your eye?
LINDY DUNCAN: Yeah, it does.  I played a couple practice rounds with my caddie and felt really confident about our game plan.
Q. You're right there at the top of the leaderboard right now.  Could be in the final group tomorrow.  Does that change your approach or preparation tonight at all?
LINDY DUNCAN: No, not at all.
Q. A lot of the same for tomorrow in terms of how you're going to attack this golf course, or do you feel like you'll maybe try to play it a little safe?
LINDY DUNCAN: If the wind is like this I think it's going to be a grind for everyone.  It got really gusty towards the end.
If it's calm like the first two days I think people are going to be more aggressive.  Just kind of depends on what the wind gives us.
Q. Hate to ask you the same questions.
LINDY DUNCAN: That's okay.
Q. 5-under, 67 today.  Right now tied for the lead at 16-under.  Coming into today's rounds, I mean, what was your mind -- I mean, you had a great round yesterday; did you think you could replicate it today?
LINDY DUNCAN: Wasn't thinking about yesterday today.  It's a brand new day.  Totally different conditions.  The wind was very strong and gusty, especially towards the end, so I was really just trying to hit good, solid drivers and give myself chances to hit the green.
I was able to hit a lot of nice drives today.  I think that set me up well.
Q. You're playing with In Gee Chun who had a great round too until she bogeyed 17?  Does it help when you have a player playing well alongside you?
LINDY DUNCAN: Playing with her I feel like is the equivalent of playing tennis with Roger Federer.  She's so graceful, so nice.  It was great to watch her play today.
Q. She always has a smile on her face too it seems like.
LINDY DUNCAN: Yeah, it was making me smile.  When she made a birdie I was like smiling because she just has a great vibe.
Q. Certainly windier today than yesterday.  Was that a big factor in the game today?
LINDY DUNCAN: Definitely.  The back nine started gusting.  Couple holes were crosswinds, especially on 18.  So it was like hard to pick a spot to start it.
I credit my caddie because every shot he was just -- we were just on it.
Q. Minus 16 right now; tied with Lexi Thompson.  As you just mentioned you might be in the last group.  Have you led a tournament in your professional career overnight going into the last round?
LINDY DUNCAN: Not that I can remember.
Q. Any ideas what you might do?
LINDY DUNCAN: Just going to do the same thing I been doing:  eat dinner and I go to bed early.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT