MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
June 9, 2017
Lindy Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was quite a run you had going there.  What were your thoughts out there on the golf course today?  
LINDY DUNCAN: Just sticking to what my caddie and I have been doing.  Just trying to pick good lines and judge the wind right.   
Did that for a lot of holes today.   
 Q.  You were 7-under on the front, 29.  You ever shot anything like that, other than on maybe a par-3 course?  
LINDY DUNCAN: I think I've been in the low 30s, but I don't think I've been in the 20s.  Not out here.   
Yeah, that was my lowest nine.   
 Q.  You were 10-under after 13.  Were you aware how well were playing and this could be a record round at that time?  
LINDY DUNCAN: Yeah, I was aware of like where I was because I saw -- we have our sign bearer was right there.   
So when I got to double digits I was like, This is pretty awesome.  I made a few birdies early on the back, which I don't know what that got me to.  I just kind of kept rolling with it.  I wasn't too concerned with it.   
 Q.  Hate to bring this up, but what happened on 17?  You made a double there.  
LINDY DUNCAN: So that was a tricky pin position, maybe a little borderline.  I left a tough putt about three feet short and it was straight downhill.   
I hit what I thought was a pretty good putt and it touched the hole and went about 15 feet.  It almost went off the green.  It was just on a really -- you know, sloped and I think I hit it too hard.  Then just missed that one.   
And then on 18 I was under the lip.  So two bad breaks, but a really good round.   
 Q.  So under the lip on your fairway bunker shot?  
LINDY DUNCAN: Uh-uh.   
 Q.  Still got to be overall please.  Hard not to be pleased when you're leading the tournament.  
LINDY DUNCAN: Oh, yeah.  17 and 18 were tough pins.  They were tucked, so those are holes I was trying to just make pars on and just hit solid shots.  For the most part I did.  Just a little bit off.   
 Q.  What's your approach heading into tomorrow now being at the top?  
LINDY DUNCAN: Same exact thing:  One shot at a time, pick good lines with my caddie, and that's it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT