U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2006
Lindy Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  You're one of the youngest semi finalists we've ever had.  Played a great match.  Birdie on the last hole.  Great putt on the 18 under a lot of pressure.  And just almost did it.  How do you feel about yourself and what you did today?
LINDY DUNCAN:   You know, it was just amazing.  This has been an amazing experience, the entire week that I've been here.

It's just been so much fun.  You know, I love every minute of it.  And I will never forget this.  And I have so many great memories.  I really hope that Kimberly plays a really good match tomorrow.  And I hope she wins.
Q.  That's very gracious of you.  I understand you had some problems there on number 9.  Describe it in your words.
LINDY DUNCAN:   Number 9, terrible drive, and I had a pretty decent stance, and hit a 4 iron to the right side of the green, a little bit off the green.  And it was up hill all the way, and I didn't really see that there was a backdrop about three or four, five feet past the pin, and it was going along, and then it caught the slope and it was gone.  And then couldn't get it up for the second putt, and then it was done.
Q.  Your first putt roll off the green?
LINDY DUNCAN:   Yeah.
Q.  How long was your first putt?
LINDY DUNCAN:   It was probably 50 feet.
Q.  How long was your second putt?
LINDY DUNCAN:   Probably 20 feet.
Q.  And couldn't quite get it up the hill?
LINDY DUNCAN:   Yeah, it rolled right back down.
Q.  So then you    okay.  You wound up with 6.  Rolled back down.  Did you give it another stab?
LINDY DUNCAN:   Yeah, I gave it one more try and it didn't go in so I conceded.
Q.  Now, also talk about the hole No. 14, you were one down going into 14.
LINDY DUNCAN:   Well, I had a good drive, and had a terrible second shot, in the bunker.
Q.  Which bunker was that?
LINDY DUNCAN:   It was the short right bunker.  I had a good lie.  Kimberly was on the green.  I thought she was going to make birdie so I tried to make par and fortunately I hit it perfect.  It rolled right in.  Then she missed.  So that was a huge momentum swing.  That was a big shot.  That was the best shot I hit all day.
Q.  So you had the honor of 15.

You looked like all along you knew that was going in.  Was that the case?
LINDY DUNCAN:   I thought that I would get it close.  I didn't think it was going to go in.  I never really held a bunker shot in that kind of situation.
Q.  And 16, you lost that hole to a birdie?
LINDY DUNCAN:   Yeah.  She stuck it like three feet.  It was amazing.
Q.  18, desperation hole.  You're one down.  You gotta make birdie.  You hit two good shots.  You had a wonderful pitching wedge or 56?
LINDY DUNCAN:   It was like 56, 60 yards.  And just hit a little lobbish and spun it.  It was a good shot.
Q.  Perfect and pin high and just to the right where you needed to be.  What were you thinking as you lined up that putt?  Took quite a while.  Your mind must have been racing?
LINDY DUNCAN:   I made sure I felt comfortable with my line, and I tried to read the putt the best I could, and I made a really good stroke on it and hit it with good speed for a change and it went right in.
Q.  And then?
LINDY DUNCAN:   And then I was thinking, you know, I was really thinking she was going to make it.  I thought she was going to make it.  She did.  And then it was over.
Q.  You came back up to 17.  17 was also I think another momentum on your side kind of a momentum buster because you had that putt.  Can you talk about that?
LINDY DUNCAN:   Yeah, I hit a great drive and hit a really good second shot up there, and it was a tough putt.  I wasn't really sure, I didn't really know which way it was going to break.  And I hit it a little too hard.  And skimmed the left edge and went about three feet by.

Just didn't read it right.
Q.  Did you feel as though it was a missed opportunity and maybe
LINDY DUNCAN:   Yeah, definitely.  You know I knew I could birdie 18.  And 17 was a tough hole.  I felt if I could birdie that, that would be huge.
Q.  How long was that putt?
LINDY DUNCAN:   Probably about eight feet downhill.
Q.  What's next for you, Lindy?
LINDY DUNCAN:   This is my last tournament of the summer.  Just go back to school, start practicing again.  I think there's the Polo in November, for something.  So I think that's the next one.
Q.  Junior event?
LINDY DUNCAN:   Yeah.
Q.  How will it feel like going back to junior golf, you've been playing women's golf?
LINDY DUNCAN:   It's going to be different.  You know the Polo is just like this one, two days of stroke play and then match play.  I hope I get a rematch.
Q.  You had a decent girl's junior showing and now this.  What does that do for your game and your confidence?
LINDY DUNCAN:   Just really amazing.  I think I played a lot better at the girls.  I played really well in stroke play.  I was the third seed.  And lost to the champion, who played unbelievable.  But yeah, these two tournaments have just been really amazing.  And the experience that I've gotten from these is just awesome.
Q.  You talk about on that one putt about speed and good speed for a change.  Did you feel like that was the difference today than perhaps in other matches that your putting just wasn't as on as it's been?
LINDY DUNCAN:   I think there's only a certain number of putts you can make.  You don't make every 10 footer.  I didn't hit very well today, I didn't hit my drive very well.  Didn't hit my second shots close enough.  And Kimberly,  fairway, green, solid pars.  She made some birdies.  And it was just really a tough match.
Q.  The bandage on your left hand, do you have a problem there?
LINDY DUNCAN:   No, it's just a sweat band.  My hands get kind of sweaty.  So I don't get my glove all wet.
Q.  Everybody have what they need?

Lindy, you were terrific.  Don't forget to get your medal before you leave.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT