DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2006
Brad Faxon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRAD FAXON:  I think it plays kind of Florida like.  There's a lot of little mounds.  I think they were trying to make it look like the topography around here.
Q.  The rough edged bunkers?
BRAD FAXON:  Right.  They used some of the rock outcroppings, maybe make a few changes on a lot of the holes, but it's a pretty good piece of property.  I think the players, they like it, but I think they need to love it.
Q.  How many holes are you going to change?
BRAD FAXON:  We're going to make changes on all 18.  I don't think they have time to do    the two holes they're going to change are the 4th and the 16th.  4 will be a drivable par 4, a straightaway par 4, and 16 will be a shorter par 3, 6 , 7 , 8 iron, use the water to have it front to the left.  It won't be an island green, it will be a peninsula, and then we'll bring 17 in and straighten that hole out.

The changes that we do early will be done with the fairway bunkers on like 2 or 18, but we'll keep the course playable for as long as we can.  It's an imposition whenever you make changes and can't play a hole, but we'll try and do all the work that we can without taking away a hole.
Q.  Do you feel lucky to have 36 holes in with Ernesto on its way?
BRAD FAXON:  I would feel lucky if I was five shots better, but I didn't play very well at all.  It was just not easy.  Yesterday was tough, today was tough.  The course is playing long, not only this week but this year.  I didn't make many birdies; I made two.  The guys in my group didn't make a whole lot of birdies.  4 under is leading the tournament.  We're used to double digits leading here, so obviously it's playing a lot tougher.

I imagine that    they're saying it's going to get windier and the rain is coming in, which I don't think if the rain will make it any easier or not, but some of the pins were really tough to get at today, so it's a long golf course with lots of 3 , 4 , 5 irons.
Q.  Is it a distraction to be playing close to home?
BRAD FAXON:  I think you've got to deal with those things.  I'd like to have that chance every week to play at home.  Why would you stay in a hotel when you could drive 35 minutes.  Yeah, there's a lot of stuff that's going on.  It's all good.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT