DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2005
Brad Faxon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about your round.  You made a birdie on 18.  What are your chances to make the cut?
BRAD FAXON:  Yeah, I needed a birdie there.  I played very well today.  4 under par is a great round, could have been a little lower.  I missed a couple of shorter putts on 16 and 17, but played great.  And 4 under out here I think is a good score.

I just feel yesterday is going to hurt a little bit.  This cut is going to be very, very close to 1 under or 2 under par.  Right on the bubble again, so I had to make that putt.
Q.  What was the difference between yesterday and today?
BRAD FAXON:  Seven shots.
Q.  Do you approach it any differently?
BRAD FAXON:  Well, I don't know if I approached it any differently.  I certainly executed better.  I thought I felt a little more in control today.  I only made one bogey today, five birdies, hit some good irons.  You know, obviously I want to make this cut.  This is not a tournament that I want to be at home at during the weekend.  I want to be out here.  I want to be able to do what I did last week, all of those things.
Q.  Does what happened last week give you some room for optimism?
BRAD FAXON:  Well, I'm the worst, and my wife will tell you, what I am right on the cut number, I never think I'm going to make it.  I don't know why.  I really don't think this one is going to do it.  I think it's going to be 2 under.  The scores have come down an awful lot, and I'm going to have to have something lucky again.
Q.  How long was that last putt?
BRAD FAXON:  Five feet with a little break.  I missed about a 4 footer on 17 and about a 7 footer on 16.
Q.  If you look back, the whirlwind of the whole week after winning, and all of the activities that you got involved in here, does it affect the way you've come into this tournament?
BRAD FAXON:  Absolutely.  It's all my own fault, but I do have a lot going on with this tournament.  Hats off to the guys that play well the week after they win.  Just because you have so many other things and commitments, so I'd like to keep trying to get good at that.  That would be a good problem to have.
Q.  Hopefully you make it, but say you don't, will that have any effect on your decision for knee surgery?
BRAD FAXON:  I don't know.  I have to make this decision when I'm sane, not insane, and I'll be insane if I miss the cut.
Q.  What is the rehab time for something like that?
BRAD FAXON:  Three to six months.  So I don't know what to do.
Q.  Did you have a drop dead date for when you have to make this decision?
BRAD FAXON:  No, absolutely not.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT