CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 18, 2003
Brad Faxon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER:  Brad Faxon, currently in second, 4-under 68 today, 3 shots off the lead.  You picked up two strokes.  You'll play with Shigeki again tomorrow.  What's your strategy going into Sunday?

BRAD FAXON:   Well, I feel pretty good.  I played well today.  I feel like I could have been a little bit lower.  You always feel like that when you walk off the course.  Today was a day I definitely could have lost the tournament if I didn't play well.  Five shots is a lot of shots, but you can make up that ground. 

Certainly Shigeki is playing well, and he made a great finish with his eagle on 13 and nice par putt on 18.  He's fun to play with.  He's a good guy, good for golf, smiles a lot, seems very relaxed and enthusiastic out there.  I enjoy playing with him.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow. 

It got very cold at the end.  The temperature dropped the last four or five holes.  The shadows were long.  I'm going to have to wear a sweater tomorrow.  Is the forecast decent?

CHRIS REIMER:  More of the same.

BRAD FAXON:   Same as today?

CHRIS REIMER:  Yes.


Q.   Talk about 13. 

BRAD FAXON:   13, I hit a bad tee shot there.  I could tell from the tee, you know, that it was dead up against the tree.  He hit a good drive.  I wasn't too worried about him.  I was going along and almost birdied No. 12.  When I saw the ball there, I said I have to find a way to make par there.  And he hit the best shot of the day there, the second shot, and I had to take an unplayable lie.  I actually had a pretty easy shot.  I didn't hit a good third shot.  I hit a 5-wood sort of heavy.  I would have been disappointed after my drop if I didn't make par.  I ended up making an eight-footer for par there, and I'm sure we were both happy walking off that green.  He was pretty excited even though it was a two-shot swing.  It was a big hole for both of us.


Q.   Was that hard for you?

BRAD FAXON:   It was kind of a downhill lie and fluffy hardpan.  I went under it and popped it up.  There was a willow tree up there.  I haven't hit a good second shot into that green yet.  So tomorrow.


Q.   Did you go over the willow tree or around it?

BRAD FAXON:   My tee shot ended up right behind a tree.  If I hit it in the fairway it would have been passed it, but it didn't go far enough.


Q.   So your second shot had to go over that willow?

BRAD FAXON: Yes.  Actually, it might even had to go a little left of it, believe it or not.  It wasn't a problem.  I had enough loft and I was far enough back that the willow tree wasn't a factor for the shot.  I couldn't really see where I was going.


Q.   What would it mean for you to get another victory?  It's been almost three years.

BRAD FAXON:   Since Hawaii, yes.  It would mean a lot to me.  A big goal of mine going into this year was to win a tournament, and there's not many left.  I feel good where I've been the last month with my game.  I've shot some good rounds.  I played well in Canada and played well in Vegas.  I have to keep looking forward and staying in the same mindset.  I'm enjoying playing.  My head has been good.  I've been very patient.  I haven't gotten frustrated out there.  More of the same would bring about results, I hope.


Q.   You said on TV yesterday that you started thinking a little too much about putting.  It looked today like you rolled it well.

BRAD FAXON:   I've rolled it well all week here.  The greens, if you hit a good putt, it's going to be close.  When I do a good job of staying out of my own way, I hate to use that phrase, but think less and kind of see it and use my first instinct I tend to putt better.  I think everybody does.


Q.   Is there a number for tomorrow?

BRAD FAXON:   I think you kind of have one eye on him.  What do you do if he hits a great shot?  Do you swing different?  I've never been able to figure out that.  I always get a kick out of guys that said, I knew the number was 65, after they had done it, because how did they know.  Maybe it's going to be 71, who knows.  I can't really say, well, I have got to shoot 65 and that's my number.  If it's 64 and I have a 4-footer on the last hole, am I going to miss it because I said 65.  I think guys are good at saying it afterwards because it sounds great.  Tomorrow if I shoot a good score and it wins the tournament, I'll say I knew it was 65.


Q.   We'll ask you then.

BRAD FAXON: Yes.


Q.   It's been the year of the over-40 guys.

BRAD FAXON:   There are a lot of guys over 40 that have played well.  Don't ask me to explain that.  It looked like you were going to ask me to explain it.  I don't know.  I think a lot of guys that are 40 are motivated to play better because there are a lot of young guys playing better.  I think having one or two guys in their 40s playing well maybe breeds confidence for other guys in their 40s.  I think the fact the purses have gone so sky high the last few years, guys are trying to cash in.  There is a sense of finality in your career maybe.


Q.   Has it improved because you guys are in better shape, in terms of fitness, and that sort of thing?

BRAD FAXON:   Like Stadler?  Peter Jacobsen?  I think conditioning is an important thing, but I think it's an overrated thing.  I don't think conditioning means a whole lot.  There are guys that are strong naturally that hit the ball a long way and play great, and there are guys in great shape that can't hit it 150 yards.  I think it's nice to be in good shape for a state of mind.  There's all these golf exercises that everybody does, and I'm into them, I do them, it's great.  How do you measure how fit you are?  I know it didn't help me make that 3-footer.  There are guys in better shape.  I just think it's the way our culture is now.  People are so into being in good shape, especially in sports where there are all these new techniques, strengthening.  Top players in the world like Tiger and David Duval  -- I hate to use his name now  -- those guys are animals in the gym.  I believe it.


Q.   You can tell I'm local.  I'd like to say you're good for our tournament.  You would be a great championship for us.  I wish you a lot of luck.

BRAD FAXON:   Thanks.  I like it here.  Everybody is nice. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT