CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 17, 2003
Brad Faxon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  Brad, back-to-back rounds of 67.  It seems the earlier guys played two different courses today.  It didn't seem like you had that same trouble, the wind for them yesterday and today.

BRAD FAXON:   Did they have more wind in the afternoon and more wind this morning?

TODD BUDNICK: Yes. 

BRAD FAXON:   It seemed like a lot of the better scores were in our pairing really late.  We had perfect weather.  Yesterday morning it was cold, but no wind at all.  If anything, it died down the last 5, 6, 7 holes.  The conditions were great.  From a course that's -- I hate to say it's brand-new, with the fairways and greens redone, we're playing a new golf course, and it's only got one or two spots that you kind of worry about, but the greens are spectacular.

TODD BUDNICK:  One bogey today.  Talk about today's round.

BRAD FAXON:   I played another solid round.  When I didn't drive it in the fairway, I wasn't far off.  I hit good iron shots.  I made six birdies today.  I feel pretty good around the green, putting well.  Shigeki is playing well, 15-under par.  15-under par is great anywhere, but it's not that easy of a golf course.


Q.   Did you get some ribbing out there?

BRAD FAXON:   I did and I can handle it.  I was heart broken last night, as every Boston fan was.  I went to game four at Fenway, which they won, and I played golf this summer with a few of the guys.  It is a tragedy.  I don't know how they feel.  Did Wakefield go to the ground?  I turned the remote control off. 


Q.   The Yankees were on the mound, for some reason.  I don't know what they were doing.

BRAD FAXON:   I like the Yankees.  I don't know how you don't like Joe Torre or Derek Jeter, Soriano, they're all great guys.  Petitte played in our golf tournament this year.  It's great baseball.  It's great to watch.  When you're a Red Sox fan, it hurts.


Q.   Were you joking, did you have trouble sleeping?

BRAD FAXON:  No.  I feel like I went ten rounds with Mike Tyson.


Q.   Because of the game?

BRAD FAXON:   I couldn't sleep at all.


Q.   Have you been wearing that all week?

BRAD FAXON: No, just today.  I might get in trouble from Titleist, but I figure they can handle it, on Friday.  I figure they'd put me on more if I had a Boston hat.


Q.   Do you remember much from '97 when you came in here and you were ringing your socks off, all that stuff?  Good memories?

BRAD FAXON:   Just playing the 18th hole today, I thought about how wet it was that Sunday and how it just got wetter.  The late tee times got really the bad end of the deal there.  I think I hit a 4-wood into the green in the playoff, and today I hit a 3-wood off the tee and a 9-iron.


Q.   It was cold, too.

BRAD FAXON:   Miserable.  I don't want to do that.


Q.   Can Shigeki be caught?

BRAD FAXON:   Well, if he shoots 15 more under I don't think he can be caught.  Who knows.  Certainly five shots is a big lead after two days, but we're only halfway.  A bunch of guys from where I am on down, I saw a bunch of guys at 9, 8, 7.


Q.   You can attack this course.

BRAD FAXON: Yes, you can definitely attack this course.


Q.   How many times have you played with Shigeki?

BRAD FAXON:   I played with him at the U.S. Open at Bethpage, when he made his hole in one and jumped in the air.   I love the guy.  I think he's great for the game.  He's got a great personality.  I saw the highlight reel.  He's on.  He's doing well.


Q.   How are you playing?  Do you feel you're playing well enough to win this thing?

BRAD FAXON:   Well, I feel I can play pretty good.  I was going to make a comment about the Red Sox.  I played well up in Canada about four weeks ago.  I had a good round in Vegas.  I shot a 65 and a 63 last week.  I felt pretty good about a lot of parts of my game, and I like this course.  I like playing here.


Q.   You said you couldn't sleep last night.  Did you mean literally you didn't get any sleep or you only had a few hours?

BRAD FAXON:   I probably had a few hours, but I didn't sleep very well.  You don't know what it's like to have a rivalry like this.  You use Australians have cricket.


Q.   We have our rivals.

BRAD FAXON:   I know, Aussie rules.  Is there a New York/Boston rivalry anywhere?


Q.   When did you say you put the cap on?

BRAD FAXON:   I wore it the whole round today.  I bought it Monday night at Fenway.

TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through the round.  The birdie on No.  2, the par  5.

BRAD FAXON:   We started on the front nine today.  I actually drove it in the left rough, hit a big, hooky 5-wood down there, 50 yards short of the green, pitched it up to a couple of feet, which is a nice hole to make birdie on.

5, I hit a sand wedge in there about six feet, made that.

8, I made a 20-footer for par, kept the round going a little bit. 

Should have birdied 9.  I missed a 6-footer there.

Bogeyed 10, sloppy 6-iron shot, missed it way to the right.  Came back and really played well from there on in.

8-iron on 11 to about 10 feet.

7-iron, 18 feet on the next hole.

14, I hit 7-iron to about 7 or 8 feet, beautiful pitch shot on 15 over the bunker to a foot, and then parred the last three.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT