BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 23, 2003
Brad Faxon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Brad, appreciate you coming back to chat.  It's been a long day, a wet day, just talk a little bit about conditions out there. 

BRAD FAXON:   Yeah, it was tough.  You know it was just non-stop.  It was incessant, the rain.  It never went away.  You never felt like it wasn't a factor at some point.  It wasn't impossible.  The greens were soft.  They rolled beautiful.  I just didn't play well today.  I didn't drive well at all.  But at least I got a little short game. 

Tiger played well.  He kind of looked like he didn't feel too well early, and I know he said he ate something bad or felt lousy, but that 3-wood on the fourth hole was a beautiful shot.  That kind of iced the cake right away. 


Q.  How does this add to what might be called the "Tiger Woods lore" after coming out here, having a bogey-free round and basically puking along the way? 

BRAD FAXON:   It was impressive.  I'm sure everybody out here was played a round when they haven't feltÂ   -- felt like that, I sure have.  I let him borrow some Imodium on the 12th hole.  It's no fun; you're in the public eye and all you want to do is go lie down. 

Sometimes you throw away your expectations when that happens and you justÂ   -- like the old Walter Hagen story when he got sick.  Just one shot, forget about it and to the next one.  Tiger was just kind of moseying along and never looked rushed.  He made all pars.  Never looked like he was going to make a bogey.


Q.  You said you loaned him some diarrhea medicine? 

BRAD FAXON:   Diarrhea medicine, Imodium AD.


Q.  When you knew that Tiger was not feeling 100%, did you think, "I've got a chance to get him," or like Michael Jordan when he felt awful, he played better?

BRAD FAXON:   It really didn't affect me.  I didn't think, oh, yeah, I've got a chance.  You kind of think that pain he'll withdraw and go away.  (Laughter.) That doesn't happen. 

You made an unbelievable 2-putt on the second hole and a great par on 3,  he made about an 8-, 10-footer and then that putt on 4.  He was ready to play, as sick as he felt, I don't think if he felt great he would have played much better than that.


Q.  Did you actually think maybe it would be tough to catch him, but, "maybe I should finish second in case he doesn't finish"? 

BRAD FAXON:   No.  I knew he'd make it.  (Laughter.) I know what he's made out of.  There was no way he was going to go home. 


Q.  Even among fellow professionals, are there times when you look at this guy and the old saying about, "we don't play the course," but he appears unbeatable when he's at the top of his game? 

BRAD FAXON:   He's got the abilityÂ   -- he's got a lot of abilities.  But what he's so good at is being able to play away from the flag when he could and play safe.  He can play the best conservative game he could ever see.  His misses are so less widespread than they used to be and there's not a green he can't stop it on.  When he has to just bear down and make par, when he's got a seven- or eight-shot lead, he's not going to throw up all over himself.  (Laughter.)


Q.  He never opens the door at all?

BRAD FAXON:   Not yet. 


Q.  What's it like to play against a guy like that, he's almost robotic?

BRAD FAXON:   It's impressive.  I know Phil said he doesn't like to watch but I love to watch.  Who wouldn't love to watch that swing.  As hard as he hits it, he never looks like he's out of control.  He swings beautiful.  I don't know, it's inspiring to me.   It's not something I don't want to see.   When you're five shots behind starting the round with a day as tough like this, it's perfect for him.


Q.  Was today even more than ever a driver round on this golf course today? 

BRAD FAXON:   Yeah.  I mean, driving it in the fairways today was huge and driving it long really helped.  I don't know how many guys could reach the fourth hole in two, but that was a pretty goodÂ   -- he reached 6, as well.  That's two good hits in that stuff.


Q.  Do you notice any difference in his game from having played with him at Torrey Pines to now?

BRAD FAXON:   From Torrey Pines, it looks the same.  It looks great.  I think he walked slower today.  (Laughter.) Didn't take as many practice swings.  I mean, he gets in, zeros in. 


Q.  Was your struggle with the driverÂ   --

BRAD FAXON:   Yeah, worst I've driven it all year.  Bad day in driving it poorly.  It was a miracle to shoot 2-over, actually.


Q.  What was it like playing out of the rough?

BRAD FAXON:   Not good. 


Q.  I presume they didn't cut it last night. 

BRAD FAXON:  No, they didn't cut it.  It was not cut.  It was awful.


Q.  Back to the course conditions.  If the lead had not been that, if Tiger was not here this week and you had the rest of the leaderboard like that, do you think they would have kept playing or they would have stopped it?

BRAD FAXON:   Are you talking about the 16th hole? 


Q.  Yeah. 

BRAD FAXON:   That's interesting.  I just talked to John Brendall, the official.  He was there on 16 and he said if any player had said this is unplayable, I don't want to do this, because the conditions there, you could not take complete relief without going, probablyÂ   -- I don't know if you could take it.  Would you have had to go into the heavy rough.  He said would he have stopped play.  He said to the players credit they kept going.  We did get a club length, but there could have been a situation where if you were in those ponds out there, puddles, you might not have been able to get to a dry spot or to a place could you have played but everybody wanted to finish the round.  I think that was really the only fairway that was completely bogged. 


Q.  Do you think everyone wanted to keep going and finish the round, just because? 

BRAD FAXON:   Yeah, they didn't want to stop and wait till tomorrow, I know that.  Figure, if you're in that fairway, you're going to have a wedge or a sand wedge in there anyway, so I think most guys think they can do okay with that. 

That was really the only hole that was like that at all.


Q.  When you woke up this morning, would you have believed that you could have shoot a 62 if you knew that that was the number would you have to hit in order to beat Tiger today? 

BRAD FAXON:   Would I have believed that? 


Q.  Well, if you woke up this morning and saw the rain coming down and somebody said, you're probably going to have to shoot 62 today, would you believed you would have had a chance of doing just that? 

BRAD FAXON:   I would ever never thought about that. 

When I woke up this morning, I didn't think we'd get 18 holes in.  I saw the forecast, I just didn't think we could finish. 

If you're asking me if I knew Tiger was going to shoot 68 with a five-shot lead, that doesn't surprise me. 


Q.  Heading into THE PLAYERS Championship and Augusta, he's saying his game is starting to come together.  Again, does he seem like on obstacle that most players just can't overcome unlessÂ   -- if he plays the way he can play, is he beatable? 

BRAD FAXON:   I think so.  Somebody else has to be on, as well.  To me, he's putting well, and that'sÂ   -- that's maybe the most overlooked, and I don't think it's overrated.  He's a great putter.  He makes great putts all the time.  If he keeps doing that, he's hard to beat.


Q.  He keeps making references back to feeling as good as he did in 2000, and in all likelihood are we looking at a nine-win, three-major season from him?

BRAD FAXON:   I don't know. 


Q.  What's the State of your confidence, you've been playing well all year, two big tournaments? 

BRAD FAXON:   I would have liked to have hit it a little better, especially early in the round than I did today.  Last few holes I hit a couple good shots.  I have a history of that, not being the best driver in the world, so I'm not too worried about it.  If I'm going to be upset about finishing second hereÂ   -- I'm not going to  --  I'm going to be excited.  These tournaments are big tournaments.  I like the courses.  I both of those tournaments mean a lot to me.  I'll be ready to go.


Q.  Is this close to being as good as you've played going into those two?

BRAD FAXON:   I think  '97 I was pretty good.  But I'm feeling pretty good.  I've love to get a win or two under my belt sooner or later, but I'm excited about my start and going up to the next few weeks.

Thank you for asking a question about me.  (Laughter.)


Q.  Speaking of finishing second, with the amount of money, I think you're 300K for second today and the ranking points and all of the things that are out there, is finishing second a good thing, is it better than it used to be?  Is it more of a disappointment because you don't win?  How do we look at second now?

BRAD FAXON:   I mean, I could say the macho thing and say if I don't win, it doesn't mean anything. 

Finishing second when a guy wins by 11, does it mean anything?  I think so.  There's a lot of other good players out here. 

I use that as confidence-builder and I would have liked to have finished second alone, not tied for second.  I've always been of the feeling that if you're not going to win, it's always better to finish better second than third, third than fourth, 50th than 51st.  And I always try to give it my best shot no matter what position I'm in.  I don't look at the leaderboard and think, this means dollars.  Sometimes it's fun to mess around with that but it never really helps. 


Q.  You talked yesterday about one of your goals is to play with Tiger as much as you can.  I'm assuming that's because if you do you have a chance to win an event, but I'm assuming you're taking something away from those experiences; what did you take away from today? 

BRAD FAXON:   I look at the way he just gathers himself and the way heÂ   -- I think he's got his game pretty simple right now.  He looks like he's not trying very hard.  He sees his shot, he gets up over it.  He's very purposeful over the ball.  His swing is great.  Obviously, he can hit it far and he putts well.  But his routine is very consistent.  I look at all those things and just want to make mine more like that. 


Q.  Do you try to apply that kind of stuff at different times? 

BRAD FAXON:   Definitely. 


Q.  Are you coming closer to doing it more often?

BRAD FAXON:   I think so.  I mean, I've been fairly consistent this year.  You know, this helps.  Playing in the last groupÂ   -- and I certainly did not have what I would call my AÂ   Game today but I hung in there and that's all you can ask for sometimes. 

JOE CHEMYCZ:  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT