BUICK INVITATIONAL
February 14, 2003
Brad Faxon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Brad Faxon for stopping in with us today after his 8-under 64.  He is the 10-under par co-leader at the moment.  Brad is coming off a T7 last week at Pebble Beach.  Looks like for a while you couldn't break that streak of 70. 
BRAD FAXON:  That's right. 
TODD BUDNICK:  You finally got through with that today. 
BRAD FAXON:  I think we got very lucky with our pairings, our times, because we didn't have to start yesterday, all the delays, we never got out there.  I think that helped, not having to go out on the course, come back.  I guess a lot of guys waited almost an hour.  So we had a nice time. 
We played eight holes in swampy conditions yesterday.  But it was perfect today.  I really wasn't doing anything extraordinary.  All of a sudden made birdie on 6, 7, 8 on the south, got to 2-under-par. 
I played with Davis last week.  The first week he was 3- or 4-over par at Poppy Hills.  Doesn't look like a lot was what happening.  All of a sudden he birdied 7, 8, 9.  I kind of reminded myself, "Stay patient, stay patient."  Made a bunch of putts, played great, as well as I could this afternoon. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Much stronger Back  9 today. 
BRAD FAXON:  Right.  I hit a drive and 3-wood for like 265 to about five feet, eagled the 1st hole.  I had a birdie on 5, hit an 8-iron, actually hit the flag or hit the stick, made about an 8-footer there.  But had a bunch of, you know, 15-footers in the Front  9.  Didn't birdie 9 from the front of the green.  I missed a 4-footer for birdie on 10.  Hit a 3-iron on 11, 15 feet.  4-iron on 12 from about eight feet.  Some good irons.  Birdied the two par 5's, you know, with 3-iron and 4-iron, 14 and 18, 2-putted both of those.  Actually 16 I made birdie.  Hit a wedge shot to about two, three feet. 
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll take some questions. 
Q.  Has your putting changed at all (inaudible)? 
BRAD FAXON:  You know, we played yesterday greens that were very slow.  You know, they were surprisingly not too soft, new greens on the south.  Not cut, though.  Then this morning... 
I'd love to find out how many times we come back and play greens that aren't cut.  They say we do that a lot.  I don't think we ever do it.  They were very slow this morning. 
They were fairly true, and we only had 20 minutes between rounds.  When we finally got to the north, those greens are totally different grass.  It's not a bentgrass there.  They're soggy.  The Front  9 was very good.  We were one of the first groups to go.  The Back  9 was very soft and squishy. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
BRAD FAXON:  Well, you can see.  I mean, not much wind.  I'd say this is a typical day we play Torrey Pines.  Obviously, the north course is going to yield lower scores.  I never really saw a leaderboard all day long.  There weren't any electronic boards out on the north.  I see it's Dennis Paulson that's 10-under with a few holes to go. 
Yeah, I would have expected some low scores.  Yesterday was tough.  That was actually my first time playing the south course since it's been redone.  I didn't play last year.  I didn't get a practice round because Tuesday, Wednesday were rained out. 

Q.  (Inaudible) neither one of you got to practice. 
BRAD FAXON:  I don't know what that says.  I don't think it means a whole lot.  I played pretty conservatively the first round.  I hit a lot of the middle of the greens.  There's a lot of different levels on the south course now.  Rees Jones redesigned this.  There's lots of different places you can put a pin. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
BRAD FAXON:  You know, I thought about that.  If anybody is going to play in a men's tournament, it should be her.  She certainly has the credibility, you know, to give it a shot.  I was talking to Tiger yesterday.  I don't know what she has to win.  You know, if she makes the cut, does that prove anything, if she finishes 40th or 20th?  I mean, is that a gauge for what?  We already know she's the best woman golfer.  If she won, that would be something else. 
I see all these comparisons, stats, that you guys are writing.  Nobody's talked about short game.  I think the biggest difference I've seen between men and women, there's a difference in distances, but around the greens, strength is a big thing.  To be able to spin a shot, you know, swing a club head quickly, hit flop shots, spinny bunker shots, that's something that I think is underestimated as far as a difference. 
With what she's done, I'd probably do the same thing. 

Q.  If she made the cut, it doesn't prove anything?
BRAD FAXON:  I think it will be a heck of an accomplishment.  Knowing her, her goal is to win more than 10 tournaments, win all four majors.  Maybe she figures she can win this thing. 
I don't think, you know, the people  -- Colonial is not an easy golf course.  When you look at the courses we play, if it's hard and fast, it will be very difficult.  It's a difficult course for anybody. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
BRAD FAXON:  Kind of a little bit of everything.  I missed one or two fairways on the north.  I putted nicely.  Good irons.  I hit a lot of greens.  I mean, this is an ideal condition to play that course. 
I played pretty well last week at Pebble.  I had a chance.  Four or five holes to go, I was 10-under par.  Feels good. 

Q.  Your first look at the changes on the south, what are your thoughts on it?
BRAD FAXON:  Oh, it's gorgeous.  I can see from the back tees with a little bit of wind, a lot of rough, this would be a monster golf course.  There's some pins that nobody will be able to hit a shot at.  There's some holes, like 3 and 4, 7, you hit it over the green, it goes right into the hazard.  We didn't used to have it that close or that severe. 
But all the greens seem to be up.  If you miss shots on the short side of the south course, you have to work pretty hard to get it up and down.  I think Monday I might have seen a couple greens.  I got in Monday night, looked around, the greens were rock hard and fast.  It's a totally different golf course now. 
I don't imagine that we can play the ball as alive tomorrow.  I mean, it's very wet still.  There's a lot of puddles in the fairways.  I hope we do, but I don't think we can. 

Q.  How hard do you have to work at your putting to maintain it?  Do you have a putting green at home? 
BRAD FAXON:  No.  No, I don't.  When I work hard is when I'm putting badly.  When I make it more of a game or have more fun doing it, I take less time, I putt better. 
I think last year I really had a streaky year putting last year.  I didn't have a great putting here.  I was doing all kinds of articles.  People asked me to do books and tapes.  I started thinking about what I do and it screwed me up so I'm not going to talk about it anymore (laughter). 
Some pro wrote a book in 1940 something on how to play golf, Denny Shute after he won a US Open, wrote a book, never heard from him again. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
BRAD FAXON:  Well, I did on TV.  You know, Mercedes Championship, that looks pretty bizarre.  The wind was the opposite way.  You know, there's such a combination of everything.  To say there's one thing... 
I would say that there has been a jump in the ball from last year to this year which surprised me.  I thought we wouldn't see the leap.  But I also think the combinations of the new drivers, the technology, the physics, science of the ball, the flight of the ball, optimizing distance by increasing arc angle and bringing spin down, I know that sounds awfully technical, but maybe the initial velocities of the ball hasn't changed, but the flight characteristics have. 
If you had the side view of a ball in flight, watched the spin rate or the dispersion rate of the spins or the spin biography, whatever you want to call it, I mean, it's changed a lot.  I know that sounds like weird science, but the balls now, they go higher, they fly further, then they roll when they hit.  That's without changing how fast it went.  Then you add a few more miles per hour because you have a titanium head. 
Look at the size of guys now.  Look at Ernie and Vijay and Davis, Tiger.  Ben Hogan would be a shrimp out here.  Tom Kite.  It's changing.  Guys are just smoking it.  They're bigger.  They're swinging from the heels. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 
BRAD FAXON:  Like this new Pro V1x.  The X ball, everybody is using it now because they say, "I can kill this thing, hit it a long way."  I think a lot of guys will go back to the Pro V1 because they'll get a little more control around the greens.  There's some trade-off.  If you want that distance, you're going to lose some feel around the greens. 
Faster playing balls, they don't have as much feel around the greens.  I mean, there was a huge difference watching balls land at Pebble last week than last year. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
BRAD FAXON:  I thought last year we were going to see the end of the significant differences.  I think it needs to be reined in.  I don't think there's anything wrong with the game right now.  I look at this golf course, it's 7700 yards.  We were playing at 6700 yards 12 years ago.  Percentage-wise they're going to be pretty close, the increase in distance the ball is going versus the increase in the length of holes. 
But I hit two woods into par 3s yesterday.  I hit two woods into par 4s yesterday.  I didn't used to do that when I was 22 years old.  That's pretty long. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Brad. 
BRAD FAXON:  Thank you. 






End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT