ADVIL WESTERN OPEN
July 5, 2001
Brad Faxon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRAD FAXON: We started with a little bit of wind today.  It was a 180 degrees different than it was the last couple of days.  I played well.  The par 5, fifth, that had been downwind, was straight against the wind.  I made birdie there, birdied 9, knocked it on in two there, which I don't do too often.  But I played well; hit a lot of good drives, a lot of good irons, and unfortunate bad finish, but the wind seems to be dying down right now.  And the golf course is in great shape. 

Q.  People don't hit No. 9 in two very often over the years?

BRAD FAXON: Especially me.  It was downwind, I hit a really good drive; had about 247 or 8 to the front.  You have to fit the shot in pretty well to get-- hit about 30-footer for eagle so it was as good as I can hit two shots.  I was pretty psyched.  I hit 3-wood in there.

Q.  Have you ever done that here?

BRAD FAXON: I have been in that bunker, around the bunker, but I mean it is a tight little drive too.  It is a beautiful hole. 

Q.  What happened on 18?

BRAD FAXON: I drove it in the right bunker, right up against the lip and didn't get it out to the fairway.  I was under the tree there, right dead on that hole, and I hit a pretty good shot, third shot, but it ran back over the green and didn't get it up-and-down. 

Q.  With the wind dying down what do you see the top score coming in out of the afternoon group?

BRAD FAXON: I don't know.  They will be low.  You know, the greens are firming up.  They are a good speed to putt, but you can still hold it.  The par 5s are all going to be reachable with the way the wind is now.

Q.  The change on 13, that drastic?

BRAD FAXON: It is a big difference.  That's 20, 25 yards further, you don't get the benefit   -- you used to get kind of a slingshot off that hill on the left there. Now you really can't take it over there.  It was downwind today.  I hit a good drive, had 190 yards, so if  -- if it's against the wind you know, you are back 20 or 30 yards, it's 220 shot that's middle of the green, that pin can go back 20 yards further than where it was.  They will probably put the tees up one day with the pin in the way back, maybe go back another day or two.

Q.  How about the new second?

BRAD FAXON: Beautiful hole.  It's really nice.  Kind of looks like it belongs or it has been there.  Nice.  They do a great job here. It is very impressive.

Q.  When you have a finish like -- when you had a good round going, you have finished like that, how do you view it?  Does it put a bad taste   ---

BRAD FAXON: Eat more. I don't know.  Forget about it, I guess.  I played well.  Really hit some good iron shots.  I have done it before, I will do it again. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT