U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 1997
Brad Faxon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LES UNGER: Brad, we have looked at your record for the year,
and you've got a win, three seconds, good start. I shifted over
to the U.S. Open side, and I find that has not been your favorite
success story. Maybe you can address the comparisons between your
good start this year. Are you going to change that pattern for
this week?

BRAD FAXON: Well, we will see. You are right, my record for the
U.S. Open has been less than stellar. I don't think I have played
this well coming into an Open, so hopefully it will change.

LES UNGER: Have you had an opportunity to play here, practice
here?

BRAD FAXON: Yeah, I played here in '84, '85, Kemper Open, and
the course is a lot different. Obviously, the setup is totally
different, but the greens have changed. It is almost a new golf
course for us. And, you know, every year, we come in - it is a
U.S. Open - saying: This is the deepest rough, this is the hardest
course, this is the toughest one, and this may be. I haven't seen
a number of holes in a row that are this tough. You don't get
any breathers. You don't get a chance to make it an errant shot.
It is set up too tough. When you get to the greens, it is not
over, because there is a lot of slope. There will be some speed
on them.

LES UNGER: What will you have to do especially well this week
to succeed?

BRAD FAXON: Well, I think it is the same for every U.S. Open.
You have to deal with all the adversity that comes your way. Obviously,
hitting good shots is important. But, I think the guy that wins
the U.S. Open, that does well in the U.S. Open is somebody that,
you know, can handle the outside pressure, handle the bad bounces,
the bad breaks. That is going to happen this week. You are going
to have a lot of shots that you hit pretty good that are going
to end up bad. You are going to have a lot of tough pitch shots
out of the rough. I mean, the rough around the greens here, everybody
likes to talk around the fairways, but the rough around the greens,
it is gnarly, thick and twisty as I have seen any grass. I read
a quote of Ernie Els saying that the short game is not as important
this week. It is going to be the guy that hits on the fairway
and on the green. I don't agree with that. Yes agree with that.
I rented a house. This morning someone wanted to ride over to
the course because parking is so bad. He goes, "What, are
you, hanging low this week?" I said, "What do you mean
by that?" He said, "You haven't been to the press at
all." I said, "Well, I kept my mouth shut, basically."
He said, "I can make a few calls for you if you want to get
the press." Usually good play will do that. It is just funny,
some people's perspective on what is going on. People get very
nervous around the U.S. Open. I don't think they know what to
say to the people playing. 

Q. During the interviews yesterday, two schools of thought
seemed to emerge regarding, one, that you have to do well off
the tee, a number of players saying you have to hit driver because
you have to give yourself a short -- possible short to the green.
Others are saying you can't risk being in the rough off the drive.
What are your feelings on that? What is your feeling about driver?

BRAD FAXON: I think you have to be in the fairway to hit it on
the green. I don't think you are going to see many guys that are
in the rough, in the thick rough, knocking it on the green. So,
to me, it is playing a club that you are confident with that you
know you can hit the fairway before you do it. Obviously, it is
a much bigger advantage hitting a shorter iron into these greens
that are going to be real rock-hard. Because this is the longest
course. It is the longest U.S. Open course we have played. It
doesn't seem like the fairways are as tight or as limited as they
have been at past Opens. I know there has been a lot of courses
where, myself, I have only hit three or four drivers. And I am
not the longest guy in the world. But, I am going to hit a lot
more drivers this week than I have ever hit in a U.S. Open.

Q. Yesterday, a lot of the golfers were talking about No. 6.
This morning I heard John Lyberger here at Congressional talk
about 13. Describe 13, if you would, from what your perspective
of playing it is.

BRAD FAXON: I have only played the back 9 once before. Obviously,
I am going to play it today. 13, you've got to hit a great shot
and then your second shot is so uphill. I know you are -- it is
going to be a longer iron. It is going to be a 3- to 5-iron. It
is going to depend on the wind direction. Yesterday, when I played
on the 6th hole, I hit a good drive and 6-iron because we had
a little help with it. So, if you remember hitting 2 or 3-iron
iron into the 6th hole, that is a different story. There is a
lot more trouble around that green than around the 13th. But,
I think 13 is a classical hole. There is not a fairway bunker,
simple two-tier green. I think it has got a beautiful shape to
it. But, in my mind, it doesn't -- you don't have the fear in
your mind that you do when you step up on the 6th.

Q. Given how you have played so far this season, Brad, how
does your mindset differ coming into this Open and other Opens?

BRAD FAXON: Well, I had last week off, and I thought a lot about,
you know, winning the Open, playing great in the Open, doing the
stuff that I need to do to be there. Obviously, you can't predict
how you are going to play, but I really want to work on the stuff
I need to do everyday. And, to me, not letting anything bother
me is an important part of doing well in the Open. Obviously,
hitting great shots helps, but, I mean, when you step up on that
first tee tomorrow, you have got to be psyched about going out
to play. You can't be worried about winning the tournament Sunday
afternoon. You've got to get into all the old cliches about playing
that one shot at a time. It is really more important here than
anyplace you play all year.

LES UNGER: Who are your partners tomorrow; do you know?

BRAD FAXON: Tommy Tolles and Frank Nobilo.

LES UNGER: Is that important to a player? I mean, maybe there
are some guys that you are friendly with or are compatible with
or is that not a factor at all?

BRAD FAXON: I think the longer you have been out here, the less
important it is. But, I like playing with both of those guys.
They are both good friends of mine. In the U.S. Open, I think
you want to play with guys that are looser than tighter. I think
both of those guys are, you know, Nobilo is one of the funniest
guys I have met. And, Tommy, he is right on the 10th for the Ryder
Cup. Playing with good players seems to always be nice, especially,
you know, in major championships.

LES UNGER: Nobilo will crack jokes out on the course?

BRAD FAXON: I don't know if he is going to have an audience when
he does it, but he is pretty funny.

Q. What has made it such a good year? What has been the difference
between this year and, say, past seasons? I know last year, you
won a million dollars in a tournament.....

BRAD FAXON: Obviously, winning New Orleans is really maybe --
I don't know if it started the year or not, but, you know, I think
it is a carry-over from last year. Obviously, I didn't win a tournament,
but I played well, and I have continued to do that. And, I know
winning tournaments is what it is all about out here. And, I mean,
that seems to -- that was a big, you know, breaker, you know,
for me to do that. And, it has been nice to carry on the good
play since then, too. I have been in contention a lot of the tournaments
I have played in with the chance to win. And, I probably could
have won more tournaments than I have. So, it has been rewarding.
And, at the same time, you know, I lost to Nobilo in the playoffs
at Greensboro, probably should have won that tournament but....


Q. There is nothing like mechanical or anything like that?

BRAD FAXON: Combination of things that I have done. I started
off the year with a third wedge. I tried a 60-degree wedge. I
put that away. That really confused me. And I was messing with
different drivers because the club that I used last year went
out -- the company went out of business, and maybe because I was
their spokesman they went out of business - I don't know. (Audience
laughter.) It took a while to get a driver I was comfortable with.
I was doing a lot of testing with stuff, and I had been using
a different version of the putter that I use now. And, I just
put the old one in the bag right at the Players Championship;
right then everything kind of clicked.

Q. Can you talk about your mindset coming in here, what makes
it different for you coming into this Open considering the year
that you have had?

BRAD FAXON: Well, it is funny. I think a lot of people kind of
expect you to do well or, you know, a lot of people, my friends
say, "This is your year." This is -- you know, I haven't
had to deal with that before. But, you know, I am excited about
playing. I mean, I have never really gone into an Open thinking
about, geez, you have got a chance to win this year. And, if I
play the way I have been playing, I definitely do. And, that doesn't
mean I can go out there and stand on the first tee thinking I
have got it in the bag. I still got to execute and do all the
things you need to do. And, I am looking forward to it. I am looking
forward to enjoying this. I know it is going to be a tough week.
It is going to be one of the hardest courses we have played or
since I have been on the Tour.

Q. Do you feel good, though, coming in this way?

BRAD FAXON: I feel pretty good. I had a nice week off. I needed
it. Good stretch where I played pretty well at both tournaments
in Texas. Then we had miserable weather in Ohio again, and I had
a nice break home, did some practice on the weekend and I am ready
to roll.

Q. At Colonial you had talks about Tiger and the A-game and
C-Game, all that. Did you ever have a chance to talk to him about
it or has he sought you out? Have you sought him out?

BRAD FAXON: I think I told you, we talked Friday after -- actually
before it came out into the press on Saturday. I went and talked
to him and told him what it was about. He was fine. We were fine.
And, you know, I think I'd like to make it a dead issue. I don't
want to, you know, push this along for ever. But, you know, Tiger
is a pretty smart guy. He knows what is going on. And, I think
between us, everything is fine. I don't know if he said otherwise
or not, but I have talked to him since then and, you know, I hope
he appreciates what I said in the way I said it. I wasn't trying
to pick on him, just watch it, you know. 

Q. Brad, approximately the same age, Nick Price had his career
escalate, take another step forward, same way that you were. Do
you feel that you look at someone like Nick Price and say, okay,
that could be me as well, I have seen it done before?

BRAD FAXON: There is a lot of guys that have done that too. It
is not just Nick Price. I have to look at it that way because
I can't change my age or my record. But, a lot of guys seem to
do well in their mid- to late 30s. I am at a point now where I
feel pretty good and winning, to me, is more important now than
it has ever been. So I have got to keep doing that and keep trying
to win. It may not be this week, may not be next week. But, I
feel like I have kept my head pretty good about that.

Q. Do you feel that there are more wins there now than there
ever were before?

BRAD FAXON: I think so. I think winning -- again, this year really
made me want to do it some more.

Q. Brad, with the kind of year you had last year, it is hard
not to get into a comfort zone with the kind of money you made
and how do you break -- how do you get out of the comfort zone
and say, this is great, but winning is what I want to do?

BRAD FAXON: Well, you know, I hear a lot that, you know, like
the all-exempt tour breeds complacency. I don't know if I buy
that. I don't know one guy out here that would rather finish second
or third than win. Honestly, I don't. I don't know if you asked
anybody, I would be surprised if anybody said, yeah, I'd rather
make second, make a comfortable living. I just get a big kick
out of that for some reason. Obviously, you do better now days
than you used to do. You can finish 50th on the money list and
make a great living. And, there are a few guys that say, what
else would I do, if I wasn't playing golf? Where can I make two
or three to $400,000 a year? And, I think that gives some of the
players a bad rap. But, I mean, anybody that want to be a top
player, the money is more second nature. I mean, nowadays, I see
a lot of parents getting their kids into golf because they can
make a lot of money. Well, that is ridiculous because none of
us grew up playing this game so we can make a lot of money. All
of us played it for the competition and love of the sport. And,
I mean, I still think when we are out here that is what it is
all about. I don't think any of us are thinking about when you
have a chance to win, whether you are going to make $270,000 or
180,000. I just don't see that. And, I argue that point all the
time with everybody. Maybe you don't agree with it. But, that
is where I stand. And I am not satisfied just finishing second,
no way.

Q. There has been a lot of talk this year about somebody winning
the Grand Slam, Tiger winning the Grand Slam. What do you think
and what do you think some of the players think about all that
speculation?

BRAD FAXON: It hasn't been done in a long time. And, nobody has
won all four professional Majors. So, you know, obviously, he
is the only guy that can do it this year. I don't know how anybody
can handle it if they won the first three. I would love to see
how he can go to sleep - (Audience laughter.) - with you guys
around. But, I mean, it could happen.

LES UNGER: You would like to be in that spot?

BRAD FAXON: I would love to have the chance.

Q. How important is lag-putting going to be this week with
the size of the greens and does that help you out since you are
one of the better putters out here?

BRAD FAXON: You know, I have noticed a lot of the -- you get a
lot of putts that break five or six feet in the last five or six
feet of the putt. Some of these putts are incredible how much
break they have. Positioning and the greens is really important.
And, I don't know that these greens will have the speed, say that
Augusta had. But, I think your putting here is going to be crucial.
It seems to be in the Majors, putting is always important. But,
you know, like I said before, this course isn't just from the
fairway to the green. It is just as tough once you get on these
greens which I enjoy, I like that.

Q. Brad, you don't normally routinely see par 5s become par
4s specifically at 6. Does that psychologically get players to
take risks that they wouldn't ordinarily?

BRAD FAXON: Probably, I think if you played it as a par 5 you
might have more guys make 4. If it were a par 5 -- sometimes there
is a pressure to make sure you go for that green on your second
shot maybe when you shouldn't. I mean, I know if that pin is on
the right side of the green, you got a 2- or 3-iron into that
green, there is going to be guys that are going to lay-up and
play that. The greens will probably get hard enough that most
guys won't be able to hold that green with a long iron.

Q. Why, in your estimation, do you feel you are a great putter?
Is it a gift, talent, practice, combination? 

BRAD FAXON: It is probably a combination of those things, plus
attitude. Anybody that has been a great putter has been confident.
Teachers always want to tell you that there is absolute fundamentals
in putting. Then I look at strokes like Bobby Locke, Isao Aoki,
traditional guys like Nicklaus and Crenshaw and Mickelson. I see
they have great attitudes and confidence. They know they are going
to make them when they hit them. When they don't, they act like
they did go in. So, to me, it is more attitude than anything else.
And, you know, I don't spend a lot of time practicing my mechanics
on the putting green, think a lot about making putts, and I think
all great putters must would say that. I mean, it is hard to turn
putting into a science. I think it is the great part about the
game, because a lot of people want to say oh, you know, ball-striking
is what it is all about, you know, when half your shots are short
game.

Q. What brand of putter are you using you?

BRAD FAXON: Ping MyDay. It is an older style. It is like a zinc
with offset.

Q. It is one you have used before?

BRAD FAXON: It is the same putter I have used for about seven
or eight years, yeah.

Q. How many times will you use the driver and how confident
are you with that new driver you are using?

BRAD FAXON: I have been driving a lot better than I have driven
it in the past seven or eight years. My length is back, and I
haven't really figured -- I haven't mapped out my entire strategy
for what holes I am driving it and what holes I am 3-wooding it.
But, I know that I will probably hit it four or five times on
the front 9 out of 7. It depends a little bit on the wind. If
there is no wind, you -- everybody out here, if they are hitting
3-wood can hit a 3-wood that lands 240, 250 on the flag, it is
going to roll another 10, 15 yards. That 270 number seems to be
a nice number off the tee. There is a lot of holes that are 450,
or if you hit a 270, you are going to be hitting a 6-iron in.


Q. What kind of score is going to take to win this thing, do
you think, if the weather stays --

BRAD FAXON: If it stays like it is, I think it is going to be
a few under par. I don't think it is going to be way under par.
I don't typically think that wind is a huge factor here at this
time of year. Although, Kemper last week, I know it was pretty
windy, but it seems like it is warming up. And, you know, it depends
if we get rain or not. Obviously, the softer it is, the easier
the course will play. It is just seems like every U.S. Open we
play in, no matter what happens, they have got that magic dust
they can put on Friday or Saturday night to make it tougher. 


Q. How do you feel about former champions like Larry Nelson
having to go through qualifying for the Open? Do you think more
should be done for former champions?

BRAD FAXON: I haven't thought about that. I know there are a few
guys here, SENIOR TOUR guys that have -- I don't know if Stockton
and Irwin, they must have exemptions to play. Obviously, Irwin
can still win here. Yeah, it doesn't seem right that a guy that
has won Majors has to go through qualifying. I think there is
the philosophy that here is a guy that, you know, won a lot of
tournaments, done a lot for the game, why should he have to go
through qualifying? But, I know Palmer had to do it. You know,
Nicklaus has had to get a few special exemptions to get in. And,
at the same time, you want to keep the field, you know, as competitive
as possible. I think if you want to fight about that, I mean,
a guy like Scott McCarron had to qualify this year, 18th on the
money list, that is not right either, so.....

LES UNGER: Thank you very much.

BRAD FAXON: Thank you.

End of FastScripts......            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT