HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2010
Brad Faxon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Brad, thank you for taking the time. I know that was not the ideal finish, but you had something going there.   
 BRAD FAXON: I finished like a -- (No microphone.)  
  
  Q. It's got to be difficult making this kind of switch. What are you?   
 BRAD FAXON: It's fine. I'm hopefully a little bit of both, but I always tell the guys that I'm playing with, "You better be good because I can talk about you next week!"   
 I appreciate a lot more what you do and everybody does at all the networks, but trying to get my game back and seeing some signs, last couple of weeks shot some better scores.   
  
  Q. This was a long day, wasn't it?  
 BRAD FAXON: I was talking about the Pro-Am being long yesterday, five and a half hours! That's a long round of golf, and I'm excited to be under par; there aren't that many low scores here.   
  
  Q. Everybody coming off the course says it's playing pretty tough.   
 BRAD FAXON: The wind did a 180. When we went into the break and came back out, it totally reversed, and it's made some of the holes on the front 9 a lot harder and some of the holes finishing a lot easier, so it will balance.   
  
  Q. You're in that "netherland," 48 years old --  
 BRAD FAXON: 48 and 9/12ths.  
  
  Q. It's got to be tough to --  
 BRAD FAXON: Well, I've got a lot of other things going on, but I never wanted to believe that age between 45 and 49 was no-man's land out here, and if I didn't have a couple of key injuries maybe it wouldn't have been, but I still love playing the game and that's what keeps me coming.   
  
  Q. Hasn't been that long ago that you won.   
 BRAD FAXON: No, within five years. My wife broke her ankle a couple of weeks ago, she has her right foot in the cast, and I wish I was there with her but she has a lot of good friends taking care of her.   
  
  Q. Have a great week.   
 BRAD FAXON: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT