JOHNNIE WALKER WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
December 16, 1993
Brad Faxon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   General comments on the round.
 
BRAD FAXON:  Well, it was 13 better than my start last year.  So I am pretty happy.  No, I played well.  I made a couple of errant shots coming in.  Really didn't please me, but I made a lot of birdies, and the course was probably about as easy as we will ever see it with the greens soft and fairways soft and the wind down, so I am pleased.  69 is not a bad start.  I think there are only 4 guys in front of me or 3 guys in front of me. 
 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the streak that you are on now?  Was it 2 in Australia?
 
BRAD FAXON:  I played 2 in Australia and one in New Zealand. 
 

Q.   And here?
 
BRAD FAXON:  Right. 
 

Q.   Or this round?
 
BRAD FAXON:  I had three weeks off.  I missed the Tour Championship this year and then took three weeks off in Rhode Island.  And came back and played the Shark Shootout which is a team tournament which I played with Mike Calcavecchia.  It was kind of a nice warm-up and a nice tournament to play because I had been off.  Then I was going to play more important tournaments down south, so I played very well.  We finished second there; then went down to Australia and won the Australian Open that week on a golf course that I fell in love with, Metropolitan, really drove the ball very well that week and obviously putted pretty well. Played okay except for the first round, the next week where Curtis won in the Greg Norman Open.  I finished 16th, or 17th - I am not sure - then I finished second in New Zealand on a great little course, reminds me a little bit like this, but I have been playing well.  I have driven the ball a lot better than last four, five months than I have driven it in a long time. 
 

Q.   Would that be the-- is it driving that is --
 
BRAD FAXON:  I think the combination of that and really just feeling a lot more confident with all parts of my game, yeah. 
 

End of FastScripts....
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT