U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2016
Lucy Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So two really good, really good rounds.  You were 3-under today?
LUCY LI: Yeah.
Q. How are you feeling after your rounds?
LUCY LI: How am I feeling?
Q. Yeah.
LUCY LI: Same old, same old.
Q. What does same old, same old feel like?
LUCY LI: Just next round, try to play the best I can again, yeah.
Q. This golf course seems to play well for you.  What about it works for you?
LUCY LI: Well, actually I'm kind of surprised I played so well, because the first time I played this course I hit like hybrids and it wasn't to like at least 12 greens and I was like, oh, my God, this golf course is so long.  And I was just trying to make the cut, but low expectations but I played really well.
Q. You seem to have grown since the last time I saw you.  How has your game changed?
LUCY LI: Probably gained a few yards, but I think actually my putting has gotten better and my wedge game, so I guess it's not really to do with getting taller.
Q. How tall are you now, do you think?
LUCY LI: I'm not sure.  I haven't been to the doctor recently.
Q. What's it like having your mom out there with you?  Does she talk a lot or a little or what?
LUCY LI: She's my aunt.
Q. Oh, your aunt.  Does she talk a lot, a little?
LUCY LI: Yeah, she always does a very good job of feeding me all the time.  But, yeah, it's fun.  We have the little remote control cart so it's really funny because she kind of has a little bit of trouble sometimes.  She almost ran over someone yesterday (laughing).
Q. You hadn't made the cut in this event before but right now you're at the top of the leaderboard.  Can you sort of talk about your goal coming into the week and just that's quite a change.
LUCY LI: Well, yeah, because I played in the tournament twice, I think.  Going into this week, because it's so long, I really wasn't expecting anything.  I just wanted to play well.  I wasn't actually sure if I could make the cut, but I guess I played better than I thought.
Q. Did you make your shirt?  I know you do a lot of stuff with crafts and stuff, or did you buy it that way?
LUCY LI: My mom got it for me.
Q. Was that your idea?  It's really cute.
LUCY LI: I don't know.  My mom got it.
Q. She made it?
LUCY LI: I don't know, ask her (laughing).
Q. Got it.  I was going to say, what's your tournament schedule been this summer?  I know you played in the Girls Junior.  What all have you competed in?
LUCY LI: A couple of local tournaments and some qualifiers and that's pretty much it.
Q. You played well in the Girls Junior, made it farther in match play than you've made anywhere.  Are you pulling some good feelings from that coming into this week maybe?
LUCY LI: Yeah, definitely like confidence, but it's kind of weird because last week I hit the ball so poorly.  I putted really well, but today and yesterday I actually hit the ball so good, and I actually putted pretty badly.
Q. How do you think you can try and fix that?
LUCY LI: I don't know.  Practice and hope (laughing).
Q. You've got a good attitude though.
LUCY LI: Yeah.
Q. Are you having fun out there?
LUCY LI: Yeah, for sure.
Q. What is the best part of all of this for you?  What do you enjoy the most?
LUCY LI: I just like playing golf and all these places I getting to to.  It's so beautiful here and the food is really good.  After the tournament we're going to go to Philadelphia and try all the good restaurants.
Q. How are the snacks in the players' area?
LUCY LI: Oh, it's really good.  They have so much ice cream.  There's like eight different kinds, and all this candy and chocolate and gummy bears.
Q. That's the really important stuff.
LUCY LI: Yeah.
Q. Since you don't play in too many competitive events, what else fills your time?  What else do you do?
LUCY LI: Well, I do a lot of homework, school work.  I do crafts.  I watch a lot of TV.  I watch basketball.
Q. What's your latest craft project?
LUCY LI: Latest craft project?  I'm usually working on like five at the same time (laughing).
Q. Did you make a wallet?
LUCY LI: It's in my bag somewhere.
Q. It's made out of rubber bands?
LUCY LI: Yeah.
Q. Wow, that's cool.
LUCY LI: Yeah, it took a long time for me to make it.
Q. Do you feel like most everyone knows who you are when you come to an event because of Pinehurst?
LUCY LI: Yeah, I guess so.  But that was kind of a long time ago.
Q. Does it feel like a long time ago?
LUCY LI: Yeah, it does for sure, so I guess it kind of wore off a little bit.
Q. Do you feel like one of the younger players here or do you feel just like you fit in like everyone else?
LUCY LI: Yeah, I think this is my 8th USGA event, so I guess I've kind of gotten used to it.
Q. If you were to medal here, obviously there is a lot of play still left, but what would that mean to you if you were to medal?
LUCY LI: That would be great, but honestly I don't really care if I'm first place, second place, third place.  It doesn't make much difference because it's match play.
Q. Were there any great highlights out there today that we should know about?  Obviously you made some birdies, but any that were terribly interesting?
LUCY LI: No, most of them were just hit it to like five feet or something.
Q. Mostly short putts?
LUCY LI: Yeah, they were all short putts.  I had a lot of chance for birdie and didn't really make any.
Q. Do you know how many greens you hit?
LUCY LI: 15 today, 18 yesterday.
Q. You hit 18 greens yesterday?  Oh, wow.  Did you miss any fairways while we're at it?
LUCY LI: Yesterday I missed one, today I missed one or two?  One.  I don't know.  Something like that.  I guess my driving wasn't as good, but I hit a lot of shots closer than I did yesterday.
Q. So how far do you hit it off the tee now do you think?
LUCY LI: Well, on this golf course nothing really rolls much because of all the rain.  So it's probably like 20 yards shorter than usual.  But probably like 230, I guess.  On this golf course probably 220.
Q. How does your game change at all now going from stroke play to match play?
LUCY LI: Not at all.
Q. Do you like match play?  I mean, you're playing it a little more as you play in more USGA events.
LUCY LI: Yeah, I like match play.  I've played a lot of match play in local tournaments, some club matches and the USGA events.  So I guess, yeah.  I like most match play and stroke play.
Q. Where did you get your Lucy ball marker?
LUCY LI: A golf store, PGA Superstore.
Q. Really?  Right off the rack?  They had one that said Lucy?
LUCY LI: Yeah, they have all sorts of names.  Like literally every name you can think of.
Q. Was it Johnny Miller that you were talking to in the past?
LUCY LI: Yeah, yeah.  A lot of (Indiscernible).
Q. Is that still happening?
LUCY LI: Yeah, after the Girls Junior, I went to the USGA Museum.
Q. You went to the Mickey Wright room?
LUCY LI: Yeah, it was cool.
Q. I wish I had known, I would have come over and said hi.  You enjoyed it?
LUCY LI: We went to the test center.  The test center was so cool.  They had this driver that if you press this button it was like a grass mower or something so you could improve your lie in the rough.
Q. Is there a piece of you at the museum?
LUCY LI: Yeah, they have like my T-shirt and like some bows and balls.  But I think my T-shirt was on display and then they took it down and they're going to put it back up in a couple years.
Q. Was it a shirt that you wore?
LUCY LI: At the U.S. Open.
Q. It was the red, white and blue shirt from Pinehurst.  It came home in my suitcase.  I've taken too many things.  Yes, I am stealing Lucy Li's clothes.
LUCY LI: Somebody's stealing all my stuff.
Q. And the hair bow from the four-ball and I have a bunch of golf balls.  What was the coolest thing in the Mickey Wright room?
LUCY LI: Coolest thing?  I think everything was pretty cool.  But they had this huge typewriter of hers that she used to communicate with sponsors and stuff, that was cool.
Q. A real typewriter?
LUCY LI: Yeah, a real typewriter, and then like a mandolin.  They had like a trophy that she won, like a major, but it was so tiny because apparently back in the day they used to make the trophies for the women smaller, so it was like really tiny.
Q. And Mickey emailed you yesterday?
LUCY LI: Yeah.
Q. What did she say?
LUCY LI: She said nice round.
Q. Well, she might send another one today.
LUCY LI: She sent a picture.  I think she got it from somewhere and she decided to share it with me.  So not just golf, she shares a lot of stuff.
Q. That's really neat.
LUCY LI: Yeah.
Q. What is the coolest thing Johnny's taught you?
LUCY LI: He's taught me so much stuff.  He's put all these shots in my bag like fades and draws.  Johnny's hilarious.
Q. Did johnny play 18 holes with you?
LUCY LI: He's also injured so he can't play.  He's awesome.  He's really funny too.  He has a really good sense of humor.
Q. So is Andy Miller your instructor?
LUCY LI: No, we play golf sometimes and he shows me shots because he was really good.  He played in the U.S. Open.  Johnny said he qualified sectional for U.S. Open with four clubs.
Q. Wow.  So who is your instructor now?
LUCY LI: I don't really have one.
Q. Who was the guy with you at the U.S. Girl's Junior.
LUCY LI: Joe Compitello.
Q. He's in Long Island, right?
LUCY LI: No, he's at Plainfield Country Club.  So I went early when I played in the Girl's Jr. I went early and practiced at Plainfield and he helped me with my wedges, and then after the Girl's Jr. I spent a couple days there again before I came here.
Q. So what is something outside of golf that Mickey's taught you that you talk about that's cool?
LUCY LI: Yeah, well, I mean, she's very -- a great psychologist, very philosophical.  She's always sharing all this art and stuff like that with me.
Q. She knows you're creative, right?
LUCY LI: Yes, I guess.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT