U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2014
Lucy Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You broke 80 again.LUCY LI: Yeah.
Q. How do you feel with the two rounds behind you?LUCY LI: I'm really happy about how I played.  I'm really happy with how I bounced back from the big numbers.  I got birdies after I got like doubles and triples, so that's what I'm really happy about, yeah.
Q. What's your overall thought of the experience that you had?  You said you came here to get experience and to learn from the best in the game and what did you learn?LUCY LI: I learned a lot.  I guess you have to be patient and, yeah, I learned a lot.  But it's been a great week, yeah.
Q. What was your favorite moment from this week?LUCY LI: I guess birdieing No. 14 after I tripled 13.
Q. How much fun did you have this week and what made it fun?LUCY LI: It was a lot of fun.  I guess that it was fun because I had two great playing partners.  They were really nice.  I guess because I did a good job of staying patient and going to the next shot and not caring about what happens.
Q. (No Microphone.)LUCY LI: Not really.
Q. Can you talk about the rest of your summer and other events you're going to have and just how you think playing here is going to propel you through the rest of the summer?LUCY LI: I have the U.S. Amateur Public Links in a couple of weeks.  I'm really excited about that, I love the Public Links.  And I guess it's been really -- the experience has helped me a lot because I really-- I just want to stay patient and I know it will help me, yeah.
Q. Are you playing the U.S. Amateur?LUCY LI: The qualifier in California is in a month or something.
Q. Would you say that this experience exceeded your expectations of what it was going to be, met your expectations?LUCY LI: Yeah, it's been a great week.  I had a lot of fun.  I learned a lot and, yeah, I guess it has exceeded my expectations.
Q. What's the most important thing that you learned?LUCY LI: You have to be patient.  That's what I learned.  Definitely.  Because I did a good job of that this week and it really helped because I got triples and I came back with birdies.  That's what's really important.
Q. (No Microphone.)LUCY LI: That's what it is, just be patient and not care about what happened, just go to the next shot and hit it like nothing, like it's the first shot.
Q. (No Microphone.)LUCY LI: No.
Q. What's your next junior tournament?LUCY LI: Junior tournament?  I guess if I qualify for the Junior Girls I'll go for the Junior Girls, if nothing conflicts with that, but I think I have some in California, some Junior TOUR events, yeah.
Q. Are you going to watch the rest of the tournament or are you going to go play some more golf somewhere?LUCY LI: I'm definitely going to watch the rest of the tournament.  I'm leaving on Monday.
Q. Are you going to play golf tomorrow somewhere?LUCY LI: I don't know.  Maybe not.
Q. Did you get any autographs this week from somebody you really admire?LUCY LI: I'm not really big on autographs, so, no.
Q. How many autographs did you give?LUCY LI: A lot.  I don't know.  Probably a few hundred.
Q. (No Microphone.)LUCY LI: No, I haven't, but it really helped me, it got me pumped up and I was hitting it farther and, yeah, but the crowds, like I said, I play better with the bigger the crowds, so, yeah.
Q. Talk about how coming in not caring about your scores helped your experience here.LUCY LI: It's definitely helped because if you care about your score, then the numbers get bigger and bigger and if you don't care about it, it actually helps you play better.
Q. What have you heard from your friends, because you've obviously gotten a lot of national publicity, been on the cover of newspapers, what have your friends been texting you or tweeting you or what have they been thinking about this?LUCY LI: I've got some e-mails.  They have been really excited.  They thought I played really well.  They're like, oh, you're famous now. (Laughter.)
Q. (No Microphone.)LUCY LI: No.
Q. Where is your ice cream?LUCY LI: I'm going to get one after I'm done here.
Q. Was there a shot today that you hit that the result surprised even you?LUCY LI: Let's see, what shot surprised me?  Not really.  I don't know.  Let's see.  I'm kind of tired, I can't remember.
Q. The second shot on 12?LUCY LI: Oh, yeah, that was really good.  On 12?  Oh, yeah, that one was really good.  I just didn't make the putt.  I really liked the shot on 13.  I hit a lot of good shots today, hit a lot of bad shots.  All in all it was a good week, yeah.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT