U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2014
Lucy Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What was that like?LUCY LI: What, sorry?
Q. What was that like out there?LUCY LI: It was a lot of fun.  I kind of struggled today, but it was great.
Q. What do you think of your score?LUCY LI: My score, I'm happy with how I played.  I mean, it's 8-over, it's not bad.  But I was 7-over in three holes, so that's 1-over in 15 holes.  So, yeah.  I just need to get rid of the big numbers.
Q. You made a birdie on two holes?LUCY LI: Yeah, I had two birdies.
Q. Did you expect that?LUCY LI: I didn't really care.
Q. Why did you wear that outfit out there?LUCY LI: Because it's the U.S. Open.  I like red, white and blue, too.
Q. What was the most fun for you today?LUCY LI: Getting to play in the U.S. Open was a lot of fun.  And my two playing partners, they were a lot of fun.
Q. You said yesterday it's not about the score, it's not about your results, but it's about coming here and learning.  Talk about what you've learned so far.LUCY LI: I learned that you've got to be patient.  One shot at a time.  Try to get rid of the big numbers.  And, yeah, I learned a lot.
Q. Did you get any tips from the process?LUCY LI: Sort of, not really.  I've been too busy, kind of.
Q. You were mad at Donald Ross a couple of times out there today?LUCY LI: Not really mad at him, I just thought his golf courses are really tough.  Some of the -- even the shortest holes, if you're not in the right place, you can get double, easily.
Q. A lot of times when you were just off the green, you always chipped.  Did you ever think about putting, or are you just more comfortable chipping?LUCY LI: I did, during the practice round, I tried putting and hitting a hybrid shot, but chipping is the best for me.
Q. That's what you're good at?LUCY LI: Yeah.
Q. Is there one shot you wished you had back?LUCY LI: I guess No. 3, the bunker shot, yeah.  That was not --
Q. What happened?LUCY LI: I hit it pin-high and it rolled all the way off.  And that was not really --
Q. Did the bunker, shot come out how you wanted it?LUCY LI: Not really.  I have to practice my bunker shots.
Q. We heard you had the long drive on No. 2, how did that feel?LUCY LI: Yeah, it was good, I got a really big kick.  I hit it just on the right side.  It rolled a lot.  It rolled like 50 yards.
Q. How about the support out there, with the crowds, and people calling out to you?LUCY LI: It was great.  It was a lot of fun.  Yeah.  I play better with the crowds.  So, yeah, it was good.
Q. Were you nervous on the first tee?LUCY LI: Little bit.  But I wasn't that nervous.  I just kind of pushed the ball, so whatever.
Q. Was it hard to kind of get yourself back together after starting the way you did?LUCY LI: Not really, but that's what I was so happy about in my round, because after I got doubles and triples, I was able to get it back.  Like I made a good stretch of holes after the double on the first hole. And after the triple, I birdied No. 5 -- after I tripled No. 3, I birdied No. 5, and I got a lot of pars after that.
Q. What do you think the best part was today?LUCY LI: No. 8, definitely.  That was a really good chip shot.
Q. On No. 3, were you aiming for the pin?LUCY LI: No, I pulled it.  There's no way I was going to aim at the flag (laughter).
Q. What club did you hit?LUCY LI: Pitching wedge.
Q. Do you have a score -- you shot 78, did you have a score in mind that you wanted to shoot today?LUCY LI: No, not really, I was just trying to have fun, go out and play my best, and whatever that was.
Q. How happy are you to have broken 80?LUCY LI: Yeah, it's really good.  I'm happy I broke 80, because I got two doubles and a triple and that can really ruin a score.  But I'm glad I got it back after that.
Q. What is it like to be asked for autographs by people older than you?LUCY LI: It's awesome.  I used to be -- well, it's good, because people older than me -- I don't know.
Q. Did someone ask you to take a picture with them on the 8th tee?LUCY LI: No.
Q. How did this day stack up to what you might have been expecting coming in, the whole experience?LUCY LI: It was good today.  It was kind of tough, but I was able to hang in and the score was okay, yeah.
Q. You sat down a lot on some of tees.LUCY LI: Yeah, I normally sit down even more than that (laughter).
Q. How does it feel to be able to play this Donald Ross course?LUCY LI: It's great.  It's such an honor.  Pinehurst No. 2 is such a famous golf course and it was awesome.  But Donald Ross, I've played his golf courses, he loves turtleback greens.
Q. And do you?LUCY LI: I like the greens, they're good.  You have to like the golf course.
Q. Do you have more of a feeling right now, I'm glad that's over with, or I can't wait to get back out here tomorrow?LUCY LI: I guess I am glad that I got it over with, but I'm also excited for tomorrow, yeah.
Q. What's your plan for the rest of the day?LUCY LI: Eat some more ice cream.  (Laughter).
Q. How is that Starburst ice cream?LUCY LI: It's good.  It's melting, though.
Q. Did you notice the crowds getting bigger and bigger as you went along, and did you enjoy that?LUCY LI: Yeah, it was good.  But I was trying not to pay too much attention to them.  I was just trying to hit one shot at a time.  And, yeah, try to focus on the golf.
Q. What will you tell your friends about today?LUCY LI: My friends?
Q. They're going to want to know how was today, what do you tell them?LUCY LI: I was going to tell them I was 7-over in 3 holes (laughter). 1-over par in 15, and I made 13 pars.
Q. Your second shot on No. 4?LUCY LI: Let's see, I hit a 5-wood.  It was like 196 or something.
Q. What about No. 8?LUCY LI: 196 -- no, wait, let me think.  198.  I hit a 5-wood and it went over the green.
Q. Do you remember what club you hit on 1 into the green, that beautiful shot?  I think Brian was laughing, he couldn't believe how did good that shot was.LUCY LI: I hit a 6-iron.  That was probably one of the best shots of the day.
Q. You must feel pretty good?LUCY LI: Yeah.
Q. Did you practice in some of the sandy areas during the round?  You weren't in it a lot today.LUCY LI: I practiced a little bit.  Maybe two or three shots.
Q. Are you used to hitting so many fairways?LUCY LI: Yes.  I like the rough.  The rough is better than the sandy areas.  I like the rough more than -- because you can get into a footprint, and you're like this far off the fairway, and you have to layup.  I like the stuff.  You've got to like the golf course, man.
Q. (Inaudible.)LUCY LI: I like the golf course.  It's just -- it's tough.  You miss the ball by three feet and it could be like a two or three shot difference.  You could hit it three feet more right and you'd be putting this far away for birdie.  Or you could be in the bunker and struggling for a bogey.  I like the golf course, though, it's good.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT