U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2018
Lucy Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  14 holes versus 43 yesterday; a little bit of a lighter load.  I know you had to wait a long time, but you really kind of kicked it in gear.  
LUCY LI: Yeah, definitely.  14 holes, at least I'll get to rest today.  After all that golf yesterday, I went home and my feet hurt and my legs hurt, so it'll be good to take the rest of today off and get ready for a long day tomorrow.   
 Q.  You started off and you lost the first two holes, and then you won six in a row there to basically close it out.  
LUCY LI: Yeah, definitely.  I did not get off to a good start, three-putted the first hole, missed like two six-footers the first two holes, then really got it back there.  I birdied No. 5, and then I eagled 10, and kind of just was -- yeah.   
 Q.  You birdied 5; what was the shot into 5?  
LUCY LI: Well, I hit it to like six or seven feet for birdie.  She made a long putt for par, so I was like, okay, I need to make this, because I'm 2-down.  That putt gave me a lot of confidence actually because my putting wasn't too good the last two rounds.  But after that, like my putting was really good after that.   
 Q.  On 10 did you chip in for eagle?  
LUCY LI: No, I actually hit this wood, and I was trying to hit it into the bunker, and it landed short and then like skipped over the bunker to like 10 feet downhill, and I made it.  Kind of lucky.   
 Q.  And then obviously at that point you start thinking --  
LUCY LI: Yeah.   
 Q.  Your thoughts about possibly playing Alexa Pano, another Drive, Chip and Putt national champion; you guys I'm sure know each other from junior golf?  
LUCY LI: Yeah, definitely.  We played a lot of tournaments together, AJGA's.  We hung out a lot this week.  Yeah, it'll be fun to play against here.  I just played with her last week in the Junior PGA.   
 Q.  You were paired with her?  
LUCY LI: Yeah.   
 Q.  Do you have an idea what her game is?  
LUCY LI: Well, yeah, I've known her for a while.   
 Q.  What will you do tonight?  Will you soak the feet?  
LUCY LI: Yeah, I think I'm just going to rest, stretch, eat some food.  That's pretty much it.   
 Q.  What about today, dealing with all the -- I'm sure you got to the course early ready to go?  
LUCY LI: Actually I didn't.  I think a lot of the girls got here way earlier than I did.  I got here at like 10:30 because I woke up at like 6:40 and then I saw the delay, so I ate breakfast, and then I saw it was delayed again, so I went up and then took a nap and just hung out, stretched and then came out.   
 Q.  A lot better than yesterday.  
LUCY LI: Yeah, a lot better.   
 Q.  Do you feel a little more refreshed today?  
LUCY LI: Yeah, definitely.   
 Q.  This is the farthest you've ever been in a USGA championship, right, a semifinalist?  
LUCY LI: Yeah.   
 Q.  You're already in the Amateur, so you're really playing for the big prize?  
LUCY LI: Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT