U.S. OPEN
September 9, 2010
Mary Joe Fernandez
Lucy Garvin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   TIM CURRY: Thanks for joining us for this press conference. We'll start with Lucy, Chairman of the Board and President of the USTA, who has a special announcement. 
 LUCY S. GARVIN: Thank you, Tim. Yes, thank you for joining us today. As you may know - or may not know - for the first time in 10 years, the U.S. has reached the finals of the Fed Cup -- this is two consecutive years that we've reached the finals.
 We are incredibly proud of Mary Joe Fernandez and what she has accomplished as the captain of the Fed Cup. She has the respect and the admiration of her team, as well as the USTA, and I am very pleased to announce that the USTA is extending Mary Joe's contract for 2011 and 2012. We are delighted that she's staying on board with us. 
 Mary Joe, congratulations.
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Thank you very much. It has been a fantastic two years. I'm so honored to be back as part of Fed Cup. I've said it many times before, when I look back at my career, my best memories come from team competition when I represented my country, whether it was Maureen Connolly Cup when I was growing up, and then Wightman Cup against England, and then Fed Cup and the Olympics.
 So to now be on the other end and being able to captain the team, it's pretty special. My biggest mentor when I was playing was Billie Jean King. Even when I was playing, you know, she talked to me and she'd be like, you know, you gotta be the captain one year. You're good with the players and you've helped me out. 
 She slowly molded me into really believing that this was something that was gonna be up my alley. I've had "the" best time with the girls, with the team. The USTA and the staff are, you know, first class, and they make it very enjoyable for me. 
 So it's been the best experience. I'm so looking forward to the final this year. I think it's been a great effort by all the players from last year and this year working together, having the chemistry, really keeping, you know, their eye on the prize and really pulling up upsets all the time. 
 It's been thrilling. My family, who at first were a little concerned I was gonna be taking too much time away and not being at home, after the first tie that I participated in in Arizona last year, I came home and I had so many stories and I was so excited that they were all like, Mommy, we're so happy that you're doing this because you're so happy. 
 That made me a lot better. They're very supportive. Again, looking forward to the final, looking forward to the next two years to continue building the next generation of players. You've seen some of them throughout the US Open, some of them are in the juniors right now.
 You know, looking ahead, looking forward, I think American tennis is on an upswing. So I'm thrilled.
 TIM CURRY: As Lucy and Mary Joe both mentioned, we are in the 2010 Fed Cup Final and are hosting it in the San Diego Sports Arena November 6 and 7. It's the first time in 10 years that the Fed Cup Final will be played in the U.S as well. In addition it's the first time we're in consecutive finals in 10 years. 
 We will open up the floor to questions. 

 Q. Last year Venus and Serena said first they were coming, then not. What is going to happen this year? Are you confident that they will both come? 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Well, no, for sure. I mean, last year they both committed to playing, and we were hoping that they were going to be in the final. Unfortunately, because of injury and tiredness from the championships, they weren't able to come to Italy. 
 Still, we had a fantastic experience playing the Italians away. The team played their hearts out. This year they're committing again. I'm counting on it. I'm confident. I'm counting on having the core team there, as well, with Melanie (Oudin) and Bethanie (Mattek-Sands) and Liezel (Huber). 
 We're looking forward to it. It's going to be so nice to play at home, a final. It's been such a long time, as Lucy was saying, 10 years to host the final. You know, San Diego is a great city; it's a great tennis town; we get a lot of support there. 
 I think it's going to be fantastic.

 Q. With Venus' win over (Francesca) Schiavone, is that a foreshadowing of things?
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I hope so. (Laughing.) I like her head-to-head against Schiavone. She's never lost to her. You know, obviously looking at that match with special interest and trying to scout as much as possible. 
 But Venus knows Francesca very well. Obviously Francesca is having the year of her career, and she won the French Open. She's very confident. You can see how much talent she has. I always say Fed Cup is so different from any other competition when it's just you. 
 Sometimes when you're the favorite, I think dynamics happen that make it an equalizer. What we've seen with our team we've been the underdogs away, even at home. You find ways. So even if on paper one's favorite, you still have to get there and you have to win the match.

 Q. You have right now five players that are your core team, but you have to name a squad of four. Have you given any thought as to where that might break down, assuming that Venus and Serena both do play?
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah, I'm going to see how everybody plays the next couple of months, who's healthy, who's winning matches, kind of wait as close as possible to the tie to know, you know, to see who is the best prepared.
 But they all will be there. You know, whoever is playing better, whoever I think matches up better at the time and on the surface and everything is who we will choose.

 Q. You have to name those four when?
 TIM CURRY: Ten days out she has to name an initial lineup of four players, but up to one hour before the draw ceremony she can replace two in the initial lineup. So really, until one hour before the draw the final four are set.

 Q. But that fifth player could come in until one hour before, or no, once you've named those four? 
 TIM CURRY: No. The four that are named ten days out are in the initial lineup; two of those can be replaced up to one hour before the draw.

 Q. Is there any thought that as much Venus and Serena are who they are and the players that they are that these other three are the ones who got you here, is that troubling in your mind?
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No, it's actually not troubling. It's a fact that this team has put in the work and really got us to the final. It's a team effort. I think you talk to the players, they want to win. Ultimate thing is win the Fed Cup and bring it back home to the United States. 
 The best way to do that is to have the best players in the world. We're so are fortunate to have Venus and Serena. So I've had great communications from the first day of taking over as captain with both Venus and Serena. They've been very up front when they can play, when they definitely don't want to play.
 Yeah, it's disappointing when they can't play. I think it's gonna be fantastic for the team to be around two of the best players to ever play the game, to have that experience and to see, you know, how they operate, how they function. I think it will be inspirational for everybody. 
 So, again, about bottom line is everybody wants to win. If they can help the team win, then they've done a huge role. 

 Q. Mary Joe, Patrick's resignation from the Davis Cup sort of trained the spotlight on the time commitments, and you're juggling as much as he is. 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Not as much.

 Q. Well, that's arguable. But how do you do it?
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: You know, I'm fortunate because my TV commitments are basically January to September with a couple months off, February and April. Most of it's really in the summertime where I can have my family with me pretty much every week. 
 You know, Fed Cup, it is a chunk of time. I'm gone from home for a week. But, again, it's something that I enjoy and my family supports. My children love following all the up-and-comers and getting to know them.
 It's cute. I think most of you heard the story when I first picked Melanie to the team for the first time. I took Isabella with me to go watch all the young Americans play the qualifying of the Australian. 
 After watching eight or nine of them, I was like, So, Isabella, what do you think? She's like, I really like that Melanie. She has such a good attitude.
 So I make it a part -- I make part of it for them, and it works well. We have a big break now until Fed Cup to get organized, and, you know, following the results and keeping in touch. It's been nice. I mean, it's almost a family away from my family that I get to be with and get to try to help in any which way I can. 

 Q. Speaking of those juniors and the qualifiers, have you decided who you'll bring as practice partners? Along that, is there anybody that particularly impresses you in the juniors right now?
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: There are so many players that I've already had on the team that have done really well, whether it's Christina McHale from New Jersey, Sloane Stephens who is playing right now when we walked in here. Coco Vandeweghe has been on one of my teams; she had a big win over (Vera) Zvonareva in San Diego. We saw Beatrice Capra do well; she came to Italy. Nicole Gibbs. 
 The list goes on and on of players with potential that are working really hard, and, you know, really are trying to come together and push each other. 
 You know, Melanie broke through last year, and I think it was inspirational for the rest of the players around the same age to say, Wow, she can do it, we can do it. She's the best team player I could possibly have dreamed for, because it's not all about her. She really wants everybody else to do well.
 So there's a lot of players, um, that I keep track on and that are doing well. It's been fun.

 Q. Patrick reflected on his 10 years. He said that when he first came in, one of his goals was not to have to necessarily go on his knees to the Samprases and Agassis of the world. He wanted to find guys who are committed, guys who wanted to be out there for each tie. Could you talk a little bit about that. 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I think that's important. You want -- Billie Jean always said this to me: You want players who want to be there. That's the most important thing. I don't go on my knees and begging to everyone. This is what it is. Do you want to play? Do you not want to play? Love to have the best players play, and it's a very honest conversation.
 I understand with Venus and Serena. They're at a different stage in their career. They have different priorities. I think it's been a very honest back and forth of where they are and what their thinking of Fed Cup is. 
 Again, you want to win, so you want the best. But at the same time, if they can't do it or they don't want to be there, you want to have the players that want to be there. We've seen with Melanie and Bethanie and Liezel, they thrive under this pressure. They love playing for their country. 
 Liezel Huber, who just became an American a couple years ago, cries every time the anthem is played right before Fed Cup starts. You get the goosebumps because you see how much it means to them. That's what you want to have.
 I'm sure, I'm confident when Venus and Serena play that they will have that, too. I think they take great pride in the fact that they've won gold medals, and I think they'd like to add a Fed Cup title to their résumé.

 Q. One of the other things Patrick did too was create this core of young players who really had a camaraderie, James and Andy, the Bryan brothers. It was really sort of a special group, and kudos to him for having the foresight to see that these guys were on their way up. Is there a feeling looking at the Melanie Oudins of the world that you can sort of get in on a good young core?
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Absolutely. One of the things that I think I've learned from Patrick, who's been so supportive, and, again, inspirational to me, is finding that camaraderie, making it a real team. Everybody has egos, but being able to leave that ego at the door when you come together for that week, and even when you're not at Fed Cup or Davis Cup to be able to support each other. 
 I always tell them, Listen, you work together here and you support each other and you root for each other, and then when you play against each other, you fight to win. You don't have to not like each other. I see it. I see these young girls practice together. 
 Again, hearing Melanie say, I'm so happy to see Christina winning matches. I'm so happy Beatrice did well. Shows you that it's not just about them.
 I think Patrick did so well in getting that with James and Andy and Mardy and the Bryan brothers, to really have that feeling that, you know what? They have each other's back no matter what. When they face each other they try to beat each other up; but besides that, they're working for a common goal.

 Q. Patrick decided normally to have the doubles pair and two singles players. You think that you're going to choose between the five, more or less. But in general, your principal is what? Let's say that the two Williams are both there. Okay, they're very good also in doubles. If one of the two is injured, is tired also, would you rather have two other singles players who could replace them or one doubles player like Liezel who could play... 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah, I mean, we're fortunate -- Patrick and I have been fortunate. Patrick has been very fortunate to have the best doubles team on the men's side with the Bryan brothers. I'm very fortunate to have Liezel Huber as the top doubles player (in the world). She's in finals of the mixed today; she's in the semis of the doubles. 
 So I always think it's important to have Liezel on the team. She's come through big on final matches a few times. She loves the pressure. She wants that moment. 
 So, you know, to have her there ready, I mean, if it's the Williams sisters, they've proven that they're the best team in the world. But Liezel is, you know, extremely important and can play with either Venus or Serena, if necessary.

 Q. Is there any minimum number of Fed Cup ties that Venus and/or Serena would have to play in order to be eligible for the Olympics?
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: I believe there's two. 

 Q. To play or just to be...
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: To play, right? 
 TIM CURRY: No, to make yourself eligible. 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Make yourself eligible for two.

 Q. So what's the difference between those two? 
 TIM CURRY: If Mary Joe doesn't pick them to play or if they're on the roster and they're not used in a singles or doubles match, that counts as have made themselves available to play. 
 They have to do that two of the four years between the Olympics, and one of the two years must either be the year of the Olympics or the year prior to the Olympics.

 Q. Does a commitment count? In other words, say there's a commitment and then they don't play. Is that making themselves available?
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah.
 TIM CURRY: No.
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It isn't?

 Q. So if they come up injured right before... 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: But they're not really available if they're injured.
 JIM CURLEY: If you end up in a situation where someone commits and gets hurt, if they're there as part of the team at the location of the tie supporting the team, that's counts.
 REPORTER: So if they don't go, that's not considered available.
 JIM CURLEY: Correct.

 Q. So they haven't been available ever in these four years, so if they are not going to be there this time, they cannot play the Olympics next games?
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: They have to play twice, so there are still two more years. 
 TIM CURRY: 2012 is tricky, because if we made the finals it would be after the Olympics, so there is some stipulation about how the Olympic year can be counted. 
 But, again, it's two of the four years between, one of which must be the Olympic year or the year prior.

 Q. And it just has to be one tie? 
 TIM CURRY: One tie counts for the year, yes. 

 Q. Can you talk about the importance of home field advantage? It certainly helped Italy last year in the final, their court, and the crowd was certainly into it. The crowd certainly really helped you come from behind in Birmingham. How much are you guys looking forward to having a hard court?
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: So nice. It makes a big difference. It was so nice in Birmingham to have that home-court advantage against Russia, just to know that they're behind you every point. 
 I mean, when you play Fed Cup or Davis Cup, every point's a big point from the very first one. You win the first point, and the crowd gets right into it and gets behind you. 
 When you're not doing as well and you win a point or you win a game, you feel like you're doing even better than you are. It really lifts you. I think it lifts the spirit, it lifts the mood, and it just gives you that belief that no matter what that you can do it. 
 So we're so excited that we're playing this final at home. 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about Bethanie, who really came through for you?
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Yeah. Bethanie has been fantastic. She's always had a lot of talent. She's had a lot of injuries the last couple years, and she started to rebuild at the end of last year.
 She can do it all. She can play singles, she can play doubles, and she's learned to play to her strength. She's an all-court player. I think sometimes she was trying to maybe just outhit people. Now she works the point a lot more, she's more patient, she knows how to volley, she can come in. 
 Got a little unlucky here. Had match points against Petkovic second round, but she's worked her ranking back up to the top 100 and has been as high as 40, more or less around there. She's very talented and a very hard worker.
 So again, she's been critical in getting to the final for us. 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about the Italians with Flavia (Pennatta) and Francesca really having quite a run here? They've really become much more of a power. 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: They are a very worthy team. They have great chemistry. They've been together for a very long time. Experience has been a great factor to them. I actually think that's one of the reasons Schiavone won the French this year, is because of that support. Her captain, (Corrado) Barazzutti, I think has really inspired her.
 But they're tough. I mean, they're tough on any surface. They're all-court players. You know, even, you know, the other two, Sara Errani is talented, and Roberta Vinci, as well. They can play singles, they can play doubles. 
 So they're complete. There's really not a weakness when you look at the Italian team.

 Q. Over the years, Fed Cup has had various incarnations. It was played together in one venue; it's been played home and away at Davis Cup. If you had your druthers as to how to do Fed Cup right, what would you do? 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: You know, it's difficult to me with the way the schedule works to put it in the right place all the time. That's what we struggle with, is finding the right weeks for Fed Cup. 
 It's obviously very difficult to have such a big gap between the semis and the finals. We play the first one in February, then in April, and then we wait till November. So you feel a little disconnect sometimes.
 But again, it's tough with the WTA schedule to try to find that perfect week. I like the home and away. When I played, I played both ways. Obviously the one week -- it's easier for players to commit to the one week than various weeks. But home and away is unique. It's special to have that advantage, and, you know, the challenge when you're not at home.
 So I love the format. And, yes, it would be nice if it was a little bit closer together so you could follow it a little bit easier. 

 Q. About what you just said, there is a tournament in Bali which is the same week as of final of Fed Cup. This was last year, then Stacey Allaster (WTA Chairman & Chief Executive Officer) say though next year will not be like that anymore. It is again. There are a lot of points, a lot of money for those players that go to Bali. If they decide to play Fed Cup, they can't go to Bali, and vice versa. Don't you think that also the USTA should do something about this sort of conflict? Because that shows that they don't create much interest for -- you know, the WTA is not supporting Fed Cup and they should. 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: It was an issue last year, I know, for Flavia. I'm not sure this year it will be an issue. We'll see. Again, it's a scheduling conflict. No question about it. I think it's more of a WTA issue than anything else, not really USTA issue.

 Q. You should push them to... 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: No, absolutely. And I think they've tried. I think the Italians have tried. It is a conflict for players, because you are missing out on points if you want to represent your country, which the Italians take a tremendous amount of pride in. 
 So it is a tough decision, and hopefully it will -- that will change. 
 TIM CURRY: Thank you. 
 LUCY S. GARVIN: I just announced that we were extending the contract, but I want you to know how grateful the USTA is that Mary Joe has accepted this for two more years. 
 I have been with her over these last two years. Incredible job. We are very grateful. 
 MARY JOE FERNANDEZ: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT