U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 27, 2012
Matt Grevers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We have Matt Grevers up here, tonight's gold medalist in the 100 Meter Backstroke.   He qualified for the Olympic Team tonight. 

Q.   To come so close to breaking 52, breaking the world record, can you describe that feeling? 
MATT GREVERS:   Um, it was a little surprising, in one aspect, and disappointing in the other.   Like you said, it was very close, but I have another shot in a couple of weeks, and I think that's what I'm ultimately gearing up for. 
Just to see I'm in the realm of possibilities to get Aaron, one of my idol's records is encouraging for me.   That's why I was so excited to see that I'm getting close and maybe a couple more weeks of preparation, hopefully I can break that 52 barrier. 

Q.   Congratulations, Matt.   What did Adolf Kiefer say to you? 
MATT GREVERS:   He said, "It was a great race.   You have more in you, and I believe you'll go faster in London." 

Q.   And then he asked to kiss the medal? 
MATT GREVERS:   He's a legend in swimming.   He gets to do what he wants to do.   Yeah, I just said, "Happy birthday," and he said, "Thanks."   He's a great man. 

Q.   How do you balance your own excitement with probably the disappointment that Annie is feeling right now? 
MATT GREVERS:   It's very tough.   There was an upset tonight in the Women's 100 breaststroke, and I wish that could have been Annie's upset, but‑‑ it's sad because that was probably her last 100 Breaststroke ever, and that was my fastest 100 Backstroke, ever.   It's kind of a new beginning for me and an end of a chapter for her. 
She is ready to support my swimming and she is happy for me and motivated, but it's tough because it dampens the mood a little bit, especially because she missed her turn.   She wanted to end on a perfect race and had she did swim phenomenal, if she would have hit the turn ‑‑ I'm not saying she would have made it, but she wanted a flawless race and that's where the sadness comes in. 

Q.   Could you describe the emotion that took over you after you realized that your race was over?   Who all were you hugging? 
MATT GREVERS:   That's, I think, why I got so emotional at the end, "You did it!"   "Yeah, I made the Olympic Team," and it's my family crying, my dad, mom, sister, brother‑in‑law, and I get out of the pool and the first person I see is my coach, Rick DeMont.   I don't know how long we have been together now, 2007, and right next to my brother, my two main coaches, my brother and Rick, and they're almost crying, they're so excited. 
"Oh, you did it for everyone!"   You get your own moment, and you think, and you're like, everyone gets this moment, and that's where the extra burst of energy comes from is.   You get to enjoy and celebrate with family members and friends and such an emotional experience.   I have been on the downslope since 2010 and '11, and to get back up on top in the backstroke means a lot, and they've been supporting me the whole way, so it's great to accomplish this for them as well. 

Q.   Why were you on the downslope? 
MATT GREVERS:   I don't know.   Swimming a sport‑‑ I don't know if anyone is going to fully understand‑‑ you think if you work hard that you're going to be the best, the harder you work the better results you're going to get, and that's not the case.   The hardest work I ever worked was in 2010, more dry land, running, lifting weights, as hard as I could, and I buried myself.   So there is a thing such as smart training, and that's what I've learned to do. 
It's taken me till I'm 27 that you can hit your head against the wall as much as you want, but until you start to think about things, that's when it's going to work, so I'm done hitting my head against the wall. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you for joining us.   Congratulations.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT