GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2019
Alfonzo McKinnie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I wonder what you think you can bring to this team and in particular the biggest contribution you think you can make?
ALFONZO McKINNIE: I think for me just coming in and continuing to be the player that I've always been, that hard worker, sticking to what I know, getting the extra possessions. I mean, I've been working on my three-ball more this past summer, so I think I can come in and contribute in that field, knock down open shots, being a primary defender. That's something else I've worked on this summer.
You know, just being myself and just adding to what I've been doing, you know, and just trying to do it at a more consistent -- more consistent and at a high level.
Q. Such a changeover on the roster this summer; I wonder, is it strange for you just a year after you were the newcomer here to be now one of the guys who's actually been here longer than a lot of others?
ALFONZO McKINNIE: I mean, that is kind of funny because I was thinking, I was here one year, but coming into this year seeing how the roster has changed, it is a little weird. But in this business things like that happen every season. Rosters change, people go other places. For me to be one of the guys who was around last year and got to experience making it to the NBA Finals, I think I could definitely be a help for some of the younger guys coming in, not really knowing how to handle certain situations, and just me being here last year and being with the guy I was with last year, I would be able to help and step up as more of a leader in that regard.
Q. There's been a lot of talk about the starting small forward spot, at least until Klay comes back. Obviously nothing is set in stone, but do you see yourself as that starting 3 and why?
ALFONZO McKINNIE: I've been seeing different things, different articles, people talking about it. But you know, it would be great to be a starter, but you know, to be honest, that's not even my main focus. I just want to come in and be able to contribute to help this team win. If I am a starter, that's great, but if not, I'm not going to change the way I approach this game based off of that.
Q. What did you learn last year in terms of playing both ends, getting your shot up, that you can take into this year? In other words, what did you feel you had to get better at for year two with this team?
ALFONZO McKINNIE: I mean, last year I learned a lot about myself and just more about this game. We had a lot of veteran guys last year. They kind of helped me become a better pro. Me coming into this situation last year, I pretty much didn't know what to expect, and I was threw into the fire, and I had to learn and just go as the season went on, just learn and go. But from my experiences going into this season, I know I'm going to probably be having to defend good guys. Last year I was threw out there. I did it, but I think now this year I have a different approach on it, like watching more film on guys, learning their tendencies more, and on the offensive end I've learned the system. So I just want to come in this year and be able to click with guys, and like I said before, be able to help the other guys learn the system as fast because once you're comfortable in a system and comfortable on both ends, you know you're able to excel.
Q. Obviously you touched on being kind of thrown into the fire, if you will. You were kind of put in a situation, you were given a lot of -- you were thrown into the Playoffs and whatnot. Given the turnover in the roster, how do you see your role expanding and helping this roster transition in this period right now?
ALFONZO McKINNIE: You know, like you said, me being here last year, being one of the guys who came back with this roster changing so much, I think since I know the system, I'm more comfortable with the system, more comfortable as a player, I'm comfortable with my role in this system, so I think me just coming out and, like I said, just be the guy that I've always been and just doing things at a high level and just being more consistent on a day-to-day basis.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT