AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v TWINS
October 5, 2010
Francisco Liriano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Francisco, what does it mean to you to be starting Game 1, your first playoff game ever? And just how do you plan on trying to manage your emotions and not get too excited before you take the mound?   
 FRANCISCO LIRIANO: We're just going to go out there and have fun. Try not to do too much, I think. And like I say, go out there and have fun, just do whatever you have to do. Go out there and pitch and have fun with it.   
  
  Q. Francisco, when Joe comes out to the mound to talk to you, when he thinks maybe you're a little excited, what does he say to you to calm you down?  
 FRANCISCO LIRIANO: He tells me to calm down, not try to do too much. Realizing just hit your spot and, you know, whatever happens happen. Just hit your spot and have fun.   
 And just, you know, he just told me calm down, relax most of it, yeah.   
  
  Q. You've faced the Yankees, I believe, twice in a pretty short span earlier in the year. I know it's been a while and some of those guys are hitting a lot differently than they did then. Getting a lot of swings and misses, what can you take from those starts into an atmosphere like this?   
 FRANCISCO LIRIANO: Like I say, just go out there and hit my spot, you know. Use both sides of the plate. And, you know, watch some film for the game, pitch before and have an idea what I am going to do tomorrow. And just, you know, pitching is about location. Just go out there and look at the pitching and see what happens.   
  
  Q. Francisco, it's obviously a really deep line-up that they've got. Is there one hitter in there who concerns you and concerns other pitchers perhaps more than anybody else?   
 FRANCISCO LIRIANO: Nah, not to me. So just, you know, I know they have a good lineup and I have to just go out there and try to do your best, you know, not try to do too much. And like I said before, it is all about location. You go out there and pitch. You don't even know what can happen. Anything can happen in baseball. So you just go out there and try to do your best.   
  
  Q. Francisco, you talk about your comeback from the surgery and now getting this start in the postseason. Did you ever think in your mind that this day was going to come for you after all of the work you've had to do to reinvent yourself and come back and be a star at this level?   
 FRANCISCO LIRIANO: To be honest, no, not at all. I didn't think about it. I had a tough year last year, and the beginning of the season in the bullpen. I didn't think about it and I am happy that they gave me an opportunity this year, so I just am having fun and just I don't know, having fun I guess. I didn't thought about it at all.   
  
  Q. How different is it pitching in this park as opposed to the Metrodome?   
 FRANCISCO LIRIANO: Well, it is a little bit different. The park is a little bit bigger, you know, and, of course, it's open. And I don't know, I just like it here and it is a little bit different. I can't tell how much different it is, but just open, bigger I think.   
 THE MODERATOR: Anything else for Francisco? Okay, thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT