136TH BELMONT STAKES
June 5, 2004
Edgar Prado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








EDGAR PRADO:  I want to apologize to the other people here, I didn't come up earlier.  I had some business to take care of.  I apologize to everybody.  I feel happy and sad at the same time.  You know, very sad because I spoil the Triple Crown one more time. Wasn't the recognition, the story, I know other people related to Smarty Jones.  This sport need a hero and I thought that would be great for us.  But I have to go there to try to do the best I can to win a race and that's what I did.  I was happy Nick Zito and Marylou Whitney, they've been great to the sport.  By a lot of horse, a lot of business, donate a lot of money to chart.  I'm happy and sad.  I don't know how to explain that.  Unfortunately, one more time, I did it.

EDGAR PRADO:  Very exciting, make you feel like you're doing something, make you feel like professional jockey.  That's what we need, that's what the sport needs, more crowds like that to come to the racetrack and enjoy.

EDGAR PRADO:  I have a good break, a clean break.  I was about five days off the lead at the first part of the race, when I saw three horse go in, head to head, try to chase a little bit.  I sit right behind and bide my time.  I was pretty comfortable where I was most of the trip.  It was similar scene that Sarava trip.  This time I went around instead.  It work out beautiful.  I know I have a good chance to win the race about 3/8 pole when a horse keep coming slowly and Smarty Jones didn't open up.  It was small horse, but with big heart.  He was trying real hard.

Q. Did you see Stewart Elliott look over his shoulder at you? 

EDGAR PRADO:  He was very busy.  He was riding hard, trying to get there.  So obviously doing my business, too, just riding my horse very hard.  He didn't -- I was doing everything I can just to get there.

Q. What did you say to him right after the race? 

EDGAR PRADO:  I'm sorry, my friend.  And I really mean it.  I feel sorry, because I know Stewart Elliott for a long time.  He's a great guy, good person, good rider.  Who could be better for win a Triple Crown.  I feel very, very sad at the moment.

Q. How did you feel your horse was doing?  I mean, you could see you watching up to him.  How was your horse doing in the stretch?  Was he starting to tire? 

EDGAR PRADO:  It wasn't really tired.  He was just maintain his space and, you know, I was very confident going to this race, sound a little funny.  The day I road him in the Derby, I was bouncing back and forth the first quarter of a mile.  He was gaining in the stretch.  He was one of the horses that was gaining, and he was coming.  I only got beat about 10 lengths the whole race.  So today I feel very comfortable.  I was training real well in Saratoga.  He work out beautiful today.  He was fresh.  And today he go the distance.  I was comfortable.  Very happy in the stretch.  I know if he maintain his speed and his pace, he's going to get there.

EDGAR PRADO:  We talked about with Nick a couple of days, I believe was day before yesterday, and I say, well, Nick, say, well, we ready to go.  I really like my horse.  My little horse, he stood up like a man, fought really hard the day of the Derby.  He took every single punch right, left both sides.  You can see he's a small horse.  He still coming in.  I was very, very happy.  Plus he lost a shoe.  I was, say, Nick say 10, let's go for it.  I was going to ride the race.  Instead of being one to chase Smarty Jones, fortunately work out beautiful for me.

Q. Did you have the same sadness when you spoiled the Triple Crown before, was it different this time?

EDGAR PRADO:  Last time was different, because it wasn't War Emblem finished second, he tired, finish nowhere.  Today I was one to beat it right with 70 yards to go.  Plus, I'm more friend with Stewart Elliott and the connections they would mean more to me, because I know them a long time.

EDGAR PRADO:  Probably my family is watching.  They've been watching this racing.  Thanks to all the television.

Q. What went through your mind when you realized you were going to win?

EDGAR PRADO:  Like I said before, I was happy and sad at the same time.  I can not let my sadness take over and stop riding, I just continue to ride.

Q. What point did you know you were going to win? 

EDGAR PRADO:  About an eighth of a mile to go.  I know you have a good chance to win.  5/16 to go.  I was more confident with an eighth of a mile to go.  I could see Smarty Jones wasn't really reaching.  He was kind of struggling a little bit.  My horse was maintaining his speed.

Q. What was the last week like for you?  Did you get up to Saratoga to work Birdstone at all?  Can you tell us how this week went to get to this point?

EDGAR PRADO:  Well Nick, we left it all to Nick.  He did all the work.  I only been on this horse three times.  The day he break his maiden the Derby and today.  That show you when you have a good horse, you can get along, no problem.

Q. When you got up on the mount the 35 raid before you went on.  Did you feel anything as you got up for that walk right in?

EDGAR PRADO:  In the post parade.  He was very calm, considering all the noise.  He took everything very well.  Very classy horse.  Seemed like nothing bothered him.  He went to the place he really like at Saratoga.  That's where he broke the record over there.  Training real well, he was happy.


Q. Talk about your relationship with Elliott.  How long have you known Stewart Elliott? 

EDGAR PRADO:  I met Elliott in 1988 when I was riding in Boston, Suffolk Downs.  I was riding in Maryland and he used to go to Maryland.  I was going to Philadelphia Monmouth Park.  That's when I met Elliott.  I was riding for Mr. Camac the trainer that he died.  I know Mr. Servis because his brother rent house me.  All the connections.

Q. Service's brother rented a house to you? 

EDGAR PRADO:  He rented a house from me in the wintertime.


Q. What did Marylou tell you after the race? 

EDGAR PRADO:  She was speechless. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT