TEXAS CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2015
Trevone Boykin
Aaron Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Trevone, what's the name of that last play?
TREVONE BOYKIN: Pray.  Pray Hail Mary.  I don't know, that's just something you don't write down.  Sometimes you just need a little luck in this game, and we pulled through.
Q. Was Aaron supposed to be there?
TREVONE BOYKIN: He was supposed to be over the ball.  He wasn't supposed to be at the back of the end zone, but I mean, I thank God he was.
Q. What did you think when you let the ball go?
TREVONE BOYKIN: It was pretty much a play that we had ran earlier, and I seen Josh kind of got grabbed.  I put the ball in the air because I knew he could out-jump everybody, and once the ball got tipped, it was kind of like, man, and then once I seen it come down and AG had it, only thing I was hoping was he got his foot in.
Q. You saw him catch it?
TREVONE BOYKIN: Yeah, I saw him catch it.
Q. On that final drive, what was going through your mind?
TREVONE BOYKIN: Let's finish.  I mean, this is what we came here for.  Nothing was going to be easy.  We're one of the top teams in the nation.  We're going to get everybody's best shot, and I'm sure everybody knows we gave Texas Tech our best shot today.
Q. Did you think it might come down to the last quarterback with the ball?
TREVONE BOYKIN: Yeah, Coach P told us before the game started that it could possibly come down to the last play, and on this crazy day, it did.  It's just something that you really can't predict the future, but that's why he's our head coach.
Q. When you see the ball being tipped in the air, do you think it's over at that point?
TREVONE BOYKIN: Yeah, I thought it was over just because it had got tipped almost to the back of the end zone, and as I seen a flash of a white jersey come through and just grab the ball.  Really the only thing I was just thinking was man, I really hope he got his foot in, but sometimes you just need a little luck.
Q. (Inaudible.)
TREVONE BOYKIN: I mean, Josh is a great receiver.  He makes plays all over the field, and he's a senior.  He knows -- he's been through the fire with us, and he really just comes out and we just try to play our heart out every time we're out there.
Q. What does that last play say about Aaron?
TREVONE BOYKIN: It just shows that we never give up no matter what, and that's the perfect example of never giving up.
Q. Is Josh a guy (inaudible)?
TREVONE BOYKIN: Yeah, he can out-jump almost everybody on the defensive side of the ball, and I know that and he knows that.  It's all about a matter of execution.
Q. Talk about your receivers stepping up.
TREVONE BOYKIN: I mean, like I said, we have a lot of young guys, and we've preached all week to the young guys, play big roles.  We had guys like Turp out there making plays, guys like that making plays, and these are routine plays.  We do it every day at practice.  Nothing changes for us, it's just all about executing when the lights are on.
Q. Aaron, you had two catches for four yards today and a touchdown.  Pretty good day?
AARON GREEN: Pretty good day, man.  Pretty good day.  Can't complain at all.
Q. Take us through that last play.
AARON GREEN: Well, you know, Coach Luper, Coach Cumbie and Coach Meacham, they always preach follow the ball.  Whoever has the ball, follow it, because you never know like when the ball, somebody may fumble or anything like that.  I knew there was a chance, Josh Doctson pretty much catches everything, but there was a chance I knew he might not have caught it because it was a little high and a guy was behind him, so I did what I was told and I followed the ball, and I saw it the whole way, and I caught it.
Q. Was there a point when you realized you might be able to get to it?
AARON GREEN: Oh, yeah.  As soon as I saw it leave his hands.  I was actually open on the play.  But it was a routine play.  Like he said, we run scramble drills, we run all this type of stuff, so it's not really new to us.
Q. What about the last drive when you started with three and a half minutes to go?  What's the huddle like?  What are you guys thinking?  You've got the atmosphere, your season is on the line?
AARON GREEN: It's very calm.  We have the best player in college football in the huddle, and we have the best wide receiver in college football, so I mean, not too much can go wrong with that.  We just believed in each other.  We're brothers.  We've been through a lot.  We've been through terrible seasons.  We've been through good season.  You know, we've prevailed.  That's what we do.  That's TCU football.
Q. What did you think of Josh's day?  What was he like on the sideline?
AARON GREEN: Josh was just Josh.  Amazing.  Like I said, he's the best receiver in college football.  Everybody knows it, and he played like it tonight.  I'm very happy for him.
Q. With all that adversity you guys have been facing, how does a win like this help you guys moving forward?
TREVONE BOYKIN: It really just brings us tighter together.  It's like the next man up.  One guy goes down, the other just has to step up.  We're not asking them to jump over a building, we're not asking them to do anything impossible really, just really just go out there and make routine reads, communicate, be you.  You don't have to be bigger than yourself, just go out and try and make plays.
Q. How important was Ty to you and to the offense?
TREVONE BOYKIN: He's real important.  He's a veteran shot guy when we lost porter last year, and he knows everything.  He's savvy, he blocks, he really just does everything right, and then when he went down, it's like, man, it's really a blow to the team.  But I mean, I'm praying for him.  I hope he gets well.  I hope he comes back because he's a tough kid.  But like I said, those two came in and did a really good job.
Q. How much does the fact that you guys kind of have that winning mentality, that winning attitude, how does that help you guys?
TREVONE BOYKIN: You can just go back to last year and the coaches hate talking about last year and everybody else does, but I mean, just seeing what happened to us in the Baylor game and finishing was our main thing.  We really just never wanted that feeling again, and since that day we've been on the grind, we've been pushing each other, trying to make each other the best players we do, and this is just the result.
Q. Did it remind you of Baylor out there a little bit?
TREVONE BOYKIN: No, not at all.
Q. (Inaudible.)
AARON GREEN: Yeah, I think that's what a good running game does.  It wears people down.  That's what we had to do in the second half.
Q. What was going through your mind on the final play after the penalty?
AARON GREEN: Just someone please make the play, somebody make the stop, make a tackle, do something.  Very nerve-racking, but I'm glad we were able to finish.
Q. (Inaudible)?
AARON GREEN: We don't really huddle.  He just called the play, and you know, I have full faith in Trey.  Like I said, he's the best player in college football, and he proved it tonight.  He stepped up and did what he needed to, Josh, as well.  But that's just what TCU football is all about, man, fighting until the last whistle.  That's what we did.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT