WALKER CUP
September 9, 2017
Jack Singh Brar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Really well played, you must be delighted two wins and a great start for you.
JACK SINGH BRAR: It was an incredible start, obviously you couldn't have asked for much better.  Played pretty solid all day, Scott played excellent this morning, so I holed a few crucial putts here and there, but I think he definitely did the bulk.  This afternoon I had a great start and then just kept it going.
Q. Once you get into that position obviously you had a great front nine and were 6-up and it's quite hard because you know the other guy is going to throw some stuff at you?
JACK SINGH BRAR: Yeah, it is.  I was waiting for it and then, obviously, on 11, I hit front, like just off the front edge and I'm thinking, yeah, that's going to be a par for me.  And he hits his just down the left and it comes in to about three foot and I was like, okay.  And he goes, "Jack, I'm coming for you."  That's what he said to me.  And I was like, all right, all right.
Q. What hole?
JACK SINGH BRAR: On 11.  I was walking down 11 that's what he said.  So I thought, all right, I'll prove him wrong.  And I did in the end, so...
Q. Did it upset you?
JACK SINGH BRAR: No, it didn't, I was like, all right then, let's go.
Q. So you realized you were going up against the big support, didn't you?
JACK SINGH BRAR: I did, obviously.  I had to laugh about it.  I could hit inside him and they would be like, Go Stewart.  There was just no claps for me.  But you expect that out here.
Q. Was there a particular key for you, obviously to keep your focus while all that's going on?
JACK SINGH BRAR: Obviously he hit it a bit further than me, so I was good with my irons front nine and I holed a few good putts.  Down 10 I holed like a 20-footer down the hill, like 25.  And then I just kept it in play.  I didn't hit any wild tee shots.  Just on 16, it's a bit tricky, they put the tee forward and so the bunker is 300 to fly, but you can't run out, you run out down the right side.  So I tried to hit a little drive and it just caught the rough on the edge of the bunker, so I was standing on the edge of the bunker, I just hit out.  And then he had to, I think he was going for the green with a low cut through the trees and went just on top of the bunker.  I hit a decent shot to about 15, no, about 20 foot short and then he chipped on and missed and then just a nice little putt up the hill for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT