LIBERTY MUTUAL LEGENDS OF GOLF
April 24, 2010
Andy Bean
Chien-Soon Lu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVE SENKO: Gentlemen, thanks for joining us. Maybe, Andy, if you could get us started, 12-under 60, that included a run from 9 through 17 of eight birdies and an eagle.
 ANDY BEAN: Yeah. Last 10 holes, 10-under. Very good. Right, partner? Yes. We just -- I think today -- we were talking yesterday, we started off very fast. We were 5-under after six. Today we started off very slow, and managed to salvage a good round yesterday, and then today, you know, just play even better. 
 It was one of us all the time throwing the ball at the hole, and that's what you have to do in a team event. If I was a little bit out of the hole, Lu would hit it close, and it's nothing better than to know you have someone that's going to throw it up there. He plays -- he's very strong. He hits the ball further than me, and that's -- and he hits it in play. So that's -- I know I can be aggressive, and I think he plays pretty aggressive, and today we came up with a good mix. 
 DAVE SENKO: Robert, if you could just ask Mr. Lu just to share some thoughts on his round today. 
 ROBERT TSAI: He said if he kept the ball in play, he'd be on top of the pin on every hole. 
 DAVE SENKO: Has he played much team golf in Asia? 
 LU CHIEN-SOON: World Cup. 
 DAVE SENKO: Do you want to just go through those birdies, starting with the birdie at No. 9? Do you remember the sequence, who made the birdies? 
 ANDY BEAN: I made a very short putt on 1, and then 9 I made a, what, 8-footer maybe, eight-foot birdie. 10, I holed it out of the fairway from 126 yards. I hit a little 9-iron. 11, my partner made maybe 10-footer. Yeah, 10-foot birdie. 
 12, I had it in there pretty close and my partner makes it from 40 feet. Boom. So, you know, that's -- I put it in my pocket every time. Be glad to. And then the par-5, next hole, we both hit it right in front of the green, and my partner makes four-footer, three-footer for birdie. 
 The short hole, what was that, 14? 14, I hit it, I don't know, six inches, tap-in birdie. My partner said -- he knows that much English, "tap-in birdie." He likes "tap-in birdie." I said, "I didn't know you knew that." He goes, "I know tap-in birdie. That's very good." 
 Then the next hole he almost has tap-in birdie. He hits 8-iron, what, two-and-a-half feet, inside three feet. He makes that for birdie. 
 16, I make 15-footer for birdie. 17, I make 6-footer for birdie. And then 18, we both just miss the shot there, but end up making par. Lu makes par, so yes, try to hit good putt, but he hit good chip, but they didn't go in, but when you play 10 holes 10-under par, but if you're behind, you're going to be all right, and you're going to catch up a little bit. 
 There's still some good scores out there, so we're just happy to be where we are, and we're in good shape for tomorrow. 
 DAVE SENKO: Robert, if you'd ask Mr. Lu about his back. He's had some back problems the last few years, what that was. 
 ANDY BEAN: It may have been from carrying me today. (Laughs). His back is very strong now. 
 DAVE SENKO: What was the problem? 
 ANDY BEAN: Bone spur. Yeah. He's hitting it pretty good, and he outhits me 20 yards, 30 yards, so he's hitting it pretty good. 
 DAVE SENKO: Was he in the U. S.? 
 ANDY BEAN: You were in LA, weren't you? Well, that was another thing, Jerry, my partner, who was going to be my partner, had to -- he hurt his knee, and they were talking about the scenarios of the things that were going to happen where, you know, you might play with this man or you might play with this guy. And I said, well, tell me exactly how the rules read right now. Who is next in line? And Lu was next in line, and I said, you call Lu, because I -- I mean I know, you know, the first couple of tournaments he's played very well, he hits it long, and you know, you want somebody that can hit it -- now, if you could find somebody that hits it further than you and makes a lot of birdies, that's the guy you want on your team, so I was very fortunate to have the opportunity to play with Mr. Lu.

 Q. Jerry who was supposed to be your partner?
 ANDY BEAN: Jerry Pate.

 Q. And he --
 ANDY BEAN: He ended up withdrawing just at the right time. (Laughs). So that way I get --

 Q. And he was injured?
 ANDY BEAN: Yes.

 Q. Andy, are you going to be giving Jerry a phone call tonight about, sorry, but --
 ANDY BEAN: We're going to go out to dinner tonight. We have one more round to play, but I'm sure I'll be getting a phone call from Jerry.

 Q. He might need to find a new partner next year, huh?
 ANDY BEAN: I think I got a pretty good one right now. Yes.

 Q. Were you able to communicate, share notes, advice at all?
 ANDY BEAN: Yes.

 Q. Robert, can you say your full name for us?
 ROBERT TSAI: T-S-A-I. 

 Q. So were you able to communicate? 
 ANDY BEAN: Yes. I think so, because you know, when we're playing the break on putts, it's either like on the edge of the hole or just one cup or something like that. And then sometimes I would say, I think this hole plays maybe a little bit longer, you know, maybe two, three, five yards longer, and he understands. I think we communicate quite well, except I tell him right now I want him to make more birdies tomorrow, a lot more birdies tomorrow. 

 Q. Robert, what other phrases besides tap-in birdies is he fond of?
 ANDY BEAN: Tap-in birdies is favorite.

 Q. Anything else?
 LU CHIEN-SOON: Many birdies and eagles. (Laughs).
 ANDY BEAN: But he's very, very much fun to play with. And you know, that's what playing a partnership is about anyway. Doesn't matter what you do. You have to have fun doing it. 
 And I think that's one reason why, you know, when things weren't going so good, you know, I looked at Robert, I said, "you tell him, don't worry about it, man. We may make 10 birdies in a row." I did. I said that standing on the, what, fourth tee. I told him, I said, "you know, you never know. We may make 10 birdies in a row." We didn't make 10 birdies, but made an eagle and eight birdies. So just as good. In Florida my math says that's just as good.

 Q. I understand you made this trip through qualifying school? Was that difficult?
 LU CHIEN-SOON: Yes. That is difficult. 

 Q. Was there a playoff?
 LU CHIEN-SOON: Yes. Playoff, six people in it, two win. 

 Q. How many holes?
 LU CHIEN-SOON: Eight holes.
 ANDY BEAN: See there, good horse, man. He lasts a long time. Load the wagon. 
 DAVE SENKO: Okay. Any more questions? Okay. 
 ANDY BEAN: Thank you, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT