U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2009
Andy Bean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Just sum up the day for us.
 ANDY BEAN: It was great there for a while. Little frustrating last couple holes. But I played a very solid round. Hit one bad shot all day, and that was the tee shot on nine. You can't hit it left, and I did.
 But everything, everything was really good today. My iron shots, drives pretty good, putting was really good. That's one thing you have to do well to win here.

 Q. I understand you got a new putter? 
 ANDY BEAN: Nope. A new driver. The putter's the same.

 Q. Last couple years?
 ANDY BEAN: Well, it's been since last year when they stole my clubs.

 Q. And that hasn't made a big difference?
 ANDY BEAN: No. I had three putters exactly alike and they stole two of them. I had one left. They were all three just alike.

 Q. You just missed that putt at the end there?
 ANDY BEAN: I thought I made it.

 Q. Does that put a damper on the great round you did have?
 ANDY BEAN: No. I mean, I made a mistake on nine. I just made a mistake. Sometimes -- hopefully it won't be that costly, and you just hit to -- I think you hate to end on a bogey on something like that. But it certainly -- I mean, I almost made one today on number, was it, six? I lipped it out there and tapped it in from less than a foot. 
 I had a lot of great shots today. To shoot under par here you got to hit a lot of good shots because it's not going to give you that much. To go out there and play good and make some putts and my putting is excellent.

 Q. Are you surprised at the scores?
 ANDY BEAN: I didn't think -- you know looking back after the practice rounds, I didn't think there would be 6-unders and 5-unders. I thought it would be 5s, 3s. As a matter of fact, we had a bet. I thought the low round for the tournament might be 67, and another guy bet 66, so I guess I have to payoff. 
 But the greens were a bit more receptive than I thought as far as being softer. And, you know, that's obviously going to make a difference. But something tells me they're going to be a little bit firmer, a little faster and a little tougher.
 So I continue hitting good iron shots in there and putting like I'm putting, you know, it was a very comfortable round today. 
 When I got to 67, I was trying to go to 8-under. I just came out of the shot on -- number seven is a hard hole for me to get a line on, but I decided I was definitely going to hit it left of that bunker. Every once in awhile you are going to miss a shot. You are not going to hilt all of them good.

 Q. Who did you bet with 67 or 66?
 ANDY BEAN: Cagle, the Calloway guy. Just a buddy of mine. We were having dinner last night, or the night before last.
 The golf course, I mean, the golf course is in great shape. So when it's in good shape, you are going to yield some good rounds. And -- but a 66 or 67 on Saturday and Sunday, that will be a really good round. Somehow they seem to get a little bit tougher.

 Q. Are you sick of second place?
 ANDY BEAN: There's one more place to go. So, you know, I finished second three times this year, and just got to improve on that by one. 
 I tell you what, I am in a lot better position than I was when I came to the golf course. So I'm certainly -- everything's positive about the round. And the good part about it is I get to go out early tomorrow. So the greens are going be a little softer and hopefully a little more receptive on your iron shots. And I think we were lucky today, the weather went around us, and I was glad that it didn't rain.

 Q. Were you in the hazard?
 ANDY BEAN: I hit in the hazard, yeah. I had to drop it. Then just got the wrong line on my lay-up shot. Hit it just in the left rough. I was trying to hit it so I had a shot, an angle at the pin and just got a little too far left. Other than that, man, I played a lot of really good holes. 
 Thanks, guys. I appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT