NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2009
Tyler Hansbrough
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It's funny, I saw Roy Hibbert out there with the Pacers, you seem to be a small market guy. And Indianapolis is one of the smaller ones in the NBA, is that a good fit?  
 TYLER HANSBROUGH: I think so. I'm very excited to be out there. I think I fit in well. I'm a Midwest guy from around the area, and so I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  Q. How surprised were you, where were the indications of where you thought you might go?   
 TYLER HANSBROUGH: Well, I had a really good workout for them, and I was kind of talking to my agent, they thought, you know, at one point they might try to go little and you know, try to get a guard or something like that.   
 It seemed like two minutes before the pick happened, he got a call and he gave me thumbs up and that's when everything changed. The feeling, the emotions of it going through me are kind of undescribable. I was very happy.   
  
  Q. Larry Bird being probably the hardest worker in the history of the NBA, talk about what you learned from him? And Troy Murphy being such a skilled player in the inside-outside game; talk about what you can learn from Troy in the court?   
 TYLER HANSBROUGH: Troy is very skilled and can do a lot of different things. He's versatile. I think I can learn under a guy like that and be able to, you know, come in there and he can teach me some things.   
 But also, Larry Bird, it doesn't get any better than that. Playing under a Hall of Fame guy, that's what it's all about.   
  
  Q. What questions did you have to answer NBA teams as far as your game went?   
 TYLER HANSBROUGH: You know, for me, it was always just about going there and doing what I do. The media people were always questions my athleticism, how tall is he really, the measurements, me going to these workouts, I think that really helped my stock, and that's where I proved a lot of people wrong.   
  
  Q. Talk about you have been a guy that literally from the beginning of the process has been on the defense trying to defend why you should be here or why you're the lottery pick; is it going to be a good point for you not to have to be on the defense every day now?  
 TYLER HANSBROUGH: You know, it seems like a lot of relief, but it's good going into the lottery, but still, I'm concerned what I do after.   
 That's more important to me, and I'm looking forward to still proving people wrong and going out there and playing my game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT