CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA VS VIRGINIA
December 27, 2019
Zane Zandier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell me about your pass rush. I know it's been a big part of the success of the defense this season?  
ZANE ZANDIER: Absolutely. We take a lot of pride in getting to the quarterback and making as many plays as we can on late downs, getting off the field to give our offense the ball back. I think we've done that at a high level this year, and it's something that we continue to work on.   
 Q.  Schemes and unpredictability, is that a big part of it for you?  
ZANE ZANDIER: Absolutely. Switching up the patterns over blitzes, and just being able to get the O-line a little bit twisted up and being able to get home. It's been big for us this year.   
 Q.  How big will it be to get some pressure on the Gators?  
ZANE ZANDIER: Yeah, it's going to be huge for us. They're a big passing team, obviously, so being able to get as much pressure as we can to help out our DBs behind us and everybody in between, I think it's going to be good for us.   
 Q.  How excited are people back home for this game?  
ZANE ZANDIER: Very excited. Just for how big the Orange Bowl is and the history and everything, it's very exciting for Virginia to be here this year, and yeah, I think it's just going to be a great experience.   
 Q.  And it's a step forward for your program?  
ZANE ZANDIER: Yeah, absolutely. Each year we pride ourselves in unbroken growth and continuing to improve every single year, and this is a huge step for us.   
 Q.  What would a win mean to the program?  
ZANE ZANDIER: It would mean just everything that we've put in this past year and all the hard work and dedication that goes into this program and everybody from the top down, it just would mean everything.   
 Q.  Is there a lot of discussion within the team about what a win would mean, or is it more just focused on the game?  
ZANE ZANDIER: It's more focused on the game. Just focus on what we actually have to do with the scheme and everything like that. I think everybody is really excited being down here and everything like that, but yeah, we're trying to keep our focus as best we can on the game.   
 Q.  Looking at Florida and what they do offensively, what have you seen from them?  
ZANE ZANDIER: I think they're a really good passing team, and I think they run the ball well when they have to. I think we have a good scheme in place, and we've been practicing really hard since our last game and everything. Yeah, I think they're a really good team on offense, have a lot of skill guys, good quarterback and O-line, so it's going to be a good challenge for us.   
 Q.  How valuable is the extra time in terms of (indiscernible)?  
ZANE ZANDIER: Yeah, absolutely. A lot of teams that don't get to practice these extra weeks, it's like -- it's almost like an extra fall camp or spring ball or something like that. It's just the development of our team continues to increase with the extra time and things like that, so the extra practice has been very valuable.   
 Q.  What have you seen that stands out about Florida?  
ZANE ZANDIER: We watched a lot of different tape. We watched LSU and how they were able to get after the quarterback and everything like that, and I think they did that at a high level. Just a mix of all the different games that they've played this year, just watching different tape, just understanding what's going to work best against them. We've had a lot of time to prepare, so we're feeling confident about the scheme that we have in place, and we're excited to get after it.   
 Q.  When you're looking to contain the quarterback, is it mainly focusing on the weapons, how their line moves around or just basically --  
ZANE ZANDIER: Yeah, it's a little bit of everything. I think they do a lot of stuff well. They throw the ball really well and they run the ball when they have to. With switching up the two different quarterbacks and everything like that, there's a lot of weapons with their offense. I think we're preparing across the board for everything, and like I said, I think our scheme is going to do a good job with everything we have in place, so it's exciting.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT