NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: TULSA
March 22, 2019
Steve Prohm
Marial Shayok
Cameron Lard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ohio State - 62     Iowa State - 59   
THE MODERATOR: Steve, please.   
STEVE PROHM: You know, first off, congratulations to Chris and Ohio State.  Terrific job tonight.  I thought they were able to keep the game at the pace that they wanted for a couple different reasons, but give them a lot of credit and good luck going forward.   
I'm really proud of our guys.  Obviously, I don't think tonight was our best night and Ohio State had a lot to do with that, but the finality of a season, when you invest so much with each other sucks, it just does.  There's no perfect speech.  We have three seniors that we'll lose.  Marial is up here right now, but Nick Weiler-Babb and then Zoran Talley.  It's hard to say goodbye, especially, like I said, when you share so many moments together.   
This team had a lot of great moments this season, and you'll be able to reflect on that in a couple weeks to where -- between suspensions, injuries, mid season injuries, having a tough three-week stretch where everybody wrote us off and then went to Kansas City and had an believable weekend.   
We just weren't good enough tonight.  We still had opportunities down the stretch.  We couldn't get it done.  I hate it for these guys because the finale came a lot quicker than I was thinking.  I really thought we had a chance to do something.   
THE MODERATOR: First question right back there.   
 Q.  Steve, there was a point you went almost ten minutes without making a field goal in the first half.  What did they do defensively that was so much of a challenge?  
STEVE PROHM: It was 17 - 13.  Got down      9 - 2, then up 17 - 13.  I looked at one of the assistants.  I said, "We ain't scoring forever."   
I think a little bit was on them.  I think a the lot of it was on us, too, from a standpoint of pace, shot selection, ball movement.  I thought we kind of got back to being a little bit stagnant.  We didn't move bodies like we needed to, and I thought we turned down some good looks to take tougher looks.   
You know, you go back and watch the tape, you'll probably see that.  Even Marial actually one time, you heard him say one time coming down, "I should have shot the first one."   
I thought we had a lot of those moments.  They really did a good job of gapping us, trying to keep us in front.  You could hear them saying "elbows, elbows, gap, gap."  We tried to drive and kick a lot and when it's really effective, it's tough to guard especially when you're making shots.  You know, it wasn't a great offensive night.  We competed defensively for the most part the last couple.  The last couple minutes the rebounding really bothered us down the stretch.   
 Q.  Steve, they were saying "elbows, elbows" --  
STEVE PROHM: "Elbows," "gaps."  I forget what his terminology was.  What he's trying to do is just keep everything in front.  When we drive what we call "drive the nail," we're driving the nail, they want to keep everything in front, but that's why we really got to space, space, space and you have to look at the tape to see how good the spacing was to where we can drive and kick and attack.   
And, you know, there was a couple, you know, tough plays where, you know, we turned it over one time on one of those actions and they were able to convert two free throws.  That was a big possession.  You just hate to -- you want to -- if you get beat, you want to be at your best.  Credit Ohio State for defensively being able to keep the pace the way they wanted.  We just weren't able -- you got 17 - 13, that kind of sped it up a little bit.  But then we went through the one drought and that killed us.  We still had opportunities.  We got it to 1 in the second half and I think maybe took the lead by 1. I don't know if that's right or not, but they came right back and scored with less than --   
 Q.  Marial, final couple of minutes you guys are right there.  What did you see as the difference in those last two minutes?  
MARIAL SHAYOK: They got crucial offensive rebounds kind of sucked away our momentum.  Like you say, we were right there but we couldn't execute down the stretch.   
 Q.  Cameron, can you describe or put into words the battle down low with Wesson?  
CAMERON LARD: I mean, he's a good player.  Just came more focused than us tonight, and we went -- we didn't buy into the details the coach was telling us of not giving easy angles and all the little things and, he did that tonight so they got the win.   
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for the gentlemen from Iowa State?  Okay.  Thank you very much.  You're dismissed.  Good luck in the future.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT