NCAA REGIONAL SOFTBALL TOURNAMENT: BATON ROUGE
May 18, 2018
Summer Ellyson
Gerry Glasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Houston - 1, UL Lafayette - 0
COACH GERRY GLASCO: I felt like the game, we knew it was going to be a low‑scoring game. We thought it would be 1‑0, 2‑1, 3‑2 game. Obviously we wanted to win it. The game played out exactly like I thought it would. We just didn't get a hit when we had a runner at third with no outs; you've got to put the ball in play, and we didn't get the job done. 
We had a runner at third in the sixth and didn't get the job done. We had three walks. We only had two hits. We hit the ball hard a few times. They played great defense. I thought they played really good. 
I guess at the end of the day, you give credit to Houston for pitching a good game, playing defense a good game and then getting the one, big timely hit that they needed. 
Summer was phenomenal again. Has been all year. Nine strikeouts, two walks. My heart goes out to here to pitch a game like that and we don't get her two runs to win a game. Really unacceptable on our part. 
But really proud of Summer for how she pitched all year, and tonight was no exception. She was outstanding. 

Q. How much did the long delay mess with your pitching and just your flow and everything? 
SUMMER ELLYSON: I don't believe it did mess with me at all. I came out strong in the beginning. I came in with a 1‑1 count with one out, and it was just like, the game had just started. Like I was fresh and ready to go. 

Q. What happened on that home run? 
SUMMER ELLYSON: She just got lucky. 

Q. You go down, first game, how do you battle back? 
COACH GERRY GLASCO: Tenth year, and I think it's the first time we lost the first, opening game of our regional tournament. So I guess we go home and take a deep breath and try to get the kids to stick to the game plan. 
We had a set game plan and a critical moment. We went away from it, and they can't do that. We've got to learn to have discipline, and one critical moment, or two critical moments; if you have a mental lapse in a game like this, it makes a difference, and tonight we did that. 
You know, we've got to take a deep breath and really re‑evaluate and reexamine who we are and what we're about; if we want to play dis‑Lincoln and win, or if we want to freelance and take losses like this with our heart breaking.
I think it's get back to the hotel and talk to the team, and we've got to come out tomorrow and fight our way back through. Ed.

Q. You struggled to score runs all season, and particularly in the Sun Belt Tournament, and now today, runs really at a premium. Are the players pressing too much? What is the reason why the bats have gone extraordinarily quiet? 
COACH GERRY GLASCO: I think you've got a bunch of young player that have not played a lot and you have a big part of your lineup that's never played before, and the pressure. You've got Mr.Octobers and you've got Mr.Mays, and you've got kids that just don't, you know, they have got to learn to adjust and get it done under pressure. We've got runners at second, third, with nobody out. I don't know what more you want. 
You've got to produce a run right there, and we've got a runner at third in the sixth, and you know, great teams like Florida and Oregon, they get that run home. Our kids, it's a matter of us deciding, do we want to be mentally strong, is what I see as a coach.

Q. You were saying, you kind of expected it to be sort of a pitchers' duel. In terms of this game, what do you think happened in terms of execution, what you didn't do? 
COACH GERRY GLASCO: Put the ball in play. You know, if you look, we had two strikeouts all night. We were extremely well prepared. We watched film and film and film and we knew exactly what pitches she was going to throw and what count she was going to start with. We knew what she was going to throw and we prepared for it, and only had two strikeouts all night and those two strikeouts were runners at third base. That's not an accident, and there's a reason for that. 
You know, we've got to become a mentally tougher team. The kids are young, they haven't been in this spot before but they have got to get tougher and grow up. I'm accountable. I'm the one that's got to make them that way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT