THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 20, 1998
Tammie Green
Lisa Hackney
Meg Mallon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   What was your feeling on the last hole?

MEG MALLON:  Well, actually I felt badlyh going down 17.  We both played so well well.  It was such a good match.  We just wanted to make sure it was -- well, I really don't care about my record.  I just want to do the right thing and she said, "It's up to you."


Q.   How difficult is it for you to contain your emotions right now?

MEG MALLON:  It's pretty hard, you know.  This crowd was awesome and my team was awesome this week.  Just to get us in position to stay.


Q.   (Inaudible).

MEG MALLON:  They played brilliant.  They put all their strengths out early and were brilliant and I was a little -- looking at all that blue on the board I was getting a little upset with my teammates because there was nobody to come back for me to celebrate with that's what it's all about.


Q.   Could you have managed?

LISA HACKNEY:  Yeah, I played steady.  I mean, I made a few mistakes perhaps early on and played steady and perhaps got a little under pressure and made a couple birdies and it's been a nice match for me.


Q.   Your iron play was pretty nice today.

LISA HACKNEY:  Yes, I hit some good iron shots.  Yeah, just kind of -- for the most part kept it on the greens.


Q.   Did you try not to look at leader board?

LISA HACKNEY:  Yeah, well it's hard.  I don't know.  We missed our chance.

TAMMIE GREEN:  Well, I tell you what.  We're kind of the establishment and they had to prove themselves.  And we've got some great players on their team and they played wonderfully this week and I'm just glad to be a part of this team.  It's a great bunch of people.


Q.   (Inaudible).

TAMMIE GREEN:  I tell you what, we're a great match.  I mean, Alison made some great up-and-downs and I just was trying to concentrate on hitting the greens.  The greens are very firm and -- okay, I tell you, I had to hit a lot less club just to stay on the  greens.  I hit some great shots out there and I hit hitting a narrow part of the green.  And I hit some great shots out there.  I put myself in some bad spots and Alison made some great birdies.  I made a few birdies here and there and, fortunately I came out on top coming down the stretch.


Q.   Was it more special to win this so close to home?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Oh, definitely.  All day I was hearing:  Go Tammie, Go Tammie, Go Tammie, Go Marshall University, all the -- all the places that surround Perry, County basically and all the places and all the peoples' lives I've touched they come back to touch my life.  Yeah, it gave them a little boost and inspiration to keep playing golf and keep active and that's -- that's sort of what it's all about.  It's a different life out there.  We're no longer just a just at home any more.  We're out in the workplace and hopefully I'll inspire some more people to keep working and -- golf is a great game that you can get out and enjoy for a long time.


Q.   Are you going to tell this child about winning the Solheim Cup?

TAMMIE GREEN:  I will definitely tell this child about winning the Solheim Cup.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT