U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 1995
Tammie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TAMMIE GREEN: It is my pleasure. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN: It was a long day.  I felt like I was into the flow after 9 holes and with the rain delay, it was tough getting back into the flow after we went back out.  But, you know, there are a lot of players out there that had to do it, so I am just one of many. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN: Number 4, I hit a 9-iron just above the hole, about 20 feet, made it.  I came right back with a bogey on number 5.  You want to hear all about that?  You don't?  On No. 9, I hit a wedge to about 20 feet as well, made that.  Number 12, my deer hole, 3-putted, and just missed probably a foot-and-a-half putt.  I think about that time, the skies were kind of getting a little dark and my eyes, I had trouble focusing a little bit and I was just kind of straining to see and lipped the putt out.  14, I bogeyed, hit a good iron shot in there.  It just didn't take on the green.  I felt like it was a good shot.  I went behind the green with a tough up-and-down.  I hit the hole on a chip, but I think it gained speed once it did hit the hole and missed, I guess, about an 8-footer.  17, I got one back, hit a sand wedge to about 13 feet. 
 

Q.   Where were you when the delay happened?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: We were in the fairway on number 10.  Felt like I had a really good up-and-down on 10.  I was in the rough and hit it in the bunker and knocked in probably a 25 footer to save par. 
 

Q.   For those of us who have been stuck in here most of the day, what was it like out there?  Was it stormy, just electicity in the air?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: When we had the rain delay?  
 

Q.   Yeah, during --
 
TAMMIE GREEN: You know, we saw almost two storms that were all around us and the one that looked real severe, wasn't the one that they were worried about.  It was coming over the mountain and it was starting to get greyer and greyer, but we didn't see much lightning.  They pulled us off in time.  Then when we went back, the wind was coming in in a different direction, the opposite direction, and was a little cooler and just the sky was dark. 
 

Q.   Did the course change dramatically after the storm?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: I don't think a whole lot.  It was just -- no.  Well, yeah, I guess it did.  Come to think of it, the more I think about it, we were into the wind coming -- when we turned around on 15, made it a little bit of a longer golf course.  I think with the two shots I hit on 17, I probably would have gotten there yesterday; today I was short.  Just played a little bit longer.  I hit driver on 18 instead of 3-wood. 
 

Q.   I don't know if it rained a lot, but did you notice if you got, you know, less roll off your bounces --
 
TAMMIE GREEN: The speeds of the putts were  affected a little bit.  I left a few short.  It was just too tough to get it to the hole.  You never know. When you get just a light rain, sometimes they speed up, but in this case, they slowed down. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN: I do feel fortunate.  After a long day and then having to get up early and go back out, that is a difficult thing to do. 
 

Q.   So the amount of rain that fell was not that much, just a light rain?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: Just a light rain. 
 

Q.   Would you have thought that 2-under would be tied for the clubhouse lead at this point?  With a gang of thousands?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: Not really.  But I know that any time you are around par, you are close to leading the U.S. Open. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN: At this hour, no.  After this  day, maybe if I had a beer or something, I might be able to philosophize. 
 

Q.   Obviously you birdied 17.  Is that a hole where you walk away with a par there; you feel like you have given up a shot?  Do you feel like you need a birdie there to --
 
TAMMIE GREEN: I think it is one of the most -- well, it is one of the two easiest birdie holes out there - ones that you would expect to get birdie on, but, of course, if you walk away with par on any of these golf holes out here you don't feel slighted. 
 

Q.   After a rain delay like that and darkness closing in, is there a tendency to kind of pick up the pace of play or do you keep your same routine and just play at your own pace?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: I try to play at my own pace, but the pace out there today was awfully slow and it was tough to get in a rhythm and even after the rain delay, we waited a lot, so... 
 

Q.   What is the reason for that?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: This is a larger field than we usually have on our Tour, but I think the conditions of the greens, the undulations and everything; if you miss it in the wrong spots, you take a little more time to hit it, and you have some tough shots.  
 

Q.   Does it also have to do with inexperienced players?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: It could have, but I haven't -- I don't know if that is the cause of it or not.  The rough's tough and if you hit in the rough, you have a tough shot.  I mean, you are going to put yourself in a position that you really don't want to be in.  The greens demand such a good touch that it takes time to figure that out, where you want to place the ball.  Once it lands, you might have to hit it 10 or 12 feet on the upper side of the hill so it feeds back down so -- I think, just the conditions of the greens. 
 

Q.   Now that the weekend is here, do you take a little bit of different approach for Saturday?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: No, I am still going out and respecting this golf course and trying to hit good shots.  Really, that is all you can do in a U.S. Open; hope that your score is the lowest at the end of Sunday. 
 

Q.   Everybody says that, but when you say it, you say it with conviction.  I mean, you really seem like somebody who knows there is a long way to go, you are just plugging away.  Others may lose their heads, but  you are not going to.
 
TAMMIE GREEN: Well, I hope not.  Well, thank you. 
 

Q.   Do you feel that way too?  Do you feel like you got more than enough experience to hold yourself in check?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Well, I hope so.  I know how a U.S. Open can go and it is tougher and tougher on Saturday and Sunday and the greens will speed up.  The field will start to position and you just have to play your game and hope that you shoot a low score.  I mean, I can't worry about what the other players are doing. I know if I see somebody burning it up, I am thinking, well, then maybe you are going to have to push a little harder, take a few more chances be a little bit more aggressive, but until that happens, you never know when your putter is going to get on fire. 
 

Q.   Isn't it also more pronounced, I mean, you have got 7 people sitting there 2-under right now and one person that is a shot ahead.  Anyway, you get a lot of people right there, so that is even more important then to just play your game forget about all those other people; right?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Well, I guess that is true. Like I say, I am just going out and try to hit good  shots tomorrow and position myself for Sunday.  And you know, everybody else has got their own philosophy on how they are going to attack the golf course.  I know what mine is and hopefully it is going to be the right one. 
 

Q.   Following up on that, Tammie, there is a point now, I guess where it is you versus the golf course.  When does it become in an Open or any tournament where, let us say, if there is two other people tied with you or something, when does it become you versus the other golfer then, or does it, for you?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Well, I suppose you can let it get that way 'til matchplay coming down maybe the last 5, 6 holes if you are going head-to-head with someone. But with a golf course like this, if you take your mind off the golf course and what you are doing and what you should be concentrating on, then you can be just blown out of the water, just -- it is -- it is you versus the golf course. 
 

Q.   Didn't it get to be sort of matchplay head-to-head for you --
 
TAMMIE GREEN: A little bit.  I had to hit some pretty good shots too, I mean, I couldn't -- you have got to hit the shots and sure, it was matchplay.  I really believed I had her on the last hole, but you know, I played the best I could.  I hit the shots that I had to at the time and you still have to play the golf course. 
 

Q.   Do you think that it rained enough and since it is not supposed to get hot and dry tomorrow that you might come back tomorrow and be able to go more for the flags and the greens might be a little softer?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: There is a couple of holes out there that the greens are very soft and then there is a couple of others that are hard as rocks, so we are paying attention -- my caddy and I are paying attention to which greens are receptive and which ones aren't and I would imagine the ones that were soft today will be soft tomorrow and I will tell you, after the rain delay I went out on 14, I hit a 9-iron in there from the middle of the fairway and hit it probably 7 yards short of the pin; it took one big hop and was over the green and I just didn't understand that.  I thought I did everything right and ended up making bogey, so there are several of them out there that are hard and some are soft and will back up.  I think the ones, like I said, the ones that are soft are going to be soft tomorrow. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN: Thanks, everyone. 
 

Q.   Good luck.
 
TAMMIE GREEN: Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT