U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 1995
Tammie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TAMMIE GREEN: I felt like it was the same golf course out there.  The greens were -- I think maybe a little more receptive to some of the iron shots.  But certainly the putts, I felt like I was on the right side of the hole and always putting into the mountains so I guess they seemed -- it seemed a little slower, but when I did get above certain holes, you could tell that the speed was still there.  But yeah, I am really pleased with the way I played and it is a good golf course out there. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN: Okay.  Number 2, I birdied.  Hit a sand wedge  probably 10 feet.  Made that.  Then I bogeyed No. 8, which is the par 3.  I got above that hole and ran it 12 feet by and felt like I hit a good second putt, it just didn't go in.  No. 9, just short of the green with 3-wood; used a 9-iron, just chipped up within a foot.  Made that birdie.  And then on number 12, is where the deer seemed to show up.  I was over my shot and my caddie called me off and said "there is is a deer coming" and turned around and there it was.  So, I think I was a little distracted there and the wind conditions, I had a 7-wood in my hand.  It was 199 yards and the wind was in my face a little cross, and when I got back to hit it, the wind didn't stop, and I hit it anyway and it went over the green and had a tough up-and-down and didn't get it up-and-down.  On 13, hit a 9-iron just on the back fringe about 20 feet, made that.  I birdied 18, just hitting the 6-iron short of the green knocking it probably a 30-foot putt in. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN: 7-wood. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN: I am not that strong.  I wish I could say that. 
 

Q.   In view of last year, you finished second.  I wonder if you believe it is better early in the week just to be near the lead as opposed to being in the lead and have to assume that responsibility for a number of rounds?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: It depends on how far in the lead I guess I would be, but any U.S. Open, I think, if you are the first two rounds shoot around par, under par, you still have a chance to win The Championship, and I think for the first three days, Jerry, I don't know, a U.S. Open you have to respect every hole and know that it can go either way.  There are so many spots out there that are so difficult and I don't know if being in the lead the last day is great if you are right there, is -- well, I don't know, anywhere near the lead is good; whether you are leading or just behind. 
 

Q.   When you started the swing on 12, how close did the deer get to you and how startled were you?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: Well, I was just ready to take it back when he called me off the shot and the deer, probably, it was -- I don't know - within 20 yards,  certainly.  It ran right up to the tee and then ran directly down towards the green; tried to go out right and then ended up coming back and going across -- it came back up the fairway and back down and -- I am not sure it had to go back out on the golf course somewhere. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN: Yes, it was quite a while. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN: He just said "hold up, hold up."  So "hold up, there is a deer coming," that is what he said, "hold up there is a deer coming." 
 

Q.   You go "what?"
 
TAMMIE GREEN: That is exactly right. 
 

Q.   Other than the deer, did you play this round today the way you had started it through your practice rounds?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: I really did.  I played good solid golf all day.  Hit the driver well and was pleased with the way I struck the irons.  Only a couple of shots that I wasn't crazy about, but you are going to have that and I left them  in positions where I could get them up-and-down. 
 

Q.   Some of the players are saying the greens are a bit softer today.  Did you experience that?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: I thought that they were a little bit softer, but I still thought they had speed to them still.  I am sure by the end of the week they could get pretty treacherous and if the wind continues to blow, they will dry out. 
 

Q.   Either yesterday or the day before you made a point of saying how important it was to keep the ball on the correct side of the hole.  Did you do a good job of that today?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: Yeah, I felt like I did most of the day.  Only a couple of times I felt like I had a real difficult 2-putt and some of those were even below the hole and the only one I 3-putted, I think, that was a pretty severe putt, but other than that, I felt like I did a good job with that. 
 

Q.   What is your caddie's name?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: Chuck Parisi.  Paris with an "I". 
 

Q.   One point about pressure.  You talked earlier in the week about how important this one is as a tournament.  Getting a score like a minus 2 and having the first round out of the way, talk to the idea of the  confidence it gives you have and if it does relieve any pressure as you head to round 2?
 
TAMMIE GREEN: Well, I don't think that you ever well let-up on a U.S. Open and I am happy with the way I played today.  I hope to continue striking the ball the way I have been the last three weeks and if I can do that, and keep my composure, if, you know, something would happen to go wrong out there, then I think I will have a good tournament, I will have a good U.S. Open. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN: Thank you, everyone. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT