U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 24, 1994
Tammie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 LES UNGER:  We have one of the most gracious runners up I
have ever been privileged to watch on a green which will to be
a tough moment, but Tammie, congratulations, good fight.  Your
reflections on the day please?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Well, thanks, it was a good fight.  Just didn't
end up the way I would have liked it to have ended up making the
putt on the last hole, but I felt like I gave it a good go.  I
did all I could possibly do.  I got in trouble early on the second
hole; making bogey there. I just didn't quite get into the flow
of my game early on, but was able to get things together and played
real well all the way through and some of the up-and-downs I made
coming in, I would have to probably look at them a couple of times
again to see if I can get them up-and-down again.  But I felt
like I hung in there and gave Patty a good run for her money.

 LES UNGER:  It was what appeared to be a very difficult course
today.  There were very few people who completed the rounds in
red numbers.

 TAMMIE GREEN:  It was very fast today.  I have hit some shots
that I thought would stop by the pin and they just released above
the pin.  You didn't get a whole lot of bite on the greens, and
the greens were fast.  So it played tough.  If you got yourself
in a position like all week, you had a difficult up-and-down,
but I am not thrilled about being second.  But it is the best
Open I have ever had and I felt like I stuck it out and played
well down the line, down the wire.

 LES UNGER:  We will take questions and please raise your hands.



 Q.  Tammie, how much break was on that putt at 18?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Not a whole lot.  I didn't read -- I kept it inside
the whole and it broke just a little more.  I don't know whether
it hit a spike mark or if it just broke that much.  But I felt,
for the speed of the putt, if I kept it inside the left edge then
I could make the putt, but it went pretty quickly.

 Q.  16 was the difference.  Can you go over your hole from
tee to green, you hit a great --

 TAMMIE GREEN:  On 16 I drove the ball -- I left it out to a little
bit to the right.  I caught that bunker there in by the heather.
 I was real close to the lip.  I had to stand outside the bunker
and try to hit a -- I had, I think, about 159 to the hole in;
a little more than that.  I had 150 to the front.  I thought if
I could carry it to the front, then I could get it back to the
hole because that green is very hard.  So I took a 5-iron to try
to cut it up high and tried to get it to the front and I just
caught a little bit of that heather just off the sand.  It went
down over the hill into the rough.  I had 84 to the front.  I
hit a little sand wedge up to about seven feet and made the putt.


 Q.  Patty's save on 8, what would be called probably one of
the best bogeys on 9, was that something that you really gave
her the confidence to continue along as well as she played?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  I think that definitely helped.  Any time you
can save bogey from that position on this golf course, it is going
to help your chances; especially when she is still in the lead
and was able to really keep that position.  It gives her a great
opportunity.  I don't know if that was the shot that made her
or break her.  I don't know, I think when the putt went in on
the 18, she was quite happy.

 Q.  Could you describe what it is like going head to head
down the stretch like that in an Open where it is almost a match-play
situation?  Are you telling yourself don't take a chance here?
 Can you just describe what is going on in that situation?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Well, this golf course really doesn't open itself
for you to take a chance here or there.  You just have to really
try to hit fairways and try to put the ball in position to make
a putt, and it was real difficult with the greens being as firm
as they were.  I think a lot of it is a matter of just survival
out there throughout the round because you never know how it is
going to change; whether you are going to make birdie -- there
is not a whole lot of birdies out there today, and you just never
know when a bogey is going to creep in and who is going to make
it.

 Q.  Given that mindset that you can't take chances, you get
behind at 16, you still -- what did you do at 17?  Did you really
try to consciously go for it and be aggressive at that point?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Definitely.  But then again, you couldn't be too
aggressive on that golf hole.  If I would have -- I could have
hit a 7-wood there, but I have a little gap between the 4-iron
and 7-wood, and I needed something right in between on that particular
hole and I went with the 4-iron because it was playing so fast,
I felt if I could carry it to the front of the green it would
get all the way back to the hole.  I was just trying to hit good
shots and try to make birdie when the opportunity arose.

 Q.  Tammie, how far did you have from the hole for your second
shot?  What did you hit, and how long did you estimate the putt
to be?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  On 17?

 Q.  18.

 TAMMIE GREEN:  18, I hit a wedge.  I had to carry a mound about
111.  That was going to scoot back to the hole.  It was 133. 
I went past about, I'd say, 18 feet  just straight down the hill
a little left to right breaker.

 Q.  Was the wind at all a factor today?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  It definitely was.  It was a little different
than it has been the really three previous days.  It was more
cross on certain holes.  I think it dried the course out, that
was the biggest factor.

 Q.  How about the pin placement?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  They are always difficult.  Anywhere they put
them on these greens it could be difficult.

 Q.  Did you think you made that putt at 15?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  On 15?

 Q.  About a 12 footer there for birdie.

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Yes, I did.  I left it short, and I really felt
like I gave -- opened the door for -- it was one of those putts
where it looks like it should break pretty hard left, but it doesn't.
 I had the same putt yesterday going up that hill and it stays
pretty straight and I just fell in love with the line, so to speak.
 I just didn't hit it hard enough.

 Q.  One other thing Tammie, are you sure about that distance
on that putt at 18?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  I would.

 Q.  Is that what you figure, 18 feet?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  I'd say 15, 18 feet.  It was right in that area.
 I don't know.  I wasn't really measuring at that point.

 Q.  That putt that he was just talking about at 15, it was
in the heart, just two inches short?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Yep.  Couple of inches.  Little more, maybe four
inches short.

 Q.  How long was that putt, and also, how long was the one
on 11 that looked like it came up just a little short also?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  On 11, that was probably 18 or so feet; maybe
15 to 18 feet.

 Q.  And the one on 15?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  A little shorter than that.  I'd say it was 16.
 It was -- they were all right in that area.

 Q.  Would it be fair to say that you didn't feel very comfortable
early on?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  It would be fair to say that.  I was a little
nervous.  I didn't sleep that well last night.  When I came out,
I was a little nervous off the first tee, but drove it perfectly;
hit the second shot real well and then hit a shot I have -- I
don't know where it came from.  I think that might have unnerved
me a little bit. I was just trying to hit a bumper wedge up to
the top and let it roll-back to the hole on number 1 and caught
the bottom of the club and barely got along the green.  So I think
that is what probably unnerved me just a little bit, but was able
to get it back.

 Q.  How good a shot was the one Patty hit in the 16th; was
it as severe downhill and heavy in the grass there as it seemed?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  It was in the grass.  It was pretty heavy and
that was a very good shot she hit.  That hole, it is real difficult
to get it close because you have to bounce it in there.  There
is no way to stop it on that hole, and she just judged it just
perfectly and had about a five footer for birdie.

 Q.  No consolation in losing to that kind of shot though,
is there?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  There is no consolation to losing to any kind
of shot.  I mean, she just played -- she played great golf all
day, played steady and made the putts that she had to.

 Q.  What will you take from this experience?  Have you thought
about that?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  You are making me think about it now.  I am telling
you, I played so well all day long.  I didn't allow myself to
get out of control. There were a few times out there when I wasn't
swinging as well and I played steady, and I am going to probably
take from it the fact that, you know, it is anybody's ballgame
at any given point and that I am a good player and I can play
with the best of them.

 Q.  Tammie, on 17, after the 4-iron, what did you judge the
distance there on that chip and then also what was the putt?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  That chip was probably about 60 feet or so, and
the putt was two feet.

 Q.  Did you expect Alfredsson at all to get back into this
and kind of make it a three-woman race?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Actually, I did.  I thought Helen would come back
with a real good round today.  I thought Donna Andrews would play
well.  She was swinging well yesterday when I played with her.
 I was a little surprised to look up and see that there was a
gap -- such a gap between Patty and I and the rest of the field.


 Q.  Approximately how many family and friends did you have
here, and how long have they been wearing those shirts?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  The T-shirts came out probably about a month ago,
right before the Youngstown Warren classic.  Well, I had mom,
two brothers, a sister, my husband, and probably 20 or so people
from my hometown.

 Q.  What do the T-shirts say?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Team Green.

 Q.  Is there a hole, a stroke that you will look back on over
the four days with any kind of regret or did you play too well
to look back at all?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  I think I played too well to really look back.
 I played the best golf I could possibly play at the time, and
to look back and say well, I should have done this or should have
done that, I don't feel that.  I wish the putt would have gone
in on 18 to make it a little bit more interesting, but you know,
you always want those putts back.

 LES UNGER:  You want to share something with us, Steve, that
wouldn't get us into trouble.

 STEVE ELLIS: Just that I am proud of my wife.

 LES UNGER:  So are we.


 Q.  I wonder, now that I know you have won the du Maurier
which is a major, but of all Majors for women this is the ideal
one, do you think this now has just brought your game to a different
level or maybe brought the recognition of your skills to a different
level?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  I would hope to think so.  It is a great championship
and I have been playing well all year and to play well here is
especially gratifying for me because it is the greatest championship
in women's golf.

 LES UNGER:  Thank you. 


  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT