U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 1994
Tammie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 LES UNGER:  Tell us about this good run you have been on here
lately.

 TAMMIE GREEN:  It has been a good run.  I had a great run in
Ohio winning Youngstown, and tying in Toledo, and losing in the
playoff to Kelly Robbins.  Last week I was a little tired from
the two weeks prior, so I didn't play quite as well.  But I look
forward to this week and playing well here.

 LES UNGER:  You just checked in last night.  I am sure you
haven't played it this year, but you have a little experience
from 1989.

 TAMMIE GREEN:  I have a lot experience from '89.  I want to say
I was somewhere like 19 over with shooting 67 one day if that
is -- I have to look at the records, but I saw enough of the golf
course then.  I understand they lengthened it a little bit; which
is good.  That should work to my advantage.  I think there is
a premium on shots into the green; try to position yourself on
the large greens to give yourself an opportunity.  You have to
drive the ball well as well.  But like every golf course, that
is the way; fairways; greens and as few putts as you can.

 LES UNGER:  Are you among the longer hitters?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  I wouldn't say that I would be among the longest.
 I would say I am average as far as on the LPGA.  Maybe just above
average.

 Q.  How much would length be a factor with someone like Davies,
would she have a pretty good advantage especially with the par
fives being reachable?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Any time you have that strength in length, you
have got an advantage on the field if you can hit it straight.
 Out here, you must keep the ball on the fairway.  I think there
is -- any time you can hit an 8-iron as opposed to a 6-iron or
5-iron, you have got the advantage.  You've got to be able to
stop the ball a little quicker.  I wish I had had that extra strength.


 Q.  You must have then mixed remembrances from the last Women's
Open here, if you had -- I didn't look at your record -- one very
good round, but not so good golf in there?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  It is a great golf course and I feel that -- every
USGA course that I have played so far have been great golf courses
and you have to think your way around and really go for the ball.
 And if you don't do that - which I didn't a few days - you have
the high numbers. You get in precarious spots.  If you get above
a pin, you are going to have a tough up-and-down because the greens
are so fast, normally; now the rain will slow them down a little
bit; but the heavier rough on the harder set green, you have trouble
getting the ball up-and-down.

 Q.  Overall, you have got a pretty good record in the Women's
Open?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  I have always tried to get up or psyche up for
a U.S. Open, or any of our major championships.  Of course, you
are trying to psyche up every week out there, but I hold the U.S.
Open up there; a little special.

 Q.  Are you surprised you haven't won one yet? You have been
close --

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Well, every win is a sort of a surprise and it
is something that you are always shooting for.  I have gotten
close a couple of times, and feel like if I can continue getting
in that position to win, then maybe it is a matter of time.  The
U.S. Open always has been a goal since I was a small child growing
up.  It is one that everybody can get into if they qualify.  I
just hold it pretty high on my list of tournaments that I would


like to win.

 Q.  Is it getting easier to play now that the tournaments
are coming on a regular basis; first of the year there were all
gaps in schedules; now they --

 TAMMIE GREEN:  I think so.  You get into a groove and you are
able to pick and choose the weeks that you really need at this
time.  I mean, if you need a week off; then you can take a week
off.  But you have got three or four or five tournaments in a
row that you can continue to play, if you are on a roll, then
you keep the roll going.  If not, then you can take a break and
try to come back strong.

 Q.  Earlier on you had to play all of them regardless because
you had all the wide gaps in there -- every event-- there were
the gaps in between and now, you can kind of pick and choose a
little bit more like you say?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Exactly.  It is -- I like a few weeks off. The
perfect situation would be four on/two off for me.  I would love
that sort of schedule.  But it is nice to have them week to week
to wherever one has the opportunity of playing; whether it is
the -- all the exempt players; they don't always get in, but when
you have the conditional cards, they get to fill some of the field
and prove themselves as players.

 LES UNGER:  Do you have a little deeper insight into the workings
of the media because of events that have taken place in your life
recently?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Well, I guess I do.  Marrying Steve Ellis, Editor
of Golf Week I've gotten a few insights, but, we try to keep things
in perspective as far as what I do and what he does, even though
they are related.  We, I guess, respect each other on the professional
level and yeah, I do get a little bit of insight.

 LES UNGER:  Is it greater or less respect?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Greater respect.

 Q.  Discuss your upcoming move back to Ohio or pending move
that you guys will be making?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  A lot of that depends on Steve.  We are going
 -- our plans are to move back to Somerset where -- that is the
hometown I grew up in.  Steve was about 15 miles away from Somerset
in Gainesville, so he has family there.  He is the second of eight
and I am the baby of eight, so we have a lot of family roots right
there in Ohio and our plans are to have a family and that is where
we want to raise our family.

 Q.  Instead of Florida?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  Realistically I am going to have to be in Florida
in the winter months, but I definitely do want to raise my children
around the family atmosphere and try to instill those values in
them, if possible.

 Q.  What about Disney World and that kind of stuff?

 TAMMIE GREEN:  That is in the winter months.

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT