THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 19, 1998
Tammie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  I've been told you have your obstetrician with you hole to hole, is that right?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Actually, he's in the gallery and he doesn't really bother me too much, but he's around.


Q.  Insurance policy?

TAMMIE GREEN:  It's -- you know, there's no problem whatsoever.  I think he's just here more to answer Judy's questions than anything else.  But I feel great and it's -- unfortunately, I fell in love with the line on that putt, didn't hit it low enough.  I think it was one of the first uphill putts I had all day.


Q.  This situation right now, you guys come into the afternoon match.  Looks like you're pretty much going to be okay this afternoon, in pretty good shape coming in tomorrow?

TAMMIE GREEN:  We knew it was going to be tough, but we're going to come out swinging tomorrow and I believe all of us are going to have a really good day tomorrow.


Q.  Do you feel like you lost any momentum in the afternoon at all today?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Not really.  I mean, everybody -- the matches were very close -- other than, really, the 1st and 3rd.  But, you know, we're -- I think everybody's playing well and it's just a matter of making some putts.  I had a couple of birdie opportunities out there I just didn't capitalize on and you've got to make birdies in this format and I just didn't get it done, get the job done today and --  But I made some great pars and, you know, just looking forward to tomorrow because I feel like I'm swinging good.


Q.  Thank you.  Tammie, everybody seems to be so concerned about your stamina.  Tell us how you're holding up.  Is your stamina in question?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Yeah, well, just because I lost  the putt on the last hole, it doesn't mean anything.  Actually, I'm feeling real good and plan on coming out strong tomorrow.  I can go 18 holes, no problem.  The only question was 36 holes and I just needed to have a couple of more holes left so we could win this match today.  But that's the way it goes.  It was a close match.  Playing decent, played better on the front side than I did on the backside and that's typical of how I play this golf course.  You know, looking forward to tomorrow and my stamina is good.


Q.  I would imagine there is something to be said for turning to a little bit of the game that you're used to playing.  When you're in the individual matches, you're counting on yourself and not a teammate and you're not worried about the pressure of having to set your teammate up.  Does that help in this situation?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Oh, yes.  Yesterday, Donna and I just did not get off to a good start.  She was leaving me in bunkers, I was leaving her in bunkers. Any time you do that starting off, you never really get into a rhythm.  Consequently, we missed a lot of greens yesterday.  Today, it was a different story.  Hit a lot of greens on the front side and I got into more of a rhythm and, tomorrow, I'm looking forward to really getting into a rhythm and make some birdies.


Q.  And, again, I imagine it's easier to get yourself into a rhythm where you don't have to worry about somebody else doing it for you or you doing it for somebody else?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Right, right.  Definitely. Chris and I both had putts and opportunities early and -- in this format, even.  Normally, when somebody starts making birdies, you know, you feel each other. But we didn't really get things going.  The first birdie that was made was on number 12.  But we had opportunities and we didn't get the cellophane off the top of the cap.  Team format is a little different than the individual.  The individual tomorrow, it's just hit it up.  You know, that's what it's all about.


Q.  Very good.  Good luck tomorrow, Tammie.  Thank  you.

TAMMIE GREEN:  Thank you.
 


Q.  First of all, super match today.  You kept working at it.  You guys never gave up and I wonder your thoughts there?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Never gave up at all and it was a great match.  We had some opportunities early we just did not capitalize on, but we played pretty consistently.  But I didn't make any birdies out there and that's not typical of my game.  Had some opportunities, but I just could not get the ball in the hole, for some reason.  I practiced putting last night for a long time and it just didn't seem to be clicking.  But all in all, we played well. Unfortunately, we were on the losing end of the match.


Q.  Now, foursomes behind you, singles, it's just going to be Tammie Green & Company.  Relying only on yourself, does that change the way you play?  Does that change your attitude going into singles?

TAMMIE GREEN:  I'll tell you what.  You have to have a strategy for this golf course.  It's Point A to Point B and you just have to make good swings and hit Point A to Point B and try to hit the greens.  The greens are very firm and you just do not want to be above some of these holes or you'll have a real difficult up-and-down.  Tomorrow's strategy is just to hit fairways and hit a lot of greens and I think if I hit a lot of greens tomorrow, I'll be the winner of the match.


Q.  You've got to forgive me for this because you know I love you:  Physically tired or are you going to get plenty of rest or you don't think it's going to affect you at all?

TAMMIE GREEN:  No, I really don't.  You know, this is a physical golf course for everybody and there's been a lot of players that were playing 36 holes a day and I was only playing 18 and I had no problem playing 18.  So I'm -- I should be fresh for tomorrow's round in the afternoon.  I'll get some good rest this evening and tomorrow morning, so it should not be a problem and I should be coming out winning from the hip -- or the heels or wherever I swing from. 


Q.  Thank you, Tammie.  Best of luck.

TAMMIE GREEN:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT