SPRINT TITLEHOLDERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 1997
Tammie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TAMMIE GREEN:  16.  We were on the 16 green.


Q.  You had a putt ahead of you?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Yeah, 10 foot putt.  I was just about ready to hit it when they blew the whistle.


Q.  Stuck a tea into the green, came in?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Yeah, that is about it.


Q.  10 foot for birdie?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Yes.


Q.  You have the option to finish that?

TAMMIE GREEN:  No.  Not when it is severe weather.


Q.  How disappointed are you to not be able to finish, to have to get up --

TAMMIE GREEN:  It is pretty disappointing, you know, when you have to go out here about 7:15 - actually have to get out here probably about 6:30 to warm up, get ready for the round - for two and a half holes, really - and it is going to be tough to prepare for you know, final round of golf.  Just getting out, what are you going to do between the time you finish and when you tee off later in the afternoon.  Tee times are a little earlier tomorrow, so that will help.


Q.  Will you try to get way from the golf course or will you just -

TAMMIE GREEN:  I am not sure.  I am not sure how much time I will have.  If I have a couple of hours I probably will probably go have breakfast or something and come back.  There is not really much you can do when the weather treats us like this.


Q.  Where were you the first time it stopped, first time play stopped?

TAMMIE GREEN:  We were on the 7th hole.


Q.  And then you were carted back out there?  Did you go back out there by cart?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Yeah, we came in, we went back out, came in and -


Q.  You didn't have to walk back out?  Did you have to a cart to get back in with?

TAMMIE GREEN:  We had cars actually.  We were one of the lucky groups, I guess.


Q.  You have had such a good rhythm going in this tournament.  Did you feel a little that it was a little disturbed today?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Well, actually, when I started out it was, but I was able to maintain a pretty good rhythm.  When we  stopped and then went back out I made a real good put for bogey on the 7th hole and then I was able to birdie the 8th and 9th. And, I got back into a rhythm.  I really felt like I was swinging well on the backside.  It is disappointing when you have to stop again and come back out.  Probably be tough tomorrow, be a little nervous again; have to kind of work through that and get back into my rhythm, but I think everybody will be a little nervous.  I am not the only one playing.


Q.  Is the feeling the same as it was before your problems as far as being in contention and/or do you think you are more nervous now than?

TAMMIE GREEN:  No, actually I think I am back to where I was actually.


Q.  You were always nervous in this situation?

TAMMIE GREEN:  A little.  I think you always do.  I think that is good.  If you channel it the right way that is even a positive.  So - but the way I am swinging and the confidence I have with the irons right now, it is real good and I add that with the way I am rolling the putter.  I am real pleased.


Q.  What about the way Chris is playing?

TAMMIE GREEN:  She is playing quite well.  She is swinging with a lot of confidence.  She has generated some club head speed and hitting it quite long and actually she is hitting it very solid.  She has got the putter rolling as well.


Q.  That, I guess combined with her length is a key around here for her?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Yeah it helps it always helps.  But, I am not counting myself out.


Q.  Before the storm hit, how bad was the wind?  Was it keeping scores kind of --

TAMMIE GREEN:  The wind was at least 2 clubs.  Five, sixth hole, par 3 had 141 yards and just busted a 5 iron, knocked it down and it was pin high.  It was getting pretty strong, downwind it is very difficult to judge how far to hit it as well.  But we went back out, had perfect conditions.

TAMMIE GREEN:  Start with 7.

TAMMIE GREEN:  Number 7, I bogeyed 7.  Drove fifth the bunker.  My feet were out of the bunker and I just barely got it out had a real tough lie.  Hit a 5 iron, didn't get quite get to the green, wind was pretty strong there. Again I had like 136 yards and left it short of the green.  That is when the first rain delay happened.  Went back out, chipped it just by the hole about 15 feet and made it coming back.  Number 8, hit a 6 iron to probably 18 feet made the put.  And on, Number 9, I hit a wedge to I guess it was  about 15 foot, made it.  Then my next bird bird came on par 3.

TAMMIE GREEN:  14th hole.  I hit a 6 iron to probably 9 feet.  Had some good opportunities even yet on the backside on 10, 11, 12, 13.  So you know, I am there.  It is just a matter of knocking them in the hole I am getting very close I feel like I am rolling them well they are just not going in.


Q.  The first rain delay were you on the green had you already?

TAMMIE GREEN:  I had to chip.  It was a shorter green.


Q.  When everybody was out hitting because prior to taking the course again, I assume you practice that shot a little bit?

TAMMIE GREEN:  A little bit.  I actually was kind of delayed in the CBS booth for a little bit and then went out hit a few and hit a few of those chip shots, but the grass was a little wet, wetter out there after we went back -- see the rain didn't come until after I was on the range.  When I went back out it just jumped off 9 club a little bit faster than I thought it would.


Q.  How much time today do you spend thinking about that 10 foot foot waitinging for you?

TAMMIE GREEN:  I am really going to think too much bit.  I felt like I had a beat on it and was pretty confident. I just had gotten over the ball and I guess I will just hit it again tomorrow.


Q.  Have think break it to?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Got a little bit of break just at the top of the hole just outside the hole.


Q.  Right to left?

TAMMIE GREEN:  Right to left.


Q.  So in the middle of your normal warming up tomorrow I assume you will find that put?

TAMMIE GREEN:  I will find that put, of course.


Q.  What it is going take tomorrow it is going to take a real low number you think here?

TAMMIE GREEN:  No, I wouldn't really want to speculate.  Depends on the weather conditions and I am sure that if everybody is rolling their players the way I think they will be it is going to take at least I don't know, 4, 5 under for me to shoot to feel like I will win the tournament.  It is tough to speculate on what it is going to take because there are so many good players that are right there that can shoot a real low number.  You just never know.


Q.  Do you look at the leaderboard and say this one scares me, this one doesn't this, one scares me, does anybody?

TAMMIE GREEN:  I don't trust any of them.

TAMMIE GREEN:  Thank you, guys.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT