SPRINT TITLEHOLDERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 1997
Tammie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Sure.  Pretty routine the first couple of holes.  No. 3, I hit a 5-iron to about 15 feet, made the putt.  No. 5, sand wedge to about two feet.  Number 9, hit sand wedge to about seven feet.  Number 10, hit a wedge about ten feet.  Made it.  11, 8-iron to about seven feet.  On 14, was my only bogey.  I went in the bunker and didn't hit a good bunker shot, but was able to get it up-and-down from the side of the hill.  No. 18, I hit just a little pitch-and-run shot with a 9-iron to about ten feet.  Made that putt.  Overall I felt like I had the putter going.  That has been the strength of my game.  I hit it a little closer than I did yesterday and drove the ball actually a little better today.  So, hopefully, I am setting myself up for a good weekend. 
 

Q.  Betsy came in here and said she might have had her best putting round ever.  Are these greens affording you the opportunities?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  They are rolling so smoothly and they are rolling true.  What you see in the putt is usually what they do.  There has only been one putt - and that was yesterday  - that I misread.  I think either a grain or something got it; just went the opposite way that I thought it was.  But, for the most part, if you read them, you can make that putt. 
 

Q.  You talked yesterday about feeling pretty relaxed and trying to be relaxed going into your round yesterday.  Was that harder to do today with the lead?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I think starting out it was a little more difficult.  But, after the first two holes, I loosened up and started getting back into my swing and into my game. 
 

Q.  I was wondering if you took notice or thought at all about Dottie and Betsy passing you before you even teed off?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  No, not really.  This golf course, you can get the putter hot, you are going to shoot a few low scores.  I am really trying to set myself up for the weekend. Really, I am trying to play my game and be relaxed and hit shots that I expect to hit.  I guess the prior weeks coming in, I was forcing everything, forcing the irons and so forth.  I am just trying to get into my routine and not really worry about - I can't control what they are doing out there. 
 

Q.  Did you have the idea if they made a few birdies, I am  going to do it myself?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  At one point I saw Betsy was at 9, and Dottie I think got 9 - came back a little bit - but they are great competitors, and I can't let up on the weekend.  I just have to continue what I am doing, and I feel like if I am -- I am stroking the ball so well with the putter and I am gaining confidence with it every day.  So, hopefully, it will be there the next two days. 
 

Q.  If the wind doesn't pick up at all, is that the kind of the mindset you have to take out there with you, that if I don't keep making birdies, somebody is going to pass me?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I think this course lends itself.  If there is no wind and you are hitting the fairways and greens, you can make some birdies. 
 

Q.  Young players really made an impact on the LPGA recently.  When something like that happens, does it get the attention of the veterans and then say, "We are not ready to go quietly away yet"?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Of course it does.  That is what competition is.  The better the competition, the better you have got to play to win golf tournaments.  It is nice to see rookies like Karrie Webb come out and go over a million one year.  That is very impressive.  And if you look at where they are coming from, a lot of them are coming from Europe, all over the world, and also just the junior programs, I think, are starting to take shape.  It is just going to get better and better.  There are more players on the Tour that could win every week and that makes it good. Makes you play well. 
 

Q.  Making long putts like you did yesterday, make you even more relaxed?   Did hitting it closer today, was that a result of making the long ones yesterday and be --
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I think it helps. 
 

Q.  -- freewheeling a little bit?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Yeah, when you start making some long ones, you feel like you can make everything.  When you start hitting it close, then you feel like you should make the putts.  So that puts a little different look on it.  But I am just feeling so comfortable over the putt that I feel like I can put a good roll even on the long putts and on the short putts as well. 
 

Q.  Why is that?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Just confidence.  I am comfortable with the putter.  I am seeing the line of the putt, and I feel like I have a good feel for the greens. 
 

Q.  The shorter putter, you are able to stay up a little upright, what you were saying yesterday --
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Everything -- I am keeping - I have got a little different look to the putt and I have been working on my putting.  But the putter I have now - first week for it -  and I am real impressed with it (Laughs). 
 

Q.  Different style, you said it's an Odyssey?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Yes, I was playing with a 660.  It has got a different look.  It is not as offset as the 660.  It is a Rossie 550. 
 

Q.  When is the last time you have been this confident on the golf course?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  It has been awhile.  It has been awhile.  Probably two years ago.  Last year I really didn't feel like I got in any kind of groove, but the year before a few tournaments I did.  I don't know, everything was a struggle last year, so, I felt comfortable one or two days late in the season last year.  I think in Seattle I shot 64 one day and just kind of cruised through the round; had a couple of bogeys in there as well.  But, for two days back-to-back, I'd say this is the best for two years. 
 

Q.  Putting, statistically, was pretty good last year.
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Yeah, it surprised me.  I was 10th -- 
 

Q.  When did it go?  It hasn't been as good this year.
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I must have hit a lot of fringes last year - only thing I can figure.  My putting stats were better but I felt putting was my weakest point.  I don't know.  Those statistics kind of baffle me at times. 
 

Q.  Do you think you came back too soon after your operation?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I think I did come back a little bit too soon, maybe two weeks too soon. 
 

Q.  You lost strength; things like that; take you a while to --
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Yeah, it did.  Even probably into the winter months, I still didn't feel like I could play a good solid 18 holes.  I probably had 13 where I felt strong and then the last five holes I was a little weak, but this year, I have been able to keep my strength all the way through 18 holes and even beyond that. 
 

Q.  Other than 14 today, any good saves?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I guess No. 1, I was on the fringe.  I putted it by about seven feet; made the putt coming back.  And, seemed like there was some place else I had probably a 5- or 6-footer to make for par, but -- I don't remember exactly what it was. 
 

Q.  Not a bad way to start as far as your confidence going the 7-footer --
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Not at all.  Great way to start.  I hope I can maintain what I am doing.  Great players out there, so I can't really let up.  I just have to try to continue what I am doing, stay relaxed and hopefully the confidence will just keep rolling. 
 

Q.  Do you tend to play better having the lead or  chasing?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Well, I am not really sure on that.  I would say about the same, believe it or not.  I don't try to think of -- 
 

Q.  Your past wins?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I know on the Futures Tour, I always seemed to play better coming from behind, but I guess when I won the du Maurier I was leading and kept the lead, so you know, you never know.  This is golf. 
 

Q.  Is it tough or do you think it will be tough to stay relaxed when you are on a course like this, with a lot of good players shooting at you?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Certainly I do.  That is -- it's a tough game and it is tough to maintain that focus and that relaxation.  That is what we try to get into every week.  This week it is on so far and I am hoping it continues. 
 

Q.  Will it take winning to convince you that you are on the way back or what will it take?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I will tell you what.  This is a start.  Put two days like this back-to-back helps with the confidence.  We have already had a good bit of success this week and if I hold on and win, I think it will be a great start to the season and hopefully I can continue.  I think it would make a difference in how my season goes. 
 

Q.  Did you have any specific goals coming into this year?  Anything that you definitely --
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I am always looking at that Player-of-the-Year and always trying to bring my stroke average down.  There are certain things that I wanted to be 10th on the putting list instead of just -- I wasn't crazy about the stats last year because I knew I didn't putt as well as the stats would indicate.  But, no, the little successes here and there, but I'd like to continue my progress, I guess, before I had my operation last year.  I felt like I was consistent and I was winning some tournaments here and there and in the top 10 consistently. 
 

Q.  How does this tournament stack up on your wish list?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  It is way up there on the wish list, you know, with the money being the highest on Tour, that would make a significant impact to where I stand on the money list and I need to get the Solheim Cup points because it is going to be at Muirfield which is about an hour and a half from home and I'd like to gain some points there.  But, this is a great tournament with the Titleholders and the tradition that it has. 
 

Q.  I would expect you'd really gear in on the Solheim Cup since it is in Ohio.
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Solheim is such a great tournament anyway, but being so close to home and being on Muirfield, which is a great golf course, makes it even, you know, more  inviting to try to get there.  I would like to get on the team. 
 

Q.  Have you been wearing these soft spikes very long?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I have been wearing them, I guess, since the Dinah Shore and I really like them.  I wish more players would use them because -- I know more players are using them and you see a difference in the greens in the afternoon, for sure.  Greens out here today, you can see a few spike marks, but for the most part, there is not as many.  And, especially around the cup, around the three foot circle around the cup, there is less.  Only time I have ever really slipped is when I am really trying to hit a shot hard and it is really grainy or just a little bit wet, but I haven't had much trouble with them. 
 

Q.  Many players are wearing them?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I couldn't tell you how many players. They could tell you with the survey, but I know more and more. Julie was wearing them today and I think Alison had spikes on, but I will -- I am not sure if she had the spikes that retracts.  I am not sure. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  All right, thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT