SPRINT TITLEHOLDERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 1997
Tammie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  How is everybody? 
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Started on Number 10 today.  Started out pretty well actually.  Hit A 8-iron to about 20 feet.  Made the putt.  11, I hit a 6-iron to about five feet.  Made the putt.  Hit Number 13, hit a sand wedge to about 30 feet and made that putt.  That felt pretty good.  Made a good save on 14.  Had one of the long putts over the mound and made about a 6-footer for par there.  Number 16, hit a 7-iron to about twelve feet, made it.  18, hit a wedge about 15 feet, made that.  Backside or front or back whatever -- hit a 7-wood in to about 25 feet, made that.  And, played pretty solid throughout the next few holes.  On No. 5, hit a sand wedge to about 15 feet, made it.  Really only miscue I had all day was on No. 7, 3-putted it.  Just missed a - probably a little 3-footer coming back after a good solid putt.  So all and all, I felt like I played real well today. I didn't feel like I was forcing myself to play good.  I have been putting more and more pressure on myself last few weeks, just grinding it, and today I felt more relaxed and started swinging a little better. 
 

Q.  What it is going to take you, Tammie, to get back into the Tammie Green of old, to feel comfortable, to be back in the winner's circle?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I think days like today are a good start.  I think I need to have a good solid tournament, a relaxed tournament.  One, that I have a tendency to get a little uptight.  It is my anxiety out there which I don't like to do.  I just think getting confidence.  And the only way you can do that is to play well under these conditions, big tournaments and keep it going all week gaining that confidence. 
 

Q.  Does this course, for whatever reason, maybe allow a player to relax a little bit more than some other courses?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I don't know that any golf course allows you to really truly relax because I guess driving -- it is pretty open on the drives.  But the bunkers out there look like they were wet in the morning, so you -- you drove it in the bunker, you had a tough bunker shot coming out because it just made some mounds and they look tough.  I didn't get in any today.  But Alison Nicholas got in a few of them and just got  it out.  Got to pay attention.  The course is in great shape. The greens are putting so true.  I think that is basically what it comes down to.  I have putted today better than I have putted for quite sometime.  I think I only had 26 putts, so if I have rounds like that, that will be the difference. 
 

Q.  What has been the struggle?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I was struggling.  Really haven't had great tournaments and I took sometime off over the winter and really haven't gotten in the groove.  Finally played four in a row out west and I felt like I started to play well at the Dinah shore and the Twelve Bridges.  But then I took another two weeks off and played last week; switched irons, switched shafts in my irons.  I have just been kind of toying with those, trying to make sure I can -- I don't know.  I have lost a little distance and I think it is just from getting a little more uptight and not swinging as well. 
 

Q.  You said you were more relaxed today.  Can you put your finger on why?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I hit a lot of balls yesterday and just came to the conclusion that that is what was happening.  I was just -- the grip was too tight which caused all the muscles to tighten up.  And I just relaxed my grip a little bit and just said, you know, just swing easy, like I used to swing, and I started generating a little more club head speed and I am still the lying the loft exactly right on a couple of clubs.  I think they are going to be good for me. 
 

Q.  The confidence thing, I understand that it is just a matter of playing.  Have you done any sport psychology -.
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I haven't really worked on many sports psychologists or anything.  I am crazy enough, I think, without that.  But, I try to do some of the things that they suggest to manage myself out there a little better.  Different things that I think about, but nothing extreme. 
 

Q.  What was the turn around in putting today?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Well, I had a little lesson and just somebody noticed that I was moving my head and just stopped moving my head and I switched putters.  I have got an Odyssey 550 now.  It is a little shorter than I had been using and I feel like I am able to line it up a little better.  It is a little more upright.  I feel comfortable with the putter. 
 

Q.  You said you changed shafts.  How did you change shafts, stiffer or --
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I went back to steel with the Sensicore in it.  The reason I had left steel, to begin with in 1993 was, I had a little better bit of back problems.  Now they have a Sensicore in them; takes some of that vibration out.  So, hopefully, I won't have any back problems going back to steel. It gives me more consistency with each shot.  They are a little heavier and just a tad stiffer.  
 

Q.  Do you remember starting a tournament this good in a while?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  It has been awhile.  It has been awhile.  Just got to keep it going. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT