U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 1996
Tammie Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Actually, I felt very good today.  I felt relaxed.  I felt very good going into today's round.  I felt relaxed and felt pretty strong.  And throughout the round I hit some really good shots and was very pleased with the way I played.  Coming down the stretch I got a little fatigued, and my legs got a little tired, and I missed a couple left and a couple right.  But overall I feel like I had a good day out there. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Okay.  Well, actually, on No. 2 I made a good saving par putt. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I missed a little chip shot and had probably a 25, 30-footer, and made that.  So I was very pleased at No. 2.  And played No. 5 -- bogeyed No. 4 with a three-putt.  On No. 5, hit a 4-iron in probably about 16 feet, made that putt.  No. 6 -- 
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Excuse me, No. 5. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Just trying to confuse you a little bit.  No. 6, then, I hit a 4-iron into about 16 feet.  And then No. 7 I hit a 4-iron to about one foot.  On No. 8, I hit a wedge to about three feet and made those.  And unfortunately on No. 9 I hit a 4-iron and left it out to the right and did not get it up-and-down, made a bogey there.  Felt like I missed one on No. 10.  I was just off the fringe and didn't get it up-and-down, but parred.  11, I hit an 8-iron to probably about 17 feet, made that putt.  No. 12, hit a 9-iron to about, I guess, 6 to 8 feet and made that putt.  And hit a bad drive on 14.  Was trying to kind of cut it around the corner and double-crossed it and didn't quite get it out far enough, had about 58 yards left and didn't get it up-and-down.  15, another weak drive in the left rough.  And left it in the next rough that goes across the fairway, and didn't get it up-and-down from about 49 yards.  Made great saves on 16 and 17 from the bunkers.  And then on No. 18 I had a two-putt par. 
 

Q.  There's time left for some more changes at the tournament; it looked like Sorenstam was running away.  As she plays back and people make charges, does strategy change for Sunday?  Do you stick with your game?  Do you make shots, maybe, that you might not normally try under these conditions given it's getting tighter out there?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Well, I think the only time you go for that great golf shot is when it's coming down the stretch and you really need them.  But my strategy is not going to change for tomorrow's round.  I'm going to try to go out and hit fairways and hit greens and try to capitalize on birdie putts that I have.  Any time you play in the U.S. Open you can't get real cute with different shots. 
 

Q.  Can you make a charge on this golf course?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  I made several birdies out there today, so  they're out there.  It's just coming down the stretches.  The last few holes are tough, tough holes.  And it's going to be tough coming down the stretch making a charge.  But certainly there's birdies out there, and if you can capitalize on those and play steady golf on the tough holes, then quite possibly you can shoot a good round. 
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Yeah, there's a little nerve factor that is a factor in there.  But I feel like I've been in that position, and I know how to handle it.  I know you have to stay focused on your game and stay in your routine -- stick to your routine.  And if you can do that, and you're successful at it, that's the key, is being successful at this, then you have a good Open. 
 

Q.  What is it that makes golfers stick to the routine in situations like this instead of maybe changing one thing or changing a couple of things that may help them make up their shots?  What keeps you within your game and not try to do something maybe that you haven't done before?
 
TAMMIE GREEN:  Well, I think it kind of goes back to a level of concentration within that routine.  I think you can hit a couple bad shots and all of a sudden you're trying to figure out why you hit those bad shots.  But you can't really do that, because you're already here, you're in the game, you've got to try to make the good shots instead of trying to fix what's broken.  If you can stick to your routine and have enough concentration within that routine, then you can normally get it back. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT