U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2009
Anna Grzebien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you just talk a little bit about the round? Obviously you got a good start, with another early birdie, kind of like Thursday. Just walk us through a little bit some of the highlights.   
 ANNA GRZEBIEN: Actually had a good par on that first hole. Pushed it into the rough off the tee, and basically had to chip out and got up-and-down from 80 yards.   
 And that's how I got the momentum going, but I just gave myself, my birdie opportunities were much closer to the holes. Compared to making 25-footers, it was 15 and in.   
 I really placed the ball really well today, so I gave myself good shots at the green and good angles.  
  
  Q. What was yesterday like? You teed off early. You had to wait around to see if you were going to make the cut. The line kept moving back and forth. What was that like on your end?  
 ANNA GRZEBIEN: I actually left the course, went back to my place and took a nap and just kind of tried to waste time so I wasn't sitting there looking at the computer all day, so I didn't check it until four hours later after I finished, so I just kind of -- whatever was going to happen was going to happen, but I figured 8. That was the number I thought it was going to be, so I was surprised when it moved to 9.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about your family. You said your mom was here. Your brother or one of your sisters coming in?  
 ANNA GRZEBIEN: Yep. My mom and my dad are here, and then my sister and her fiancé are here.   
  
  Q. Which sister?  
 ANNA GRZEBIEN: Lauren, the oldest one, and then had my housing from McDonald's, so they drove, so it's nice to have some family, because I'm usually out here by myself, so it's a nice feeling.   
  
  Q. What was so different about your round today, as opposed to the other two rounds? Was it the course? Was it something you were doing? Was it something you were doing before your shots?  
 ANNA GRZEBIEN: I think it's just you learn so much every day. You learn in the practice rounds and everything, but once you get the competitive rounds every day under your belt, you learn more and more, and I think I just picked good targets and just did a really good job committing to my game plan and controlling each shot.   
  
  Q. Great. Good luck tomorrow.   
 ANNA GRZEBIEN: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT