SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
October 29, 2019
Xu Yifan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STOSUR-ZHANG/Dabrowski-Xu
4-6, 6-4, 10-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. It was Zhang Shuai's first win, your best friend. Any difference when you're playing against a Chinese player?
XU YIFAN: Well, before the Finals, I felt there's another Chinese player in this event. I felt really good because in China, when we have more Chinese players in this event, that is really encouraging.
But as I was preparing for this match I didn't think too much. It's just a match. Strategically, tactically, we just did what we're used to doing.
Q. In the tiebreaker in the third set, there were only five or six points that really determined the result. Could you go through how you prepared as well as the key moments.
XU YIFAN: There weren't that many changes in our tactics. In the first two or three games, we were a little bit slow into our game. It wasn't ideal as a beginning.
We didn't rush. We wanted to find our rhythm, try to raise our game after the first two or three games. I felt there was really good chemistry between us. Our tactics were great. When it comes to the smaller points, it's 50/50 in terms of who would win.
In the key points they did very well, quite consistent in the key points. For us, we didn't make that many mistakes. If we were more aggressive, we could have won those points. It's hard to say what the result would be if we were more aggressive.
Strategically, I think we did all right. Just bad luck, I guess. There were breakpoints in the second set that we didn't convert.
Q. Zhang Shuai mentioned you grew up with her, had the same coach, practiced together. While you were familiar with your opponent, did that help you at all?
XU YIFAN: Every year, every week we actually meet each other very often. We didn't really have that much time to hang out together. We're very familiar with each other. In our free time, we chat with each other.
In terms of the match, we know each other's games. But it's doubles, not singles. We have to work with our partner to be the best to beat the opponent. Even if I know her very well, it still depends on how this team works.
I'm not sure if I answered your question correctly.
Q. The bandage on your thigh, was it preventive? You mentioned health is key to you. Next year is the Olympics. How do you make sure you have good health, are not injured? You don't have a fitness coach right now.
XU YIFAN: Two days ago when I first arrived, I wanted myself to raise my game. There was a little bit of injury when I was practicing. Many injuries in recent years.
I'm not that upset by injuries any more because I'm used to it. I would not be bothered by injury when I compete. Some of these injuries are unpredictable. You can't really predict them. It's the end of the season.
In the off-season I will try to improve my stamina, my physical capabilities, and to make sure that I'm healthy, to make sure that I can compete at a level that I can sustain.
I can't guarantee that I won't be injured. I will do my best to prevent injuries.
Q. With experience under your belt, talk about your experience in this event compared to previous events. Also being here means you have done consistently well in the past year. This year was special because you were in the final of a Grand Slam. Walk us through this year.
XU YIFAN: Well, going back to the first year, I didn't think that I would qualify for the Finals. I was extremely excited. But because I was too excited, I was very nervous. Last year I was a bit better mentally, but I was a bit upset by my injury.
This year mentally speaking, personal preparation, I think that was sufficient. I was able to control my emotions. I was able to play my game consistently. But I was a little bit disappointed. Didn't get a breakthrough in the Finals, didn't get a victory in the Finals.
Each team is quite strong. If we do not play 100% or even 200%, we won't be able to win a match because every team is pushing hard for the Finals.
Q. You've done well this year. The first time in a Grand Slam final. Any thoughts on that?
XU YIFAN: I've been working with this partner for the past two years. Looking back on these two years, the results have been very consistent. The biggest breakthrough was in the Grand Slam. Before the Grand Slam final, we won titles in tournaments. We really wanted a breakthrough in a Grand Slam.
Our goal this year was to make a breakthrough in the Grand Slam, and we did it. Even though we didn't win a Grand Slam eventually, I think we improved in many ways.
Overall I am really satisfied with the results. Next year, personally speaking, I want to improve in my tactics, but also I need a break through to get a better result.
Q. You mentioned you were able to control your feelings better. There's a round-robin this year for the doubles. Will this have an impact on your preparation?
XU YIFAN: It's very encouraging to be in this round-robin. Less pressure. If you lose one match, you'll be eliminated. This year we lost two matches in the Finals so far.
I saw improvement in my mentality as well as my performance in the match. When I'm facing challenging moments, I was able to control myself, make the adjustments. That was pretty good.
Q. In the past two years we've seen many international partnerships. You've been very consistent in your partnership. Talk about this partnership.
XU YIFAN: I think in the past two years in the partnership I've learned a lot, how to communicate with my partner, how to express myself clearly. She is a very direct person. That helps with communication.
I don't think anyone is that special, but we need to hang out together, we need to eat together, spend enough time together to get to know each other. This will also help us in matches.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT