U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 30, 2012
Gregg Troy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
GREGG TROY:   It's something we talked about, wanted to see what he could do.   He's in a really good spot right now, and we thought it was good looking toward the next meets.   
   
 Q.   How do you think he did?   
GREGG TROY:   Great.   One of the best performances ever.   
We just didn't get our hand on the wall one time as well as we would have liked to.   
   
 Q.   Is this about lining him up for the medley relay or an individual event itself?   
GREGG TROY:   It was about a guy who likes to race and I was looking for another opportunity for him to race.   
   
 Q.   When did you first start talking about it?   
GREGG TROY:   Talked about it five or six weeks ago.  
   
 Q.   Do you see it as a possibility for London?   
GREGG TROY:   We will make that decision for tomorrow.   We're going to race tomorrow and see where we're at.   
   
 Q.   The subject of Teresa Crippen.   Nice to see her in the final?   
GREGG TROY:   She came back after last night's disappointment real well.   
   
 Q.   Did you have to talk to her about‑‑  
GREGG TROY:   Teresa is a class act.   
There was never a question.   She knew what she was going to do.   She showed up this morning and was ready to go.   
   
 Q.   What do you do between races like that for Ryan, getting him to bounce back?   
GREGG TROY:   Try to stay hydrated, get in the water and swim until our heart rate goes back down, a little more preparation.   We don't do anything differently between the double than we would any other time, but we do some things in practice to prepare for it.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
GREGG TROY:   It's a distraction.   Part of the deal.   
   
 Q.   As a coach you like to get him resting or doing what you need to do with races but Ryan stays and signs autographs, does an interview‑‑  
GREGG TROY:   It's a little bit of a weakness.   We have to address that.   
   
 Q.   It's a good thing.   
GREGG TROY:   It's nice to have an opportunity for him to have a weakness, but he has to learn to say no once in a while a little better.   
   
 Q.   Do you think that's what made him so liked by the crowds, that he does interact and he's got a personality‑‑  
GREGG TROY:   He's always been like that, especially little kids, they want to get his signature, he's always been good about stopping and doing that.   At some point in life someone didn't give him one, and he said he never wanted to be that kind of guy.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
GREGG TROY:   I think as he looks to the future he's going to be able to swim the 100s real well, and we have almost no experience at it, so it was more of a basis of seeing where we are and what we can do.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
GREGG TROY:   It wouldn't matter who it was, we wanted to win.   We didn't.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT