U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 29, 2012
Gregg Troy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No microphone.)
GREGG TROY:   Impactful performance today, but we've got a lot of guys to choose from, and it's not uncharacteristic, especially in that event.   Those guys are going to get better. 
I think that the pressure of this meet is really unique.   I feel real comfortable we will be fine in that relay by the time we get there. 

Q.   Talk about Ryan's performance in the 200 IM coming back after the 200 Back.   Did you like what you saw? 
GREGG TROY:   A lot. 

Q.   Can you elaborate on what you liked? 
GREGG TROY:   All four strokes are solid, his transition turns are getting better, he used to be weak approaching the wall, that's getting better.   And that time right now, I think he backed it down a little bit, I think we can go faster.   We're real comfortable with where he's at. 

Q.   Michael has a semi tomorrow night but the short turn‑around for Ryan, going against Phelps, he might be fresher, based on the schedule. 
GREGG TROY:   I don't know.   I know that's what the program is and we're swimming both. 

Q.   He doesn't seem to be bothered by it. 
GREGG TROY:   Well, that's‑‑ we don't do it.   It's a challenge, it's a double, it takes a lot of legs for him. 

Q.   Bob expressed concern the other night about Michael and Ryan racing each other.   Do you agree with that at all? 
GREGG TROY:   Bob and I talked before.   They have a history of once in a while getting so conscious of what one another does of getting out of their race, and when we do that we get a tremendous race but we don't get the performance he and I are expecting. 
Happens once in a while, doesn't concern me.   It's still a race. 

Q.   Does he bring out the best in Ryan?   When he's side‑by‑side with Michael, is that good for his personality? 
GREGG TROY:   When you got a chance to go against the best and you have two of the best guys going at it, it's great.   That's why we go to sporting events. 

Q.   The top six on the relay, you'll take the top six in the 100 Free for the relay; they may not all swim, even in the relay, right? 
GREGG TROY:   We've got eight to nine really great freestylers, and we're going to put the fastest race together we can, and we'll make that decision in London. 

Q.   The top six will go‑‑
GREGG TROY:   Selection procedure provides for that, yeah. 

Q.   Can you assess Teresa's meet she had here? 
GREGG TROY:   Teresa is a great competitor.   It was a good meet; we would have liked to have been a little bit better.   It's competition. 

Q.   She came up here and said she wouldn't be able to be at this meet if it wasn't for the University of Florida. 
GREGG TROY:   Teresa had a long 18 months and she's handled it well. 

Q.   Is Ryan going to go one more event after the back and the medley? 
GREGG TROY:   He may delve into something else, we don't know.   He's going to swim the fly tomorrow morning and then we will decide where to go from there. 

Q.   Gregg, back on the sprint relay.   How much‑‑ obviously there is a bit of a deficit between what you've got and what the Australians have shown this year.   How much can you make up in a month? 
GREGG TROY:   We're no further away from the Australians now than we were the French four years ago.   It may be trite, but that's kinda what it is. 

Q.   Is Teresa going to scratch the 200 Back? 
GREGG TROY:   At the moment we're assessing that.   She is a pretty good backstroker.   She was in the cold tank getting ready to go; by all indications we're going to swim 200 Back tomorrow. 

Q.   Can you talk about Conor Dwyer's development over the last six months? 
GREGG TROY:   It's been more the last two years; it's just more obvious the last six months.   He was very, very sick at the NCAA meet his senior year, and it hurt his confidence, set him back, but he was on the World Championship Team as a relay alternate, so he never had a chance to swim a full program.   Showed a good Pan Ams; he's a real versatile guy. 

Q.   Can he take enough off the IM to be a factor tomorrow night? 
GREGG TROY:   That was his best time tonight.   We train for the medley.   I think he is a better 400 IM swimmer, but thought the field was less challenging in the 400 Free than the 400 IM.   He's not quite as strong as those other guys; his underwaters need to get better.   That's the next step for him. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
GREGG TROY:   He's got a lot of experience.   He's been there, tremendous racer, you could see tonight.   There is no "quit" in Jason Lezak.   So having that type of guy around is always good.   He has unique commitments, a family, and hopefully he's there. 

Q.   And Matt Grevers who hopes to be in the finals, where do you assess his chances? 
GREGG TROY:   He's a great big, tall guy; he may have the most room for a big drop.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT