U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 27, 2012
Gregg Troy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We have Gregg Troy here.   
   
 Q.   Can you take us through the race from what you saw and what you liked about what Ryan did and what he needs to work on?   
GREGG TROY:   It's the kind of race we talked about.   He was pretty well swimming, not setting up the last turn, conscious of wanting a good turn, and he lost his tempo a little bit through the third turn, and we missed the finish a little bit.   All the basic stuff, I think he can go out faster, but it was pretty well controlled and split, so some‑‑ always like to win, but by the same token,   
certainly we're where we need to be when it really counts.   
   
 Q.   It was a close call tonight in the 100 Backstroke but no world records after the world record flurry four years ago.   Is it due to all the suits‑‑ the suit situation or is there something else going on?   
GREGG TROY:   The suit has a dynamic, the flurry was fake; it wasn't real.   This is real.   There are people close‑‑ I kinda think we let the meet get out of hand, a little too long the first couple of days, I think it's affecting performance at the top.   It won't be that way in London.   The guys' backstroke was a close race; we were close to the record.   
I personally like the situation that everyone doesn't break records all the time because it makes the ones you do break special, and they're supposed to be special.   That's why they're world records.   
   
 Q.   Given that getting first here really doesn't matter in the scheme of things, is there a part of you that likes to see Ryan tested and even come in second to Michael?   
GREGG TROY:   No, we want to be first.   There is nothing wrong with being first.   It's also a dynamic, two of the best ever go head‑to‑head, they're both in their prime, one guy is going to win and one is going to lose.   
It's good from an aspect it makes you realize where you're at, you can't get comfortable and overconfident at this level so there is an asterisk as a coach that gives you a tool to work with for the next three weeks.   
   
 Q.   Coach, Ryan Lochte said the US Team is going to "light it up" in London.   With you as a coach, what message do you have for the swim world?   What kind of US Team is coming to London?   
GREGG TROY:   We're going to come with a good team, a lot of experience.   You can see on the women's side we have youth, too, young guys that will make an impact in the next few days.   We're going to have a real good team.   
While I might be the first couple of days were a little long, and they might impact their performance a little bit; they're going to make us battle hard and that much more ready for London.   We're going to take a good group of folks over there.   
   
 Q.   Gregg, can you explain a little bit about the‑‑ if there is any strategy in the scheduling from today to London Olympic Games to build up the team, including the foreign camps?   
GREGG TROY:   We're going to have somewhere between 20 and 26 guys on the team.   My guess is there is somewhere between 20 and 22 strategies, depending on how each of them, what their background was, preparation for   
this, how well they can handle two performances.   A guy like Matt approaches it a different way.     
Matt will have a different strategy than a Ryan.   A guy like Conor Dwyer has a different strategy.     
Him and Ryan train together but they won't do the same thing.   It's an individual thing.   I can't   
answer better than that right now.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you for joining us, Gregg.  
   
                        End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT