adidas International
January 11, 2003
Hyung-Taik Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  As we did yesterday, Coach June will answer questions for Hyung -Taik.


Q.  Congratulations.  Were you nervous in the beginning, because you improve as the match went on? 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation)  He wasn't nervous.  But beginning of the first game, he serve really well so that sort of put him in an awkward position.  So he said it's a matter of time before he settled in.  He wasn't nervous, no.


Q.  Are you happy with the way that you fought your way back into the game? 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation) Throughout this week, he really didn't think about winning the match.  He was just trying to play his game, and he tried the same today.  He just trying to settle in, and he wasn't really nervous or worried about winning.  He was just worried about his game coming back to him. 

Q.  How did he feel when he had seven set points in the second set, and then he won in the eighth set point?  I suppose he has to admit there he was nervous. 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation)  He wasn't really counting, but he knew it was many.  I think he was up 5-3, 40-love.

Q.  Yes. 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation)  He feels he let him get back to the game, and just a couple points he let him get back to the game.  That was the only time, but he wasn't really nervous or anything.  He couldn't concentrate throughout that three points.

Q.  He could have closed the set in 36 minutes.  Instead, it took him one hour and four minutes to win. 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation)  He didn't know (smiling). 

Q.  Was he nervous at all, or did he think at all about the last match between the two, when he had the matchpoints at all? 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation)  Yes.  He said it was a good lesson for him because that reminded him about last meeting with Juan Carlos.  He knew he had to be aggressive this time.  He had to be aggressive  - not Juan Carlos. 

Q.  Can you tell us a little bit more about his tennis background and perhaps tennis in Korea.  I guess a lot of people here wouldn't know much about the game over there.  Just the background, players over there, the coaching facilities. 


Q.  So he's a freak, in other words?  He's a raw talent that's come up?


Q.  The President that called, did he watch the game live?


Q.  What is he expecting the reaction to be like when he gets home? 


Q.  Last week Paradorn won Chennai.  He (Lee) won this week.  Does he feel that there's something special happening where he can be an example for the tennis in Asia? 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through translation)  Now that you mention it, he thinks that way.  It's some kind of  -- Paradorn always talks about Asian tennis, he's been talking about Asian tennis, not only for him but stronger Asian tennis.  The only two players playing  in the tour, full-time tour, is Paradorn and Lee only.  So he's wishing more people get  -- play in the tour.  I think somebody asked questions about the difficult part of being in the tour because of loneliness.  You see all those people from Spain, there's so many, or Russia, you know.  He's only one from Korea. 

Q.  Belonging to a poor family, how did he develop his tennis career?  Was he financially helped from the government, private people? 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through translation)  Until 18, he didn't have any sponsor at all  - none.  So he only play national, Korean national tournaments.  He think he play like two, three ITF events, maybe , juniors.  So he wasn't exposed to world tennis at all.  But when he went to college in Seoul, his head coach in college gave him a lot of opportunities.  He helped him improve his game and become a Davis Cup player.  Then, I think like we mentioned yesterday, Samsung, our company, picked him up and started sponsoring him.

Q.  Has Paradorn been an inspiration to him in the last few months? 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation)  Paradorn had a lot of impact on him.  Last six months, Paradorn's been playing so good, that has made him work harder.  Also, we have another girl who was in the finals in Auckland last week.  She's on our Samsung team.  That also helped him. 

Q.  Do you think because of the fact that he's doing so well, that he won here, it will help to develop the game in your country and to motivate kids to play tennis? 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through translation) That's what he wishes for, but Lee by himself cannot do that.  He needs other people get involved, to make the program stronger in Korea as a whole.

Q.  Coming back to today's match, it looked from outside that in the beginning he was slow, and then after the match went on, he was as fast as in the previous matches and totally fit.  But in the beginning, he look not fast at all. 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation)  He said you have very keen eyes because he didn't know about that.

Q.  He didn't realize?


Q.  Because some of the mistakes were because he was not fast enough. 


Q.  Can you ask him how he felt about his victory and what this means to him.  Is this the most important thing that's ever happened to him?  Where does he go from here?  What does it mean after all these years? 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation)  This week, winning in Sydney gives him a lot of pride.  Now he knows what he needs to work on.  He learned a lot of things from many good players this week, so he knows what his weaknesses are and some of the weaknesses that he was exposed to that he needs to work on.  He wants to improve his ranking and play bigger tournaments so he can set a higher goal.

Q.  When did you really think you were going to win the match? 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation)  Until the last point he didn't know.

Q.  Why is it that he doesn't speak English?  Because on court, his words were very well pronounced.  After the end of the match, when he said something in English, it sounded like he can speak English.


Q.  When did he memorize that?  Did you practice the speech last night?


Q.  How long has he had the speech memorized for?


Q.  Yeah, yeah.

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  When he went to Bronx, the year 2000.  When he got to the Round of 16 at US Open he memorized it.  In the beginning, it was so bad he called me from New York when I was in Seoul and he asked me what to say, so...

Q.  What made him more nervous, matchpoint or taking the call from the President?


Q.  Why did he actually get involved?  Given the lack of background Korea has in tennis, why did he get involved in tennis in the first place? 


Q.  After seven matches, is it a problem that he might be very tired for the start of the Australian Open? 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation)  He's very surprised after so many matches. 


Q.  You were speaking on the phone afterwards.  Did you speak to your family back home? 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation)  Not yet.  But everybody watched. 


Q.  As a coach, what are your feelings because of his victory? 


Q.  The mental aspect?


Q.  Obviously, his ranking will improve. 


Q.  Have you had a chance to redefine goals now, third round of the Grand Slams, Top 20? 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation)  No, he doesn't really worry about ranking.  I'm sure when he plays good, tennis ranking will go up.  He doesn't really have a set goal as to what ranking he should be or what he wants to be. 

Q.  Do you feel that you can make an impact in the Australian Open during the next fortnight? 

HYUNG-TAIK LEE:  (Through Translation)  He only have a few days  - actually, one day, to prepare for Monday because the bottomm part is Monday now I heard.  He's physically fine, so he's  -- just like this week, one match at a time, he says. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT