NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v SPURS
June 13, 2007
Brent Barry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What did Sam Presti say to you?   
 BRENT BARRY:  Well, you know, Sam was very genuine in saying, especially to the guys in San Antonio, the guys who have been here for a long time with him, saying that they're the reason why he's going to take this position, and without their help that he wouldn't have this offer.  So he was very appreciative to the guys that have been around a while.  Everybody wished him luck and was very genuine about it, and then he was out the door and off the running.  He had to get to Seattle as soon as possible to get to work.   
 I think it's an awesome hire because it's thinking outside the box, taking somebody who's been around a lot of success, and he's going to try to implement that formula.  For Seattle as an organization they're bringing in somebody fresh to breathe new life into a team that has the No. 2 draft choice and seemingly has an opportunity to get some great things going, great hire.  And he's a good drummer and he's in Seattle so he's got a chance to do things outside of basketball.   
  
  Q.  What can you tell me about Pop off the court?  I know he's a non-drinker and all that stuff, but his personality, and what makes him tick?   
 BRENT BARRY:  I think with Gregg Popovich, what you see is what you get.  He's a pretty straightforward guy and a straight shooter and he's going to be very honest with you.  The thing that he does that's really different than any coach that I've had outside of basketball is the type of topics that he bring up in practice.  Sometimes we talk about things that are going on that have nothing to do with a game plan, nothing to do with the defensive strategy, nothing to deal with an offensive play but having to do with the bigger picture.  I think that's one thing that really separates him from other coaches.   
  
  Q.  Can you give me an example of that?   
 BRENT BARRY:  We'll come in and talk politics before practice.  I've always said that it's not much of a debate because nobody gets a chance to speak besides Pop; it's more of a monologue.  But we do touch on other things that are going on in the world, and we understand that what we're doing is not curing cancer, we're playing basketball for a living.   
  
  Q.  Hall of Fame coach even if you guys don't win this Finals?   
 BRENT BARRY:  I don't know, that's not something that's really important to him.  What is important is that he gets his team to maximize its potential every year and that they play the brand of basketball that they can be proud of and that they put the type of effort on the court every day where they can go home and say we tried our best and the other team didn't outwork us.  If he gets those three things, I think he sleeps pretty good at night.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT