NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 8, 2005
Brent Barry
Robert Horry
Rasho Nesterovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRENT BARRY:  Our game plan going in, game plans are our game plan.  You never know until you start to play what exactly is going to work and what adjustments have to be made.  Certainly going into the series, tempo is something that we're looking to try to dictate and that's tough to do against Detroit. 

Q.  Are they the best defensive team in the league do you think?

BRENT BARRY:  I think you have the two best defensive teams in the championship.  Probably.

Q.  How do you feel? 

BRENT BARRY:  Banged up.

Q.  How do you feel?  Banged up a little bit? 

BRENT BARRY:  I mean, nobody at this point in the season is healthy.  Much is made about Miami and the ailments they had.  I'm sure the guys from Detroit are banged up and that stuff all gets put aside, and tomorrow night everybody will be ready to go and everybody will be playing on adrenaline. 

Q.  The Finals, the officials let the defense --

BRENT BARRY:  From what I've seen on TV, yeah.  Every game is different, every game the referees dictate whether the game is going to be tight, so there's going to be a lot of free throws during the game, so the game is going to be physical and they are going to let some things go, so teams have to adjust to those things and the teams that adjust sooner, inevitably have a leg up on their opponents.  But every game is different I think. 

Q.  What about Ginobili, the story about him, the controversy? 

BRENT BARRY:  I don't know if it's so controversial, he just does a great job of drawing fouls, how aggressive he plays.  The only way to stop him most times is to foul him. 

Q.  Rasho, are you worried about the long layoff?

RASHO NESTEROVIC:  No, this is Finals.  For most of the players, it's the first time, so we're excited.  We're going to come out and give our best with everything we have.

Q.  How frustrating is it over the last couple of series to play not as much as you're used to playing?

RASHO NESTEROVIC:  A little bit because I wasn't used to it, but with injury and rotation, but we're The Finals, so there's nothing to complain about. 

Q.  With their front line as big as it is, you know, there will be some fouls and stuff out there, do you expect you'll get more playing time in this series than the last couple? 

RASHO NESTEROVIC:  I'm going to be ready and give everything I have.  I just feel that we're going to come out like a winner and that's the most important. 

Q.  Talk about those guys, the Wallaces?

RASHO NESTEROVIC:  It's not just Wallace and Wallace, all of the front Pistons are very good, pick-and-roll position, they are good players.  This is their second year after last year and they play together.  They are definitely a very good team. 

Q.  Is it hard to sit and watch? 

RASHO NESTEROVIC:  Yes.  I mean, I think I could never be a bench, that's for sure.  You watch the game and you try to change something but you can't so it's pretty hard, just sitting so close. 

Q.  Other than you being on the floor a whole lot more, what would you change? 

RASHO NESTEROVIC:  Oh, at least you're on the floor -- on the bench you see more things than you see on the floor. 

Q.  What have you seen that you think gives you guys an edge right now from that perspective? 

RASHO NESTEROVIC:  No, it's just a different point of view.  The game, you watch your guys, a couple other guys, it's very fast and you don't see that much on the bench, you'll see what was wrong on pick-and-rolls and rebounds and anything.  So you're actually seeing what works from a different perspective. 

Q.  Robert, this is your first Finals and it always seems to be a money time of the year for you.  What is it about getting to the big game time and time again? 

ROBERT HORRY:  I think I like the pressure.  The pressure kind of makes me focus more during the season, and it's not that much pressure.  During this time, it's a little bit more pressure, a lot more pressure and you're able to focus more.  You need to -- you keep watching basketball constantly so your basketball knowledge or whatever you want to call it kinds of heightens, so you just go out and you just play basketball and you have fun at it.

Q.  Almost more of a mental focus than when you go through the regular season, it's not the end of the world but here it's a little more of a desperate time?

ROBERT HORRY:  Exactly.  Plus, I take about six or seven months to get in shape.  (Laughter).

Q.  Do you ever think about how incredibly lucky you are that wherever you go you end up playing in the NBA Finals?

ROBERT HORRY:  I think about it, my friends tell me about it.  I know I'm very lucky, very fortunate.  I think that all of the staffs I've been on and all of the teams I've been on, the coaching staffs, they have all had the confidence to put me on the court because I know other times and other situations -- the teams I've been on are phenomenal.  The guys I play with are phenomenal.  You look at the players I've played with, I've played with probably six or seven Hall of Famers.

Q.  It's not just the teams but you feel you're a big part of the teams, because you've made some big shots over the years. 

ROBERT HORRY:  You want to feel that way but I'm just -- every team I've been on, we had major stars that come in and step up.  You look at the things I do, that's just minor to what they do.  My stuff happens to be in a game where it's focused more, but those guys are leaders and the main parts to the machine.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT