MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2021
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.  I would like to welcome our reigning U.S. Open champion Bryson DeChambeau to the interview room.  Bryson, since we last saw you here in November, you continued to energize the sport with another victory at the Arnold Palmer Invitational in March, followed by a strong third-place finish at THE PLAYERS.  You're No. 1 in driving distance, you're No. 1 in strokes gained off the tee, you're No. 1 strokes gained tee-to-green.
 What are you focussing on right now in your game, and is there anything specific you have planned for this week?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Thanks for having me here.  I think that this week is especially special for me, being low amateur here and having a lot of great experiences here, my first hole in one on 16.
 I think this week I'm going to be focusing on -- given what I learned from the Masters last November, I'm going to be focusing mainly on accomplishing how do I hit iron shots into greens to give myself the best chance to give myself the ability to make birdie.  There was a lot of times last year where I hit decent enough drives, but I just didn't feel like I was hitting shots in the correct quadrants of the greens or giving myself opportunities on par 5s like I should have.
 But mainly, you look at numerous holes out there for myself, and I just didn't give myself opportunities on par 4s.  No. 3 was a great example.  I just didn't put it in the right place.  And then when I did, I three-putted one day.
 Looking at opportunities, not just the par 5s, but mainly the par 4s for me and how I can attack those par 4s to give myself the best opportunity to make a lot of birdies out there.
 Q. How much has your caddie, Tim, contributed to your success?  And if you could follow that answer with, did you appreciate him more when there was a short spell a few years ago where he wasn't working for you?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah, Tim has meant the world to me.  Tim Tucker has been rock solid no matter what, no matter when he wasn't working for me or no matter when he was working for me and we weren't winning, we weren't doing anything special or well.  We were always trying to get better.
 There's been times where there's been some rifts, but that's any relationship.  That's any interaction with another human being.  Sometimes it just happens.
 Fortunately enough he loves me enough and I love him enough to be able to say, hey, you know, we are going to get through this together no matter what, and we are going to persevere and push through and work as a team to be the best we can.
 It's pretty cool how unique Tim is in regard to the fact that he will, no matter what, always try to figure out an easier way to do something, just like me, just in a little bit of a different way.  For the most part, he has that same mindset of determination, hard worker, and wants to find the best way to do something.
 And so there's been numerous instances where I've relied on him to say, hey, how can we do this a little bit better, and he'll come up with a cool idea or cool thought.  And I'll be like, whoa, that's really cool, that's awesome.
 So that's where I think he shines, is dedication and his ability to come up with cool, unique things that allow me to play better golf.
 Q. I watched you on 1 yesterday; I think you hit two shots you down the right-hand side.  Was that the intended line, and what are you thinking on that hole?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah.  I think I'm trying to see how far right I can go, and if I do go right -- I didn't walk up there, obviously, but that is the line I do want to take.  It is a difficult tee shot off the tee with a driver.  So I may lay back just around the bunker and hit a 9-iron or 8-iron in, whatever it is.
 But for the most part, that is the line.  And, again, just being comfortable off the first tee is a huge thing.  If I can be comfortable off the first tee and get my round started right and in a good direction and feel comfortable with the driver and everything, that's kind of what sets me up for the rest of the round.
 Q. Over the trees on the right?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah.
 Q. Is there another hole you would have a similar -- I don't want to say aggressive line, but maybe attacking line?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I have to think about that.
 No. 11, I can squeeze it down the right side pretty far.
 10, not really anything.
 No. 9, I can take it over the left trees and get into that big expansive grass, which is cool.
 5, I may hit it over the bunkers, and that gives me a lot of comfort that I can get it over those bunkers on a windy day.
 3, try and drive the green this year.  It's a little firmer this year, so be able to do that.  That's one that will be a little bit of a unique line if I do take driver.
 Q. I was there yesterday when you were hitting drivers every ten seconds.  Nice exercise.
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah, I got a great workout in.
 Q. That was extraordinary talent, taking control and putting everything together to make an extraordinary result.  Do you think that you are extraordinarily talented?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Well, you saying that makes me humbled, and I appreciate that.  I don't know the extent of my talent.  I know that I'm very dedicated and whatever I set my mind to, I'm going to do.  And I think that over the course of time, if you work hard enough, and you're dedicated enough at something, it's going to look like extreme talent.
 It can be a co-variable of it, and I think that when I was younger, my dad always would tell me to try and hit weird wedge shots or weird iron shots around trees, make weird golf swings so that I could adapt on the spot.
 And I think that's where, from a young age, I grew up being able to solve these problems, albeit hitting a golf ball in really unique, weird ways.
 So as I go to speed training and as I go to swinging it really hard, I'm still able to draw back on those memories of when I was younger, hitting a weird shot or hitting a weird motion or chipping a shot, or whatever it was.  I became very good at adapting to the situation, and that was mainly a result of my dad teaching me it's okay to fail and it's okay to try things and mess up because it makes you more resilient.
 That's where I think I learned that, and it's helped me grow into a golfer that I can try things and have -- albeit may fail a couple times, it's going to allow me to understand the path that I need to go down.
 From a talented perspective, I think it was a lot of hard work.  My dad gave me a lot of great instruction, and Mike Shea gave me a lot of great instruction growing up.  I think it's more a result of hard work than being extremely talented.
 Q. You're obviously an analytical guy.  I'm just wondering, when you look at Augusta National, is this a place that you should play well?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I certainly believe that to be the case.  I think there is a place where I do put an expectation value that, yeah, I think I have a good chance to play well here.
 THE PLAYERS is a golf course that I don't think I should play as great on, given what I have off the tee and how it limits me.
 There are certain holes out here where length does help tremendously.  And so as you look at it from a statistical point of view, there is a lot of advantages to be had with length for me.  But, again, you go up around those putting greens, and you just try to hit it into those areas of the green where the pins are, and it becomes very diabolical.
 Length is only as good as you can hit your next shot, is what I always say.  And that's the most important thing about Augusta National, is it doesn't test just the driving.  It tests your second shots, it tests the third shot, it tests -- you're making for par, your 4-footer you're trying to make for par.
 I think that's what's so special about here is that you have to have every facet of your game working really, really well.
 Q. There was a lot of talk about the 48-inch driver.  Is there anything you're working on to give you an advantage?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Working with Cobra on some future designs.  Obviously there's something in the bag this week that's very helpful.  I won't go into specifics of it.  But just know this has been a few years in the making, and I'm very excited for it.  Whether it helps me perform at a higher level, I'm not sure, because it's golf and you never know what happens.
 Definitely what I've seen on the driving range and what I've seen the last week in practice, there's some tremendous benefits to it.
 Q. Little different golf question for you.  As you know, Georgia is in the news, obviously, and it brings up the topic of diversity and inclusion.  And that's something golf has been working very hard and Fred Ridley has been working hard on.  With that in mind and being here in Georgia, how important is diversity and inclusion in your game?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   It's incredibly important.  I think the most important thing we can do is treat everyone equally, and I think growing up my dad told me that no matter what, you're going to treat everyone the way you want to be treated.
 From my perspective, what's going on now, I think you look at Augusta National and the PGA TOUR and what we've been doing to grow the community and grow the sport and grow the charities that we're able to give back to, I think that's one of the most important things that we need to look at and start looking at this tournament and this championship as a positive light to the community, positive light to the world and an opportunity to show people the great entertainment that we can provide to the world.  I think that's one of the most important things.
 And as we look at it from that perspective, I hope that we can all show people that the TOUR has plenty of diversity out here.  And I think that's the most amazing thing, is that no matter what, if you work hard enough, you can get out to the TOUR and make it out here and you play Augusta National.
 I think Lee hitting the first tee shot is going to be amazing.  There are a lot of great opportunities that have come around for Augusta National and the PGA TOUR to change the light of everything and make it a shining light in the darkness right now.
 Q. I'm sure you saw at THE PLAYERS that Rory said when he saw you at Winged Foot he said, "I want some of that," and he tried to make some changes in his swing to make the distance chase like you did.  What goes through your head when you see a player with that pedigree and that golf swing say that he tried to emulate you and it kind of sent him down a rabbit hole?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah, I think I talked about this a while ago.  I knew there was going to be people trying it.  I didn't know who was going to try it.  But it's not an easy task.  You have to have four or five things go right in order for you to accomplish hitting it farther and hitting it straighter and implementing it on the golf course in a tournament round.  And I appreciate Rory's words.
 From my perspective, I wasn't trying to change anybody else's game.  I was just trying to play the best golf I could.  I knew there would be people there to be influenced.  I didn't think it would be Rory.  I think he's a pretty smart, talented individual that knows how to play the game potentially better than me.  It's honoring and humbling hearing him say it's a difficult task.  Not everybody can do it all the time, and from my perspective, I don't know what else to say other than it's pretty cool.
 Q. At last year's Masters, there were no Patrons and it was quiet.  How do you feel with fans back to cheer for you this year?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I've already seen it in the practice round yesterday.  I played nine with Ollie and Kevin, Kevin and Ollie, runner-up in U.S. Amateur, and obviously Kevin is a good friend, and we had a fun time just messing around with the crowd.  There was a moment on 9, probably about a good minute, minute and a half, we were just joking around with the crowd.  It's fun to be able to interact with the crowd and get them going again.
 Hearing the sounds, whenever somebody makes an eagle or amazing birdie or hole-in-one, those sounds down by Amen Corner and by 15, 16, are going to be pretty special hearing that again.  We haven't heard that in a while.
 Q. In November you dealt with some physical issues.  How is your state of being now?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I appreciate you asking.  It's a lot better, way better.  There were some interesting things that went on.  Took about four or five months to figure out what it was.  We went through CT scans, X-rays, cardioid measurement.  We had ultrasound on my heart.  We had measurement of the blood vessels on my neck.  We had -- you name it, we did it, sinus, CT scan measurements, infection checks and everything.  And we couldn't find anything.  There was literally nothing.
 Then one day I was talking with Neuropeak, and we went over a couple things with the brain.  Obviously the brain was stressed still and wasn't feeling that great.  And they were like, well, let's check out your oxygen levels.  We never measured oxygen levels or anything like that, and there was something there.  And immediately from after changing the way I was breathing, the way I was feeling that day from breathing, it took it out.  It literally just went away.
 So very blessed to be able to have somebody that works hard in helping me figure out my body, and they were able to help me out in that regard.  Ever since then, I've been okay.  So knock-on-wood.
 Q. Can you give a couple instances of how different the course is playing now as opposed to November, and has that changed your approach to how you're going to deal with it?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I would say for the most part the golf course is going to play different, but there's opportunity where the ball will roll out, one of them being No. 2, if you can hit a drive down that hill with spin, it's going to roll pretty far.
 Everybody has been talking about 13.  13 is pitched in, so if I'm going to fly it into that slope, it's not going to run out that much, even from last November.
 A few other examples.  No. 9, everybody is going to be rolling down the hill for the most part.
 No. 8, it's still into the hill, you can land it into the hill, but you'll get some more roll out.
 No. 7, you can hit a shorter club and have it roll out, which would be great.
 There's numerous instances on the golf course.  Even 3, you're going to be able to bounce and almost roll it up the hill, at least from my driver, instead of just hitting it and stopping like it did last November.  And yeah, there's going to be numerous instances where it's playing a lot differently.
 But it's going to be fun.  It's going to be a great challenge.  I love firm, fast golf courses.  Clearly the U.S. Open was one that I love and enjoyed a test of, and I think this week will be no different.  It's going to test every facet of your game.  Greens are already firm and fast.
 We had a hole location on 17, I played Sunday, and it was up on the front part of the green about five or six on, and if you just got it past the hole, it would roll off the front of the green.  I mean, literally it moves a dimple and it's gone.
 So it's pretty unique and interesting.  I've never seen it this fast, this quick, this early, but I certainly love the challenge.
 Q. What was the best advice you received ahead of your Masters debut, and what advice would you give to someone making their Masters debut this week?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   It's funny you say that.  I had a conversation with Ollie last night.  And, again, he was runner-up in the U.S. Amateur.  And I said one of the most important things was to enjoy the lows and enjoy the highs no matter what happens.
 For example, on 18, my second round as an amateur, I made triple and hit into the holly bush, and I was one back of the lead and made a triple.  So through that moment in time, I realized that, yes, this is an important event, but it's more than just a golf event.  It's an opportunity for yourself to show yourself to the world as a human being, not as a golfer.
 There's going to be highs and lows, and when that low comes around, you have to be able to be bigger than the moment in a sense and not let the moment get to you.
 And so that was one of the most important things I told him is that there's going to be nervous moments; make sure you enjoy those moments.
 Q. You've done a lot over the years to try to improve your game.  How far are you willing to go down the rabbit hole to win a green jacket?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I mean, I'm still going down numerous rabbit holes, and I will never stop, not only to win golf tournaments but to definitely win this tournament.  I mean, this has been on my radar since I was a kid, and now that I've accomplished winning the U.S. Open, this is the next goal for me.
 And I will not stop my pursuit of knowledge of the game, knowledge of the body, knowledge of the golf swing to give myself the best opportunity to win.  At the end of the day, it comes down to execution.  You have to be able to go out there and hit a great shot and execute when the pressure comes around.
 It's funny you say that because I can give myself the most advantages all day long, but if I don't go out there and just execute, it doesn't really mean much.
 Q. You and so many of your fellow golfers get up there and talk about how much you love this specific place, this specific tournament, this specific course, and we get that.  However, you also -- many of you end up answering questions about other things that have to do with Augusta National, whether it be the current situation in Georgia, the law, or membership or diversity.  Do you ever have to reconcile that?  Did you have to reconcile anything in your brain coming to Georgia given what the state is going through at the moment?  Or how do you or do you think about that?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   How do I think about?
 Q. Just kind of having to answer these -- Augusta has issues separate of the golf, and you sometimes are thrown into that mix because you're the golfers.
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I think I am obviously a spotlight.  I think all of us players are a spotlight, and we have an obligation to try and be a light and try to show a great example of who us players are -- who we are and what we try and accomplish in the best ways possible.  We try to show, no matter what happens, we're going to do our best to be an example for the world.
 I think when those times come about, we have an opportunity to show the world what we can provide.  From my perspective, it is a little different for us, given that I am not necessarily the perfect example to be talking about it because I don't know the full scope of the law or the full scope of what's going on.
 But again, like I said, we will do our best and we have done our best to show how much we have given back to the community and how much we have done for the community, and I'm sure we will continue to do so.  That's something I'm willing to give back on and that's something every TOUR player is willing to give back on, and I think just everybody in general is.
 Q. We are talking about how much firmer and faster it is than November.  Does that enhance your advantage in length, or does it actually bring the rest of the field maybe a little closer to you?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   It's a great question.  I don't know the full scope of that answer, but from what I've experienced in the past, making it firmer and faster has for some reason helped me play a little bit better.
 I just feel like wet conditions and the landing and stopping and the golf ball being wet has played a little bit to me not knowing fully what the golf ball is going to do.
 So whenever it's firmer, faster conditions, whether it be Shriners, whether be Bay Hill or the U.S. Open or different golf courses I've won on, they have usually always been firm.  So I think that plays into my hand nicely for what I'm comfortable with.
 Now, whether everybody else it's an advantage to, I don't know.  I know that hitting as far as I am, having wedges into greens with firm greens, I'm going to be able to stop it on the greens a lot easier.  But that doesn't mean that I'll be able to control the golf ball as well as somebody else.  Somebody could go out and hit a golf ball more consistently with more control than me, and they will beat me.  But for the most part it has played well in numerous situations for me.
 Q. Last year there was a lot of talk that, culturally, you were leading a revolution in golf, especially among young fans who are really energized by the way you swing the golf club and all those things.  If so, what's the stage of that revolution now?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I don't know the scope of that answer, either.  You guys are giving me tough questions today.
 I will say the Drive, Chip & Putt, what we saw with one of the kids imitating Kyle Berkshire, you're already starting to see it with kids.  I've had numerous college kids DM me on Instagram and ask me, "How do I get stronger?  How do I get faster?"  So you're already starting to see it through -- from collegiate level all the way to junior golf level.
 I think as time goes on, there's not much more to gain from technology side of golf club manufacturing, building.  There are little things we can do, but where the massive gains will be is in athletes.  Once you get somebody out here that's a 7-foot-tall human being and they are able to swing a golf club at 145 miles an hour effortlessly, that's when things get a little interesting.  That's when I'm going to become obsolete potentially even.
 Look, there's still a chipping aspect and there's still a putting aspect to it, but from a driving aspect, that's where the gains will be had, is with these athletes coming out in the future.  And it won't stop.  There's just no way it will stop.
 I think it's good for the game, too.  I don't think it's a bad thing you're bringing in and making it more inclusive to everybody when you're doing that.  The athletes are the ones that are going to in the end move the needle in any sport you play, and I think that's pretty amazing.
 THE MODERATOR:   Bryson, thank you for being with us today and we wish you all the best this week.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT