ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL
March 6, 2021
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. It just seemed to be a lot of joy on 6 tee.  Was that the most fun you had on the course in a while?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Oh, man, I felt like a kid again, for sure.  It was exciting.  Especially when you pull it off and you know -- it was almost like winning a tournament.  I don't know.  It's kind of the feeling I had, it was like, Oh, I did it.  I got the same chills and feeling when I saw it clear and there was no splash, it was like, Yes.  I gave the fans what they wanted.
 Q. Did you ever consider going further left?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Absolutely.  If it's downwind pumping pretty good and the pin's in a good location to do that I can definitely see myself going for the green or even closer to the green, trying to hit it in that greenside bunker.
 Q. Any extra nerves walking to the tee, like I got to hit this one solid?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Oh, yeah, definitely.  Nerves like 18th tee, you got a one-shot lead, for sure.
 Q. Did you do that for the fans?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   It was a complete reaction.  I mean -- oh, you're talking about for the extra --
 Q. (No Microphone.)
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   I would have done it had the fans not been there.
 Q. But it wasn't them urging you on?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yes and no, but for the most part that's a shot that I know I can do and I was able to accomplish that.  I would have done it without the fans, but the fans definitely edged me on a little bit and I was, it was fun to give them what they wanted.
 Q. Also the fans, just how they reacted.
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Oh, it was amazing.  It felt like I won a tournament there.  At the end of the day, I still had to make birdie, barely made birdie and not an easy shot to that pin and I was still able to play golf, good golf today and execute and play well.
 Q. What's the exact carry to the green?  Because I think your drive today carried like 346.7 or something.
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   It's like 335.  It would have gotten there.
 Q. And then also what's the funniest thing you've heard from the fans these last three or four days?  I heard someone today that said they had some filets for you or something.
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   They said, You got to eat more rib-eyes or something like that, and I was like, No, I like filets, my man.
 Q. What club do you get left with there?  What did you hit in?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   I had 50 yards to the front edge and I hit a little 58 degree.  I was trying to chip it to the front edge and that's what I did, it just didn't roll out to the front edge of the green and I was able to do the lift, clean and place thing, which helped me get a better angle and I was able to 2-putt.
 Q. (No Microphone.)
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   With that driver setup, yes.  Yeah.  A little bit different of a driver setup with a stiffer shaft and a lighter head.  That would have been over 200 ball speed, no problem.  With that type of energy into it.
 Q. (No Microphone.)
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yes.  Yes.
 Q. (No Microphone.)
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   I don't know, I mean, I'm just trying to accomplish winning tournaments.  I don't really care too much about what people think, it's just about if I can do it and, look, if I fail, I'm going to work my hardest to figure out why I failed.  So whether the skeptics are proved wrong, I'm not worried about it.  I appreciate the skeptics, those are, that actually makes me think more about, is this actually right and makes me go down the rabbit hole even deeper.
 Q. You revere Mr. Palmer, I'm sure you got a couple nice letters from him when you won the U.S. Amateur and things like that.  What would it mean tomorrow to pull it off and win his golf tournament?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   It would mean everything to me I remember when I won the DAP Championship on the Korn Ferry TOUR, one of those finals events, he wrote me a letter, I think it was like a week before he passed away.  So he was still writing letters up to a week before he passed away to all the players that are winning tournaments out here.
 So I thought that was pretty special and it definitely shows how amazing was, he is and was as an individual, and to win his tournament would mean the world to me.
 Q. Where do you keep that letter now?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   That's in my office tucked away.  It's right up next to the trophy the WEB.COM, the Korn Ferry TOUR event win, DAP Championship.
 Q. (No Microphone.)
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Absolutely.  That's what I did on 6.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT