JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2018
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: There was some instability in the joint.  On 2 I hit the shot out of the rough on the right.  I just didn't feel great after that.  Probably overloaded the muscle, my delt, and that's something that I got to work on in the future getting a little bit stronger so that stuff doesn't happen.
Been working on my core really well after Valspar after that happened.  Was pretty scary.  Was able to push through that and work on the right things to get that healthy.
Now I guess it's the shoulder for whatever reason.  I was feeling great coming into today.  My ball striking was actually the best that I've struck it in the past couple months.  Clearly after 2 it just was not great.
Q. Have you ever had a problem with this particular area before?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: No, never.  First time.  So, you know, I guess -- look, I'm 24.  I'm not that old, but I've used my body quite a bit.  I've hit a lot of golf balls, so probably further down the road than most at the age of 24.
I just got to take care of my body a little better.
Q. Is this at all a setback mentally for you?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Mentally, no.  I'm hitting it really, really well.  I think that I just got to take care of my body a little bit better.  I'm learning more and more each year, almost ever month pretty much.  I'm going to see my guy Greg; albeit he can put me back together, I can't always see him every single day.
It's unfortunate, but I've been doing pretty well on my own.  Unfortunately these things happen.  You strike a root or whatever in the ground and your wrist is going to hurt.  It's just what happens.
Unfortunately today this rough got me.  Hopefully I can learn from that and get better.
Q. It so stinks that you're not going to be able to defend the place you won your first PGA TOUR event.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah.
Q. But next week it's the Open.  What are your expectations?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well, if I can get three, four days of good rest in, when I get there on Monday night I'll evaluate it and see how I feel.  We are going to go see a doctor now and get it figured it out, and hopefully by next week I'll be ready to go.
Q. Still going to make the trip?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Oh, yeah.  I'm not going to not make the trip.  I mean, I feel like -- look, I can still swing and hit a shot.  I just don't feel like it would be productive to do so.  I don't feel like it's going to be too long of a recovery time.  I had the same thing kind of happen to me at Valspar and it was a pretty bad injury on my back.
I was able to recover and obviously finish second at Arnold Palmer's, so, you know, my body is pretty resilient.  I'm young.  I think I can recover in time.
Q. What's the process in there?  You got a chiropractor, a physical therapist to look at you for an initial...
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, an initial screening and then they said saw some instability in the joint obviously from muscles not firing properly.  Over-inflamed.  Hopefully there is nothing more.
He wants to get it checked out a little deeper and see if there is any attachments that are torn off.  I'm sure there is not.  I think I would be in worse pain than I am.  I'm not in too bad of pain with my arms down; it's when my elbow gets above my shoulder that it really, really doesn't feel great.
Q. How disappointing is it because this is the first chance to defend a title?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, you know, it's really unfortunate, especially with how well I was hitting it coming into this week.  I don't know.  Life just throws you curve balls and you just got to work with them.  It's not fun.  I was thinking about it coming up here.  It's saddening.
Same point in time, got a lot to look forward to.  Got the rest of the year.  I know I can heal and recover from this and be better from it.  This is teaching me a lot.  If people think this is going to be a setback.  This is going to be something that's going to push me forward, I believe, in regards to my body.  I'm going to know and understand my body at a whole 'nother level.
Q. The hole again that it happened?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: So, No. 2, out of rough on the right.  I tried to hit this 5-iron, kind of open-faced 5-iron; just slashed it out of there.  It was pretty thick rough.
I grabbed my shoulder and was like, Eh, it's nothing much.  It will be fine.  After that I was great.  4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, I was fine.  And then on 10 when I hit that drive it wasn't great either.  Started to feel something.
Then 11 you obviously saw me hit it way right.  I'm like, Wow, something is not right.  Then on 12 when I took it back on my takeway, it literally gave out.  I had nothing there.
Sure enough, you know, I tried to play through it, and obviously it wasn't going to work.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT