BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2018
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JACK RYAN: Bryson, welcome to the 2018 BMW Championship.  Bryson has won in each of his last two starts to start the FedExCup Playoffs, at the Northern Trust and the Dell Technologies Championship.   
Bryson, if we can get a comment on trying to keep that momentum going this week.   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, well, the first thing is that I'm a little tired, not going to lie.  Winning two in a row is a lot more than I thought it would be mentally and physically.   
There's a lot more obligations that come around with that but it's really an honor and I want to keep doing it.  Again, this is a new territory for me and I'm learning how to navigate the waters.   
But, yeah, it's definitely something that I want to keep going.   
JACK RYAN: Obviously you're No. 1 in the FedExCup standings.  With the win you clinched the No. 1 spot going into the Tour Championship regardless of the results here.   
Of course, you don't want to take a week off but how important is it to you to have that in the back of your mind knowing that no matter what happens you got the No. 1?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's great.  Being No. 1 in the FedExCup Playoffs is something that I've dreamed of, especially going into East Lake, that's a humongous advantage and something that's quite a tremendous honor as well.   
You know, yeah, I thought about taking a week off.  I couldn't do that.  I couldn't do that to the BMW and I couldn't do that all the fans and the sponsors that have helped put this event on.   
It would be easy for me to say, "Hey, I'm just going to skip this week because I'm tired."  But no, I want to win three in a row and get some world ranking points as well.   
JACK RYAN: We'll take some questions.   
 Q.  Bryson, as you've had more success, have you noticed other players maybe picking your brain a little more and how proprietary might you be with knowledge that you have and maybe keep some to yourself and not share it?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah.  Most of the information, about 90 percent of the information that I have is proprietary and we will not let anybody know.  I'm trying my best to keep it a secret as much as possible.   
That ten percent I love throwing out there and giving everybody a little thought of something that's a little different and unique.   
 Q.  Bryson, your swing seems locked in now.  It wasn't earlier in the year.  How did you get it locked in and how locked is it?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Practice and better understanding of my biomechanics.  Just a lot of work.  Look, automatic biomechanics translates to feel for me and that feel and "preparital" reception is so important to me, the response actionable to hit a shot and have the proper response mechanism that says hey this is why I went ten yards right or this is why I drew on spin axis of 3 degrees or whatever.   
Once I have a better understanding of what my body, how my body is responding to each shot at hand, get a better sense of that, that's just putting me to another level.   
When I start hitting shots wayward and not having an idea of why it's happening, that's when it goes the other direction.  So that's all I'm really trying to do is get a better understanding of how my body is moving to get the club face square.   
 Q.  Bryson, you obviously have high expectations for yourself.  What is your ceiling?  How good do you think you can be?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I don't know if there is a ceiling, to be honest with you.  The reason I say that, because we can always fine-tune things little by little to lower tolerance level, if you want to say it, lower range.   
I look at the game of golf as a range, not as a standard deviation, because that one spot you hit out of standard deviation could affect you tremendously.  I can't have that.   
I'm always trying to take account of what the range is and decrease that and just understand all the variables that are around it that can influence where that range is going to be, if that makes sense.   
 Q.  Tougher mentally to recover or physically?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Mentally, I think because I've used so much brain energy over the past couple weeks.  I work my body really hard and it's been trained for a lot of years but from a brain perspective of all the media -- they've been fantastic to me, with the Ryder Cup, the two wins, people on my phone texting me, haven't been able to get back to everybody.  I wish I could.  It's almost impossible to do so this short of timeframe with everything that's gone on.   
Put a lot -- huge toll on me but that's why I've put a lot of people around me that have kind of protected me and kept me focused on the task at hand because, ultimately, what's most important is getting the golf ball in the hole and that's what I've been trying to focus on more and more as the week has progressed.   
This afternoon I'm going to go out there and do all my numbers and work, hopefully being done in an hour, hour and a half maybe and get on out of here.   
 Q.  Kind of go along with that, you played a ton of events the past two years.  I think it was Round 3 in New Jersey were you at the range until 8:00 that night.  
 Do you ever worry about overcooking it a little bit and do you have people telling you that maybe you should pump the brakes just a little bit and think about sustaining?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well, it's going to come about through having, again, a response mechanism, something that tells you you've overworked scientifically and I'm serious, the too.  What's been so key to me is Greg "Rosskoff" MAT, what he's done with my body to help me be able to perform at a higher level even also tied in with neuroscience, these guys have been able to tell me, registering my brain waves, hey, you're overworked man, you need a rest.   
We can measure that before the round, after the round, anytime we want, and that's really going to help maximize my recovery and performance on and off the course.   
 Q.  How do you measure that?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: EEG, electrical current sort of thing.  They put sensors -- not a sensor, copper little thing that measures the frequencies that's being emitted from different parts of the brain and based on the -- I won't give you everything but based on the amount of -- it's a lot -- based on the frequency that's being emitted what wave -- you know you can go from zero to 36 hertz based on the type of frequency and the amount of energy or the amplitude, if you want to say, that's being emitted in different ranges at different times.   
You can have a parasympathetic response or sympathetic response.  This is a lot.  Sorry for whoever is typing this or recording this.   
But I'm trying to get myself more into a parasympathetic response, which is more of a restful state.  Sympathetic stress is a stress state and that's what I'm trying to accomplish.   
Throughout the whole day I'm always in a restless state, not a stress state.  I don't know if that makes sense.  That's how you measure it though, through an EEG machine and some other things I'm not going to tell you.   
 Q.  Bryson, Jordan was in here earlier and he talked about a discussion you had with him on the range prior to Northern Trust.  
 Do you remember that?  You feel like that was a light bulb for your swing?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's always great to talk to Jordan.  He's a very insightful guy.  Got a lot of great information that he's about, you know, knowledgeable as well with his coach, Cam.   
They've done a great job together and it was fun being able to just go back and forth on what his thoughts are and his golf swing and why he's trying to do what he's doing and then what I was trying to do with my golf swing at the time and it's fun just to be able to talk about it and that's all it really was.  It was a conversation, you know.   
For me, the practice after that and just the thoughtfulness of going over it again and again and again and again and what is happening when I'm hitting these bad shots has really been the light bulb for me.   
But, look, with the conversation with Jordan it's just always fun to talk to him.  He's one of the best in the world and it's an honor to be able to talk to him no matter what.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you have a smaller margin of error with your swing compared to maybe some of the other players?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah.   
 Q.  Why is that?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's because of the way I built my golf swing, and I'm not going to tell you.  I'm not going to tell you.  It's something that I've worked my butt off for and I'll let it out eventually but, you know, it's stuff that Dustin Johnson or Jordan Spieth, they've all figured it out on some level as well and that's kind of our secret sauce and we didn't really want -- I don't want to tell you everything so if I did it wouldn't be fun anymore now, would it?   
 Q.  What's the benefit?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: The benefits?  Tolerances, the ranges become less.  I can step up to a tee box and just go, there's the fairway, I know it's, let's say, 35 yards.  I know I'm not going to miss it 15 yards right if I'm in the middle or 15 yards left.  I just aim it down the middle and hit it.  It's kind of -- honestly it gets down to kind like a DJ approach.  Gets up there and aims it and hits it.   
I do all my stuff, all the work with my golf swing to be able to do exactly kind of what at least I could think DJ does out there, just gets up there and hits it down the middle of the fairway.  Swings as hard as you can, goes down the middle.   
That's the secret sauce.   
 Q.  Bryson, couple Tour Championship questions.  
 What is your familiarity with East Lake, how do you feel around that tract and --   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Never played it.   
 Q.  Never been there at all, right?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah.   
 Q.  Making it to the Tour Championship as the No. 1 really one of your ultimate goals there with contending for Majors and what have you?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah.  Making the Tour Championship, FedExCup and the FedExCup Playoffs is everybody's dream out here to be able to be there every single year and that was a big goal of mine and once I kind of locked that up I moved on and I wanted to play well in Majors and I didn't do that well this year in Majors.   
So, next year it's going to be a big task for me to try and figure out why I didn't play my best in the Majors this year and correct that.   
 Q.  Bryson, I know your focus has been on playing these tournaments.  How much help is it to get the Ryder Cup thing off your plate, you're on the team, you can not worry about that now?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, it's definitely taken a lot off my plate but it's added a lot to my plate as well, you know.  There's a lot of requirements and obligations that I'm glad to do.  I wouldn't want to be doing anything else, obviously.   
But, you know, it does take a little bit off the plate.   
 Q.  Bryson, you the kind of guy that writes down goals at the start of the year?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Uh-uh, I'm not.   
 Q.  I have no follow-up.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Just kind of talk to you a little bit about that, I don't.  It's always ebb and flowing depending on how many things I figure out throughout the course of the year.  It changes all the time.   
This year I want to make the Tour Championship.  Well, I'm going to do that, and do it in a kind of a new way, too, be No. 1.   
So, that's the best I can give.  Everyday I reevaluate where I am and what I can do better today and not next week or the month forward.  It's just about what can I do better today?  Today's garbage be better than yesterday's.   
 Q.  Bryson, what do you think about the course, the set-up, how it suits your eye and where do you attack?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: On this course?  Yeah.  It's very much like Ridgewood, I would say.  It's got a lot of similarities, slopes and sloppy greens.  Not -- traps but there's not really too many hazards.  There's a few.   
And just gives me that feel where you got to drive it straight and you got to hit your irons really well.  If you can do that and conquer the greens and the slopes, you're going to be right there at the end of the week.   
I guess you'd say that for any course, really, but it's not like The Players Championship or other tournaments where you got water that's lining the whole golf course and so you always kind of have that in the back of your mind.   
Here it is just blast it out there and hit your iron shot close.  If you hit it in the rough you're playing to the middle of the green conservatively.   
I don't know if that kind of helps a little bit but I like the golf course a lot and suits my eye really well.   
 Q.  Bryson, I have two questions.  Going off that one, 2011, 3 of the top 4 most difficult holes were the par-3s all over 215 yards.  
 Can you talk about your game plan or approach heading into those holes?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Talking about here?   
 Q.  Yes, sorry.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well, I think I'm a pretty good long iron play, knock on wood, throughout my whole career that's kind of what I built my game around was my long irons and because I knew out here there would be a lot of them.   
So it suits my eye.  I always like playing difficult holes.  For whatever reason, I step up to the plate, you know, so I think they suit me well and looking forward to hopefully killing them.   
 Q.  And my second question, with the way you're locked on with your swing and the success that you've had the last couple of weeks and this year, would you be disappointed if you had winless seasons going forward?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Winless seasons?  Yeah.   
I mean I think I've had to scrap myself from the bottom of the floor all the way up to the top of the ceiling, you know, as of right now and I've had to learn how to build every little stepping stone to get up to the top.   
It's not like I felt like I played good for my first year out here and just played well and I struggled for a couple seasons or whatever.  It was literally I was at the bottom of the bowl the first few years.  I slowly worked my way up and had stepping stones.   
I learned the tough way.  That's for sure.   
JACK RYAN: Anymore questions for Bryson.   
 Q.  I have a science question.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Here we go.   
 Q.  Faldo said when he was like 14 he got a bike and he took it apart and put it back together because he wanted to see how it worked.  Are you built that way, like to know, like the car you drive, you know how it works and do you like to --  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Certain things, certain things intrigue me.  Building a house, for example, that's always intrigued me.  Funny enough.   
Building a car, you know, I'm getting there.  It's very -- it's a lot more difficult, obviously.   
 Q.  House?  
 A
But a house is like engineering in regards to levels and plumbing, you know, that's all stuff that's really a lot easier I think personally than designing an engine.   
 There's a lot more things that go into that than putting up wooden planks and then putting insulation in.  It's just -- anyway, as a kid I liked building lot of Legos and built houses and did some fun stuff with that.   
 Put a lot of puzzle pieces together, one of my favorite things to do, growing up.  Those toys I guess you could say were put in front of me at a young age and I became intrigued with them.   
 Q.  Are you going to build a house?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yes, down the road but --   
 Q.  After the Ryder Cup?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I actually already, I actually got a house about two months ago but closing on it next week.  So, yeah, I got a lot to do.   
 Q.  Bryson, how often do you measure your brain waves and have you noticed anything different after your wins, more cluttered or after the Ryder Cup announcement?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah.  It's unfortunate that I don't do it right after those times.  I haven't because of all the -- everything that's been going on and I've been so tired that it would have just registered as stress, you know, and I'd have been pumping a lot of -- my numbers with my theta ratios and high beta ratios would have been off the charts and been induced stress.   
I knew where it was.  It's not like -- even though I won it's still stress because you got everything that goes along with it and so, that's -- I know where it was, let's just say that, because I know what it feels like.   
That's the cool part of what we're doing, I'm learning to understand how to get myself into that proper state and then when I'm not in it.   
JACK RYAN: Don't have anymore questions, we'll end on that note.  Thank you, Bryson, as always for the time.  Best of luck this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT