DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2018
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bryson, congratulations.  One of the most difficult things to do in this sport is to win back-to-back.  What kind of statement did you make here today?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, consistency, obviously.  But first off I've got to thank my sponsors, Cobra-Puma, Bridgestone Golf and HD Golf.  Again, they are instrumental in what I've done over the past couple of weeks, my whole career, honestly.  I wouldn't be here without them.   
But moving forward, consistency has been a big thing for me.  I've been trying to get that week in and week out, and I was able to kind of figure something out last week on the putting green, and that's kind of progressed me to move forward.   
 Q.  Dan just mentioned that you will be No. 1 not just going into next week, but into Atlanta, you solidified that spot on the FedExCup point standings, as you try to get to the FedExCup title.  So as you go from being the hunting, to the hunted, how do you handle that?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Again, I have to go back down to all the little stuff I do in my book.  If I keep doing the numbers right and I keep executing the right shots I can't do much more than that.  And if I keep going that route I'll be hard to beat.   
 Q.  It seems like we just did this a week ago.  Congratulations, what a great day.  What a great week.  What a great two weeks for you.  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, it's been fantastic.  I've been playing incredible golf and hopefully I can continue playing great.   
 Q.  Talk about the three straight birdie run that you had on the front nine.  The birdie at 8 was really special?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: That was definitely special.  I was trying to run something back, and I did that beautifully with a 6-iron, kept it low running up there.  And then the putt I had last year and I missed it to the right because for whatever reason I saw it breaking left.  This year I saw the same thing, I thought it was going to go left but I was able to trust my instincts and know from last year it was going to go a little right.  So I played it left center and made it.   
 Q.  We know how difficult 13 and 14 are.  You played really well, really good up-and-downs and two putts?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, absolutely.  I actually hit a really good drive on 13 hit the fairway left and bounced it to the left and had a dodgy lie.  Unfortunately three-putted there.  Was able to make a nice 5-footer on the next hole and keep the momentum going.   
 Q.  The projection is that you'll be the No. 1 seed all the way to Atlanta now?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, that's pretty cool.  Hopefully I can keep riding this wave.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT