DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2018
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great playing.  You've got yourself in contention.  Talk about that.  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It's never bad to shoot 4-under your last three holes.  A little frustrated about 15.  Hit a really good putt, a fraction too hard, made a 360 lip on me.  That's golf.  It's going to happen.  But I was able to respond well.  I think that's the important thing.   
 Q.  What was it like playing with Tiger?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: He's my childhood idol.  I've admired him my whole entire life.  And to be finally able to play with him under tournament conditions, it was different.  I was a little nervous, for sure.  But I was able to get out there and execute shots and worry about my game and focus on hitting the best shots possible.  And I was able to play really well like that.   
 Q.  When didn't the nerves go away?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: They actually went away probably -- after I made the birdie on 7, that's really when it went away.  There were some tee shots that I left a little right and just a little nerves.  It's Tiger Woods, guys (laughter.)  It was fun.   
 Q.  Did all the practice rounds you've played with him help in that regard?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: For sure.  For sure.  And he's been really nice to me.  We're still intense and wanted to beat each others' brains out.  But at the same point if time, it was golf at the end of the day.  In between shots we're talking, having a good time.  It was fun to play well with him.   
 Q.  Is there something you can share with us?  He seemed to be asking you a lot of questions.  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: That's personal.   
 Q.  Having grown up watching him, you know that Tiger wasn't always chatty on the golf course.  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: For sure.  He still isn't, by the way.   
 Q.  I was wondering how do you balance like when to know -- he said he enjoyed the conversation, so it's all good.  But how did you know when to engage him and maybe when --  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: When he's hitting good shots and playing well, that's kind of when you talk to him.  He's got a job to do, as well.  We're all trying to win this tournament.  In the Dell Technologies Championship, we're all trying to win, and that's all it's about at the end of the day.  Once we're over a shot, it's game on.  But in between shots, we've got time, we're walking up and joking about things and having a good time.   
 Q.  Would you wonder what it would be like to go head-to-head when he was at his peak?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah.  Absolutely.  I just -- I would have gotten pummeled.   
 Q.  What about looking ahead to tomorrow?  You've given yourself a good springboard into this last round.  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, again, like last week, if I go out there and execute the best that I can and make right decisions out there under certain wind conditions and green firmnesses, if I can do that and make sure I miss it in the right places and attack certain flags that are attackable, I know it's cliché to say all that stuff, but that's honestly what it is.  And just being really conscious making sure we make the right decisions at the right time.   
 Q.  That shot that you had on 18?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I had no clue it was that close.  I heard the crowd get louder and louder and louder, and I looked up and finally saw the ball peak up over that hill.  Oh, it's like a foot.  Sweet.  It was nice to be able to tap in a putt for eagle.  It's never a bad way to finish off a round.  I hit a 5-iron.   
 Q.  Why do you say you would have gotten pummeled by Tiger?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, look, I was, what, 11, 12, 13 years old, so that's a reason.   
 Q.  The Bryson today would not --  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Look, it's all speculation up to that point.  And all I know is that he was the best in the world at that time.  And that's something is that he will always have.  And I can't ever take that away from him nor would I ever try to take that away from him, so I wouldn't even try answering that.   
 Q.  Knowing there are a few pieces to fall into place, does it give you a glimpse of what might be in store were you two to play together?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, absolutely, I think if all the stars were to align and that were to happen I think we could feed off of each other pretty well.   
 Q.  I know you're worrying about your own game out there, but do you see anything amiss with him and his putting, you've played with him so much, he has switched putters and obviously gave himself a bunch of chances today?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Look, I think he's figuring it out.  He made some good putts.  A couple of putts that didn't go in, lipped out, hit the edge, just barely missed it.  He's Tiger Woods, he's going to figure it out.   
 Q.  After last week, did you feel more pressure heading into this week?  Did you feel all eyes were on you in the opening round?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Not really.  I feel like, again, I was a man on a mission, trying to play the best I possibly could.  I wasn't too nervous about that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT