SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 10, 2020
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. As well as you been playing, that's got to be a jolt to have a run like that to the front nine.  What happened and how did you deal with it?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, it was really weird.  I don't know.  It's golf, right?  I mean, you're never going to play your best all the time, right?  So I just felt like couple things got off a little bit.  Didn't really hit bad shots, just didn't go where I wanted to.
Went into some really bad places and unfortunately and didn't save par from them.  Just stuff didn't go my way today, and it's okay.  Not a big deal.
Q. Was it hard to steady yourself after that?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Oh, very difficult.  I mean, you're 5-over on this golf course through, what was it --
Q. Which feels like what?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   About 12.  That's what it felt like to me at least.  It was tough out there certainly, but I think I did a decent job of holding my head high and plugging forward.  Just one of those days.
You just look back and you go, You know what?  It's golf.
Q. How did you steady the ship in your mind?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Oh, I never did.  I didn't play that great to be honest with you.  Bogey on 15.  Yeah, sure, it was great to get it back, but Peter was nice enough to keep me positive today and we had a good time out there.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Exactly, right?  No, we had a good time out there with them.  It's just -- you know, I had a good run.  I hit one close on 10; that was fun.
There was a moment where I was like, okay, I'm going to hit it as hard as I possibly can today and have some fun.
Q. Can you explain your pre-shot routine on 10?  (Regarding screws.)
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Well, my driver has been -- it's been getting loose a little bit, so I don't know, just been tightening it to make sure nothing happens to it.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, it's probably one of them.  It's more just walking around the tee box trying to keep my adrenaline up so I can pump some energy and use my muscles as hard as I can.
I feel like when I just sit around I lose that contractibility.  It's one of the things I learned through a bit of practice and learning how to get up to those speeds and keeping it up there.
I think it was 199 or something like that.  I was trying to get the 200 mark, but, dang didn't happen.
Q. There is always tomorrow.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   That's right, that's right.  Hopefully the wind is a little more down wind and I can pump it.
Q. I'm a late arrival so I apologize if you already answered this before.  You're not playing again until Augusta.  (Indiscernible - interference.)...getting into at least one tournament mode before the Masters.  What is your thinking on that?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Well, as I look back at quarantine, when we were in the pandemic part of it where we were all quarantined, I felt like I came back really well not playing any golf, not doing anything.
I feel like my game is good enough right now to do that.  I don't feel like there is going to be a problem coming back.  We'll see how it works out for me.  I have no idea, but I feel comfortable, and that's all that matters for me right now.
Q. You did you go to Colonial, didn't you?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, and RBC in the next couple weeks.  I feel like if I can really fine tune the golf swing and get super comfortable, pressure shouldn't be too big of an issue.
Although it is Augusta and I got to get comfortable with that golf course for sure.
Q. One last oddball question for you.  You've done a lot of big things and a lot of people are paying attention.  Some people would say you might be the talk of golf since we returned from the pandemic.  How would you know?  There is non one here.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Social media.
Q. You know they're looking about you and talking about you.  How do you know when there is nobody out here?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Social media, right?  I mean, I still look at it and I try to be as interactive with my fans and as positive as possible.
I think all I'm trying to do in this game is play my best golf, and as a consequence of that, I've figured out how to hit it a little bit further and hitting it a little straighter with how far I'm hitting it -- for the most part; not today obviously.
But I think that at the end of the day, that's all I was looking to do.  I mean, with my one-length irons, right, I was always tying to do something that would be a benefit to the game.
And hitting it far, I think everybody can do it if they really want to.  I just want to hopefully inspire people to do better things in life.  Not even just golf.  Just something in their business life if they want to figure out a distinct advantage that makes they can better.  Go for it.
Q. You're used to it now.  You're doing great things and there is no one watching it.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Well, I know.  I wish people could watch it.  That would be awesome.  But it's good we got camera crews and everybody out here able to record it and showcase that new ability that I have.
Q. Ever watch yourself on TV?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   I don't like to.  I hate it actually.
Q. Why?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   I don't know.  I get shy.  I don't know what else to say.  I don't know.  I just don't want it mess up.  I don't know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT