ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 18, 2018
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a day out there for you.  How did it feel to be in contention all day long and to make it so close all the way down to the final green?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Ultimately it kind of stinks, but at the same point in time I'm happy with where my game's at.  Obviously finishing second out here is not an easy task with all these great players and this is, honestly, my first time being in the big thick of things with a lot of guys.  So it was great to be comfortable out there and to actually make a couple clutch putts.  And then that last one I was already out of it anyway and then there was -- actually the flag was fluttering right over my putt and so that just kind of threw me off a little bit.  Hey, that's how it goes.  Still had a great week.
Q. Absolutely.  Finished solo second.  So many emotional moments, so many exciting moments, maybe the top today was that eagle at 16.  How about that?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Actually the shot on 15 was unbelievable out of the rough.  I couldn't believe that I got that up-and-down.  That's a one out of 20 to 30 chance right there to get that thing up-and-down and to hit it that close and for me to have an easy putt was pretty special.  Then on 16 I hit a perfect drive, just needed to fly like three, four more yards, would have been all the way down in the fairway in the middle of the fairway and unfortunately got down on that down slope in the rough, but was able to somehow get it to 15 feet.  I have no idea how it got to 15 feet.  Then that putt was nice as well.
Q. Take us through kind of the bad back last week and bouncing back from that and just key takeaways from this week.  Obviously you have to be pleased with your performance.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, there's no doubt.  I thought 15-under would for sure win today.  Rory obviously played some incredible golf.  I don't know what he did on the last nine, but it was deep.  I know that.
Q. Were you watching the leaderboard?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yes, yes.  For him to shoot 64 on the final round, that's just, hat's off to him, literally.  I can't do anything about that.  I played some great golf, had some great up-and-downs, made a couple key putts coming down the stretch and there's not really much more I can do about it, my hat's off to Rory and he played fantastic.  I'm just looking forward to Augusta honestly, this is a great preparation for Augusta.
Q. The putt, was it on 17 that didn't go right at the end?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, I thought it was going right.  The book said it was going right and I hit it and like halfway there I'm like, man, this is on track.  Ultimately it didn't break right, but that's just how the cookie crumbles sometimes.  The books aren't always dead on, but they're pretty darn good and I use it all the time and I love them, but just the way it goes sometimes.
Q. As a young golfer, how surreal was it for you to play as well as you did while Tiger is charging and everyone's kind of going crazy for him?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It was amazing.  I told my caddie, Tim, on the 11th fairway, I'm like, man, Tiger's doing it.  I mean, I was incredibly happy for him.  At the same point in time I'm still trying to win a golf tournament, right?  But it's just kind of a fun little side note that he's pushing us to be better and I love that about Tiger and I appreciate that about him doing that, coming back and being so successful right off the bat.  Pretty cool.  But again, going back to my round, there's not much more you can do when the guy shoots 64 on you.  I played pretty solid and I had a fun time.  It was a great learning experience.  I told you guys yesterday that whatever happens it's going to be a great learning experience and I definitely learned a lot today.  I know that I can play with the best in the world.
Q. You played well with Rory when you were paired with him Sunday two years ago, does that kind of experience help on a day like this when you're trying to close?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: What's funny is I really didn't think about it, but I know that I can do it and I really wasn't concerned too much about it, but, yes, in the back of my mind it's still there, knowing that I can play good golf.  Really what I was feeding off of was the John Deere, making those six birdies on the final nine.  I was trying to do that.  17, 18, I was trying to birdie them.  You saw me go for it on 18.  My caddie was like, dude, just hit it in the middle of the green.  And I'm like, all right.  And I get over it and I'm like, no, I'm going for it.
Q. With Augusta so close, three weeks away, how do you feel about that tournament coming up?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I'm excited.  I can't wait, honestly.  It's a golf course that suits my game really well and I'm excited to get back there to see how I can do now as a professional at a different level.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT