WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2018
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're starting to figure it out, getting better.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I appreciate that.  I'm learning a lot out here.  Especially playing with Rick and Berger today.  They were both awesome and I had a great time out there.
Q. What's the biggest area where you've improved?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Controlling my rhythm, that's definitely been a big key.  I have I think one of the most consistent swings on TOUR but under the gun in certain situations I've gotten a little amped and it's got me in trouble before.  Especially on putting.  So being able to control my rhythm has really helped.
Q. How are you going to be able to do that -- I think you did a wonderful job of that, I noticed that, I mentioned that during the round today -- tomorrow is Sunday, tomorrow is the conclusion.  How do you keep that going?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: All I got to think about is playing the shot in front of me.  I know it's cliche, but you got to look at it as one shot at a time.  If I can do that tomorrow and control my rhythm and hopefully some putts fall, you never know.
Q. I know that you were working on rhythm this morning and yesterday.  How much did that pay off?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's paid off quite a bit.  Unfortunately I got a little not spooked by the sun.  It was just kind of a glare that was glistening in my eyes and I unfortunately kind of flinched a little bit and pulled it into the water on 17.  So that was really my only mistake of the day.  It's quite unfortunate.  But at the same point in time I'm taking a lot of positives, only making two bogeys on this golf course.  I definitely made some good putts and made a couple key putts that kept my round going and my momentum going, which is great.
Q. A lot of positives in addition to the fact that you seriously were soaking up the energy here.  What was it like the first time going through a Waste Management Phoenix Open on a Saturday?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I would say it's intense, you definitely don't get to experience that every other day, right.  So it's definitely been a fun little journey and a good experience for the rest of the year, honestly.  I mean, having people talk in your back swing and still being able to execute is a pretty cool trait to have.
Q. Going into tomorrow, having yourself in this spot you're at, what are your focuses tomorrow?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Tempo and rhythm.  If I can control that and control my golf swing like I have been the past three days I think that I'll be fine.  I just need to keep hitting fairways and greens and giving myself good looks and putts are going to drop.
Q. Are there lessons to be learned from today's round that you can apply to tomorrow?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, I think, again, being a little more aware of the situation in regards to the controlling my rhythm.  Coming down the stretch I kind of lost it on 16 hitting it a little hard past and like, whoa, I didn't expect that, usually I'm really good at controlling downhill putts.  So that was kind of a spook.  And on 17, the sun kind of got in my eyes with the corner and just hit me a little bit and kind of flinched on that one a little bit.  Unfortunately it bounced in the water, just really unfortunate there, was trying to keep it short of the water.  But I think, again, if I can control my rhythm and hit a couple fairways and hit some greens, obviously, and give myself a lot of good looks I'll be fine.
Q. What's the challenge like on a crowded leaderboard going out and playing a course where you know that low numbers are probably going to be out there?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, you got to go for flags.  I mean that's the bottom line, you got to do it.  Everybody's looking to win out here and I think that the more that you can start to fire at flags -- but again you got to give yourself opportunities, so the more opportunities you get, hit it in the fairway, you just got to go after them tomorrow.
Q. What do you think of those guys who sit in the front of the grand stand right to the left of the tee box?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: What do I think of them?  Oh, I think they're great.  Obviously be courteous to the players that are playing, but at the same time have fun.  This is what it's about.  It's about having fun out here.  I think it's great for the game, I think it's great for the tournament as well.  But at the same point in time you just got to be courteous when they're hitting shots.  Like on 18 tee box there are a lot of people walking in the background and that shadow perfectly lines up with the tee box and if somebody walks across -- I mean Berger, again, had to back off, because of somebody walking across.  So that's just unacceptable, they just got to be a little more cautious.  But other than that it's fantastic, I love the atmosphere and looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. What's the best thing they have ever said to you?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: The best thing?  I just don't hear anything, it's just noise.  I hear a couple things every once in awhile but it's nothing -- I mean, I don't know, it's just, hey, good job, great job.  That's all they say.  It's nothing really they say more than that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT