TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2018
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another solid day, and is it safe to say the flat stick leading the way?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, absolutely.  I lost my golf swing a little bit out there.  It was unfortunate.  But I was nice enough to be able to manage myself coming in and be able to get it in the house.   
I made birdies on 15, 16 which was really nice.  I was definitely leaking oil, but definitely corrected a little bit there.   
 Q.  Is that a sign of confidence and growing on TOUR that you can take something that might be going in the wrong direction and get it back on track?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's a lot of experience, I think.  Just being able to say you've been in this situation before, let's execute something that works for you, that you know is going to perform and get it in the house.   
 Q.  I was with you when you won at TPC Deere Run.  This is my first time on the property.  When I walked on the property this week, I said to my colleagues, this reminds me a lot of that property.  Am I missing something?  Am I right?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: No, it's great.  It's a great piece of property.  You can make a lot of birdies just like you can at TPC Deere Run.  It's got some little reminiscent factors out there, I would say.  15 was a great hole.  Kind of like 14 out there at the John Deere Classic.  So just kind of similarities in that regard.  Definitely I'm pretty comfortable out here.   
 Q.  You're in good shape today at 36.  Just some thoughts about your round today?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, I started off great.  I was pleased with the way I played the front nine.  Thought nothing was going wrong at all, had everything under control.  10, I made a long birdie putt which was nice.  And 11 I almost made birdie.  And 12, the wheels started kind of coming off a little bit.  My golf swing didn't feel comfortable.  Something in my right arm, biomechanics of that don't feel super comfortable.  But I'm going to work on that now and get it back.   
 Q.  What were you doing particularly well when you were playing well today?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It was everything.  I was hitting it close, making putts.  So it was a combination of a lot of things that have to go right in order for you to play well.  I had a great up-and-down on 7.  I missed it left of the green, which is normally dead and it was in the rough.  But I played a brilliant shot that hit the flag, almost went in.  I was able to make par there.  Hit a great shot in on 8, made birdie.  I just felt like everything was going in the right direction, had great momentum.   
 Q.  Can you talk about what specific swing or shot that you lost (inaudible)?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It wasn't one particular swing, but I started to not feel comfortable on 12, after I kind of hooked it almost out of bounds.  You know, that's just, honestly, from my feelings, I think I just got that right arm going more and it internally rotated position which is going to close the club face.  Then I tried to correct it on the next swing on 13, and it went right.  So now I'm in big trouble.  It came out dead off my second shot and went in the water there.   
So I was really leaking oil and was just getting kind of unlucky on 12 and 13.  I managed to steer it right on 15 and 16.   
 Q.  How did you not panic?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: You know, experience.  In times past I would definitely be freaking out, not knowing what to do, trying to correct the golf swing rather than going, okay, you don't have it right now.  Let's go.  Figure out something that can get it in the house.   
So I was able to hit a little bit of a cut shot, you know, and then just try to slow things down a little bit and that seemed to help control the club face a little bit.   
 Q.  Does that experience just come from being in contention?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, it comes from being in contention.  It comes from past experience of having those situations arise and going, all right, let's figure this one out.  Let's see how we can get it in the house.  I'm a grinder.  People don't really know that.  They think I'm just a numbers guy and everything.  But I grind it out, man.  I'm not going to give up in any situation, so...   
 Q.  Are you pretty happy with your consistency?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, absolutely.  It's been great to play consistent all year.  That was my one goal is not to really change anything; and, albeit, I've changed a little bit here and there with the driver shafts and iron shafts and things like that, but I've been able to keep everything moderately consistent, and it's allowed me to play really good golf this year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT