DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2017
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on 6-under?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, I told my caddie on 15, we need to make three coming in and we would be in a good spot coming into the weekend.  That's luckily what I did.
Q. You are in the weekend.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, in a good spot heading into the weekend obviously.  Rahm is at nine.  He's playing some incredible golf right now and I think that the more that I can birdie those par 5s out there, which I haven't really done the best of job on those out there, the.  More that I can birdie those and birdie holes like 4 and the holes that I have short irons in, take advantage of those and make pars on the tough holes, I think we'll be good.
Q. Conditions change a little bit from yesterday to day, a little bit less wind?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: You talking about just the wind in general?  I think that it calmed down quite a bit.  So it made it quite a bit easier to score out there.  I think that No. 18 was definitely easier.  I hit driver down there and had 6-iron in.  It's a completely different change.  Even though it was a little downwind yesterday, it was still kind of tough to go for with that firm a green and with that tough a green, as well.
Just made it a little more diabolical yesterday but was able to keep it in play.  I haven't been striking it the best but I know my iron play is beautiful right now.  Just need to get the driver honed in.
Q. For a first-timer in these Playoffs, what does it feel like?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It's exciting, I think, getting to see the best players throughout the year come together and finally go at it is pretty special.  It's definitely my first time.  I love every single minute of it, and I hope I can see myself going to Atlanta.  I know I believe that I can do it.  It's just about getting through a couple humps.
Q. Do you have any sense at that you will that you have, I don't know if nothing to lose is the right way to phrase it.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Still, what's funny is I still take it like a normal TOUR event.  I don't view it as anything else.  Although it is bigger as --
Q. A collection?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: -- a collection.  It's still part of the year, right.  There's no pressure added to me but -- so that's nice.
But again, the stakes are higher and you've still got to reckon with the fact that, okay, sometimes par is really good out here when you're in certain situations.
Like for example 12 today, I got really fortunate and ended up holing out from the bunker green-side right by the green.  Unfortunately made a couple mistakes.  Still made a couple bogeys after that, but was able to solidify by making three birdies coming in.  It was just tough.
So I hit 3-wood, actually, and the ball didn't run as far as I thought it would.  Actually pitched into probably an old divot with sand in it.  I saw a little explosion out of there, out of the sand and just rolled up there.  I had 225 to the front edge and it was into the wind.  I was like, you've got to be kidding me.  Very, very difficult shot.  So I tried to play a little 4-iron and run it up there.  Blocked it a little and got in the bunker.  Very difficult shot and was fortunate enough to hole out from the bunker.
Those kinds of things you need to win golf tournaments, and I was lucky enough to do that and I'm if good position going into the weekend he can.
Q. What happened to your finger?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Funny little story.  I get quite a bit of callouss and they get messed up, particularly on this finger on the tip of it.  I've got a callus.  For whatever reason it cracked, dry skin and then I was sticking my hand into my pocket.  Hit actually the top part of the tee and ripped the skin back and just flayed it.  Didn't feel very good.  It was the practice round in the Wednesday Pro-Am.  It's healing.  Feels better.  Doesn't really affect my grip at all or anything like that.  Just taking care of it and making sure that nothing happens.
Q. How do you get a callus on top of the finger?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: So what happens is I grip it like this, and when I go through, it actually presses up against that.  My grip's pretty big.  It just goes around and it actually knives up there and just runs on it.  It's one of those weird spots that you get calluses, I don't know.
Q. Did you ever think about not practicing as much?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Come on.  You kidding me?  Every day that you don't spend practicing is another day somebody's getting better.  That was a quote I took from Hogan and I've stuck with it ever since.  Obviously there's a time to recover and get your body healthy; that's a given.  But whenever I can practice, I'm out there on the range.
Q. Do you think Hogan ever took that quote from somebody?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Probably I don't know.  There's a good one from Edison, I believe, or even Einstein, either of the two.  They said that -- Edison, "I found 10,000 ways not to make a light bulb and one way to do it," right.  And it's always that quest, I found 10,000 ways to not hit it in the fairway -- as an example, right.
So I'm still on the quest of trying to find out the way to make my biomechanics even more efficient.  It's getting there but struggling a little bit with the driver, and I'm able to keep it in play which is a huge key aspect I wasn't able to do last year that has allowed me to have continued success out here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT