JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 15, 2017
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously not the way you would've liked to end your third round, but how would you assess your play overall today?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Pretty bad.  Not very happy with the way I finished off the last five holes.  I had a wedge into 13 after a good birdie on 12.  Wedge into 13, and hit it right up there and spun right back.  Just didn't account for that; missed it.
Then 14 I think just can't miss it right with that drive and I did.  Got into a really bad spot and didn't get up and down, and that cost me a lot of the.
Then my driver kind of let me down at the end and I wasn't expecting it to.  I was really trying to push forward, and instead I went backwards.  Kind of stinks, but I got to take it deep tomorrow if I am going to have any chance.
Q. How do you dismiss this round and reset for tomorrow and hopefully make a charge?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Just try and understand why it faltered a little bit, why the mechanics broke down.  Shouldn't.  I've got to assess what I was doing.  I hope I can see some video coverage and see what I was doing with my golf swing off the tee shots.  If I can get that under control, shoot, I should've been right there or even leading.
Q. From what you can tell on this course, what is it going to take to catch Patrick?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: About 21.  You got to take it deep.  You got to shoot 9-under tomorrow.
Q. Tough to get momentum going for you today.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, didn't hit my irons as well as I would've liked to unfortunately.  Just got to go work on that and focus on executing the right shots with certain wind conditions.
The wind was kind of weird all day.  I thought there was wind and there wasn't wind, so that was kind of throwing me for a loop.  I made some nice putts to keep some momentum going.
Unfortunately, starting on 14, just completely turned the opposite way.  I hit the pin on 17 and it went back.  I mean, that could have been a foot or gone in the hole if it doesn't hit the pin.
And then 18 we made a bad decision to hit driver off the tee.  It was very frustrating for me to end off the round like that.
Q. What do you do?  Do you throw this one away?  Do you learn from it?  How do you attack the next one?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's already over so you can't do anything about, right?  You're just going to try and learn from your mistakes and execute the right shots come game time.
Q. The value is immense though, isn't it, being in this situation?  It's not Sundays but Saturday, moving day, and a lot to learn.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Right.  I felt like I could have shot 7-, 8-under today easy, no problem.  Few things here and there my wedging and hitting the pitching wedge close and the 9-iron close rather than spinning it to 30 feet and then not making it.
Just a you few things.  Putts being left short right in the heart.  Could have gone the other way for me but it didn't.  It's just something I got to learn from.  Just got to hit it closer.  If you can do that, it's watch out.
Q. What do you draw back on from some other experience being in contention going into tomorrow?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: At the U.S. Amateur I was playing like an assassin where every single shot it was right next to the hole or I would hit it right to the middle of the green and make a putt.
Was very consistent, kind of like this week.  It's just had a little bad stretch of six holes, and going to throw it out and get started hot tomorrow.
Birdie the first couple, maybe get an eagle in there, and get it going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT