U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2016
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bryson, how do you feel about your round and your position?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Oh, great.  I mean, it's a grind out there.  My caddie said to me, you got to bring your lunch pail out there, because it's a hard work out there.  It's not easy.
I played well.  Was able to hit some key shots in some key holes to keep the momentum going, at least in the right direction.  And a couple times it could have gotten away from me, but stuck to my game plan and executed a few shots and.
I would have loved to have had those last two putts on the last two holes, not getting up and down on 17 and then missing that seven-footer on the last.  That would have been a good way to finish off a really good round.  But, hey, I'm still 1 over.  I'm still in it.
Q. What was in your lunch pail that allowed you to --
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: A couple apples and a couple bananas.  No, no, it was definitely a lot of grind out there.  It was a big grind.
Everywhere you go, every single hole, there's trouble.  If you're not in the fairway, it's trouble.  It's a one-shot penalty.  You've got to be mindful of that in every single shot out there.  You can't willy-nilly the next hole because it's not an easy hole.  Even when I pretty much drove the green on 17, I three-putted and made par.  I could have easily made birdie.
It's not an easy golf course.
Q. How much are you enjoying this when you weigh it against the challenges out there?  You're playing a [indiscernible].  Talk us through it.  How are you feeling?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It's a great feeling.  It's an honor to be in this championship.  This is my second time.  I've always looked forward to making the cut at the U.S. Open and hopefully doing better things in the future as well.  You never know what the next few days holds.  If I play my best, I think I'll have a good shot.
Q. You last played here after 1.1 inches of rain had come down the night before.  Now it's been dry for a bit.  How different does the course feel?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Not much different.  It's still receptive.  There are a few holes where it's bouncing a little bit more and we're not used to that.  Comparative to when it rained, when we went right back out, it was spinning like crazy.
So it's firmed up a little bit, but it's gotten back to kind of what it was like on Monday and Tuesday.
Q. What was it like in that group of Zach and Jordan and the crowds all around?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It was awesome.  Couldn't have had a better group.  They're great people, great ambassadors for the game, and I was extremely excited to be alongside them.
Q. (No microphone) very high expectations of yourself.  In terms of winning Major championships, are you there?  Are you coming into Major championships saying I feel like I can win it?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Every tournament, I feel like I can possibly win.  I don't think there's a golf course that doesn't suit my game.  I like hitting the ball as straight as I can.  I'm known for my ball striking.  The putter gets hot, watch out.
Q. There are a lot of non first-time major winners out there.  What's it going to take someone to go on and win this tournament?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: A lot of fairways and a lot of greens.
Q. In terms of non first-time major winners?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, again, I think it gets back down to hitting fairways and hitting greens.  The person that hits the most fairways, hits the most greens and has a lot of opportunities is going to win this championship.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT