WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2018
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a nice way to finish, birdie, birdie finish.  That had to feel good after that little bit of an unforced error there on 14.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, it was unfortunate, I was playing really good golf and just had a little bit of timing issue on the putt and just pulled it a little bit and lipped out, unfortunately.  Then that kind of pushed me over to 15 where I didn't focus as hard as I should have and kind of pulled it in the water, obviously.  But I said, all right, I got to pick it up here and start executing some good shots coming in because I know there's a couple birdie holes coming in.  I was fortunate enough to get a couple on 17 and 18 there.  Almost made it on 18, which would have been amazing.  But still to make par on 15 was a big momentum builder for me.   
 Q.  Absolutely.  I was really impressed how well you started on that back nine with three out of the four holes that you birdied.  They're not the easiest holes, are they?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: No, and I had a 5-footer on 11 for birdie too.  I hit the flag, it almost went in.  So I was flag hunting today, for sure.  Made a couple unforced errors in the middle of the back nine, but still kept it together and I'm playing some great golf right now.   
 Q.  Got to feel pretty good going into the weekend, your first time here at TPC Scottsdale.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Absolutely I'm looking forward to tomorrow, it's going to be a good day.   
 Q.  After the missed putt at 14 and then the water ball off the tee at 15, how did you regroup to finish the way you did?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well, look, I knew I was playing really good golf and I just told my caddie, we just can't make any more mistakes coming in, let's play solid, let's get it up in the fairway and hit a wedge close.  I've been working on my wedging lately and it's been pretty solid -- I almost made it, actually on that fourth shot on 15.  16 is rowdy as all get out and you don't know what you're going to get there.  I was a little nervous on the tee shot and kind of hit it a little right, but it was fine.  Made a nice 2-putt there.  And then striped a 3-wood on 17.  And it was not an easy 2-putt, but I was good enough to make birdie, obviously.  I hit it to three feet and made it.  And 18 just striped a drive off the last and almost made the shot on my second shot, so that was kind of fun.   
 Q.  Entering the week did you feel like this sort of ball striking performance was in the bag for you?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Absolutely, I've been hitting it incredible actually the last few weeks, it's just I had a couple unfortunate things happen.  I've been hitting my clubs a little too much, so I had a wear mark and so every once in a while I was catching some fliers off of the face with some inconsistent smash factors and it was just piercing through the wind these last couple weeks and unfortunately that led to some unfortunate mistakes.  But we switched clubs and I got some fresh grooves in the bag and was able to be a lot more consistent this week.   
 Q.  This is your first year here, have you learned each day that goes by something about the course that's helping you out?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Absolutely, I think every day you just see it, you learn a little bit here, a little bit there.  Unfortunately I didn't get to see that back nine very much, didn't get to play it before the tournament.  But what's really funny is when I don't play the golf course very much I go out there with no mindset of trouble or even where to be, really and it frees me up, actually.  For example, the DAP Championship when I won the WEB.COM finals event, I'd only seen the course once as well and barely had any practice going in.  I actually missed a cut beforehand.  So whatever reason, not playing golf courses has just aided to my benefit.   
 Q.  What's it like for you to be contending in a PGA TOUR event and see the name Mickelson a few notches below yours?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: You know, I respect Phil tremendously, he's been an incredible asset to the game.  He's done incredible things.  He's been very, very nice to me.  So for him to be a couple behind me is obviously a little different, I'm not used to it.  I'm with Rickie Fowler tomorrow, so that will be a lot of fun.  But seeing Phil's name behind me, I know he's won here a few times and he's looking to play some good golf over the weekend, but I just got to try and play better.   
 Q.  Being tied at the top with Rickie do you feel like you're playing your best golf right now?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I can tell you that I missed a few short putts on the back nine, so definitely didn't play my best.  But I'm learning how to control my rhythm.  I think that's a big thing, it's helped me these past, even couple weeks, even though I didn't play very well, understanding that, under the gun, being able to control your tempo, your timing has allowed me to be more consistent.  I've struggled with that tremendously and that's why I have these highs and lows because I get really high and really low in regards to my golf swing.  So being able to tone it down to hey, look, let's control the club shaft so it's kicking at the right place, not just going everywhere has really aided to my benefit.   
 Q.  Given the time you've spent with Rickie recently, how funny is it that you're paired tomorrow?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's going to be great.  It's great for Cobra Puma golf, it's awesome.  I'm super excited for that opportunity and really looking forward to a fun day tomorrow.   
 Q.  Any surprises with a win tomorrow, your first time here?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: There might be something.  You never know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT