RBC HERITAGE
April 15, 2016
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bryson, I would imagine starting the week being three back heading to the weekend would be a position you would gladly accept.  I know 8 didn't go the way you wanted.  But that's great composure coming back on 9 and making a birdie hitting driver off the tee.  Nice job.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Thank you very much.  It was a fun day out there.  Again, missed a couple of putts and a couple momentum shifts on 17 and 18.  I made that 6-footer on 17, par on 18.  The round may have ended with a deep number.
Q. You played golf at the highest level for a long time in professional events before.  But what is the different feel now?  You're a professional, you have logos on the jerseys and the bag and the hat and everything.  It's just a different feel now.  What's the feeling been like for you?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, honestly I'm trying to keep it the same as last week.  Again, it is playing for money, but again I'm just out here trying to win some championships.
Q. Tell me about going into the weekend, what your approach might be based on what you've seen from this course the last couple of days and the changing conditions, as well?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I think if I can make a couple more putts and get some momentum going my way early, get off to a good start, make birdie on 2, hopefully make birdie on 1 tomorrow, it will push me forward and I can play pretty well.
Q. One last thing that we noticed following you, there's a lot of interaction between you and your caddie, maybe a little bit more than normal.  Is he as mathematically inclined as you might be, and you bounce things off him?  How does that work?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, he's definitely learning.  He's a good man.  He's done a great job so far.  I love having him on the bag.  It keeps me calm and collected and helps me understand what's most important out there.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: No, no emotional reaction.  I hit it yesterday, hit it in that bunker.  And this time I was able to get it up and down.
Q. I saw you were the last one on the putting green last night.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Trying to get my speed a little bit better.  I three-putted somewhere out there, I can't remember what hole, it's a blur to me right now.  But I'll definitely be working on that again going into the weekend.  If I get a couple of putts to drop I'll be right there.
Q. You got a little close to the lip there, how tough was the bunker shot?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Exactly.  It's more of a momentum thing.  If I get enough energy into the ball, I don't really have to have a follow through, but if I can create enough energy going into the ball to pop it up and out of that little spot.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Exactly.  Try to put more force so it will pop up.
Q. What was the situation on the second shot at 8?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I mean it was a pulled drive, to start off.  I didn't want to be there.  I was trying to be in the middle of the fairway.  And consequently I had to try to draw one a little bit more.  Let's say it bounces a foot more right and it trickles down into the bunker or if it lands a yard or two more left and lands in the bunker and stays in the bunker, so I went around the side of the hill and shot it right into the water.  I hit the right shot, the wind just picked up a little bit, and subsequently it cost me.
Q. Speaking of the wind, do you think you're adjusting well to the swirling winds here at Harbour Town?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: You can't adjust completely, but you get used to it more and more.  You can never fully understand what a gust is going to do to a golf ball.  It's too difficult to control and understand it.  But you do get comfortable, I would say out there, and you learn what you can and can't do out there with those gusts, and you try to play conservatively when need be.  And you go after it when you can.
Q. How do you prepare for tomorrow?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Do the same exact thing as I did last night.  Do some putting, hit some drives to make sure that little BB ball is staying in the fairway and look forward to tomorrow.
Q. You made it through to the weekend here.  You have sponsors exemptions?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, I have, I believe, seven total sponsors exceptions plus two invitationals.  Play next week, week off after that.  Then going to the Wells Fargo.  Playing that event.  Quite a few lined up.  Trying to get it all out of the way.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Superstition.  It's fairy tale-like.
Q. It's not scientific?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It's not that.  It's more of there's something in your brain that allows you not to function when you believe a certain thing.  It's a belief factor.  When you're thinking about a superstition, when you have to do something every hole, that's what keeps you in a rhythm.  For me, I don't really believe that, I believe in execution each and every shot, and if I can do that to the best of my ability that's all that matters.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT