RBC HERITAGE
April 12, 2016
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK WILLIAMS: We'd like to welcome Bryson DeChambeau into the Media Center at the RBC Heritage. Obviously coming off a wonderful week at the Masters at Augusta National. Tied for 21st there. And making your professional debut here at this tournament. 
If you could just tell us what it was like a little bit last week, and what the last couple of days have been like you anticipating your professional debut.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, well, first off it's an honor to be here. I received an invitation exemption here, it's pretty cool. It's just amazing for me. It's been a long time coming, and last week was a great way to finish off my amateur career, mainly that putt on 18 from 20 feet, and walking off and saying that was my last putt. I didn't think about that being my last putt as an amateur, but I hit the putt and it went in and afterwards I thought that's a pretty good way to go out to make that final last hole. 
The ball ‑‑ when I hit my second shot it went up to the top tier and stayed there for like a minute and a half. As I walked up to the green I fixed my pitch mark, how is that staying? I was talking to my caddie. And as soon as I said that Drew goes, there it goes, it went trickling down, and then I made it. That was a special moment. That golf hole seemed like it owed me after Friday and Saturday. 
But it's been a special week last week, and really excited to be here this week as a professional. It's, again, quite an honor and it couldn't be done without the help of my team, my coach, the agency that's helping me out. And it's been quite a journey so far, and I'm looking forward to my professional debut.
MARK WILLIAMS: The last couple of days, have they seemed like they've taken a long time to progress or has it been very rapid?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It's been very rapid. There's a lot of things we've had to do these last couple of days to get ready so I'm able to play this week. There's been a lot of hard work on all sides. 
And I think moving forward it's going to be a little easier than it has been the last couple of days. We've been scrambling. Right after Sunday, right after I finished that round, we had to do some things, get some things settled and figured out, because it was a quick turnaround with this week. 

Q. Can you go a little more in depth about how you treated the last six or seven months? 
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I had an internship. I thought that if I could practice and play in professional events as much as possible leading up to this week, that I could be prepared coming into this week. And it pretty much would take my rookie year out of it. That's what I was trying to do. 
This is still my rookie year, but in a sense all the process of being ready for a PGA Tour event has kind of gone out the door, I don't need to focus on it anymore. I'm used to it, comfortable. Guys are super nice out there to me. It's been great and they have been super supportive. Congratulations, good luck this week, all that. It's been nice to hear that.

Q. Have you paid attention to the dollar signs you haven't been playing for and will you pay more attention now? 
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, I do know what they are, but I don't worry about it, it doesn't affect my psyche or anything likes that. 
Again, for me, it's going out there and winning championships. And I believe that I can do it. It's just a matter of executing shots and playing four great rounds of golf. And if I can do that, that's all that matters. Money is not anything to me. 

Q. I was talking with some players that made the transition that you've done this week, and they were talking about some of the things that they dealt with when they first turned pro. Have you sought any advice, and if so is there one piece that sticks out to you?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, I have not sought out immediate advance from Ricky Barnes or anything like that. What I can tell you, though, is that Phil Mickelson has been really nice to me. Jordan has been nice to me. Justin Thomas has been really nice and we've talked a little about it; are you excited? I am, I'm thoroughly excited for this week. 
Again, these past six months were preparing me for this week. And my future. I think we've done that beautifully. Last week I was a little fatigued, a little tired, and I know we're going to improve upon that this week and be more rested going into Thursday. That's quite honestly all we're trying to do. Nothing more than that. This transition should be fairly easy. I wouldn't say it's going to be that easy, obviously, because there's obstacles thrown in your way. But we're trying to make it as seamless and easy as possible. 

Q. What can you tell us your schedule is going forward?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: This week or‑‑

Q. After is this week?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, so I've got, let's see, seven sponsor exemptions, which is incredibly generous from the tournaments I'm playing. Next week in Valero, week off, Wells Fargo, right after that. I'm not sure the exact schedule, but I know I'm playing the Colonial, Byron, Memorial, Quicken Loans and a few others down the road. I don't know the exact schedule but somewhere along those lines I know I have seven sponsor exceptions plus invitationals.

Q. What do you say to people who think you play golf too scientifically, the people who think that you lose the feel and creativity and all that stuff?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, like I've said in the past before, first off, I don't really worry about it too much, because they truly don't understand me if that's the case. I will say to them I am an artist. I love creating things. And that's ultimately why I've become so scientific is because scientists out there are artists. I can tell you that. Absolute, one hundred percent that is the truth. They go out there and are imagining things people aren't thinking of. Coming up with equations, that's an art. On that side of it. Some people may not be able to do that, but there are others that can create beautiful lines, beautiful drawings that scientists really can't create, but it's still an art, both sides are still an art. That's first and foremost.
Second thing is I'm out there looking at things, imagining things, creating things on my own. And this "feel" that everybody talks about is more technically sound and yet when you say proprioception, it's the connection between your brain and arms, it's the neuropathways when you train your body to do certain things, to understand where your arms and hands and body are in space in time. 
In regards to feel, I do have a lot of that, it's more proprioception, I would believe. But at the same time I'm out there practicing and draining these nonautomatic strokes to make it automatic. But that's all the transition of mechanics produced and proprioception reproduces, or that feel reproduces. And if you can do that, there's no limit, there's no limits to it. 

Q. With the internship, does this week feel any different because it is your first go? Have you taken all of that out?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Probably more on the no side than the yes side, I would say, because I think I'm so prepared for this week. You're still going out there and every shot counts, I'm going to try to make my card. But that's in the back of my mind, I'm not really worrying about that, just play some golf and do my best, just like I have the past few weeks, and I think it should be fine. 

Q. Going forward, the hat you are used to wearing in college and amateur, which is quite nice, are you going to keep that? If so, is there a logo ready to go on it?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, that's my cape. So I only wear that for tournament days. And you guys will have to wait until 4 p.m. today to figure that all out (laughter.) It's coming soon. 

Q. If you weren't playing golf, what do you think you'd be doing?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, I think I would definitely be doing some research in the golf industry with the club manufacturer or doing research for biomechanics, on efficiencies of motion, that sort of stuff. I like understanding how the body works and how it can work most efficiently.
Also how it's improved the game of golf. That's one thing I'd love to do, somehow, some way. And we're getting there, I think, personally. And it's going to be a long journey, but at the same time I think it's going to be quite beneficial to what we're trying to do.
But that's what I would be doing, with a golf club manufacturer or research with a university on efficiencies of motion or things like that.

Q. What was it like having your dad there watching you play the Masters?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, it was a poignant moment. Something I'll never forget. He's always wanted to go to the Masters and be there and for his kid to be playing the Masters was something special for him. I know he had some moments where he teared up and I was tearing up. I didn't show it all at all, because I was playing a golf tournament. But there were some poignant moments and I looked over and thought it was really special. Like my smile on the first tee. Everybody thought I was getting nervous right on the first tee, and I was smiling, saying, no, this is just another golf shot. It was fun to have that. And also smiling because my family was there; a really special moment. 
MARK WILLIAMS: Always appreciate you coming in, and good luck for the week with your professional debut. 
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT