JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2017
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I was fortunate enough to make a nice birdie putt on 17 and make a six-footer for par on 18 to keep the momentum going my way.  Although it was kind of thwarted by a missed eight-footer on 1 and then a tree shot on No. 2.  Still able to make birdie on that hole and keep the momentum going.   
Nice to keep it going in the right way, in a very positive direction.   
 Q.  Is that where you got your groove?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, yeah, definitely.  I think it's definitely nice to see putts going in early on.  I didn't really have that going, but once I made the 15-footer on 2, it's kind of, All right, let's get off to the races.   
 Q.  What's been the difference with the putting.  Hasn't been your strength this season, but this tournament you're In think third in the field.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, I'm definitely putting really well, and it's just a product of taking out as many variables as possible.  When I say that, before when I was putting a different way I didn't have some variables that I understood in regards to how to hard to hit putts for certain things, uphill, downhill.   
Also with my old putter, when I was at the U.S.  Amateur when I won, I putted really back then well that tournament.  It was just because I had great control speed and I got lucky a couple times.   
Now I feel like I'm really turning the right direction, being able to see reads, confirm them, and be able to execute them online.   
 Q.  Does it help that you played here a few times?  Goes back to you getting an exemption.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Right, right.  In 2015, before I won the U.S. Amateur, Mr. Peterson was nice enough to give me an exemption here.  Albeit I missed the cut that week, I was still able to learn a lot from that experience.   
 Q.  What was that big learning experience for you in '15 from missing the cut?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I think understanding that you have to have a really good wedge game and got to understand how to hit shots in the wind, control trajectory, spin rates, and everything like that.  That's what I was able to do beautifully this week, or today.   
 Q.  For those of us that you at the Am that week, it seemed like you were playing with so much confidence.  Do you feel like you still have that confidence?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's getting back.  It's coming back a little bit.  I'm starting to take out some things that ultimately hindered my game, understanding some variables that has made it difficult for me to play well in the past.   
Now I'm moving in the right direction.   
 Q.  How important is it to carry over this momentum into tomorrow?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's good.  I think the momentum isn't necessarily that big of a factor come tomorrow morning.  It's going to be about how I execute shots during the round.   
If I can keep it going hitting fairways and hitting greens and making a couple putts, that's all you can do.  When I say momentum, it's nice to always have it kind of go your way, have a good break.   
At the end of the day, you're still just executing shots, and that's what I got to do tomorrow.   
 Q.  How hard has patience been for you in the context of the 20-somethings going lights out on tour?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's been very difficult.  I thought coming out here my first year I would be killing it and I'm not.  It's ultimately because I've made some decisions that actually made me a better person and it's come a long way.   
At the end of the day, it's where we are right now.  I'm moving in the right direction.   
 Q.  At an amateur a lot was made of your clubs and the style of them.  How much of that is still the same or different from what you were hitting then?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, everything is pretty much the same.  It's just I'm using Cobra.  They've done a great job.  They've made an incredible set for amateurs that have helped improve their games tremendously.  They're killing it.   
It's been incredible to see amateur games get better, drop two or three shots here and there like it's no big deal.   
Just the consistency and the setup every time is allowing players to be more consistent out there.  That hasn't really changed much at all.  It's just starting to understand how I'm functioning the golf club in order to be able to make it get back to square consistently.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT