JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2017
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round of golf.  Bogey-free.  How good was the driving today.  You did not miss a fairway.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Whoo, pretty impressed there with my own self, I would say.  I think the most important thing was for me to try and get it in the fairway.  That's what I accomplished.  I've never done that before, and that was my goal out here last couple years being out here.   
I wanted to have a round that I don't miss the fairway; I was able to do it.   
 Q.  You get that done, but that doesn't necessarily mean that's going to translate into birdies; you did.  Clean card; 5-under.  What else fell in line for you?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, I think I was putting beautifully today.  Hit a couple putts too far past the hole and I had three or four foot coming back, but I was able to make those.  Then where I could get aggressive I was a little aggressive and was able to make birdies on some tough holes.   
Let's see, I made birdie on 10, 11, 12, 15.  Those aren't easy holes where those pins were.  I was lucky enough to sneak in.   
Just missed a couple wedges.  Like on 14 I had a little 60-yard shot.  Could have easily driven it up by the green and chipped it up on the on the green.  Unfortunately had a misshit wedge there.  Was able to get up and down.  Recovered very well today.   
 Q.  Finished 5-under in your opening round here.  You've got to be happy with the way you played.  What exactly do you take from today to tomorrow?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I think I bring confidence to the table tomorrow.  I know that I can play well out here.  If I take care of some of the easier holes out here today - they seem to be the tougher ones for me for some reason - if I can take care of those, I can hopefully take it deeper.   
 Q.  A course we see a lot red numbers on.  How do you take advantage of this course with the way it's set up?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, you got to be hitting your wedges really close.  If you can do that all week, you'll be just fine.  If you can make pars on the tough par-3s and hit it on the fairway, like on 15 every day, land it on the green, two-putt, make your par, get out of there, I think you have a very good chance of playing well here.   
 Q.  You and I talked about waiting for that breakthrough.  You've had a couple good tournaments the past few months.  What would you say is working for you right now?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I'm starting to understand my golf swing pretty darn well.  I think in college I understood it really well up to a certain point, and then once I got here I was trying a few new things because I had some increased strength, more time to go to the gym and things like that.   
So I was trying a couple different things and was able to understand that I don't necessarily need the distance to be that consistent, especially with how I function on the golf swing.   
I was able to understand about three weeks ago that I can just keep it in the fairway every day and hit it on the green close and make couple putts.  That's what I'm doing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT