ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 22, 2016
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk me through the first nine holes today.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I got off to a good start.  I birdied 10 and then made a nice 15-footer on 12, I believe, and I was hanging in there.  I didn't hit a couple good iron shots.  I hit it in the rough a couple times off the fairway.
You know, didn't have my best.  But then the last, that was kind of a killer, unfortunately.  But it is what it is.  It's golf.  Just got to learn from it and say, hey, got to hit the fairway next time.  Can't hit in that bunker.
Q. You mentioned yesterday, you don't let emotions get involved, but standing on that 10th tee, didn't get to you, any pressure, nothing like that?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: No.  I had adrenaline going, that's for certain.  But there's no anxiety, there's no nerves, nothing like that.  Doesn't matter what the outcome is.  I just made bogey on one of the easier holes on the golf course and not worried about it.  I made one bogey yesterday and a bogey today.  Hopefully that will be the last one.
Q. How do you think this is going to affect you having to go overnight and then come out and play the back nine?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I'm starting on 1, so just like a new round.  Not even worried about it.
Q. Are you looking forward to the rest of this round and then the weekend?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, yeah, it's going to be fun.  It always is.  Good test of my ability.  Didn't have my A Game today.  Miss-hit a couple iron shots that I had a couple opportunities to hit it close.  That's the game.
Q. Obviously didn't have your best stuff, but hung in there --
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, I guess today, it's just a new experience, having only played nine holes, waiting the whole day to play.  A little different for me.  I've never had to do that before.  Went out there and right out of the gate, made birdie, pretty comfortable.  I just didn't hit it in the fairway.
That was a big deal today.  If I would have hit it in the fairway on the last hole, I make birdie, there's no doubt about it.  Get up there, very good chance to make birdie, I would say.  But that's golf, and I made a mistake of not hitting a good bunker shot on the second, on 18, and consequently, I made bogey.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT