ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2016
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: First off, just want to thank Abu Dhabi Sports Council as well as HSBC, they have been incredible to give me that sponsor's invite.
Today out there, was pretty good.  I had no expectations coming into today and just free wheeled it and pretty much hit every fairway and was able to make a couple putts.
Q. It's one of those things, usually takes a while to find your feet on Tour:  Already a second place in Australia; leading at the moment out here.  How are you finding adapt to go professional life?  Do you feel ready to chance these guys?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It's nice to kind of be an intern as an amateur playing professional events.  I'm getting used to and getting more comfortable each event.  It's fun, a lot of fun being out here.
Q. Still an amateur, competing at the highest level with these guys.  What's the focus before turning professional?  What would you like to achieve, and when will that be?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: That's tough.  For me, I never try and set goals.  I'm more of a journey-man; I like focusing on the journey process.  As it relates to goals or expectations, I don't really have any.  I'm just focused on playing my best, the next shot and the next day as well.
Q. What way a to start your first regular European Tour event.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It was quite incredible.  I just went out there and I said, just hit as many fairways and as many greens as possible, and if I make a couple putts, I'll have a great round.  Again, having no expectations, it allows me to do my best and that's what I did today.
Q. Did you surprise yourself?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Surprise myself, I don't know if that's the word.  I think I was prepared and I was ready to go and that's the result of what amounted to my preparation.
Q. How do you see your sort of transition now, if it is to be made in the professional ranks because already you're making quite a stir.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, that's one thing I don't look at.  I don't know.  I honestly don't know.  It's not going to happen until it happens and I'm not honestly worried about it.  I'm focused on doing my best, my absolutely best, each and every moment, the next shot and the next day, as well.
Q. You are different, aren't you.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Just a little bit.
Q. Certainly in terms of equipment, because people will be waking up to you in the U.K., just explain your philosophy in terms of the golf clubs in your bag.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, they are all single length, same length, same lie angle, same shaft.  Just different loft.  Same bounce configuration, as well, on each and every one of them.
But it's all four degrees of loft difference, mainly, on average.  It works pretty well.  It helps me keep my same posture, same setup, same everything.
Q. And where did this idea come from?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, it came from my coach and I, our collaboration between two of us.  We thought, there has to be a better way to play golf and it came about from the Golfing Machine.
It's a long story but to keep it short, I pretty much chose this variation on the Golfing Machine where it allowed me 20 swing on the same plane and when I did that, I realised I couldn't do that with a wedge and 3-iron, I would be changing body motions.  And I said, that doesn't make sense.  I said, let's make them on the same lie angle and same length.
My coach said, that's an easy one to ask, a tough one to answer.  We've been on this journey and it's been a great process and learning process for me.  I've learned a lot.
Q. What are your expectations for the rest of this week now?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, again, I don't have any.  That's what I keep saying.  It just is what it is.  Whatever happens, happens, and I'm learning.  I'm a golfing scientist, in a sense, and I'm trying to analyse and understand each and every aspect of the golf course and the way I played, as well.  I'll analyse today and see what I can do better at tomorrow and we'll go from there.
Q. This is your first appearance in Abu Dhabi.  You shoot a round of 64 and you're the leader.  What are your thoughts on your position here?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: First off I just want to thank Abu Dhabi Sports Council and the HSBC tournament sponsors.  They have been incredible to me and I'm excited to be here.
Shooting 64 was pretty cool I guess.  Not too bad on your first start on The European Tour.  But I'm just glad to be here honestly and I'm looking forward to the next couple days.
Q. You had that invitation, not through the post, because these are modern days, but what were your thoughts on accepting it?  Huge delight, presumably and first appearing here and your preparations.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, it was an honour.  And first and foremost is that when we get here in preparation, I don't want to tire myself out.  There's no need to.  I've had a lot of great advice from many great golfers and they say, don't tire yourself out.  There are plenty of guys that get out there and play four rounds before they go and play tournament rounds.  I just don't want to do that.  That's not me.  I don't want to get tired.
I want to be ready when it comes Saturday and Sunday.   That's the kind of route I went in preparation, and I obviously played well today because of it.
Q. Expectations, were they at a minimum?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Very much so.  I don't have expectations.  I come into here trying to play my best, and whether it amounts or not, I'm always learning.  So if I don't play well, I'll learn.  If I do play well, I'll still learn.
Q. Wonderful eagle thrown into the round, a whole raft of birdies.  What was it that suited you about playing this golf course?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I kept it in the fairway.  That's the main key.  If you hit it in the rough, it's brutal out there.  It's really long and very difficult to get it close.  I was fortunate enough to keep it in the fairway and my iron play took over, and rest is kind of history.
Q. Please except my apologies.  You've probably already tired of the question.  I have to ask the rationale about your clubs.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: They are all the same length.  They all have the same lie angle, consequently, all the same bounce, but they have different lofts and that loft creates that different distance.  Same shaft in the iron, as well, all six iron shafts.  I think it's definitely helped me.  I've done it for about four years now -- five years, actually.  It's suited me pretty well and I've done pretty well with it.
Q. It sounds very logical but it's not the norm, so how did it come about?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, it originally came from it the Golfing Machine with a zero shifting motion.  I was trying to practise this certain motion, and there it's just a variation out of there.
I said to myself, why do they have to be different lengths because I would go to a wedge and then I would go to a 3-iron and I couldn't swing on the same plane.  It was changing because my body had to change and I didn't like it.  I said, why can't they be the same length.
My coach said, that's an easy one to ask, tough one to answer.  But we ultimately tried it and it worked.
Q. This is a silly question because you've already said you've got no expectations, but do they actually change from here when you find yourself leading a tournament?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: No.  Again I'm going to learn.  Every day it's a learning process.  I'm a golfing scientist.  So I don't take it with any emotion, but I try to do my best to analyse and perform in the situation.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT