NCAA MEN'S GOLF CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 1, 2015
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   What do you think this will do for you.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   I don't know yet.   I honestly don't know yet.   I'm just taking it in strides and doing my best to enjoy the moment.

Q.   What do you hope it does for you? 
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Well, it would be nice to eventually play on the Walker Cup team because Captain Miller is a great guy and I look forward to talking to him soon, and hopefully I'll get my chance. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   No, no, you know, it's not about being there, it's about trust.   Putts are going to fall my way and I'm going to hit good shots.   It's just about being in the moment, trusting yourself, and being able to execute that shot when the time comes.

Q.   On 12 how far were you?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   I was three feet.   I hit it on the green to about three feet and I made it. 

Q.   And then on 18, the double bogey in the water‑‑
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   I blocked it right.   I had 180 yards, something like that.   It was on a downhill slope, had the ball in the back of my stance too far and caught it with the face open, and it went right [check].

Q.   And what did you have for (inaudible)?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   No, he's been with us for four seasons, all year.

Q.   No, I mean, with you, especially during the round. 
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Well, he started at the beginning of this semester, and we started working a little bit together, and he's just confirming what I did, and he was great this week, helped confirm everything I did and helped me trust and believe this week. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, something somebody has to learn all the time, there's no doubt about that.   I knew that I was good enough to contend for a national championship, but I didn't believe it last year, and there were a few times where I doubted myself.   This year I was able to believe in myself and I did it. 

Q.   If you could just give me your thoughts on winning the championship.   Obviously a big moment for you. 
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, it's such an honor to be able to win this title and something that I've aspired to do for a couple years now, and I was finally able to get it done. 

Q.   What were some of the keys with today's round?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Trusting and believing in myself.   That's the No.1 key that I've been lacking these past couple years, and I was finally able to do it this week.

Q.   How hard was it for you?   You came in the clubhouse with 8‑under, everybody else was chasing you; how hard was it to sit there and watch that?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   It was very difficult.   My stomach was churning the whole time, and luckily I didn't have to go into a playoff.

Q.   First SMU player to win a national championship; how does that make you feel?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Honored.   I'm so honored to be named the national champion, the first national champion for SMU.   I can't say anything else, but thank you to everybody else for their support and trusting and believing in myself and others believing in myself, as well.   There's nothing better to feel.

Q.   Take us through the mindset, you wake up this morning, you're up quick, you're playing a playoff just to get into the national from a team aspect, and then all of a sudden your team is in and then you've got to play an individual round, as well.   Just take us through the day. 
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Long day.   I think it was 12 hours or something like that.   Woke up this morning, knew we had a chance, and we got out there and we got it done with Washington, and we fortunately beat them.   We did have a chance today.   If we would have shot around even, a couple under, could have done it, but unfortunately didn't, but I'm glad that my team was there to support me all the way, and couldn't be happier and more proud of the guys and of myself. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT