MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 12, 2020
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Given how the adventure started, how do you feel about that?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I'm very happy with the patience I delivered to the course today. I started off strong with a five‑footer and I misread it a little bit, and I just pulled my drive on 11 and went too far and made a great par save. Had an opportunity on 12, lipped it out. And then 13 I just didn't draw it around the corner enough, and I got greedy. This golf course, as much as I'm trying to attack it, it can bite back. It's still Augusta National, and it's the Masters. It's an amazing test of golf no matter what way you play it.   
I tried to take on some risk today. It didn't work out as well as I thought it would have, but at the end of the day I'm proud of myself the way I handled myself and finished off. Birdieing 8 and 9 was a testament to my focus level, and wanting to contend here.   
   
 Q. After finding the ball on 13, you must have figured maybe you could save par. Was that a difficult pitch?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Oh, very difficult. Downhill slope, I had to open the face so I didn't‑‑ if I took it back straight away, I would have hit the bushes, azaleas, so I tried to cut across it and I just got too cute with it, and it came out a little dead. It was unfortunate, but at the end of the day I should have been smarter and hit it out, took my medicine and hit it on the green, but hopefully tomorrow I'll hit it in the fairway and have a different opportunity for birdie if not eagle.   
   
 Q. 48‑inch driver, you didn't go with that today?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: No, I don't feel like I'm 100 percent ready with that yet. I tried to get it ready for this week, but there was a lot of opportunities that I felt like I could still fly it over bunkers with the 45‑inch driver. That's what I was testing yesterday; is it really worth it, am I going to gain that much. To be honest, as we sat back, we were like, it's not going to be that much of a gain this week because I am pretty much already flying bunkers out there. For example, 5, that was one of them, and maybe today on 18 I could have drove it with a 48‑inch driver over that bunker, but it was into the wind. The wind switched. There's a lot of things that changed out there today and caught me off guard a little bit. But at the end of the day I'm happy with the way I played.   
   
 Q. On 18 do you have driver in your hand and you switch to 3‑wood?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I was trying to go over the bunker and I knew even if I hit it my best, it probably wouldn't have gotten over that bunker. So I said, you know what, let's just try and hit it in the fairway, and unfortunately I didn't execute. My ball‑striking was not top tier today, and I've got to go work on that.   
   
 Q. How did you feel about the way you drove it today?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, not great. Not my best. I got a little, I guess you could say tight. I wasn't comfortable with my golf swing. Normally when I'm really comfortable I can keep going faster and faster, and today I felt like I got a little tighter. And then on 8 and 9 I started to feel a little bit more comfortable. But 8 wasn't that great. I pulled it a bit. And 9 was a great drive. But I just have to figure out what's going on, why am I missing it a little too far left.   
   
 Q. The second shot at 11, were you trying to play that far off the hill‑‑ it's probably where the grandstand would be. Did you like that angle?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I wasn't trying to go as far up there. I was actually trying to hook it around the trees and get it down there. It just came out straight and it didn't draw as much as I wanted to. But again, on 7 I hit a great shot out of the trees, and the ball just kept flying for some reason. I don't know if it was a little downwind or something but might have caught a flier out of the pine straw. I hit a great shot there, too, so there was a couple pine straw moments that were just a little interesting, just a little further for me, so I've got to think about that one.   
   
 Q. Did you consider laying up on 13?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yes. Yes, I did. I'm greedy. Sometimes I can get a little greedy and I like taking risks. You've got to take risks to win tournaments, and albeit I made double from it, I still think over the course of four days, I can get that back to under par.   
   
 Q. How worried were you that you weren't going to find that ball?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Very, very, because I hit my other one in the water and that was not going to be a fun number. I don't want to do that. I had to find it.   
   
 Q. Who found it?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Tim, my caddie. He got his‑‑ yeah. He definitely got his, I guess you could say, pay worth this week doing that already. I'm proud of him.   
   
 Q. What about your putting today?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: You know, it could have been better. I made some long putts. I made a couple good short putts. I missed one on 3, 10, 13. So all in all, it was average. I feel like I could do a better job tomorrow.   
   
 Q. Which clubs did you hit into the par‑5s?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: The longest one was No.8. I hit a hybrid. It was into the wind, wet. I was surprised; I hit a great hybrid right at the flag and it landed on top of the hill and kind of came back. If it was a little drier it would have went right next to the hole. That would have been fun. So it was a great birdie there. On 13 I had 7‑iron in, and that was from the pine straw trying to do some little finagling around the trees. And then on No.2 I hit a draw 8‑iron. And what's the other one? 15 I hit a nice little cut 7 in the middle of the green.   
   
 Q. The one on 13, were you frustrated? What happened on that shot?   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I just completely mis‑hit it. I was trying to hit a little cut and I over‑cut it, blade‑cut it. I was in not the greatest lie after I dropped it. Probably should have laid up on that one, but you know what, again, I like taking risks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT