BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2020
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Bryson, what do you make of these scores?  I think 1-under might be the best out here so far.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   This golf course is a major championship style golf course, and the way they've set it up, it's a great test of golf.  I certainly like that style of golf.  I played really well here at the U.S. Amateur, got great memories.  I'm putting really well this week.  I had a couple weird things happen with the driver and I just don't have control of my driver right now, which is what it is.  I'm going to go work on it and try to make it better.
Q. Coming back here did you feel at all like a member?  Did the members here do a lot of stuff to make you feel special?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, they were unbelievable.  The membership has been great to me.  Even back in 2015 they were amazing.  They were nice enough to extend an honorary membership this week, and that was pretty special to me.  I was able to go up and have a nice little speech with them and we had a nice little reception I guess you could say, as much of a reception as you can possibly have, and it was definitely an amazing honor, something I'll remember for the rest of my life for sure.  To be a member at this prestigious club is special for sure.
Q. If you can quantify it, how many shots harder is it now than when you won here?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Well, I shot 21-under for the six matches I played, 21 or something like that, at the U.S. Amateur, and what am I, 3-over par, I've hit four fairways.  Obviously the game is a lot different.  I would say that this is almost one and a half times harder than the U.S. Amateur, around there I would say.  It's not twice as hard.  Twice as hard we'd be shooting 90.  But no, I love it.  I love the great test of golf that they've presented here, and I wish they did it more.
Q. At the Wednesday event you pounded that first drive 380 and then you made eagle on the second hole.  Did that give you a sense that maybe you'd be able to go low here this week?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   You know, I thought so.  Look, I've actually hit four fairways this week, and yeah, that's not going to warrant a low score.  But I've been putting it really well and I feel like I'm hitting it well, it's just there's some weird spin rate things going on right now and yeah, starting out that way I felt like I could go pretty deep and unfortunately it's not happening, but maybe this weekend.  You never know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT