SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 11, 2020
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. What would you say you improved from yesterday to today?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   To be honest with you, I felt like my ball striking was pretty good, I got aggressive on the last few and didn't pay off, but to be honest with you I actually played about the same yesterday and today, I just executed a couple shots better off the tee.  And unfortunately my putting let me down today.  I made some putts obviously but I missed putts that I just never miss.  And it was one of those things that I just felt like the launch wasn't correctly, somehow I think the loft wasn't right and so it is what it is, it's golf and I feel like, disappointed with the way I finished, but know the potential and playing with my B game, maybe B game, if that, was still able to somewhat contend.
 Q. When you say the launch wasn't right, with as that equipment or technique?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Probably both.  Probably a bit of both.  I just feel like my stroke wasn't that great the last three days for putting, I've been trying to fix it, just didn't really fix it this week and I got to go back and go to my baselines and figure out what's going on so I make sure I roll it down my line like I know how to.
 Q. What's the road map from here now going forward to Augusta?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   It's going to be just trying to figure more stuff out as always.  Trying to -- I feel like my ball striking was great this week, it's just a little bit of putting here and there was sour and I got to work on being more repeatable in my putting, obviously, even though I'm a great putter, I know I am.  I'm going to be working out like crazy.  This first week back home, I'm not really going to touch a club too much and going to be training pretty hard and getting myself up to hopefully around 245, something like that, in weight, be the first time I've ever done that, so I'm going to be consuming a lot and see and working out a lot and see what can go from there.
 Q. What shots have you identified as critical off the tee and into the greens at Augusta with your revamped game?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   What do you mean by that?
 Q. You're playing a completely different style than your previous three appearances at Augusta.  So which tee shots have you pin pointed now that could be pretty different?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Well, No. 1 may be different, I don't know, just depends on the wind conditions, obviously, I would say No. 2 is different, 3 is different, 5's different, 7 will be different, 8 will be different, 9 will be different.  11 will be different, 13 will be different, 14 will be different, 15 will be different, 17 will be different, 18 will definitely be different.
 Q. Everything but the par-3s?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   For the most part.  Except 10.
 Q. Did you know Byron Nelson once drove the 7th green back in the --
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Well the tees were like 120 yards up too.
 Q. The green was flat too, that's why they raised it, but that's just so you know?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   No, it's downwind, I may go launch mode on that hole.  It will be fun.
 Q. If things don't go the way you'd like them to for the week, is there any part of you that says, hey I'm the U.S. Open champion?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Every time I mess up I got to keep reminding myself that and that's what I felt like I did pretty well out there this week.  It was frustrating, there's so many times where I could have gotten super down on myself being 5-over through 6 yesterday and still fighting back and hopefully I get a top-10 finish this week.  I feel like I could have finished at 23-under super easily today and I just didn't take advantage of it, my putting let me down a little bit and I got to work on it.  That's just the stuff that I'm always thinking about how I can get better and I think that's what's so cool about this game is it's never perfect you always can find something to be a little bit better.
 Q. Sounds like you're searching for perfect though.
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, but I never will reach it, I totally submit to that.  But I do want to try and find distinct advantages that allow me to be better and better each and every time I play.  Clearly it's helped, I think there's been a big change this year and I'm not going to stop.
 Q. Will you go to Augusta between now and the Masters?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, yeah, I'll play a practice round with a good friend of mine and we'll have some fun and see what I can do.  But we don't know.  I still got some equipment stuff coming in the next two months, that's mainly why I'm taking it off.  I feel like the advantages that I usually have could be much improved upon with the equipment, and we don't have it yet, but we're diligently working on it behind the scenes.  I'll have that in a couple weeks, we'll prototype and test it and see if it works, if it doesn't we'll go back and tool it and hopefully have it ready for Augusta.
 Q. What exactly were you trying to do on 13 on your second shot?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   I was trying to hit a low cut and hit it into the left bunker and it came out high, it came out high and right and caught a limb.
 Q. And then the one that went into the bunker.
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   And I just didn't trust myself to draw it enough on that.  It flew into that tree.  I mean, so if it lands in the fairway it's over a 400-yard drive and it would have been a wedge into the green.
 Q. It hit the tree and dropped down?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, yeah.  I killed it.
 Q. Was that more upsetting than at 6, that it hit the tree and you lost that 400-yard drive?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, I really wanted that one.  I wanted to get 200 ball speed out here this week.  But I got to 199, I'm pleased with that and I'm going to train to get over 200.
 Q. 198 at 13.
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Oh, was it 13?  On 13.
 Q. 198 is what they told me.
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yesterday it was 199 on 10 and 11.
 Q. The guy asked me if 198 is supposed to be good.
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Well it's all relative.  It could go into Narnia, you know, that wouldn't be good.
 Q. How many drivers will you hit as part of this testing process and what exactly will that consist of?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   I don't know how many drivers I'll hit, but I'll hit as many as I need to.  And from a speed training perspective I could probably go upwards of over a thousand to probably two thousand, around two thousand drives the next four weeks trying to get my speed up.  So it takes around 100, 130 to have a good speed training.
 Q. And those will all be 48-inch drivers?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   No, it will be some like weight training stuff, like a little heavier head, little lighter head, just to -- like runners running downhill, right?  Just trying to move faster.  So that will be part of it too.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT