SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 8, 2020
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. What a great day and you certainly got your day started quickly.  Tell us about that run starting at the 12th hole and your outward nine?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, it was a great day to play well.  There's no wind out here for the most part and feel like you can bomb it everywhere and hit wedges close.  And I was lucky enough to make a lot of putts to start off my day.
 Made a great 20-footer on 12 and that kind of jump started everything.
 Great birdie on 15, 16.  And then the birdie on 17 and 18 were stellar, just kept my momentum going.  Even on 1.
 I didn't hit it great today, but I still played really, really good and I'm excited for that.
 Q. You said you didn't hit it great, you hit 16 greens, you gave yourself a lot of opportunities, and I thought two keys to the round were the 1-putt pars at 2 and then at 5?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Correct.  Absolutely.  Making that putt on 2 was huge and on 5 getting that up-and-down, you don't get that up-and-down usually and I was fortunate enough to make a long putt there and keep my momentum going.
 And I hit a great drive on 7 gave myself an opportunity for eagle.
 And then another eagle on 9.
 Felt like I played really well today, just need to clean it up on the range after.
 Q. Specifically what are you going to work on?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Just trying to hit it straighter.  I don't feel like it's super stable through impact and that's what I'm always trying to work on, to get more, be more repeatable out there on the course.
 Q. Tied your low on the PGA TOUR.  Did you have any idea that eagle putt on the last was to shoot your low score?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yes, yes, and I was not happy it didn't go in.  But I'll take a 62, I'm very pleased with how I played today.  Didn't hit it my best, but I put it in the right spots a lot of the times today.  A lot of one-handed finishes, something I'm going to go work on, on the range.  But I putted beautifully hopefully I can keep that up and clean up the driving a little bit.
 Q. Statistically when you say you didn't hit it your best, but you only missed two greens, which part of your game are you really pin pointing there?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   My drives a little bit, mainly the 3-woods off the tee.  I heeled a lot of shots, heel thinned a lot of them off the tee -- but they went straight, luckily.  So still able to get it in the fairway and then hit it on the green with my irons, had a lot of wedges in, and was able to hit a few close today.
 Q. From a condition standpoint how excited were you to attack this course, given where your game is at and the confidence you're playing with?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   For sure.  Came out here today and there was very little wind today and I said this is a go-getting day and I really didn't think too much about it, I just kept trying to keep myself in the flow like I was in the U.S. Open and just pounding forward, just keep making birdies, keep making birdies.
 Q. Coming off the U.S. Open victory there, you hear the conversation, if that guy is at his best, can anyone stay up with him.  With where your game has been over this past month how do you think you now stack up when you're playing near your peak?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   When I'm playing great golf I feel like I've got a great chance to win every week, but that doesn't mean that somebody else is going to play better than me, right?  So -- or they have a chance too, right?
 So either way there's opportunities for them to play better than me, when I'm playing my best, I'm not going to throw that out of the equation, but what I will say is I'm playing well and I feel like I have my golf swing under control and putting well, making a lot of putts.  I feel like I can shoot low on a lot of golf courses and usually that wins tournaments.
 Q. Obviously a bit of fun out there.  We were just talking about it's good to have three power hitters, how did you find that?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   It was fun, it was awesome to play with all two of them, I guess you could say it was all, amazing to see the power that's out here now.  I think that's a testament to the new generation that's coming up and what it's going to be like in the future.
 So we had a lot of fun out there today and I got it past him a couple times, he got it past me a couple times and I'm going to try and hit it harder tomorrow.
 Q. What's the longest iron you hit into a green today?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   I think I hit, it was a 6-iron but it was on 13 was my second shot.
 Q. Par-5?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, I didn't have more than like -- like number 17 I hit 9-iron.
 Q. Okay.  What was your best shot out there today?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   17.
 Q. The drive?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   17.
 Q. Oh, I'm sorry.
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   The par-3.
 Q. Were you aware that you were close to getting the boys on the 7th green?  You couldn't see them from the tee?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   You know, I felt incredibly bad about that, I had no idea that they were on the green.  They were ahead of us all day and I felt like they were off the green on 7 because of the time that we took on a few of the holes before that.
 So that was my mistake and I felt really bad.  I think it was Chesson, I got to go find him and apologize.  It was fun to hit it to 15 feet.
 Q. I think the fact that you didn't hit him, they're probably okay with it.  You had a lot of firsts today.  Your lowest opening round in a tournament, first time you made five consecutive birdies.
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, that's good.
 Q. Have you ever putted for five eagles in a PGA TOUR round before and --
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Was that five eagles?
 Q. You drove for --
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Oh, yeah, that's right.
 Q. You were on the fringe, it's technically a chip, but you putted it.
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   I didn't make any of them, but it makes it easy.  That's five birdies right there and it makes the golf course a lot easier.  I would say that that, you know, not every single one's going to be easy to 2-putt, right?  Like 15 was a difficult 2-putt.  But I would say that lowers the par to 67 out here, and that's just the number for me.  If I shoot 69 or 70 I feel like I shot a couple over.  And it can happen and that's the advantage of power in this game now, that you can do those sorts of things.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT