SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 7, 2020
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Haven't seen you since.  Congratulations.  With your time off since the U.S. Open, at what point did you go from relishing the victory to turning the focus to sharpening your game?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Monday.  That Monday I went to Denver and started working out with Greg immediately.  Got two hours in Monday, two hours in Tuesday, and then flew back to Dallas and started testing some longer shafts.
 That was pretty fun.  Right away.
 Q. What are you testing and what's the game plan as you look to the season's final major?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Yeah, for me it's Augusta.  I'm looking forward to trying to put in a 48-inch driver and see what that can do for the golf course and what opportunities it will present for me.
 It's going well.  I think there is a lot of, I don't know, I guess you could say advantages to having a 48-inch driver and being able to put it in play and keep it in play.
 So working on that.  Still need to get some things worked out, but so far it's been pretty amazing.
 Q. At what point will we see that in competition?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Hopefully Augusta.
 Q. So wouldn't be a tournament prior to that?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   No, I won't unveil that until Augusta.
 Q. Saw you on the range; the video is coming out that you're flying it past 360 here.  This is the first tournament to my memory since the PGA TOUR restarted their schedule that and you added all this length, that your at 2000-plus elevation.  Is there going to be a different plan of attack compared to a couple years ago when you won here?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Oh, for sure.  There will be holes where I'm going to try and drive them, get it up as close to the green as possible.  It's just fun having a 7-iron go 220.  That's unique.  And 4-iron, 265.  There will be holes where I had to hit 3-wood and now I'm hitting 4-iron off the tees.
 Kind of like I would say Atlanta a little bit where I was hitting 3-woods in the past and now hitting 4-irons off the tee, just hitting it as far as everybody else.
 At the same point in time it's about putting, chipping, wedging.  You still got to do everything else really well.  So if I play well, ball strike it well, and putt well, I think I'll have a good chance again.  Love this golf course.
 Q. How many drivable par 4s?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Oh, my gosh.  One, two, three, four, potentially.  Four.  Probably I would say four holes out here that I think I can go for.  1, 10, 15, obviously.
 Q. 7?
 A. 7, and then I think that's it.
 Q. Final question:  We've seen the transformation not just to your body but to your game.  Which part of the process do you enjoy working on the most?
 BRYSON DECHAMBEAU:   Driver.  I think it's the most fun.  You know, I watched Happy Gilmore a little while ago and just re-inspired me to try and hit it as far as possible.
 Yeah, it's pretty good.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT