THE SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SOFTBANK INVESTMENT ADVISERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 15, 2021
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Bryson, thank you for joining us to talk about your participation in the upcoming Saudi International powered by SoftBank Investment Advisers.  You played in the inaugural tournament and you finished tied sixth with four amazing rounds in the 60s.  Can you talk about your memories of that week and what you're looking forward to this year?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Well, I was incredibly excited to play in the inaugural event, Saudi International powered by SoftBank Investment Advisers event, and I really believe that it is a growing place, and it is something that's going to be pretty special in years to come.  What really attracted me to that place was helping to try and grow and develop the game of golf in that area.  I really wanted to do something like that and something I've never done before and I would love to keep doing things like that as well.
I also like the golf course quite a bit, especially since I'm able to hit it the distances I'm now hitting it, I feel like I have an even better advantage on the golf course because it is a bit of a bomber's paradise, and I love that opportunity.  When I played there, I finished sixth.  I have a lot of great memories about the golf course and the character of the holes and being on the Red Sea, it was pretty unique and something that I want to experience again.
THE MODERATOR:   And I notice on your scheduling, this is the only event you're playing on the Middle East swing.  Can you talk about how you made the decision to include Saudi International powered by SoftBank Investment Advisers, coming over to The European Tour and to play that one event.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah, look, times are a little unique and difficult right now, and I think that from my perspective, I still wanted to go and try and help grow and develop the game over in that region.  And I've been to Dubai quite a bit, I love Dubai, I love that area, as well.
But Saudi is a place where I really feel like if we bring a lot of great players and we keep trying to develop that place, we can grow the game of golf in a whole unique way.  That's something I'm looking forward to try and keep doing.
Unfortunately I've got tournaments back on the PGA TOUR that I've got to play and I've also got to rest my body.  A lot of it, too, is trying to rest my body and make sure I'm playing in tournaments that suit my game, as well, my new game, right, it's completely different.  I'm looking at trying to play golf courses where you can miss it a little bit but again, you still have to hit great shots on that golf course.
I will tell you, though, that hitting it far there will be an advantage with some of the par 5s and I think it will fit me well, a lot better than the other golf courses.
THE MODERATOR:   My next question was going to be since the Saudi fans saw you in 2019, you've changed a lot mentally and physically, and you're arriving as a major champion and also somewhat different in physique.  Can you talk about how you think you've changed from 2019 to now and what the fans will see?  And you've mentioned it's going to suit you very well on the course.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah, I think that the biggest change is the size, my size has definitely increased, and also my speed has definitely increased.  When you see me swing the golf club it a lot faster and it's a little different than the last time they were able to see me.
And I play the game a little differently.  I try and bomb it out there and wedge it close and still make a lot of putts, but for the most part you won't see me with a 5-iron in hand into a par 4 that.  Just doesn't happen very often anymore.  I'm going to give myself a lot of opportunities for birdie.  For example, last week, played in Kapalua, and to me, it was a golf course that I felt like I could demolish, and I still didn't putt my best but at the end of the day, it was a completely different golf course.
So when I get there, I think people will see these big drives that are going quite a ways, and they will be like, whoa, that's really unique and different and pretty cool to see and I think people will appreciate that.  I think it's just a cool way to show the game in a new light today, with a lot of the similarities that are going on today, okay, you've got to shoot 20-under par, whatever.  It's cool to see somebody come out and play a different, unique game that can still get the job done and sometimes shoot really, really low because of that advantage.
So that's the experience, from a mindset perspective being a Major Champion, it's a great thing to have under your belt, I'm not going to lie, I wouldn't wish it any other way but you will see somebody that's a little more reserved, somebody that's not as intense, I guess you could say, but I still care just as much as I did in 2019 and years previous to that, as well.
But it's more of just, you know, I have that major championship under my belt and I'm more relaxed and I've got a calm understanding of how my game is, how it's going to play and I'm just going to enjoy the experience a lot more, as well, because of it.
THE MODERATOR:   So it made you more quietly confident, less feeling like you have to talk about why you're doing something?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Exactly.  Not trying to prove my point, just showcasing it, in a sense, saying this is what I'm going to do and how I'm going to do it.
Q. You had mentioned the 210-mile-per-hour ball speed was your intended ceiling.  Just wondering how you came to pinpoint that as the point of diminishing returns.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah, I would say that's where Kyle's at in watching him play golf is pretty different, Kyle Berkshire, I don't know if you know who he is, the reigning world long drive champion and longest in the world.  He's one of the longest in the world, and I think watching him play golf, playing golf with him, there's not much more you can really gain.  He's hitting driver on par 5s that are 540 yard and having a gap wedge in.
I mean, he's not going to gain an extra 140 yards, and even if he did he would be hitting 3-wood on par 4s.  It just doesn't rationally make sense, unfortunately.  For me I think where he's kind of at, around that 210-mile-an-hour ball speed, playable with a 45-inch driver as I saw him do yesterday and the day before as we were working together, it is something that is definitely achievable and intriguing to me, and I feel like once you get to that point, it's kind of the end of the road to me, there's not really much more, nor is it a reason to gain because you're driving par 4s at that point.
Q. And then just a quick follow-up, I was wondering how close have you come to that 210-mile-per-hour ball speed?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah, so I've reached it a few times actually, but the difference is I can get up there with 150 golf balls of training, really working hard and swinging as hard as I can for a long amount of time.
But when you get to the golf course, you have to hit it straight, right.  It's a completely different perspective change that I have to have on the golf course.
For example, at Kapalua last week, I actually got to 211 on the driving range on Wednesday, and then when I got to the golf course, I got it over 200 in a practice range session before I went out but when I get out to the golf course, it was 193, 194.  That just shows you how the brain reigns you in going, no, I need to hit it straight because I'm a professional golfer and I still need to keep it in play every hole.
So you kind of lose that ability to just free yourself up and let it go.  As of right now, I'm trying to learn how to bring that lower end up to where it's around 200 today because I can get it over 200 no problem.  It's just about how can I get that on a golf course now.
Q. Just away from Saudi for a moment, just wondering what your reaction was to The PGA of America moving next year's PGA Championship away from Trump Bedminster, please.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I know there's a lot of stuff going on today and I won't really talk too much about relationships or anything like that.
Again I'm really excited to play in the Saudi International powered by SoftBank Investment Advisers.  It's unfortunate and it is what it is and I understand it.  At the end of the day, whatever their moves are, they are.  I really don't have a comment.  I'm still going to go play a golf course and try to do my best no matter where it is.
Q. I understand you were at the opening of the clubhouse at Ferry Point, back in 2018, 2019, so you've had a relationship with the President.  Do you think it's fair that the PGA have done this?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah, again, look, I'm not going to comment on it.  This is a very tough time in this world right now and I won't make a comment on any relationships that I have on that.
Q. Do you find your main motivation, your main objective in all of the things and the speed you're chasing, etc., is it all to become the best player in the world?  Is that the main purpose?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Absolutely.  That's always been my goal.  I've always tried to find a distinct advantage in my life to be a better golfer.  When I was a junior golfer, I wasn't the best golfer, junior golfer out there.  There's plenty of other better golfers than me and I always had to feel like I had to work twice was hard to be just as good as some of the best junior golfers in the world.  And I think that work ethic, that determination to try and keep getting better allowed me to try and find distinct and unique ways to become better, and so with these new ideas, these different thoughts, the one-length irons, all these different thoughts, I'm always trying to be the best version of myself and be the best player in the world.  There's no doubt about that.
Q. I was just curious if the achievements that you do, if it brings you more satisfaction on like a ranking or being an innovator, being looked upon as an innovator.  I guess what thrills you more?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   They both thrill me.  I would say they equally thrill me, but right now the goal is to be No. 1 in the world.  I feel like I've set myself up pretty nicely to do that if I consistently keep putting it well, wedging it well and iron playing it well, and driving as far as I am; I think over time, hopefully the law of averages will play out in my favor.
Q. I was interested to hear you say you felt you could demolish Kapalua.  I think you probably felt the same way about Augusta.  When it doesn't quite work out that way, does it ever make you second-guess yourself, and if not, what sort of changes does it lead you to?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   That's a great question.  I think I have to look back on what went wrong, what happened, what happened that didn't allow me to perform at the highest level like I did at the U.S. Open.  My driving wasn't the longest at the U.S. Open but I putted amazing, I wedged it amazing.  My iron play was incredible and I drove it pretty well.
So objectively as I look at Augusta and as I look at Kapalua, there were plenty of opportunity that I missed with wedging, putting, and iron play.  I wouldn't say it was necessarily the driver that got me into trouble for the most part but definitely there were times where my putter and my wedges and my iron play did.
So I have to keep working on that as I increase the speed and that's how I objectively look at it, whenever I don't do my best, there are reasons for it.  It's not like the driving is going to be the ultimate answer and the reason for winning every single tournament.  There's plenty of issues of not putting well or wedging it well or iron playing well and that's stuff I've always got to work on and try and fix.
Q. You mentioned the goal is No. 1 in the world.  I think Dustin has built up the biggest lead we've seen for five or six years.  How long is it going to take you to reign that back?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I don't know exactly how the World Rankings works.  I mean, I do understand it but I don't understand the actual, like, all the variables that are included in the system and how to maximize my odds at becoming No. 1.
What I'm going to have to do is win a lot of tournaments and play well in a lot of events when I do play in them.  Top 10s are great, but look, you have to be winning events to be No. 1 in the world and that's something I've got to work on doing.
THE MODERATOR:   How important is it to have the world No. 1, where Dustin is playing, also, in Saudi, does that make it more special?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Absolutely.  Having a world No. 1 putts a little fire my belly.  I want to go over there and play and beat him.  I was fortunate enough to clip him by one or two in Kapalua and if I keep doing that, if I keep beating him in every event, eventually the tables will turn.
Q. You mentioned earlier about the need for extra recovery time with what you're putting yourself through now, mainly off the course.  Has that added a certain degree of difficulty in terms of working out a schedule?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Absolutely.  Absolutely.  Normally I would have played Sony because I was already over there but I decided not to for personal reasons, to try and get stronger, get healthier and be able to sustain longer periods of time of swinging it fast.  That was the first time I was over 200 miles an hour on the driving range for an extended period of time throughout the whole week.  Every practice session I went to, I was over 200 on my driver.  It was the first time I've ever done that, and it's taken a toll on my body that I eventually will get used to.
But I have to get used to it by taking care of my body at home and making sure it's going in the right direction.  That's why I have a guy like Greg Roskopf who I'm able to go up and see, which I'm going to see on Monday and Tuesday, make sure we're going in the right direction.  Every time I go see him, I come out way better than when I went in to see him, this is where I have to plan accordingly.  It does increase the difficulty factor a little bit but I'm willing to take on the challenge.
Q. Your schedule, is it currently set in stone or are there certain events where in the build up, you think, hey, I'm feeling okay this week, I will go for it?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah, I would say it's more fluid than set in stone and for that exact reason which you just described.  I don't want to make sure that I'm going too hard and I wear myself out, and then going into a major I'm dead tired.  I want to be preparing myself for the major championships and the big events of the year.
Q. I just wonder, if you were setting up a golf course, how would you set it up to combat the distance that you can achieve?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   That's a great question.  I think as you look at golf courses like RBC Heritage or Colonial, you look at those golf courses that are more short, tight, whatnot, and even East Lake where you have a bunch of cross-bunkers in front of the green, you look at those types of golf courses, that's really the only way to combat it on any level.
But I would say still if I'm hitting a 4-iron off the tee when somebody is hitting a 3-wood I would still classify that as a pretty good advantage.  You're just not going to the same dispersion value with a 3-wood as you are a 4-iron.
So no matter what, you really can't combat the distance.  You can kind of control it a little bit with setting up cross-bunkers short of the green where you can't run stuff up like I could at the U.S. Open at Winged Foot.  But I would say it is a strategic golf course where you have to hit irons off the tee and you have to keep it in play.  That would be the only way to do so.  Even at that point, I still have an advantage when I'm hitting my 8-iron 200 to 205 yards.  No matter what, that's a huge advantage.
Sp it's really tough to combat distance.  I don't think it will ever truly be controlled or combatted.  You can kind of mitigate it a small amount with the types of courses you build and the way you put in these hazards.  But it's a very difficult thing to do and I don't think it will ever fully be figured out.
Q. And just a thought on your travels to Saudi Arabia.  Obviously in the current health situations, do you have any concerns?  What do you do to keep yourself safe in the current climate in terms of international travel?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Well, absolutely.  You think about it, I really want to play in this event, and so it's a couple weeks before the event now and I'm starting to control kind of where I'm going, make sure that I'm protected, make sure that I'm focused on my health and in the right places, not in a social environment that's at all at risk to giving me the coronavirus.
So these are things that I'm thinking of leading into the event, and making sure that I'm testing and feeling well every single day.  So testing however much they want us to test and also really taking an internal check of what's going on and working out when I can.
Obviously having a gym at home is really helpful but being able to work out on my own and keep my immune system up is something that will help protect me, as well.  So those few factors I think are very important with anybody leading into an event like this and making sure that we're all healthy so that we can play and entertain and have a great time but also do it in a healthy way.
Q. Haven't had a chance to talk to you since the Masters, and you weren't feeling well there.  Did you ever get an answer on what happened there physically?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   So that's a great question.  I actually went to multiple doctors, multiple people, trying to figure out what this was.  I got a bunch of MRI -- I got a couple MRIs.  Went to an inner ear doctor, eye tests, eye pressure, ear pressure, even did ultrasound on my heart, ultrasounds on my neck to see the blood flow and how things were moving through the different areas of my body, and everything came back really, really well.
The one thing I will tell you is that I've done a lot of brain training with Neuropeak, and the frontal lobe of my brain was working really, really hard and that's kind of what gave me some weird symptoms, like crazy overworking.
So as I started to relax my brain a little bit and just get into a more comfortable situation and got on a really good sleep schedule routine, a lot of those symptoms went away and they come back every once in a while but as I do a lot of breathing, it goes away and that's really what I'm focused on trying to do.  I'm really working on gut health right now.  I think there could be something there.  We've registered some pretty good inflammation in the stomach just from the massive changes I've made this past year.  When you're trying to change anything, you're always going to have something on the back end happen that may or may not be good for you.
As of right now it wasn't really great for me and my stomach but I'm working out how to figure out how to optimize it to the best I possibly can so that I have the best health moving forward and we're doing it in the right way.  I guess you could say it was a dirty weight gain bulk.  I've started to lean out over the past, I guess you could say, month, still trying to have strength gains while maintaining good muscle mass, good muscle size and strength, as well, and power, as well.  That's what I'm trying to develop is a lot of power now.  It's going to come through eating well, eating right and feeding my body with the right sources to make sure this head stuff doesn't ever come back.
Q. I'm not a neurologist, but was any of that stress-related, knowing how much attention was going to be on you at Augusta?  Did that have any factor?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Well, I'm absolutely sure it was a part of it.  I wouldn't say it was the full bit.  There were things that I was doing, there was some -- we were trying to mess with the gut a little bit back then, putting in some, what were they, they were probiotics, I think, pre- and probiotics that I was changing just to change some of the gut stuff that we had measured that was off, and I started to feel really weird after that.
So there was that, the stress of the tournament, and you know, just the spotlight, the whole thing.  Yeah, it all took a toll, whether it was that specific thing, I don't think it was exactly that specific thing but it was a combination of a few things that escalated my brain, overworking and just giving out, ultimately just giving out, unfortunately.
Q. Luke Donald got to world No. 1 with a short game; he couldn't hit the ball like you.  When you were deciding what to do to get better, did you ever think about going the other path, which was spending all your time, the time you spend on long game on short game and then worry about driver later?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah, that's a great question.  I did think about that.  I talked to Chris Como a lot about that.  We considered multiple options.  We said, okay, how could I be like Jordan Spieth in 2015, right, how could I be like Luke Donald when he was world No. 1.  How easy could it be to get to those places.
And considering my wedge game and the state that it is right now and with the knowledge that we know and the roads that I've gone down, I really didn't think that wedging was going to be something that I could get really, really good at really quick within a year.
Putting, I had already gotten pretty good with putting.  Last year I think I was Top-10 in the world on the PGA TOUR for strokes gained and I've consistently gotten better with putting and that was always sort of a gradual improvement.  The biggest room for improvement I saw and Chris saw was on driving.  We just thought to ourselves, what if you could hit it 350, 360 every single time down the middle of the fairway.  Did I think that was going to be easy?  No.
But I felt like with Greg Roskopf behind me, the ability to fix my body when stuff went sour, I felt like all that was a tremendous opportunity to gain a lot of strokes off the tee.  And so that's kind of the route we ultimately decided and I thought it would be the most fun, too.  It's great hitting putts and making wedge shots close but it's really fun hitting it far.
That's kind of the culmination of events that occurred that allowed me to make that decision.
Q. And you were just talking about all the things that happened at Augusta and you said driving the ball is fun, but are you actually enjoying this Bryson DeChambeau on the golf course versus the Bryson DeChambeau that could eat hamburgers and not worry about going to bed late and all that other stuff?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Personally I like this Bryson version better.  I feel like in the long run I'm giving myself a better opportunity to live a better, healthier, long life.  Most people think, too, swinging it this fast, I'm going to get injured.  I would actually say the converse is that I've got the more ability to prevent injury because I can tolerate so much force.
So this is the part of it where I really believe -- I talked to Kyle about this.  He goes, "Everybody thinks I'm going to get injured all the time," and he's been lucky enough not to; maybe because he's young, definitely be could the answer.  He's definitely told me, "I feel like I can tolerate so much more force now throughout my body just because I've swung a golf club."  He's swung drivers 15,000 times in 2019, and so he's been able to learn how to tolerate those forces.
So as time goes on, I really think this is a better way, personally, for me to live a longer, healthier life, so yes, I don't really miss the old Bryson too much.  I fell like I'm in a better place in life because of it.
Q. You were such a nice guy two, or three years ago, the scientist, and now a winner and I think it's a very different position.  Do you feel bigger pressure from your colleagues?  What can you do for it mentally?  And anything you need to learn mentally?  Do you have a mental trainer?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I would say from my players that are playing against me, it's not too much of a mental toll on me or them.  It's just kind of is what it is for the most part.  We don't really -- we think it's cool, it's fun, but again, guys are still out there beating me.  They are putting better.  They are chipping it better.  They are hitting their irons better, even though I'm driving it really well.  I don't think it's too big of a deal on that end.
On the mental side of it, I mean, I'm really working with Chris Como on it with this new game and new approach.  I would say I'm focusing on my health in regards to my body, more importantly, because if my body feels good, my mental game is going to be good.  I'm comfortable with everything.  "I feel really comfortable," that's what I'll say on the golf course and it's all because my body feels good, not because I'm positive or anything like that.
Definitely winning a major has helped ease a lot of things but I still have the same passion to win tournaments and that will never change.  But I would say for the most part, on the mental side of it, it has been a culmination of, I don't really feel like I have to prove anything anymore and it's also my body feels really, really good compared to three years ago when I was laying in bed and I couldn't get out of bed.  It was almost four years ago now, three or four years ago.  And so my body has improved.  My mindset has improved.  I just feel like I'm in a way better place in life now.
Q. A lot of focus, obviously, on the distance you're hitting the ball and your size and your strength.  Most of the pros I've mentioned your name to and spoken to about what you're doing, they all pick out your putting as the thing they would really like to emulate.  What do you think about what you've done with your putting and how do you think you can make more gains in that area this year?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   It's funny you say that.  I actually have the SIK putter guys, SIK golf, I'm actually working with them today on putting.  We're going to be working on launch, roll, how to be more consistent with my acceleration profile.
But then this has been a culmination of three years of work, three or four years of work with the SIK guys now and finding a putter that works for me and finding a style that works with me; really getting comfortable with my speed control.  As you guys know at Winged Foot, my speed control was unbelievable.  But again, I built a speed control profile and acceleration profile for Winged Foot and for those green speeds.
And so when you get to different green speeds, I'm not as comfortable with it.  So right now we're working on how can I go to different greens and adapt a lot better.  That's the main thing for me right now.  That's where I can make the most gains in putting still.  I feel like I'm really good at hitting it on my line, really good at reading greens but the better where I can control my speed where I'm having it lay two feet past the hole every single time; the amount of the green speed, if it's slower or faster than Winged Foot, that's what I'm looking for.
I've always putted good on really, really fast greens but I want to be putting really, really good on slow and even faster greens than Winged Foot, and that's something -- that's just what we're working on.  But yes, it is great for players to recognize that my putting has been a really great attribute of my game because it was never great growing up.  So it's something I've had to work really hard on and I'm going to keep working hard on it.
Q. Just as a follow-up to that, just wondering, the arm-lock style, how important is that for you and would any kind of rule change be a major reverse for you?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   No.  If they ever did rule-change that, I still think that there are ways to lock the body, lock the wrists in.  You look at Arnold Palmer back in the day and his wrists, or Hogan or even Jack Nicklaus, how he putted.  There are ways to lock the wrists in on your own.  It will never be governed unfortunately, but fortunately for me and the rest of the golfers out there, I think it's great.  If you find a way, if players find a way to put themselves in a position that allows them to repeat motion more consistently, then good on them.  That's just being innovative and smart about how they are approaching a certain part of the game, which I think is part of the game.  It's a thinker's game, right.  That's what golf is.
I think it won't be that big of a deal.  I'll always find a way to make myself comfortable on the golf course hitting putts.
Q. Probably one of the big changes, as well as your strength and size and power is your profile in the game compared to when you were last in Saudi Arabia, how important is it is it for help grow the game in these emerging markets?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah, I think it's one of the most important moves we can all make.  Being able to travel the world and go to a place like Saudi Arabia and showcase the best players in the world is something that helps ultimately grow the game worldwide.
I think it's important for us top players in the world to do that so that we can show the world, hey, we care about you guys, we care about everyone else, we want to see this game grow, we want to see it flourish.  We're not going to be here forever and we want others in the world to see how great this game can be, not only just for fun but to create amazing relationships for the future.  That's what the game of golf is truly about and that's what I respect and honor about this game, this great game that we play.
Q. There's a lot of young Saudis in the country, a bit like you, that love their gaming, but why should they get into golf?  What's so special about golf?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Well, again, I think I alluded to it a little bit in the last question.  It's not just about playing a game and enjoying it.  It's about creating amazing relationships that can last a lifetime.  I know kids growing up playing junior golf against each other and we are friends to this day, even though they may be in the business world or whatever.  I've created amazing relationships and I think other people create amazing relationships because of the game, and that's what's most important in life, in general, in humans is that we do recognize the fact that relationships are the most important thing that we have in this life.  And as we keep growing them and growing the friendships, we can create a better bond and bring in humans together.
Q. A lot of people are surprised about the beauty of the Royal Greens Golf and Country Club in Saudi Arabia.  The 16th has been described by a lot of the lady golfers on the Ladies European Tour event in November as one of the most beautiful holes they have played at.  What are your memories of the course and were you surprised about the beauty of it?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Absolutely I was.  The clubhouse is immaculate.  The golf course was in amazing shape when I was there and I'm sure it will be when I get there, too, in a few weeks.
And I'll also say, too, I was looking at before pictures of that area and region of Saudi Arabia and seeing the golf course after, how beautiful it is, and being on the Red Sea, just the views you have of the Red Sea, it's immaculate.  Something that can't really be replicated anywhere else to be honest, especially with the Red Sea being there and how it's orientated on the golf course and just the ability to go out on the golf course and see greenery and see landscaping.  They have done an amazing job and that's what I appreciate and look forward to seeing again.
Q. For newcomers to golfer in Saudi Arabia, how would you describe your game simply?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I love to hit it really far and I like to make a lot of putts.  That's as simple as I could put it.
Q. You spoke earlier about how swinging the club at 200 miles an hour just now has taken a toll on your body.  Is that sheer tiredness?  Is it the odd twinge?  Give us an idea how you felt the week after Kapalua?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   It's fatigue.  It's total endurance.  I don't have the endurance to be able to swing that fast for that long and be comfortable with it.
For example, we can all swing it around, you know, 50 miles an hour and never take a toll on your bodies or we can walk a golf course and it really doesn't take that much of a toll on our body.  But if you were to sprint around a golf course, what if you were to swing it 135 miles an hour every single time with a driver for a week straight.  It takes a totally different toll on your body and your body has to get comfortable with being uncomfortable, so that eventually it doesn't become a stress on you at the end of the day.
So I'm just still in the middle ground of it trying to make myself comfortable with these speeds and eventually it will get there to where it's not a stress on me anymore but it's going to take a complete change in my nervous system to be comfortable with it and it just going to take a little bit of time but it not a swing.  It's nothing like that.
Whenever twinges do occur I'm able to go back and fix them with Greg which has been amazing, and decrease inflammation in the body that way.
Q. As you continue to go down this route, is it a fine line that you're treading in terms of the physical side of your body?  Is it a fine line that you can't step over that line and you could be in trouble physically going forward?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I will always pull myself out of the rabbit hole if I ever go too far one way.  So if it gets to the point where I start twinging all the time I will try to fix that aspect of it before I try and move forward.  It's always a very cautious approach to when I'm speed training and when I'm trying to gain distance.  If I go down a road and try to fix something and it keeps going wrong, I will not move any farther until I fix that issue.  So that's the whole thing.
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks to everyone for joining.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT