PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2020
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  JOHN DEVER:   Good afternoon, welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship.  We are pleased to be joined by Bryson DeChambeau, opened with a 68 today.
 Bryson, quick start.  4-under through, I believe, 11 holes or so, and then did you feel like you lost momentum there, left a shot or two out there, perhaps?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah, absolutely.  I think the golf course changed dramatically on the back nine, and it was one of those things that you almost got to be careful and cautious.  I hit 4-iron off of 15, and the wind just blew it really hard to the right.  The fairway got firm, and got an unfortunate spot.  It just seemed like, you know, we were grinding to finish.  The golf course showed its teeth, and you know, we took the brunt of it.
 I think tomorrow, hopefully in the morning, we can come out early and hopefully there's not too much wind, we can take advantage and shoot a low score tomorrow.
 Q. So how long have you had that driver?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   It's over a year.
 Q. That's what you've been hitting basically this whole time?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   All my speed training, everything.  At some point, material is material.  You keep wearing it and using it like that, you know, stuff is going to break down.  I'm just glad it lasted this long.  That's a testament to how good their product actually is, and being able to switch it out and put a new one right back in play in a major championship and stripe one on 9, that's pretty impressive.  That shows how good their product is.
 Q. Scotty said he heard a weird sound, but it sounded like you were pretty surprised.
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   I didn't really hear it because, me, I'm in the moment trying to hit the shot.  Definitely the ball did not react proper.  I hit it out to the right, felt like I drew it and the ball went to the right and spun up like crazy.  I'm like, that's not normal.
 So it was surprising, and then I just went over to pick up my tee, leaned on it a little, and the thing just, see ya later.  Scott and Rickie said, that did not sound normal, and so I was fortunate to get some help on that and be able to switch out shafts and played decent coming in.
 Q. When that happens, how anxious are you when you hit the very next drive after it snaps?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Well, the nice part about it is that I've used that shaft on the practice range this week, testing, just making sure I have backup shafts.  I pretty much do that every week for the most part because I know I'm swinging it this fast, something is going to happen sometime.  It's just -- you know, it's just going to happen.  You just swing it that fast.  For me I was able to hit some balls on the range this week and I had no issues with the shaft and I knew it was going to work.
 Q. During your testing, did this happen to any other of the -- I'm guessing it wasn't the actual shaft.  Was it the neck?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   No, it was the actual shaft.  It was at the bottom of it.  Again, it's through wear and tear.  This material isn't going to last forever, no matter how strong you make it, but that thing has lasted over a year swinging it over 200-mile-an-hour ball speeds.  I'd say it's done pretty dang well and then again, to be able to put another shaft right back in and have that thing perform amazing, it just shows amazing that company is and they're able to produce amazing product, consistent product.
 Q. I know you've been playing without fans, but it's strange to see you come off 18 green in front of 20 or 30 people.  Did it seem strange at all today, and does it affect you guys in any certain ways?  I'm thinking about guys who lost balls, for example, that maybe would have been found by fans.  Any other examples like that?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Well, I think the only other example is trampled grass potentially, for the fans helping us out in that regard.  Personally I would love to have fans out here.  They're what create an amazing environment, and not having them for a major championship is kind of a downer, but at the same time, we understand and respect all the regulations that we have to implement considering the environment we are in today.  I'd also say that I'm looking forward to them coming back.  It's going to be a lot of fun when they can get back out there and amp us up.
 Q. Would you always have a backup shaft for your driver with you?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yes.
 Q. At every tournament?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yes.  Hundred percent.
 Q. That's just standard?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yes.  Yeah.  Hundred percent.
 Q. Did you have to be careful about how you adjusted it when you put it back on --
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah.
 Q. -- it had to be the same --
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Has to be, yeah.
 Q. Obviously you knew what it was --
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah.
 Q. -- but it sounded like they said something about that they made -- that you had to make sure that it was the right one --
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah.  I just put --
 Q. Is it automatic?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   Yeah, it's automatic.  I just put it right back in.  I knew if I would have changed it, that would be a problem.  So I wasn't going to do that.  Absolutely not.
 Q. You said you used the shaft for a long, long time.  Is it the same club head or you had different club heads in there?
 BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU:   It's the same club head.  The head has been -- the Speedzone driver, I've been using that thing for at least three or four months now, with all these speeds.
 Again, it's a testament to the product and the companies that I'm with and how amazing and consistent, stable and strong they are, to be honest with you.  Yeah, I think that's it.  I don't know.
 JOHN DEVER:   Bryson, thanks for coming over and have a good evening, sir.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT