WGC MEXICO CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2020
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You gave us such a thrill with those five birdies in a six-hole stretch. There are a lot of positives to take out of today.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, absolutely. I feel like still a few things I've got to worse on that are in the arsenal that could even be better, that could make it to where I don't have the day like I did yesterday and I'm leaps and bounds ahead of the lead; I don't have to worry about what went on the last few holes. It was just a little bit unfortunate, but that's okay.
Q. Did you struggle with the green speeds today?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, it seemed like it was coming off pretty hot, and then a couple putts came out where it just didn't roll. So I've got to rethink what's going on with the putting a little bit, with the speed, and figure out what's going on. I don't know yet.
Q. Classy move for you to cross the bridge and be there to congratulate Patrick. A lot of momentum for you headed to THE PLAYERS.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Thank you. It was a lot of fun. He deserves it. He fought really hard and ultimately beat me.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: The last two weeks I've put myself in contention to win. I feel like the game, driver is coming back, which is awesome. Irons are starting to get there. Mis-hit a couple iron shots coming in. I've just got to work on that. There's a couple reasons for that.
And unfortunately 17 happened today. I hit a good shot up there, I didn't try to do anything, it just got caught by the wind and spun off the hill, and ended up having a long putt in.
Unfortunately my speed was off today, and that's the tournament right there. If I don't three-putt I win. At the end of the day I've got to look back on it as a positive no matter what, and look forward to Arnold Palmer.
Q. Why did you go back and congratulate Patrick?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Because he's a great player. There's been a lot of stuff said in past years, I guess you could say, with him, and even with me, I feel like unfortunately sometimes we get quite a bad rap. And yeah, there's things that we've done that hasn't been right, but we haven't got really gotten the best rap. We're still trying to provide great entertainment for everyone. He's a great player, and he'll be a great player for a long time, and I have a lot of respect for his game.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I mean, look, I guess you could say we're coworkers, right, and we understand each other's pain sometimes, and so it was a fun battle, and again, looking back on my game, I feel like there's a couple things that I need to tighten up in order for me to win. It was very close.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT