WGC MEXICO CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2020
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. From our perspective the game looked easy to you out there. What was it like from your perspective?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, it was a lot of fun. Surely when you have days like that you can't help but smile out there, and making those putts the way I did, striking the ball the way I did, it's surely a joy out there.
Q. You started on 10. Did you feel some momentum on the 18th hole starting to turn in your game?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Absolutely. I think when this putt rolled in perfectly, I just felt super confident on the greens, and I just kept the momentum going on the front nine.
Q. How about the birdie putt on 11?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, that was not easy. I hit it up there short of the green, chipped it up, thought it was going to roll all the way there, it didn't, but was able to hit it right in the middle and make birdie there, which was nice.
Q. And then you followed it up with another birdie attempt on 2.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, I hit a good chip shot and it just didn't spin and it ran out 15 feet by, but I was able to hit a great putt and didn't think it was getting there, but it got there.
Q. The par-3 third, that's a difficult hole location.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I was trying to actually play a little towards the middle of the green. I drew it in there beautifully, was able to stick it past the flag, and I knew if I stuck it just a little past the flag it would come back, and that wasn't an easy putt, either, it was a little three-foot slider, and I couldn't hit it too hard because if you hit it two feet past the hole, it was gone.
Q. Birdie there, so that was four in a row. Talk about your second at 5.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, this is actually pretty funny. I needed a restroom after that shot, so I went to the restroom after that shot and was able to knock that putt in. But it was just one of those things that -- it was nice to make that.
Q. And then the putt on 6, you were putting the ball so beautifully this round.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, it has been unbelievable. I hit a little bit of an unfortunate third shot there but was able to make a 20-footer, which was great.
Q. How about this one on 7?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I just threw my hands up in the air. I didn't know. I mean, come on, who thinks I'm going to make this one. But I surely was able to with perfect speed, and Matt just looked at me, and he was like, what are you doing, go get a lottery ticket or something.
Q. Yesterday you made over 122 feet of putts, today even better, 143 feet, four inches. How would you describe the confidence you have over the ball right now?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, what do you think? The confidence has got to be high. It is high, and it's a lot of fun to see putts finally going in. I'm going to go out and do my work like I normally do, just a couple minutes, go putt a little bit, hit some balls, but overall everything is going pretty well, firing on all cylinders.
Q. The laser that you use that we talked about on the broadcast, what does that do for your game?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, it helps the face to path relationship. I think it's called Laser Putt. That's funny, we just needed an umbrella today. I felt bad for Connor, but it was nice to be able to have him there with a shadow and me stroking a putt and seeing the laser and how it points and takes to the chalk line. I think it's called Laser Focus.
Q. Is that more for your line or more for your stroke?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It's for face to path, so it's for everything. So it shows how I'm taking it back, how I'm going through it, and then the face orientation. It's not a dot, it's a line for a laser, and that just shows me how it's orientating around that chalk line, which is great.
Q. Just to clarify, you didn't grow up liking putting on these greens --
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Mm-mm.
Q. So what's different this week?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Well, you know, I would say for starters, I haven't been putting bad. The balls just haven't been going in the hole. I haven't necessarily been reading them correctly. I feel like this week I'm seeing the greens really, really well, seeing how they're breaking, how it's going to go in, what speed I need, and I don't know, it's just one of those things where this week they're going in.
I'm going to hopefully keep them going in just because of what I've been doing on the greens, practicing my speed, working diligently on that and practicing my starting lines, and that's really all you can do out here. If you can read the greens good with that, you're going to be putting pretty good.
Q. You've talked a lot about wanting to gain distance and so forth, but obviously accuracy took a little bit of a backseat for a time, but that seems to have come around. What have you sort of done to improve that, I guess?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: The secret is not telling you. I'm not telling you. (Laughs.)
Q. Kind of along those same lines, and this is sort of an esoteric question, but the distance report came out and it seemed like they focused a lot on equipment. You're hitting the ball a lot longer this year. I don't know what equipment changes you made, but it seems like it's more of a physical transformation than anything. Would you agree with that?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, no matter what tools we're going to be playing with, there are going to be people that are pushing the limits. You've got Rory that can absolutely hit it a country mile. I'm starting to get there. No matter what anyone does, no matter what the governing bodies do, there's always going to be people in this game trying to push the limits of their own bodies, and so there's going to be people that hit it really, really far and there's going to be people that just don't hit it as far, and that's it.
Q. How would you describe the atmosphere here?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Super supportive. Everybody has incredibly supportive and positive throughout every day that I've been here. It's surely been fun, and it's a different atmosphere than in the States. I've taken some crud, I guess you could say, in the past year, and so it's nice to come to a place where people are really supportive, supportive of you and appreciate what you do.
Q. Was last year playing here kind of a learning experience as far as altitude?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, absolutely. We were going into it blind. I had no idea, so we were trying to figure it out on the fly, and I didn't have the right equipment for me, and this year I do, and at least I've got a lot of the pieces of the puzzle for my bag that are working really, really well out here.
Q. You didn't change something specifically for this week because of the altitude, did you?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Last year we did and this year we didn't. I changed the balls to a spinnier ball last year, and this year we haven't. The Bridgestone ball, the Tour BX, is playing really, really consistent in different altitudes. It's unique. Last year it went down to spin that I couldn't control, and this year's ball is spinning a good couple hundred RPMs less, and it's incredible what they've done on it. I don't know what they did, but it's some really good stuff.
Q. On holes 1 through 7 you had six birdies; can you walk us through the momentum you had going into the back nine?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I didn't know where I was in the world. I was lost. I just kept going, and they just kept going in. It was one of those things that I just kept executing shots and the ball kept going in the hole. It's fun when you get those moments going. It doesn't happen all the time, but surely it was a joy to play today.
Q. Your shot of the day?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: The shot of the day? Well, it's got to be the putt on 7. That was awesome. I hit a great 7-iron right into the middle of the green, just bounced it a little past there. Obviously you don't want to be short on that hole, and I left myself a 45-footer, and was able to hit a putt, and I saw Bernd's ball go in the hole because he made a bunker shot, made it out of the bunker and was kind of on the same line, and I said, okay, that's kind of where it needs to go, and I hit it on that line and had perfect speed and went in, and that was a fun, fun putt.
Q. I remember last year I think after the second or third round, you stayed after that the round and were putting and on the range. Did you take some notes that you could remember to help you this year?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: No, we really didn't. Each week is new. We have tools in my bag, and I guess you could say Tim, my caddie, does a great job of having notes from previous years, and you could say yardages. But I'm a different person this year, so we had to redo all the yardages this week. From the greens we just have our stimp chart and putt off of -- it's a stimp 10, it's a stimp 11, whatever, each week, so there's nothing different in that aspect.
Q. On the last putt, if you would have had a birdie you would have tied the course record. Did you know that or --
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: No, I had no idea. I was just trying to shoot my lowest ever, and I didn't, but it was close. It was close.
Q. Other than how you putted today, what part of your game are you sort of most pleased with?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Wedges. Wedges and driving accuracy. It doesn't really show it out here, but I'm hitting it straighter than I ever have in two, three years.
Q. How close is it to where you want it or where you're trying to get to?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: With the driver or with the wedges?
Q. Both.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: With the wedges we're 90 percent there, with the driver we're 90 percent there. We've still got room for improvement, which is cool. I just made a lot of putts today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT