WGC MEXICO CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2020
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. If you look at your numbers, you had 119 feet in holed putts here in round 1. That is outstanding.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Thanks. It was a little different than last year. Again, I feel like I'm rolling it well. I rolled it well at Riv, just putts didn't drop there, and today they dropped quite a bit, and hopefully I'll keep that momentum going.
Q. I saw you warming up with a teaching aid on the shaft of your putter. Tell me about that.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, shoot, I even forgot the name, but it's essentially just a laser, and I put it on a chalk line and I just stroke it and make sure my face path is proper.
Q. Did the wind and altitude really affect the golf today?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It's a very difficult day to play golf. Rory shooting 6-under is doable. I didn't capitalize on a couple of key holes and messed up on a few easy holes, but overall it was a difficult golf course to play today, and again, it's about hitting a lot of fairways out here and hitting greens, and if you hit the driver straight and you're hitting it long, it's even more of a benefit.
Q. You're putting so well. Same greens as last week. I'm sure growing up in California you like these types of greens --
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: No.
Q. You don't?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: No, I played on perfect bent at River Bend. It's now called Dragonfly. They were the most perfect greens in Central Valley, so I was accustomed to really good greens, actually, surprisingly. When I went over to Monterey I didn't have the right loft or anything, and I would consequently putt really bad, and it actually made me feel like I was a bad putter growing up, and it was part of the reason why I struggled with a bunch of my stuff in college, and then I realized there was a better way to putt. I think it just allows me a little bit more comfort, and I'm putting well doing what I'm doing and have the right launch out there, and it's nice, too, with being able to tap down spike marks. That helps a lot. So utilizing that, which is appropriate -- you should be able to do that. If nobody else was there and you were just putting, you wouldn't have that. That's nice to be able to do that.
Made a couple good putts -- long one on 3. I couldn't believe I made it. I hit a 9-iron in the bunker, plugged that far into the ground. I did not think I was going to get out of it, go down to the green and made a 45-footer. That was a great way to start the day.
Q. Also I noticed your assistant holding a towel --
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It's just to see the line. It's literally just to see the line. If not it's a little difficult to see in the light. It's an even more powerful laser but then it becomes illegal through federal law. Can't do that.
Q. How difficult did the wind make this golf course today?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Twice as hard. Twice as hard. I felt like I played some incredible golf. I made a couple mistakes, didn't birdie 12, didn't birdie 1, bogeyed 16, bogeyed 10. You flip those, I'm leading.
Q. What makes putting on these greens whether it's here or last week, what's the challenge?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It's just the inconsistency of the roll, unfortunately. I think they're better than last year, but it's one of those things, isn't it a weed or something like that, and so it's just difficult. It doesn't grow even, so you've got some spots that are a little splotchy. Hey, that's the grow of the green. It's literally the way it works.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT