OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 24, 2020
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very few players on your side of the draw are in the top-20. You're the best of them at 7-under. What's pleased you most about your play so far?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well my wedge game has been immaculate, my putting has been for the most part a success, and iron play has kept me in the proper place. Hit a couple nice drives today and getting better with my driving, just got to iron out a couple more things when the pressure gets to me or certain situations occur.
Q. You mentioned a couple of nice drives. 375 yards down the 3rd. 70 yards past Henrik Stenson. I don't think he was very pleased. You pitch it on the edge of the green at 17 which is 320 yards. How much has this increased yardage increased your potential as a player?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well it's opened new boundaries that I never thought were possible, to be up front with you. I don't know necessarily how to control all of it yet, but I'm getting to the place where I'm starting to learn with driver I need, under the gun, in certain conditions, a left-to-right wind, a left-to-right wind, what to do and how to apply that power in a way that's going to keep me in the fairway and allow me to have more scoring opportunities. So it's a gigantic leap for me.
Q. Lads have told me in the past when they changed shape physically as you have so quickly it can be an issue with the golfing, you can feel very different. How has the transition been for you?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It has felt a little bit different, but I'm lucky enough that I've got a system where I kind of go back to this these biomechanical governor sorts of things and it allows me to repeat motion more consistently, albeit at those higher speeds I can't do the exact same thing, it allows me to repeat motion a little bit easier, so I'm still working through that. It does feel a little bit different, but again that's why I'm working on it and I'm trying to experiment and see what the future holds for me on that, I want to see what I can do.
Q. I chatted to your playing partner last week, Matt Fitzpatrick, and he was very impressed with your pace of play, he said you've definitely quickened up. Today at the 13th hole you had your second shot in the air 17 seconds after Henrik Stenson stopped. That's extremely fast play. What's changed?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: 14?
Q. Well, it's the pace of play has increased dramatically. Tell us about that from your point of view.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well I would say it's getting just more comfortable on the golf course, recognizing the fact that I'm not perfect, I make mistakes and I made mistakes in the past, but working on improving everything. That's my whole goal for the game of golf is not only to make myself a better player but to have people have a more enjoyable experience when I'm around. And that's really what I'm trying to do and provide people with, so I don't bother anybody on the golf course, that's the last thing I want to do. And so I made it a point to work on it and I've gotten a little bit better and I think it shows.
Q. Second round 67 and right out of the blocks very quickly with three birdies. Just the way would you like to start today.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Absolutely. It was a great start to the day, I thought I could maybe birdie them all but that was too high of a goal, obviously. It's tricky out there with the wind, it was swirling a bit, it was up and then it was down and so it was a bit difficult out there today. But it was fun to be able to play well and get in the clubhouse right next to the lead.
Q. You've been the man on the move this afternoon certainly just one behind Eddie Pepperell. Looking at your game right now it's hard to pinpoint exactly what the biggest strength is. Driving is obviously further, the par-4s which are blind are probably harder for your distance, you haven't had a problem with today. Putting is there, wedges are there.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, I've missed a couple putts that I would like to have back, but I've also made a couple that were fortunate, I would say. I would also say hitting a drive close to 380 on 3 helps. I'm not used to that and I'm getting more and more comfortable in certain situations of how to utilize the driver with my speed. And then it's nice to be able to hit it that far and have wedges into greens out of the rough. That's a huge advantage. You look at Brooks last year at the PGA Championship, I mean he was able to hit it all the way up there and hit wedges on to the greens and that's a massive asset to anybody's game. And so for me that's what I was trying to accomplish and I think I've done that pretty well so far.
Q. Speaking of putts that you would like to take back, that short one on 15, Lee was having a ruling decision going on at the time. Henrik had a putter at play, you had a putter at play. Did that interrupt the flow and the concentration?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: No, I just pulled it. I hit a bad putt and that's my own fault and I got to go work with that. I'm going to go work with the laser and see why things aren't really gelling right now with my eyesight to the line on the ball and the line and the putter.
Q. Minus-24 isn't going to happen this year, but do you have an idea of what might do it?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I'll take what the golf course gives me. If it's the same conditions I think 16-, 17- will definitely get the job done.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT