OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 23, 2020
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You just closed out a round of 70 with the only birdie of the day on the difficult ninth. Give us an assessment of your play today?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It was great, actually. Iron play was great out of the rough and the fairway, and my wedge game around the greens was impeccable. Stuff I'm doing there is awesome. I'm putting still really well. I feel like I'm rolling it on my line except one putt on 6 today. Other than that, it was pretty much smooth sailing and still working on the driver. That's a work-in-progress, but it will be a work-in-progress until I get the right stuff in my hands.
Q. It's a very difficult golf course, one you shot 21 under par last year. Give us your assessment of the way it's set up?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It's playing at least four shots harder a day if it was to stay like this, no doubt. The fairways are tightened up. It's almost impossible to hit the fairway on 18. I hit hybrid and it's got 45 spin on that and it was a little downwind and landed middle of the fairway and rolled all the way into the rough. It's a very, very good test of golf and you have to make sure your wedge game is on and your iron play is on.
Q. Second shot on the 15th, out of the deep rough, describe that one?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I didn't hit that great of a drive. I hit it off the heel, kind of floated with the wind and it went pretty far still, and I had a 9-iron in my hand, a little downhill slope. Was able to munch it out of there, all that thick grass. We were trying to land it about ten yards short, which I did beautifully.
It came out perfectly. We calculated for the rough density, we played about like ten percent on that shot just based on the way it looked and that number worked out really well and rolled up really close.
Q. The tee shot on 2 where you landed it on the green on the short par 4, is that evidence of the new power and strength you possess?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, the shot I hit even 5, it was off line but it was still so far up I had a wedge in my hand.
6 I hit 350 into the first cut. Caught a jumper on that one. I hit it really far. Now it's just about controlling it and if I can control it, it's going to be a scary combo.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT