SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 6, 2019
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sunday 63. All things considered, I know you're a little frustrated because you really thought that you were playing a little bit better than the results showed, but how satisfied are you with this final round?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, 63 is obviously great to end off what I would say for the most part is the season for me. I've got about a month and a half off now. I might play an event; don't know what yet.
Definitely satisfied with the 63. I wasn't really hitting it well on the range, so kind of bummed coming out here. First tee hit one right and wasn't feeling good. Then I kind of figured some stuff out on the second and third holes and got going. Made a forty-footer on 3 and a six-footer on 4, and just kind off the to the races.
Finally got off to a good start. So being 4-under on the front nine and being able to do the same thing on the back nine was great. Three-putted 11; a little bummed about that. Didn't want a three-putt for the week, but made an 80-footer on the next hole, so that was kind of cool.
It was a really weird week, but all in all, going to try this off-season to level things out. I don't want to be so up and down.
Q. What sparked the change to all graphite, and how did it go this week?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, obviously title defense shooting 20-under compared to last year's 21, it's weird. I felt like I played a lot better last year than this year and I still kind of came out with the same score. Definitely says overall more consistent, and even when I miss it I don't miss it that badly.
The switch to the graphite, it's working so far. I have to do some more testing and figure out -- and just get used to it. This was my second week on TOUR with graphite shafts, so that is key of weird. First week playing the full set, and finishing 20-under par shows it does work. The main key is the stability in the shaft. We have shafts in there that are incredibly stiff, so it's helped for consistency and repeatability through impact.
I just going to iron a couple things out. Not 100% satisfied. Obviously played really well with them. Did really well.
Q. I heard you say you weren't totally sure of your schedule moving forward. Anything that might be on the radar?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, I might play Mayakoba or RSM, but as of right now I need some time off. I'm going to come back next year and look like a different person. You're going to see some pretty big changes in my body, which is going to be a good thing. Going to be hitting it a lot further.
Q. Bigger or slimmer?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Bigger. Way stronger. Not necessarily bigger, but just stronger in general. I am going to look probably a lot bigger, but it's going to be a fun month and a half off. I have never been able to do this, and I'm going to go do things that are going to be a lot of fun.
Q. What kind of training is that?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Greg Roskopf Muscle Activation Techniques. We make sure the neurological threshold is just as high as the mechanical threshold. In layman's terms, pretty much whatever muscle potentially you have, how big and the muscle spindles you have, making you can recruit every single one of them to their full potential throughout the whole range, and training the whole range of motion.
Q. What does that look like?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: They're machines. They're Prime Fitness Equipment. I use those, and we're making sure I'm not hurting anything as I go through this process. The reason I have gotten bigger through this whole process is because of Greg Roskopf and his MAT stuff.
It's incredible how he -- I can literally be in massive amount of pain and we can go do a treatment on one of the patterns directly affecting the neurological pain and not have any pain and get back up off the table.
It's not your normal PT work. I've done it. I broken ribs before. I got a rib out of place when I was 14 and went to physical therapy for the long time. It was great, but didn't feel like it ever got better until I started increasing my tolerance levels with weight and strength.
Once I started doing that I felt like I could tolerate anything. You bring it on and I could tolerate it. So it's pretty cool what he does. It's revolutionary in the physical therapy world. We aren't doing suction cup, anything like that. It's literally I'll be injured or hurt in some facet and I'll go work out to heal it, to make it get better so I can hold that tolerance level.
Q. When will you start this process?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Tomorrow. I'll see Greg -- he's in Denver. I'll go up and see him November 19th. I'll be there for five days, and we're going to be doing some fun stuff. I'll see him before that as well.
Q. Stuff you can do at home as well?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yes. I have Prime Fitness Equipment at home. I'm going to be doing it and just making sure I'm building everything inside out. So core, trunk first, and then go to the extremities. Yeah, I'm looking forward to an incredible off-season of getting really strong and really stable.
Q. Comparing this week, just what are your thoughts about the two tournaments?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: This year played ridiculously easy because there was no wind. The golf course is difficult. You have to hit shots. Shots on 3, 2, 18, 17. You got a bunch of holes that are difficult; 12.
But if you execute the shot and there is no winds out here and we're comfortable with our golf swings, I mean, sky is the limit for the number.
I mean, it's pitch and putt for us.
Q. What about the overall field and the atmosphere?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Oh, the overall field is incredible this year. I think it was a way better field, right? You look at Brooks. He may be a little rusty, but he missed the cut. It's not easy, you know.
So I think it's a testament to how many good players are out her on the PGA TOUR now. It's going to be interesting to see how it moves forward. How much better can we get?
Q. Right. Final question: Can you talk about a 62, 61 back to back and how difficult it is to put up those numbers.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I don't know what I would be thinking. I would be on Cloud 9 or in another dimension. I don't even know. Looks like he's handling it pretty well. Obviously he's not going deep today. Kind of expected.
I mean, unless he's planning on (indiscernible) deviation, the average, if he's on the average, it'll go back to normal.
Q. According to the records, it's the fourth time someone shot 123 back to back. What was going right for you today that may not have been going well the rest of the week?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Definitely made a lot more putts. Felt like I was a lot more comfortable, and I brought my iron play and putting together in the same round. First couple rounds ball striking was good; putting was bad. Putting was good; ball striking was bad. It just didn't fit together.
Finally got it to fit together today and put together a nice round on the front nine and back nine.
Q. For our listeners out there, what's the challenge coming back and defending a title?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: New golf course. Everybody is even par. You're not leading the tournament anymore, so you got to go out and play incredibly well, just like you did you last year.
I'm glad I was able to have my best title defense so far. Again, it comes down to you just executing your shots. It's so cliche to say that, but you just got to go out there hit fairways, hit greens, and make putts. I did it better last year, but still did it pretty good this year as well.
Q. When are we going to see you again?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: You never know, but maybe Mayakoba, maybe RSM. I don't know. I want to get my body strong this off-season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT