ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 8, 2020
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Gutsy shot out of the rough there at 18. I said on the air this 13-footer's not going to be short. It was dead in the heart, the big upper cut when it went in. How much fun was that finish for you?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well, you know, I was trying to hit it in the fairway, obviously, and that was my goal. Unfortunately, I blocked it right. Just lost, in the last few holes today, there was a few holes where it just went right on me and I wasn't really totally comfortable with the driver like I was the first three days. And I was lucky enough to get a really good lie in the right rough and I said, You know, what, I can go for it. And I was trying to go over the green into the rough and try and chip it or something like that. And I absolutely blocked the heck out of it. It came out a little dead, and I'm like, This is going in the water. And luckily it bounced a yard over and rolled up there perfectly and had a 13-footer and I took advantage of the good situation.   
 Q.  A couple notes. There's only been five birdies yesterday and today at 18. You got two of them. You're the first player to post an under par round today. How difficult was it again today?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Oh, man, I mean, this definitely tested every aspect of your game and you had to be driving it well. I think I drove it pretty well this week, besides a couple holes out here today. And for me that's a true testament of how hard I've been working on my driving to get it right, and then iron play is getting slowly better, and putting, I'm still not there with. I had two 3-putts today and that really was the deciding factor for the total round of shooting a deep one out there today. But at the same point in time, I'm going to take a lot of good positives away from this and go into the PLAYERS with some great momentum.   
 Q.  Your confidence level, state of your game as you go to the PLAYERS this coming week.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: We're going to work on some wedging stuff. I didn't wedge it my best this week. Had a couple oopsies on the first couple rounds. And the putter, doing something pretty unique with the putter next week. Hopefully it will come in and we'll have it ready and that will get me up to another level.   
 Q.  Excellent way to cap off a challenging week. If we can get some comments.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Challenging is an understatement. It was difficult. Everybody out here, I think struggled in some facet or another, and you just had to overcome some of those obstacles. And I was able to get a couple good breaks coming down the stretch and played some really good golf and rolled it really well. When the opportunities presented itself, I took advantage as much as possible and had a couple lucky putts go in. I'm happy about that.   
 Q.  When you take a look at the leaderboard not a lot of Americans are on there, top of the leaderboard, but you're there. What's been, do you think there's an issue right now with kind of the --  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I don't know. I don't think it's an issue. I think it's just a different style of play. And personally, for me, I'm all about having a fair test. If you look at a situation and you go, Okay, how do you test -- let's just take this for example. Who is the smartest person in the world? How do you make a test for that, right? Well, you certainly don't give them a test that's 2 plus 2. And you certainly don't give them something that we don't understand yet, like how -- what is gravity? So we need to have a fair test out there and I think that's what we're kind of struggling with a little bit. I think a lot of players struggled with that out there today, that just, there was some holes you just couldn't hold greens. Like on 15 I hit a wedge shot from the intermediate or the first cut, and it bounced in the first half of the green and rolled all the way over the back. There was no way of stopping it. So at some point the physics stop working and I don't think it's a true test of who is better. You have to get a little lucky out there and I was fortunate enough to get lucky out there on the back nine. I was pleased with the way I held my attitude and I was able to be positive out there and just keep executing good shots.   
 Q.  Did you kind of, you guys, the Americans, kind of talk about how just how the game's kind of evolved? I mean, it's always been kind of a global game but lately you seem to have more Europeans, like Sungjae Im and these younger Koreans. Do you guys kind of talk about just kind of how the game's kind of grown, how you kind of get like the Americans involved a little bit more?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I think we're still involved. You look at the top-10 in the world, there's still quite a bit of Americans in there. And the style of golf is sometimes difficult. If you got, if you have Europeans out there that have been playing links-style golf, this is more like links-style golf, so they're going to be more comfortable out there. And for me I do like links-style golf, so I was able to play well out there today. But to get Americans back on the leaderboard I think is just a coincidental thing, I think we're just as good.   
 Q.  Do you go to Sawgrass next week looking for a bit of respite after these days or do you think it's going to be much the same another sort of torture test?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I hope it's not a torture test. We have had some grueling tests over the last couple weeks at least the guys from Honda they told me it was brutal. And for me I hope it's a good test, I hope it's a fair test.   
 Q.  How big was that shot on 18?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Oh, I totally blocked it. I thought it wasn't going to get over. Look, I was a yard over the first cut and you got a wind that's doing this, you just, you don't know. It was complete luck and I'm happy it got over and I'm happy I was able to take advantage of the situation.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT