A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 11, 2019
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So Bryson, you had a chance to look at the golf course this morning. Thoughts on coming back to the Greenbrier?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, I was here couple years ago. Top 20'd I think, top 15 maybe even. I love this track. The reason I came back here is love the track, love obviously the tribute to the military and the servicemen for what they've done. Couldn't miss out on this opportunity to pay my respects.
My caddie is a veteran. He was in the Air Force and did a lot for our country, what I think was a lot. He doesn't think so.
But every time you get to represent your country that's what it's about. I'm fortunate and blessed to be able to play on a Ryder Cup team and be part of a Presidents Cup team this year.
I'm excited and proud to be a part of this golf tournament and a what it represents.
Q. You mentioned being here two years ago. How would you assess your game now and then?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, completely different. Obviously a completely different golfer. I was a top 150 golfer back then, and I believe I'm a top 10 player in the world.
So definitely different game, different style that I have. Different golf swing for sure. One that works really well and is pretty consistent and I'm making it better. These past couple weeks have been pretty prudent for me and it's allowed me to get to a place where I think I can be more repeatable with the driver, with the irons, and with the putting.
Q. With this being the first tournament for 2020, how important is it to be here and get off to a good start?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, you want to get off to a good start, right? I mean, that's the whole key. Last year I won Shriners, right, and was able to vault myself up the FedExCup leaderboard really quickly, and that's what we wanted.
I'm not going overseas as of right now this year. It's just so important to be able to get off to a great start if you're not going over there, and that's what I want to do.
Q. What's been the difference between playing this in July to September.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's a lot cooler. (Laughter.)
Q. Is it?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's a little cooler. No, it is, it is. The leaves are actually turning a different color which is awesome. That's really cool to see.
The golf course, the greens are pretty firm, which is nice. You got these nice bent greens, and if you get too hot out here they're going to get soft. Firming up nicely for the tournament.
Q. All you guys getting used to the new schedule with the four majors all back to back?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I don't know if we can get used to it as of right now. Obviously we are trying to expand the PGA TOUR and doing a lot in that regard, which is fantastic. I think sometimes you got to give the horses a break, you know?
But at the same point in time, we have to make a schedule; we have to find time off. I love playing the Greenbrier, I love Napa, Shriners. Those tournaments I have to go forward with because I just love them.
After that, I get an off-season.
Q. You touched on your schedule. What would your schedule be through the new year and why is it laid out that way?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Again, I'm going to play obviously this event, Safeway, and Shriners as of right now. I'll play Hero World Challenge and the Presidents Cup.
Moving in to next year, not really sure yet. Still have to work on that. Mainly because I don't know the full schedule. I haven't really looked at it. I haven't gotten there yet.
Again, I want to set something up to where I can have a couple weeks off to rest so I can go fresh into that next week and I want to be able to play golf courses I like to play.
Q. What is one of the biggest benefits in terms of being able to play the pro-am today, bit of a lighthearted atmosphere, but also one more chance for you see to the course before go time on Thursday?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, it's obviously helpful to see the golf course before Thursday. A lot of guys don't get to see it; rookies unfortunately don't get to see it.
For me it's always nice to see how the course is going to play in the morning. I'm playing tomorrow morning, so hopefully that will be a benefit to me when I go out there tomorrow.
Q. You mentioned you be like this track. What specifically about Old White TPC do you like?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: The driving aspect. It fits my eye really well. I feel like there is a lot of holes out there that you got to hit it straight, and I'm one of the straighter drivers on tour. I think I finished top 25 last year in strokes gained driving with not driving it great from what I felt.
I'm in a different place now, so hopefully I can move up into the top 10 this year. That's my goal, is to get top 10 in most of the categories this year, especially driving and putting.
Q. You mentioned the Presidents Cup. How much of a relief was it to sneak in and get that last spot?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well, shoot, after the beginning of the year being No. 1 pretty much on the list and dropping all the way to No. 8 is kind of scary. I'm thankful to Hideki for shooting that 9-under on the last day at the BMW. Fortunate enough to sneak in and I don't got to worry about that now.
Last year I had to worry about that with the Ryder Cup. I handled it well. I won a couple events.
Q. I was going to say, do you think without that worry it's going to improve your performance?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It may improve it. I mean, I feel like it's again the same. How I'm playing this year is going to be much better than last year. Just my golf game, my swing is different. I worked on it this past couple weeks and it's made a huge improvement to my ball striking stats from what I've seen already.
And we'll see. Again, we'll see how it plays out during the year, but as of right now I feel like I could go do what I did in the last FedExCup.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT