THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 2, 2019
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great finish for this tournament.  Six birdies, no bogeys and the saves, nice sand save at 17, and that was a great up-and-down on 18.  Talk about your day?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, it was a great day.  It was a learning process for me.  I've been working really hard trying to figure some stuff out, and I haven't had my best for quite a while now, and trying to get the train rolling again and getting ready for Pebble Beach.
Q. The conditions today, the winds changed, a lot cooler, as these leaders go off, what kind of golf course are they looking at?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: They're looking at a golf course that's soft.  You have to control your wedges.  And I think in order to win out here, you have to hit the fairways.  Someone that hits a lot of fairways and a lot of greens is going to win.
Q. Talk about the Nicklaus Spirit Award.  I know you tweeted some video out.  Tell us about what you experienced?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, he's such an inspiration to me.  I couldn't believe that he could hit the golf ball with one arm.  It's pretty amazing.  An individual that's gone through so much.  And just trying to give them hope, as much hope as possible is what we're about, what the PGA TOUR is about.  Not just me, but the whole organization.
I think that's what we're all about, is giving back and doing the right thing for people that need a little bit of help and need some hope.  And that's what we did.  And Matthew is a great kid, and I know he'll do a lot of great things in life.
Q. Best round of the week, what was working for you today?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I had a lot of things working well for me.  Was putting well.  Driving was -- best I've driven it in a long time.  The irons are still stroke play, that's what I still have to work on and get ready going into The Open.
Q. What was the experience like, playing as defending champion?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's cool, everybody talking about repeat, go repeat.  And unfortunately I didn't, but there's technical reasons of why that happened.  And unfortunately just didn't have my game for the first three days.  And I had my driving the second round, and just what it is.  I have to figure it out, have it for four days, and I'm getting close to that.
Q. You say technical reasons, you're talking about swing mechanics?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, it always goes back down to swing mechanics, you know.  I mean, I think people know me by now that, if I'm not comfortable with my mechanics and what's happening, I'm not going to play as well.  That's why you sometimes see me play -- hit shots, like, what was that?  And like today was flushing everything, just had a couple of iron shots the last few holes.  Did a great job on 18.
It was a great round today.  Could have gone deep, super deep.  But had a lot of fun.  I think I've gained some momentum going into the U.S. Open.
Q. Anything you worked on last night going into today?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, it is definitely -- the golf swing is so complex and you think you have it one day, obviously, and you don't.  There's so many things.  It's the biomechanics, it's the forces you're producing and pushing through the golf club and pushing through the ground and how they work.
Repeatability is a difficult factor.  I think that's something we're all striving for.  I've had it at times.  When I have it, it's scary, watch out, it's winning two times in a row and being in contention and top-10ing every week.
But sometimes things go awry for certain reasons, you have a thought, you try to do something and it doesn't work, and you have to pull yourself out of that rabbit hole and try to figure out what didn't work so well.
Q. Do you feel like having higher expectations after your run, does that change anything for you?  Is there anything that you consciously do for people's higher expectations for you or your higher expectations?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: No, it's not about other people's expectations, it's about my expectations that I give myself.  So I know that I can do it is the cool part.  I know that there's -- even at those moments I wasn't wedging it or hitting it as good as I could with my irons.  And so there's always room for improvement on that.
And for me that's really inspiring and scary at the same time, because I know there's room for improvement, and that's why I've gone down certain roads to try to figure something out.  Ultimately it hurt me, but allowed me to check some things off the checklist.
Q. How were conditions today?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Soft.  Very, soft.  It's almost like you need certain wedges for certain golf courses.  If I had -- if the density values were around .6 millimeters compared to now .8 millimeters, I could have hit wedges in there that would have spun off the green five times today.  Three or four times, something like that.  I'm exaggerating.  And if they were just the right firmness values, it would have been perfect.  13 is a perfect example.  I hit it three yards past the hole and spins all the way off the green into the collar.  And no shot.  So I had a birdie opportunity there and just a few other places that I could have gone deep today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT