SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 2, 2019
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Bryson, thank you for coming in today. Coming back as defending champion at the Shriners Hospital for Children Open and making your fourth start. Just get some comments about your return to Vegas.   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, absolutely. I love it here. The atmosphere is great. I always play well in dry, non-humid conditions. Seems to work better for me for some reason, and my body always feels pretty good coming here.   
Comfortable with the golf course. Love the shots off the tee. Then I love the scoring opportunities out here on the par-5s. If I take care of those, do what I can there, I'm usually doing pretty good here.   
THE MODERATOR: Yeah, and you had a pretty cool experience today. You got to meet one of the patient ambassadors Zoey.   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Zoey, yes.   
THE MODERATOR: Tell us a little bit about what happened and what that meant to you.   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, it is awesome. Zoey is an incredible I would say almost woman now. She's a sophomore and killing it. She made this 30-footer today like it was nothing. It was pretty cool to see. It's truly inspirational. You look at somebody like that and realize how blessed you are and realize how blessed we all are as people looking back on that and going, man, I personally want to give more and do more so that kids like that can have an opportunity at a greater life, a better life.   
So I'm humbled and honored to be a part of her life to hopefully make a positive impact in a great way.   
 Q.  You're coming off a T13 finish last week. Just some comments about your game and how you're feeling.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, I felt like I should have won last week. Just the weekend I had a couple things not go my way and couple unlucky breaks and wasn't driving it my best. Ironed that out I think heading into this week. Really hitting it well, putting it well, doing everything well.   
So on the up and up I feel like and looking forward to a week where I can contend and hopefully get the job done. Unfortunately didn't do it last week, but I think I can this week.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  By any chance did you retry that 60-foot eagle putt on 16?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yes, 100% did. Absolutely.   
 Q.  And?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I hit it really close to where I think the hole was. Same thing, same line. It was just fun reminiscing that moment and remembering what I did and Bones saying, What do you think you're Tiger Woods? I was like, No, no, because I did the fist pump thing.   
It was a funny little moment I'll never forget and an amazing moment that will always stay in my head.   
 Q.  Have you been work on anything in particular since Safeway?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, absolutely. Changed all my shafts to graphite LAGP graphite shafts. So far working really, really, really well.   
Wedges that I was using last week, I put it into the rest of the set, so everything is LAGP right now, and it's pretty cool to see the consistent ball spin rates in wet and dry conditions; the ability to control the ball flight in the air is on a different level. It's not moving as much. It's more stable in flight.   
I just feel like all in all there are a couple things. I've got a new ball in, new shafts in. Albeit I have got a lot of new things in the bag, I feel like I've been using them for a while now already, which is kind of cool. We'll see how it pans out this week. Never know.   
 Q.  When you won here you were in the midst of a pretty awesome stretch.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah.   
 Q.  Can you put into words how hard is it to maintain that level of excellence?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: There are so many things that have to go right in live. I was talking to a poker player couple nights ago and talking about luck; talking about how sometimes people get really lucky for long periods of time.   
As we look at what should happen over the course of your lifetime, it's too difficult to even know what statistically should happen, because our lifetimes are so small compared to an infinite amount of time.   
We could always be on the third standard deviation our whole entire life, which all that means is you can have really weird stuff happen to you your whole life. It could. Or be normal or be the opposite and vice versa.   
That's where it's so weird. We just try and take away all the possibilities that could happen, all the extra variables that could make those possibilities happen.   
It was really fun actually getting to talk to him. He is like, Luck is such a huge factor in life that we can never truly control everything. To keep a stretch like that you need some luck. I had some luck.   
I realize that I can do that, but it's also going to take some more practice to have those things. For example, if I hit a drive down the middle you're not really going to get necessarily a good or bad break. May get in a fairway divot; hit it into the trees and it bounces out. That's a lot of good luck.   
Happened to be on the hole and then you made eagle on that hole or whatever. You just try and take those things out of the equation. No. It's just going in the middle of the fairway, going on the green, and you make a putt. That's what we try and do.   
In order to win -- we don't hit it straight every time, so you are going to need luck. And I did have a little bit of luck. Haven't had it recently. Last week I plugged it into a bunker on 13 off my drive. It was sweet. Made double there. That was really the start to not having the opportunity to win last week.   
Anyway, all I'm saying is it's very difficult to maintain. It's not easy.   
 Q.  Just a random one. Last season Sungjae Im played I think every week but two that he could play and he was Rookie of the Year. Can you talk to what that must be like to be able to do that, and do you think he can maintain that?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well, I'm not Sungjae Im. Personally for me, I could do it; health-wise for a lifestyle perspective, I don't know if it's necessarily the best decision. If you're trying to make a lot money, if trying to do all that, I get it. Boy, I couldn't. That's tough. But more power to him for being able to do it, right?   
Shoot, if I did that I don't know what my life would look like. I think all my hair would be gone. I don't know. It would not be good.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: That was right before I won John Deere. I think I went eight or nine in a row -- seven? Seven. That's the longest I've ever done. But I've played 30 events. I have. Just separating and weeks off and whatnot.   
I actually asked Sungjae this year, How many tournaments you playing, and think he said 30 or something like that. Dang, you're stepping down. What's going on?   
He just laughed. It was funny. I mean, I don't know. I could do it, but it wouldn't be a good lifestyle.   
 Q.  Hopefully I have the quote right, but how will you get neurologically comfortable here like you were last year?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, yeah. So, again, that's just being able to repeat motion, hitting a shot and feeling a certain response from that shot and seeing the ball flight respond in that way. So I give it something, my body tells me oh, it's a little pull, a push, straight shot, this shot, and it actually does that.   
So once that happens a consistent of number of times I start getting neurologically comfortable. That's really what it means. That's what that means. I don't know if that makes sense. Just being able to hit shots and that's exactly what it should do, on a very basic scale.   
 Q.  Last year the tournament was first week in November. Now it's the first week of October, a little different weather. Do you expect the course to play any different or the weather, warmer this year, to have any type of affect on the course?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I don't know that. What I do know is it may make the greens a little softer because they can't keep it that firm. It'll burnout if they cut it really close. So they may have it a little softer this year.   
I know the mornings will be a little warmer, which is nice. The golf course is in great condition. I haven't seen anything benign out there. They cleared out the brush a little bit out there, which is great.   
I honestly can't say anything negative about the golf course. It looks great. Greens look great. They're rolling well. Everything is positive so far.   
Yeah, I don't know.   
 Q.  How cool is to win where Tiger win for to the first time, same course? Do you have any video or picture of that win of Tiger?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Do I remember the picture?   
 Q.  Any picture, video of Tiger winning here.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Oh, yeah. When he was across the line in '97? I kind of do that now. It's obviously cool to get a win where Tiger won his first time. I don't really think too much about it, but it is cool to say you can win on the same golf course for the most part or in the area that he is at.   
Always an idol of mine. Always look up to him. It was funny, when I won for the fifth time last year, we were texting and whatever. I was like, I'm catching you, slowly but surely. He was like, You got a long way to go. I'm like, I know. Just kidding. It was funny.   
 Q.  What's the first thing that comes to your mind about last year and that win?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Last year? The putt on 16; being able to, in a moment of need, make a putt that was to get me at that point in time one ahead of the lead. That was big for me, being able to come in in the clutch.   
You know, that's really what matter most to me, being able to do that. That will forever remain in my brain, knowing I can do stuff like that.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you so much for your time and good luck this week.   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Thank you. Thank you all.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT