WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2019
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bryson, in his very first WGC-Dell Technologies Match Play gets an opening win.  You were down as you guys made the turn.  How were you able to flip the script and win this match?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I knew if I kept putting the pressure on him a little bit.  The ball-striking was a little suspect in the beginning, and wedging has been getting better; I've been working really hard on that.  I knew there were a lot of wedge opportunities on the back.  I knew if I could really hone into that and hopefully hit some close.  I didn't hit too many close, but hit it when I needed to close, and was able to flip it really on 10 and 11, where I trusted my iron play and made a great putt on 10.
So kind of flipped it right there.  Just focusing on my game and executing shots.
Q. Given this is pool play and again this is your first match play experience, how important was this victory for you today?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, it's nice.  I've won the U.S. Amateur.  I've won a lot of matches, I know how to win in match play, and it's nice that Josh Gregory instilled a little bit of knowledge into me there.  And it's kind of nice to have that to back it up with a little bit.  And I think just moving forward for me, it's just going to be pedal to the metal.  It's 18 holes and you've got to win as many of them as you can.  That's what I did in match play at the U.S. Am and it led me to some success, so that's nice.
Q. Bryson, I still can't get my head around the fact that this is your first WGC Match Play.  It feels like you've been around forever.  Maybe it's because you're playing so well.  What's it like?  How's it been so far?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It was funny, yesterday talking with Tiger down the 10th fairway, we were both like, "Is this your first time here," and everything.  I was like, "It's my first time here."  He was like "Really?"  He said, "Yeah, it's my first time here, too."  Crazy what a year does, right?  He was 1000th in the world and I was just outside the top 64.
And, yeah, it was pretty funny.  A little joke.  It's fun to be here.  I love match play.  I've done really well in match play and hopefully I'll do well.
Q. We know you take a very scientific approach to the game.  Is there a difference in strategy or science behind how you go about match play form?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: A little more competitive towards the other player.  Usually I don't really care, for the most part, who I'm playing with.  I just go and attack the golf course.  But now it's a little more of a game strategy for sure.
Q. When we look at that card, obviously the red there where you took control of the match, but I feel like coming the end of the week, we might already have seen the save of the tournament.  Talk us through one on 4.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Oh, man, I blocked it just a fraction.  And obviously you see it bounced off a rock and went into the brush.  Luckily we found it, and it was a downhill lie out of some particular brush.  I'm going to hit it.  If it comes out, it comes out, great.  Absolutely came out perfect.  I was super surprised.  And I'm like, all right, I can make this.  Sure enough, I hit it right inside of the cup.  And I shocked myself when I made par and tied the hole.
Q. How soul destroying is it to an opponent when you get that reaction?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I actually felt a little bad for Russ. I didn't mean to do that to him that early.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT