OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 26, 2019
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The first two rounds, you were pleased with your scoring but not with the way you hit the ball.  Give us your thoughts on today?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Same thing.  Same thing.  Man, I'm just not 100 per cent with my golf game right now.  Shoot, I'm still leading, obviously.  It's fantastic.  I couldn't be displeased with that, but my expectation levels are for how I know I can perform, and I feel like I'm underperforming a little bit.
Still in the lead, still got the job done.  Made it happen when it's necessary and hopefully I can have one more of those days and maybe even a better-ball striking day.
Q. Things weren't going to plan when you bogeyed 7 and 8 and you fell three behind.  How big was the birdie at 9 to give you something to build on?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Huge.  It was a 27-footer.  It was big.  I needed that give me some momentum and hit an incredible 5-iron in on 10.  I thought I had it read right and missed it, but that putt on 9 was big for momentum.
Q. You holed a lovely putt at 15 for birdie, having a wonderful tee shot to the par 3 and left the pin in at close range.  It's been suggested that leaving the pin in narrows your pin because you're looking at the pin and not the whole hole.  Is that the case for you?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, for me it is.  Absolutely.
Q. What about your thoughts on tomorrow?  Obviously you've been winning regularly, three times in your last eight starts.  How valuable to have that experience and know the emotions you'll feel tomorrow?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I know even with not my best, I can get it done.  I've done it before, and so if worst comes to worst tomorrow, I'll figure out a way.
Q. You said that one of your goals was to win internationally.  What would it mean to you to pull it off tomorrow?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It would be awesome.  I can't express to you the words how awesome it would be to win on The European Tour.
Q. Third round 68 here in Dubai.  How do you feel about today?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Same thing.  I didn't have my A Game again.  Ball-striking was a little suspect and clearly on the last hole, I have no idea what happened the last hole.  But unfortunately it is what it is and I was able to get in with a par and rely on my putting this week.
Q. It looked like at times a few of the players were struggling and had to come back with a few birdies.  How did you find the course conditions today compared to the past two days?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: A little more difficult I would say.  The wind was up and the greens were kind of tricky.  There were a couple holes that threw me off, and it is what it is.  Everybody had to go through the same thing, and you know, I was lucky to prevail and I'm on top at the end of the day.
Q. You had a little luck on 7.  Could have found the water a couple of times.  The golf gods were smiling down on you then.
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Yeah, you know, actually I hit a really good shot.  I thought the wind picked up when I hit it, so it was nice of it to stay up.  It was unfortunate the wind picked up on me there.  It's give and take sometimes and I got a bad lie on 8 but almost made par, actually.  Just hit a bad putt.
I had a couple chances to right the ship and be three or four ahead, but I'm only one ahead.  I've got a lot of work to do tomorrow.
Q. Looks like tomorrow you'll be paired with defending champion, Li Haotong, who will not give up without a fight.  What's your plan tomorrow?
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: You know, for me I don't worry about other people.  I just go out and try and dominate the golf course to the best of my ability, and hopefully that will show tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT