MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2019
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Hole‑in‑one.   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Finally. I mean you talked about it this week and here it was. So I knew something was going to happen this week, I didn't know what it was going to be, obviously shooting 66 the first round I thought it was going to be something even more special, but I was able to make a 1, my first 1 on 16. I knew back three years ago I said to my caddie and to everyone in my camp it was like, I'm going to make a hole‑in‑one here one day and sure enough it was my first one three years later.   
   
 Q. That's amazing. I was going to tell you the other day, my father shot a hole‑in‑one the first and only round of golf he ever played. That's never happened. Look at you, you're a pro‑‑  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: That's the way it works, I think that's the way golf is. Anybody can strike gold at any moment but at the end of the day it averages out, you're still going to be that 12 handicapper and I'm going to be a professional, you know? So that's just the funny thing about it. I think Xander, I don't know if it's true, but I think he said that he doesn't have one, so it's weird how like two players in the top‑10 didn't have a hole‑in‑one. I got one today.   
   
 Q. And you start out with back‑to‑back doubles today?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: That was sweet.   
   
 Q. And then but to go from that to that? Right? I mean‑‑  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, it was very emotional and disappointing off the start, I wanted to start better and knew I could shoot 6‑, 7‑under today and clearly without the doubles I would have shot 6‑under.   
   
 Q. So how do you oversee this entire week when you go from that 66 to what did you learn?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well, I learned that we're, we haven't figured out the irons yet, there's still some more to be done and then putting I struggled really bad with putting, I've done it the past couple years, so I really have to iron out what happened, I have an idea of what happened. It's not just reading greens, reading greens I'm fine, but there's something with the putting, I can't necessarily start on my line as effectively as I want to, which is amazing with the way I set up, so we just got to work on that more.  
   
 Q. It did sound like though that you ‑‑ by the way how much do you notice a Tiger roar?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Every time.   
   
 Q. Really?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: We would.  
   
 Q. It's like so obvious, right?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's so obvious. So the 2nd hole we were up there on the tee box and all of a sudden we hear that roar and we're like, oh, Tiger. Tiger. Tiger. You know, every time that happens it's like, Tiger. It's funny.  
   
 Q. What was your number on 16 and what did you hit?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Oh, my gosh, I hit 7‑iron, I was trying to hit like ‑‑ no, it was 186? Something like that. I can't really remember. But it was around that number and I just tried to just hit a smooth 7‑iron, I hit it perfectly and it was like this looks really good and then I've seen it a bunch of times on TV where that lands and I was like, that's really good and I saw it trickle back down now I still haven't seen it go in yet, I don't know how it went in.  
   
 Q. It almost hit Kisner's ball.   
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I know. And that was the only thing I was concerned with, it's like, if it hits his ball it's not going in. So luckily it went past and like once it went past it and I heard the crowd I'm like, this is going in. Sure enough it did and I went nuts.  
   
 Q. So how many times are you going to watch this thing just to enjoy every second of it?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Probably a few times and then it's off to next week and I got to go play well. But it's a great moment that I'll never forget and it's an honor to be able to make it on 16.  
   
 Q. One more thing on the irons, you mentioned after the 66 you thought you had it sort of figured out?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, it's moving in the right direction, I can tell you that, it's not like it was a total setback again. It's more of just there's certain situations that I still can't figure out yet.   
   
 Q. Are you going to save the ball?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I have it saved in my bag, absolutely. So that's, I've never done that with anything any of my tournaments I won, but that one I'll keep in my house.   
   
 Q. Do you have crystal already?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: No, that's my first one. Well I think low score of the day. Yeah.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT