SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 4, 2018
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Go ahead and get started here with Bryson DeChambeau, winner of the 2018 Shriners Hospitals for Children Open.
Bryson, obviously that eagle putt on the 16th hole was the highlight, but just take us through your day and what it feels like to get this victory.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, I knew going into today I was hitting it really well.  Started off awesome.  Hit a great shot in there.  You know, it's always nice to start off with a solid four-footer going in in the hole.
Then felt like I played really well all day.  Couple errant shots, a little bit of nerves, you know, trying to shake the rust off, I guess.  As it came down to it, I was able to breathe and control the situation each time it came up.  Whether it was difficult or good I was able to control myself and get myself back down to a controlled state.
That's really what led me to claim victory this week.  I really believe that.
THE MODERATOR: This is your third win in the last five starts dating back to the beginning of the FedExCup playoffs last season.  How important is it to get off to a good start this season and try and get back to where you were last year?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, absolutely.  A win never hurts.  I think that's not a bad way to start your, what is it fourth year now?  No, third.
THE MODERATOR: This will be your third full season.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Third full, yeah, okay.  So third full year.  It's nice to get a win right off the bat after taking a few weeks off.
Honestly, just no better way to start.
THE MODERATOR: Take some questions out here.  Raise your hand.
Q. When you were walking up the 16th fairway did you have any idea where you stood and the fact that you lost the lead to Cantlay?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, I kind of did, especially after I saw a little roar went on 15.  Getting to the second shot on 16 I definitely heard a roar and just didn't know if he made eagle or birdie.
But quite honestly, going back to the 16th tee shot, I knew I had to hit it in the fairway to have a chance and to make eagle even, because I thought he was going to get to 21 and I needed 22 to do it.  I had to rely on the new F9 to do it.  That driver is really what helped me win this week honestly.  I drove it incredible.  The times I didn't I was still able to miss it in the right spots.  That new Speedback F9 driver is really incredible.
Q. Your putt on 16, after it left your putter, how did it feel?  Halfway to the hole did you feel like it had a chance of going in?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, when I hit it it's like, All right, it's pretty solid speed off the start.  Then I saw it about halfway down there and I was like, Ooh, that might be a little fast.  For whatever reason the slope gradually declined and went to about like a 2% slope and the ball started just rolling perfectly to the right just like I had envisioned.
Just held straight that last little bit and was able to trickle in.  I haven't given a reaction like that in a while.  That was pretty cool.
Q. Flag stick had nothing to do with that putt?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Oh, it still hit the flag stick.  Still hit the flag stick.
Q. Just wanted to ask you it's what, four wins now since June.  Could you have envisaged this sort of form?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: You know, I thought I had it in me but I didn't know I could do it.  There is obviously a lot of things that have to go right for you to win on the PGA TOUR.  It's very, very difficult.
I learned the hard way my first year and a half on tour missing 14 cuts in a row, and I realized I had to change my game if I wanted to compete out here.
Last year I saw some signs of something great and I didn't know what it meant.  Didn't know where it would lead me.  It certainly led me I think in the right direction I think so far.
Q. Can you just run us through the story with your hand.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Oh, my gosh.  Hey the Knights won last night.  That's all that matters, right?
Q. We don't talk about that.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I went a little too hard on the air horn or what do you call it?  I think that's what it's called.  Yeah, and I ripped part my hand off, which is nice.  So, no, it was all good though.  It's all right here.  It's fine.  I mean, just hurt every shot, but it was all right.  No, just kidding.
But, Hey, I gave that thing a whirl and got the crowd pumped up for the third quarter and they went on to win, so, hey, more power to them and more power to me I guess.  I won this week too, today, so it's not a bad deal.
Q. Did it give you any anxiety?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Oh, yeah.  I was freaking out.  I actually put Nu-Skin on it this morning and it dried up and dried my hands too quickly.  Then I opened my hand and it cracked and split.
So now I'm like, Wow, I'm really in some do-do; not in a good places.  Essentially tried to put some lotion on just to moisturize it a little bit again.  We did that and it started feeling better, and then the guys at the player performance center were able to wrap me up pretty nicely.
It was manageable.  Every time I clenched my fist a little bit too hard or hit a shot that was a little bit too steep I definitely felt a pull on it.
Q. Can you expand on what it means to be neurologically comfortable?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: No.  That's a secret.
Q. Okay, that's the second time this week you've not given us the scoop.  Give us a little insight.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Because you realize how important it is to me.  I would say just on a general basis that it's something that I've derived in my brain.  It's like I have this black space and it's just of my hands and arms and body and I see it and I just take it back and have this neurological sensation or input that I have for applying force to the club.
There is a track to it.  I see it and in that vision.  Some people look and envision shots, do all that, but I just create it in my brain.
Q. Thank you.  A little follow up.  You had three 66s and I think a 65.  Was there a goal coming into the week, a target score for each day?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I don't look at it like that.  Honestly take each hole for what it's worth and try and execute each shot to the best of my ability.
Whatever the score is it is.  I was not thinking about score one bit this week.  It was literally how do I hit the next hot to the best of my ability.
THE MODERATOR: Bryson, what does it mean to have the family here this week?  You said this is the first time your brother and mom were able to see you win.  How does that feel?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, it's pretty special.  They've been through the tough times more than the good times, so it's finally nice for them to see a great time.
You know, I appreciate their support and love for all that they've done for me.  They've definitely gotten me to this place, and it's all appreciated.  I love you guys.  Thank you.
Q. (Regarding Tiger and fitness and analytics.)
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I think this sport's unique in that you don't have to have too great of a reaction time.  You have to be able to set things up properly, if you know what I mean.  You're not having a ball thrown at you, you're not having to run down the court, you're not having to judge where a puck is, if it's coming at you.
The ball is sitting right there and you're able to swing at it and hit it wherever you want to.  You can take 40 seconds or whatever to hit it.  So that time allows us the opportunity to do some pretty cool things that I will not give away.
But, yes...
Q. (Indiscernible.)
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well, they could.  They're just selling themselves short, you know?  More power to everyone that does it their own way.  Everybody is unique.  Everybody does it in a different way.  I believe I found a way that works really, really well for me and it allows me to be super consistent week in and week out.
You know what?  I hope down the road it'll keep happening.  You never know.  But so far it's proven itself quite a bit.
Q. I have a two-part question for.  First, what's your assessment of this tournament?  And two, what does it mean to you to compete in a tournament where the Shriners kids really have a big spotlight on them?  How does that affect you during the week here?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well to the second question, because that's the most important question, Shriners Hospitals is honestly why we're all here.  We wouldn't be here if it wasn't for them.  They're all such an inspiration, meaning Alec Riley, Lilly.  Today Riley and Lilly were sign bearers for us and it was just awesome to watch them walk around.  They're such an inspiration.
I'm very, very blessed and fortunate that I have great health, so to see them out here still persevering in their own way and being able to support and volunteer for the PGA TOUR is more inspirational than me winning.  I think that's what needs to be noted.  Shriners Hospitals does an incredible job of changing people's lives, changing family's lives.  Again, that's all why we're here.
Sorry, was the first question again.
Q. Assessment of the golf course.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I love it.  It's dry air.  It's kind of what I grew up.  Fresno, California is not really humid.  Kind of the same vibe and feel and conditions.  There is a little elevation; that's just a change.
But I love this time of environment.  Heat is always good for me.
Q. First, did you actually split the skin on your hand?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It was like a blister that ripped off just a little bit bigger than a dime size on my hand.
Q. Are you the hottest player in golf right now in your mind?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Oh, jeez.  I'll say that I'm playing some great golf right now.  I will not talk about am I the hottest or who's the hottest right now.  Every week is so different.  If we were playing the same golf course, sure, we could say that.  But every week is different and you've got to adjust to the variables.  You can be the hottest player and miss the cut.  There is more to it than just playing good golf.  You've got to understand the conditions at hand.
So for me, I think I'm playing great golf right now.  Certainly playing the best I've ever played in my life, and hopefully it continues upward.
Q. Just curious how you'll celebrate the win tonight.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I don't know.  I'm not there yet.
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: You got a plane in 30 minutes.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: (Laughter.)  I am supposed to be in Monterrey tomorrow.  I'll get there some time.
THE MODERATOR: With that we'll wrap it up.  Bryson, congratulation, and best of luck the rest of the season.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Thank you.  Thanks guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT