SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 3, 2018
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. One bogey-free day is good; two in three days.  Really nice stuff.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, I'll take that.  Definitely nice to be able to ball strike it as well as I have the past three days.
Nice to be able to take two weeks -- or three, four weeks off.  I don't know how many weeks I was off.  It's nice to not know essentially coming into an event and still be able to perform.  That's something I'll take with me moving forward.
Q. You said to me after round one there was some rust.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah.
Q. Suffice to say I guess you're shaking that stuff off?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: At least in the ball striking.  Putt was a little rusty.  Still not seeing the line as well as I would like to.  It's all visual.  If I start seeing it really well, watch out.
But if I don't see it well it's a struggle.  I'm going to go work on that and try and make that better for tomorrow.
Q. That all being said, speak to the self-confidence.  You had the big year, all the victories, and now you're in contention tomorrow.  You must be feeling good about things?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: You're right.  There has been a lot of good play this year, and I think it's just an accumulation of a lot of hard work.  I'm very excited to see what happens tomorrow.  But this is not just me.  It's my team that I've had around me all the way from agent to Steve and Greg Harrison the putting guys; Tim, my caddie.  They've done just an incredible job of helping me be really consistent this year.
Q. Bogey-free, 65.  Just watching it looked easy.  What was it actually like inside the ropes?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, still doing our work every day.  We try and get our numbers right, get the wind right, get the slopes right, and try and execute to the best of my ability and our ability.
So just seemed like another day on the golf course, another day at work.  I was able to not make many mistakes today, which was really nice.
Q. You told me earlier in the week you were disappointed how you finished last season after winning the first two FedExCup playoff events.  Given what unfolded the end of last season to now to be at this point, how satisfying is that for you?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, absolutely.  I think that it's just a lot of hard work.  I feel like I just got a couple unlucky breaks at the end of last year and didn't understand a couple things for those last two playoffs events.
I've rolled it into this week and ball struck it really well.  I think if I putt really well tomorrow I'll be tough to beat.  If I don't, a lot of things could happen.
Q. How would you assess your putting through three rounds?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: B, B-minus.  I've definitely missed some putts I should have made.  Really I'm rusting with my putting.  I haven't really worked on my putting the past few weeks, and that's not been good.  I got to work on that a little bit more and make sure that doesn't fall too far behind.
Q. Developing a reputation as a closer now in your young career with four PGA Tour wins.  What's are the ingredients that you need tomorrow to add your first win this season?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I think going out there and just feeling comfortable neurologically; being able to execute every shot to the best of my ability knowing what I can do.
And then on some putts, making sure I can roll it on the lines that I see and hopefully they go in.  If that combo works, it'll be a fun day tomorrow.
Q. Get some comments on your round if we can, please.
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, you know, I played really well today.  You know, honestly, they told me I hit 14 fairways after today and I was surprised.  Really?  I had 14?  It was kind of like a smooth, easy day and executed it really well off the tee and was able to keep it in the fairway on every hole; that allowed me the opportunity to hit it pretty close on almost every hole.
Unfortunately a couple mishaps on my wedges.  Other than that, it was a pretty solid day.  When I hit it close I was able to make it.
Q. Was there any difference from yesterday's 9 fairways and today's 14?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: No.  Honestly I was just able to execute it better over the ball.  My mechanics are the same.  I haven't really thought of anything different.  It's just more about if I get neurologically comfortable over the ball.  If I am and I've got this repetition I'm used to, it's definitely a nice feeling that allows me to hit it in the fairway a lot.
Q. (Regarding the putt on 12.)
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, absolutely.  I've had three three-putts and missed a numerous amount of putts inside ten feet this week.  It is what it is and that's golf.  You're not going to have everything every week.  I'm always a guy trying to strive for the best, and, yeah, I'm going to get frustrated.  That's just who I am.  That's my nature.  Got a little fire in me.
I think if tomorrow I can -- well, this afternoon if I can go work on it and feel comfortable, go out there tomorrow and make some more putts, that's the goal.
Q. How much is your playoff run last year going to help you tomorrow down the stretch?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Absolutely.  I think knowing that if I can just stay in it and keep executing great shots every single time, it's going to be -- I'm going to be tough to beat.  That's just the way it is.  I'm striking it really well right now, and I think people know it.
Q. You mentioned you were seeing the lines better on the putts today.  Something click in particular?
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Well I've tried about almost a dozen things to make the line look right over the past year.  Because eyes are muscles they change.  Just like you feel good with your arms one day and feel bad with your arms the next day or you legs or whatever it is.  It's just kind of the way it is.  Your eyes are muscles and they change and adapt every single day in different lighting, so you just got to find out what works for you that week - as of right now - and try and lock into that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT