OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 27, 2019
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You were telling me yesterday you were happy with the score but not happy with your game.  Surely today you're happy with the game.  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: Today I was happy with my game.  I executed a lot of great shots.  First off, I want to say thank you again to Your Highness, thank you, appreciate everything you've done, the hospitality has been fantastic.   
I can say this is the future of the world.  This place, the city, what you guys have done, it's just absolutely fantastic, so great job.   
Today was a pleasure.  It was obviously a lot of fun to be able to finally hoist an international trophy, so happy about that.   
 Q.  Four wins in your last nine starts, the others have all been Top-20.  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: It's a lot of hard work with my caddie and just really grinding and trying to figure out how to take account of all the variables out there, whether it's air pressure, firmness values, mile-per-hour on the speed, putts, and ball speed, spin rates.  We're trying to figure out as much as possible so I can be as successful as possible and obviously it's shown.   
Trying to shoot 25-under today and missed it by one, but I'm happy with the results for sure.  I was trying to go as deep as possible today.   
 Q.  You told me you came here in 2016 as an amateur and you putted poorly but you figured something out.  What did you figure out?  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: The grain.  I won't go too deep into it but the grain is definitely a huge factor out here that we were able to take care of beautifully this week.   
 Q.  You've been No. 5 in the world for some time.  You told me the middle of the last year, it would be really cool to get to the top five.  How much do you have your eye on the No. 1 spot?  It's a matter of time, isn't it, the form you're in.  
BRYSON DeCHAMBEAU: I think so and I hope so.  I've got to keep working on my game and focus on what I can do out there and what I can improve on.  If it happens, it happens.  If it doesn't, it's no biggy.  I'll just keep working harder.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT