SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 4, 2019
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your putter was unbelievable.  The saves at 10, 11 and 14 kept the round going.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Absolutely.  On 14 the rain kind of came, we didn't have an umbrella, not happy about that.  But got through that and made a couple key putts when it mattered most.  That's the thing that I've been working really hard on, my initial velocities off the putts, different angles in these greens, because they're so different than anything we play all year.  That, just really worked hard on that and it's kind of paying off this week.   
 Q.  Your driving.  People don't realize how far you hit it and how accurate you are.  But I thought the wedge game and -- of course, your putting is really good.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, it's gotten a little better, my up-and-down ratio.  It's always nice when you're getting up-and-down because you're making 12-footers.  But I've got to work a little better on greens.  I'm just not adjusting for the wind and the slopes properly yet.  I mean these holes out here are so difficult with the crosswinds, downhill, downhill slope, and we're trying to figure out what launch angle is going to get it to go right next to the flag.  It's very difficult out here.   
 Q.  It's fun to watch you play.  Keep it going.  It's going to be a big week for you.  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Appreciate it.   
 Q.  How would you assess your round out there today?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Oh, man it was an interesting day.  The wind was blowing a lot harder today and quite honestly, I didn't think I was going to makes a many putts as I did yesterday but I did, which was nice.  The saves on 10, 11 and 14 were huge today, and I was able to keep a good round going because of it.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It was definitely difficult.  I think that it was nice that the wind was more into us or into me at least when I was hitting some of those putts I made, so it kind of kept it easy to judge.  But when you get across the slope and the wind is blowing across you as well, it just totally depends on the gust, so that's really a difficult situation.  But I was fortunate enough to have some wind coming straight into me or straight down wind today.   
 Q.  Any balls oscillating out there on the green today?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Oh, on the last hole.  Yeah.  It was getting close.  Every once in a while you would have a couple gusts that would almost move the ball.   
 Q.  Of all the rule changes -- I know we talked a lot about putting with the flag in, but of all the rule changes that went into effect this week which one kind of interested you or intrigues you the most?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I think the knee drop one.  That you have to drop it from knee height is a bit absurd, unfortunately.  I think that you should be able to go from knee height to shoulder height.  There should be no issue with that, whatever you want to do, honestly.  There's a lot of questions about that.  I think the flag stick's always interesting.  I'm using it to my advantage, best I can.  And spike marks, that's always an interesting one too.  Because I can see a lot of guys, when nobody's really looking, tapping down some things and making a little depression so they can putt it through that area a little bit better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT