SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 3, 2019
Bryson DeChambeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: I actually putted it pretty well considering the fact that I started off on the third hole hitting it 11 feet by.  That was pretty frustrating.  But other than that it was a very solid day off the tee.  Ball striking, I was having the correct distances, just didn't have the right shot shape into those types of winds.  So definitely learning this golf course a little bit more compared to last year.  I feel more comfortable.  I think moving forward it will be even better.   
 Q.  You talked about you were going to leave the flag stick in the hole which you did several times out there today.  Did you get competitively what you needed out of doing that today?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yeah, I feel like I maximized my potential on that, especially on 16 today, where it's kind of blowing downwind, five percent slope, straight down hill you want that pin to help.  So that's what I kind of did and utilized it to my advantage.  So I felt like for the most part I needed the pin to be in and it went in and it was a very nice help.   
 Q.  Are you pretty black and white when you're going to keep it in and take it out?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: It's so situational and I don't know when it's actually going to hurt me, if it is going to hurt me.  So that's why I got to understand that, when it does hurt me I'll know and that I won't do it anymore.  But as of right now it seems like it's a pretty nice benefit every once in a while.   
 Q.  Putts with the flag in, how many do you think you've hit to prepare for this?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Maybe 20 putts, that's it.  Nothing crazy.  It's not difficult.  People make it too complicated.  I've used some devices that have put it at different speeds and I'm still hitting it two feet by, just like you would normally if it doesn't go in the hole, but I think every once in a while if I accidentally hit it to three feet by and I do push it or pull it that much I really think like on, let's see, what was it, 14, I kind of pushed it a little bit and it went in the right side and if I hit it a little harder it may lip out, but instead it hit the flag and went in easily.  So it's totally situational, still liquid, I'm still learning, under competition, when it's the right thing to do.  Look, I'm going to be courteous to the player I'm playing with as well, I'm not going to try and be, oh, I need to put it back in every time.  I'm not going to be one of those guys, that's not me.  I'm trying to be courteous to all the players out here and respectful.  So that's my opinion on it, thought on it, and it's been a help so far.   
 Q.  Were there any awkward moments along those lines today between you and D.J. if it should come out, if it should stay in?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: No, I just said, he just said you just have Tim carry the flag stick and I'm like all right, cool, no big deal.  Everything outside of that, there really wasn't any awkward moments where I felt like, well, this is not really necessary, just pull it out.  Not a big deal.   
 Q.  The putt on 5, did you think that would have gone without it?  
BRYSON DECHAMBEAU: Yes, I think it would have, it was too far out, it never touched the pin.  I mean, hey, if I hit it a little faster and it's a little lower line and it hits the pin and goes in, it may lip out if it's not in there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT