ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2016
Joanne Boyle
Aliyah Huland El
Faith Randolph
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Duke - 57, Virginia - 53
JOANNE BOYLE: Yeah, just disappointed.  I thought it was a very hard-fought game.  Just really proud of my team.  Obviously there was a couple of stat lines that you wish would have been better, but they gave a great effort, and commend Duke on their playing effort and staying in.  I thought it was a very physical game, and just disappointed in the outcome.  Proud of my team, though.
Q. What did you see on your last possession offensively?
JOANNE BOYLE: I guess I can't comment, but I mean, I thought it was clean.  I didn't see anything.  That's the point.  I mean, I don't -- it's been a battle all game.  It's been a battle, everybody has been pushing and shoving, and I mean, that's just me.
Q. Aliyah, what was your vantage point on that last play?
ALIYAH HULAND EL: Honestly, I don't really want to comment.  I just think that both Duke and our team were hustling for the ball, and I mean, you leave it up to the refs regardless with .3 seconds left.
Q. Joanne, your defense, I thought today was really good.  You seemed to have Duke out of sync the entire game.  They hit one of 15 threes.  Talk a little bit about your defensive effort.
JOANNE BOYLE: Well, we learned from the first time we played them, we really tried to play scouting report defense.  What were people's strengths, what were their weaknesses.  We guarded some people, we didn't guard others.  We tried to really pack up the paint, make kids that don't necessarily get a ton of shots off, to make them shoot the ball, and we were going to try and limit some of their bigger scorers like Salvadores and Azura, so we were trying to just let other people score for them and clog up the paint and try and rebound against them.
Q. Joanne, the two chances you had with Mikayla taking shots at the last minute, what did you have set up on those two situations?
JOANNE BOYLE: We were just going to kind of run like a curl ball screen play, and Faith was going to come off that ball screen because she's one of our better penetrators, and she penetrated to just kind of look for our two shooters in the corner.  We got a little out of sorts, and then I think it was Aliyah made the pass or somebody just saw Mikayla in the corner, so it was a little bit off of a broken play but trying to just get some penetration for some shooters.
Q. Is this the team that probably hurts you the most with their height and your relative height disadvantage?
JOANNE BOYLE: Yeah.  When you talk about match-ups in the league and who you match up well against and who's a little bit more of a struggle, one of the problems we always have with Duke is their size, so I would definitely agree with that.
Q. Joanne, what was kind of going through your mind when JB hits two clutch threes for you at that point?  Seems like you kind of gained back momentum.  How important was that, and then I guess things kind of filtered out from there but what was going through your mind?
JOANNE BOYLE: You know, JB is like that.  Sometimes she'll come in a little not noticeable and other times she comes in and she's the biggest personality on the floor.  I thought tonight, like you said, she made some big threes.  I thought she did a great job defensively for us down on the other end.  She was really tuned into the game plan.  And then at the end I thought she kept some balls alive for us.  She did a really good job, some of the little things that you don't notice.  But again, the tip-in, all that kind of stuff, I thought she just had a really good presence out there for us.
Q. In the end, the free throws, do you like at that as maybe the worst stat there for you?
JOANNE BOYLE: Yep, we shoot 70-some percent from the line, I think in the upper 70s if I'm not mistaken, so I don't know that we've ever shot 30 percent from the free-throw line.  I don't think it's happened this year.  One of those days where you're just -- one of those stat lines that you wish you could have back.
Q. Faith and Aliyah, I think the two of you scored the team's first 15 points.  You guys had a lot of energy early.  What was the strategy early on with that small lineup and did you feel like you were catching them off guard?
ALIYAH HULAND EL: The strategy really was just to attack the middle for their 3-2, attack the zones, attack their lanes, and when the help comes, dump it off.
Q. Faith, what happened in the third quarter?  It was 30-29 and you really had a lot of trouble scoring coming out of the halftime break.
FAITH RANDOLPH: I guess we didn't do what we needed to do.
JOANNE BOYLE: I think in that third quarter we kind of went through a shooting slump, too.  I think it was a combination of -- I don't think it was just Faith.  I think we kind of just went cold, and then obviously when JB came in, got a touch, I think we got to the free-throw line a little bit off of that, too, so I thought we just got a little stagnant which hurt us.  I think that was part of it, too.
Q. Joanne, I think this is the first time you went with Aliyah at the 4 to start.  What was the strategy there, still playing against their size?
JOANNE BOYLE: Yeah, but they stay in the zone.  They play the match-up zone, and I felt just from a -- you know, Aliyah has done a good job for us at the 4, but just being able to spread the floor and have another shooter on the floor, it's kind of making them extend their defense, so we were trying to play a little bit more from the offensive end.  We came out, and we tried to do a little bit of a triangle and two, and it didn't work so well, so we went right to our zone.  But we tried to just change it up and protect the paint a little bit through the triangle and the zone, which Aliyah can play multiple positions in that, but I think the big thing was just to have four guards on there so we could spread the floor and look to shoot and attack better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT