STANFORD UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 21, 2013
Ben Gardner
Ty Montgomery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   How did the first half seem to go so well?
    BEN GARDNER:   I think it was just the front seven and back end working together like we know we can, like we've shown we can in the past, and we were able to get a lot of pressure on ASU up front.   That's because we were able to shut down the run early. 
    The first half it seemed like everything was clicking.   We've got to be able to continue that for another half of football.

Q.   Ty, what do you make of this win?   Arizona State is certainly a top 25 opponent.   Pretty good challenge for you guys? 
    TY MONTGOMERY:   They're a good team and they fought to the very last second.   We just found a way to finish, and I'm glad we did.

Q.   Ty, what did you guys see in the secondary?   It seemed like you and Devon were taking advantage over the middle and post routes first half? 
    TY MONTGOMERY:   No, I think all that stuff comes from the run game, some of the play action pass that we run and the defense has to respect our run.   That helps us a lot.   We just run our routes and hope he throws good balls.

Q.   In the first half it doesn't seem like the team comes out feeling too well because of the way the game was going.   Your overall thoughts on that? 
    BEN GARDNER:   Yeah, there was definitely a little bit of a feeling of a little bit of disappointment.   We celebrate all wins, and we're glad we got this one.   But we've got to take a little more pride in playing our style of football no matter what the situation.   Lot of credit to Arizona State.   They came out and didn't quit.   We had them down, but they fought back.   We've got to respond better and play our best football no matter what the situation.

Q.   Ty, how different is the Stanford offense in the sense that you guys are showing more downs in the passes this year?   What's that do to the offense? 
    TY MONTGOMERY:   I'm going to go back to the run game again, because I love our run game so much, being able to throw the ball down field opens up the run game even more.   We're able to impose our will on people, and the passing game wasn't as strong and now it's stronger and it's a lot easier for us.   So I love what we do.

Q.   Ty, kind of on that question, going by Antonio to your teammate, is there a little letdown feeling that you guys weren't able to sustain the pressure you had in the first half? 
    TY MONTGOMERY:   I don't think so.   We celebrate all our victories, and Arizona State fought to the last minute, like they should.   They're a good football team.   We were fortunate to pull out the run.

Q.   Beyond the run game, in these three games, you talked in training camp about being more confident knowing what you should do versus last year.   How much has that played into your success? 
    TY MONTGOMERY:   Confidence has played a lot into my success.   But my confidence didn't come just from me.   It came from the prayer and time I spent with God, and the great teammates I have around me and supporting me and believing in what I'm capable of doing.   That helps me believe.   It's all about the foundation.

Q.   Ben, you had a blocked front tonight, and that was the first since 2010.   How big of a deal was it for you guys on special teams to keep making those big plays? 
    BEN GARDNER:   It's a big deal.   We treat special teams just like the other two phases of the game.   We've been fortunate to have great special teams here over the years.   Those guys did a great job.   I think we blocked another one tonight too.   You know, if we can keep making splash plays on special teams, it gives our whole team a boost and helps us win field position battles which is the key to wing games.

Q.   At what point did you realize (Indiscernible)?
    BEN GARDNER:   We had seen it on film.   You know, we kind of had a safe look in there to just kind of make sure the ball was punted.   But I kind of, you know, I just figured I might as well go for it and give it a try.   I was lucky I was able to get a hand on it.

Q.   Were you thinking end zone? 
    BEN GARDNER:   I was thinking end zone.   I haven't touched the ball since eighth grade.   So I tried to scoop it, and I think the quarterback got a hand on me.   I was able to break away from him, but it was too late.   Somebody else got there.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
    BEN GARDNER:   I used to be a beast (laughing). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT