ICC CHAMPIONS TROPHY
June 8, 2017
Trent Boult
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Trent, you guys have played a game here; do you think that's an advantage coming into tomorrow's match? It's a different pitch but what conditions might be like?  
TRENT BOULT: Yeah, I guess it's a bit of an advantage, but I'm sure the Bangladeshis have done their homework, and yeah, no doubt would have watched what went down the other day.   
But yeah, new surface, it's going to be interesting to see if it plays anything like the other one did.   
 Q.  What you saw, the turf, what happened in the second, that second half -- did that catch you by surprise?  
TRENT BOULT: I suppose a little bit. You don't really prepare for the bowls to kind of hold off a bit like they did.  Definitely from our innings, it was a bit of a surprise in terms of we didn't really get that result out of the wicket.   
But whether it was due to a bit of rain or simply the wicket dried out, we're not sure. But yeah, I'm presuming it's going to be a decent surface prepared, and yeah, a few runs made.  But it should definitely be a good challenge come tomorrow.   
 Q.  Mike spoke briefly yesterday about how it's a challenge for the bowlers to try and produce wicket-tacking opportunities when the batsmen aren't attacking.  You've chipped away quite well, England, but it was generally when they were playing attacking cricket.  As one of the elite bowlers, what are the things you're thinking of in terms of creating wicket-taking opportunities?  
TRENT BOULT: Yeah, I guess not just myself but the rest of the bowlers on our side, the swing bowlers generally like to exploit anything out of the air.  I guess there's a little bit of the ability to just try seaming the ball.   
But yeah, when it's not seaming and it's not swinging, obviously we need to look at different measures. Yeah, I suppose once the opposition starts coming at us giving more chances, that's when we can kind of cash in.   
But yeah, I think we all know the importance of getting wickets early in the innings and putting the team under pressure is where you can really set the game up for people.  That's the challenge tomorrow.  I'm sure we'd love to come hard at the top order, which has been playing very well. But if we can do that, I'm sure we can, yeah, set up a decent total to chase down or obviously sit.   
 Q.  Last time Bangladesh beat New Zealand in the Tri-Nation Series.  Who is going to be the favourite in tomorrow's match, Bangladesh or New Zealand?  
TRENT BOULT: Bangladesh are a quality side.  Yeah, come the triangular series last month, obviously we had a few players out that weren't involved in that but yeah, they are a quality side.  We know they are going to come hard.   
It's a must-win game, so it's going to be an exciting challenge.  Once again, their batsmen have been making runs.  I think Tamim at the top of the order is a quality player.  Definitely is a blind unit; we need to take wickets, but it should be a very good encounter.   
 Q.  Any particular player you've been targeting, any bowler or any batsman?  Anything special from you guys?  
TRENT BOULT: I love this question.  Yeah, hey, once again, they are stacked with some quality players.  I think we've played them a lot. We played very nicely against them in New Zealand in our summer back home.   
But yeah, it's an important tournament.  Every game is a must-win game and it's a must-win game tomorrow.  So I can't single out any player, but yeah, we're looking to come hard.  Obviously set the game up and yeah, hopefully chase down whatever Bangladeshis sit us.   
 Q.  What's the sort of talk amongst the team and what are the messages you're getting from the coach in terms of where you guys think you're at as far as a complete performance?  
TRENT BOULT: Yeah, in terms of a complete performance, yeah, I think we'll probably be a little bit disappointed with the way a few things have gone.  Can't control the weather in terms of what happened with the Australian game.   
But yeah, I think there was some big positives to take out of the performance against England. They like to take wickets through the whole innings, and keep them to definitely a score that was chase-able.   
Yeah, the middle order, I'm sure, feel there's still a few runs left out there to be made, and yeah, I guess we'd like to finish a lot stronger in terms of, you know, in that last power play.  But yeah, it's going to be a good game tomorrow.  Hopefully the weather can stay away and yeah, it's a must-win game for us, so we're definitely looking forward to it.   
 Q.  A couple of batters already been lost out due to rain.  A bit frustrating for you?  
TRENT BOULT: Sorry, say that again.  Frustrating?  Yeah, I guess no players want to miss out.  They want to contribute to the team and get as many runs as they can.  But we're stacked with some quality, experienced players, who yeah, can make runs, so it's always a good thing to have.   
Yeah, I'm sure we can look to bat well in the quality wicket. Yeah, just hopefully overheads can clear away for us and we can get out there and have a good game.   
 Q.  Slow over-rate.  So one of the most duller subjects going, but the implications, of course, of what can happen in terms of bans and that sort of thing.  Is it not just a case of getting on with it?  What goes on out there that you can actually address as a group of players?  
TRENT BOULT: Yeah, I personally don't understand it.  But yeah, it's up to the players to hustle through overs.  I'm not too sure what the allowances are with wickets.  And you seem to have to walk about 2K to get out to the ground from the changing room; so whether that has anything to do with it.   
As players, yeah, you're responsible to quickly get to the overs and be clear with where you're trying to bowl and your plans are relatively clear so you're not thinking of everything I guess while it's all happening.   
But yeah, to be as slow as we were the other day was a bit disappointing, but it's something that we need to address because come the crunch time in the tournament when you are under pressure and you're running out of time, it's just going to make it harder.  So yeah, we are focussing on it.   
 Q.  Just going back, you mentioned about the lack of swing. Have you been surprised about the lack of swing? I know you've played here before and you've often made the ball hoop.  Has it been disappointing it's not gone for you, or seam bowlers in general in this tournament?  
TRENT BOULT: Well, I haven't actually played here before.  But yeah, in the country, yeah, you would think it would swing around a little bit.  It's been very cold.   
I don't think it's a technical thing from my point of view or from any of the bowlers, but looking across at no one's really swung the ball as we have seen in the past; example of the World Cup a couple years ago.   
Yeah, it is a bit disappointing.  You would like to see the ball banana-ing around, especially at the top of the innings.  But yeah, I'm not too sure what you can put it down to.  It's one of their things and it's a good challenge to test your waters and see how you can get wickets in other ways.   
REVIEWED BY RAJ   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT