ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 28, 2015
Trent Boult
Kane Williamson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  That ended up being the final ball of the match.  Was that premeditated?  Was that going to go wherever he bowled?  KANE WILLIAMSON: Yeah, I was looking for a boundary, ideally the six.  But the after, what stacked at the other end for the new batsman coming in, it was obviously quite tough, so trying to get a boundary away was sort of the plan on that.   Q.  Trent, what were your thoughts as you were putting or having to put your pads on walking down there knowing you had to face those couple of balls?  TRENT BOULT: Yeah, I was pretty wound up, that's for sure.  I was going about a million miles an hour, but I quickly slowed it down for me, and simplified it.  I thought if I got through those two balls we could move forward from there.  So it was great to get it.   Q.  Kane, as things were developing, you seemed to be quite serene with your batting and your approach and your technique.  Still getting in line, et cetera.  What was going through your mind though as you saw things were happening on the other end, three down, 4 found, five down and onwards?  KANE WILLIAMSON: Yes, well, basically just trying to keep the total out of mind, I suppose, and just bat.  The longer you spent out there, the bit of a chance of getting across the line.  I thought in Australia bowled outstandingly and made it very difficult for us.  Starc was superb and swung the ball throughout the innings and made it tough.  But it was nice to get across the line, I suppose in tournament sport. It doesn't really matter how you get across the line as long as you do it, and it was obviously a bit of a scrap today.  But it was nice to get the win.   Q.  Kane, when that ball was flying toward the boundary, what were your thoughts?  What were you thinking?  Did you suddenly feel a bunch of pressure off your shoulders?  KANE WILLIAMSON: That's a good question.  It was nice, to be honest, I thought it was going to be a bit shorter.  So when it was up there, it was nice to get the ball in that area and connect and head up for six.  So, yeah, it's great to like I say, get across the line, and that's what Trent and I were trying to do there at the end.  Obviously, Australia made it really tough for us, but we fought all the way through, and every little partnership counted.   Q.  You showed a lot of face in tower tile when you put that back on strike, what were your thoughts there?  KANE WILLIAMSON: When we needed seven, every run seems quite significant.  We still had three wickets left, so I thought it would be okay.  But, obviously, it was pretty tough.  It was great that Trent came out and showed that nerve and kept out two balls to give ourselves the opportunity to do it at the other end.  So it was a good team effort.   Q.  Trent you've had some pretty good days in the last year, 15, 18 months or so that fight for three in that little spell.  Do you think that might be the best you've bowled in a very long time?  You seem to sort of have it on a string.  It must have felt good to you coming out.  Would that be tops in recent time for you?  KANE WILLIAMSON: I'm not too sure to be honest.  I've just been trying to do what I've been doing over the last five or six months kind of thing.  Push the ball up and kind of swing it.  I got a little bit of luck there with a couple of drag ons.  It was a bit of go, and it's obviously something I'm going to remember for a while.  It was nice to add to the team, and see the reason for the title and chase it down.   Q.  For either of you, could you give me a sense of what this one means against the Australians?  It's a round robin game.  It's bigger fish to fry.  Could you give a sense of what it means to the team internally, I suppose?  How much of a boost it will give you coming out on top today?  KANE WILLIAMSON: Yeah, I think obviously Australia are No. 1 in the world.  So whenever you play them, it's always a really tough match.  They'll never give you any easy runs with the bat or an easy wicket.  So, yeah, like I said, it's always tough to play them and great to get a win against the best team.  I think the opportunity to play them is always a good one because you learn a lot as well.  So that was, yeah, that's a big thing for us to beat a team like that to move forward in this competition.   Q.  Kane, it's not often teams take Mitch Johnson for 70 off 6 overs.  Did you get a sense is he was not quite right or what made it easy to score today?  TRENT BOULT: He was world class.  And obviously with his style of batting when he gets going, as we've seen recently he can get around some bowlers, I suppose.  Yeah, Mr. Johnson's obviously a world class performer.  And today he batted really well, and that's sort of cricket, I suppose.  He's still very tough each ball, but with some more boundaries as well sometimes the extra pace can fly a little bit, and like I said, Brendon played really well.   Q.  Trent, can you tell us about the atmosphere?  Because the roar was almost shaking the stands at some points?  TRENT BOULT: It was really incredible to be honest.  To have a crowd (Indiscernible) right behind us was a team it was something really special.  On the wickets, you couldn't hear yourself think.  It was an amazing atmosphere and a really good result for us.   Q.  What about the belief that comes from it to potentially make history in this World Cup?  TRENT BOULT: Yeah, I guess a lot of confidence is given from that.  When you come against the best in the world, you quickly take a few learnings out of it, so I'm sure we'll stay pretty grounded, and just take each game as it comes, there is still a lot of cricket to be played, so I can't see us getting too far ahead of ourselves.   Q.  Guys, how much of a concern was it, I suppose, to see the blow that Brendon took to his forearm?  And do you know what condition he might be?  KANE WILLIAMSON: Yeah, I think he's okay.  Obviously it was a bit of a concern when a ball that fast comes and hits you on the arm, but he's a tough competitor and he's a strong leader, so I'm sure he'll be fine.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT