ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 17, 2015
Trent Boult
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Trent, could you sum up that performance? How scary did it get in the end there?  TRENT BOULT:  Yeah, it got a little scarier than they wanted, I guess. When I'm rushing around the changing room trying to check the pairs on it, it means we might be in a little bit of trouble. But, yeah, in the end we got the points and we got the job done, so, yeah, pretty satisfying.       Q. Do you think for the batsmen it will have any effect on them going forward, or is it an easy one to put behind them do you think?  TRENT BOULT:  I don't think so. Yeah, I reckon the Scots bowled really well. They came out there and gave it everything, and knew they could try to defend us, and, yeah, put some decent pressure on us. So I don't think it will be two phases of batting in it. We got the job done, like I said, and we got the points. Let's move on to Friday.       Q. I guess how did you feel it bowled today?  TRENT BOULT:  Yeah, I said in the post-match before that we felt it swung around really nicely, and some good assistance from the wicket as well. Yeah, as a unit we bowled pretty well. I thought we got the ball to swing and got a decent score. So bowled out for 143. We knew there was some batting to be done, we got put under some pressure by some bowlers and eventually got there.       Q. The decision to bowl first, Trent was that based on something you saw on the pitch or was that part of a longer team play going forward?  TRENT BOULT:  Yeah, I'm not sure. Brendon could probably could answer that better than me, but we saw there was some grayness in the wicket. We knew it was going to swing, so why not put them under pressure? So we started nicely, and they kicked back nicely and got through to 143. But like I said, we're happy we got the job done.       Q. Was it nice to live up to the price tag today?  TRENT BOULT:  It's just nice to be out there assisting or contributing to a bowling performance and to the ones. As eye unit we stuck together pretty nicely, and it's nice that everyone put their hand up and helped in some way and got that win.       Q. Can you tell us what it was like last night? Obviously, you would have been gathered around a screen, I'm sure, to see what you were going to go for. Can you take us back what was it like?  TRENT BOULT:  It was pretty exciting. You can imagine sitting around a computer screen with a couple of your mates and not really knowing what was going to happen. Yeah, it was pretty exciting there for a couple of minutes. I'm not too sure if it's settled in with me yet, but, yeah, pretty exciting opportunity coming up.       Q. Trent, you must have been pleased with your first over today?  TRENT BOULT:  Yeah, like I said, it did swing around nicely and just managed to get the line right, and asked some good questions of their batsmen. Yeah, kicked off with a bit of a bang there. And I thought Timmy bowled well to chip in with two wickets and that set us up pretty nicely.       Q. How do you rate your bowling performance today?    TRENT BOULT: It was okay. Like I said, a good start. Had some good questions throughout my spell. Yeah, like I said, very happy to contribute to the team performance overall. So, yeah.       Q. You talked about the batting, but do you think you got a little bit complacent?  TRENT BOULT:  With the bat or the ball?       Q. With a bat as a team. Seven wickets now.  TRENT BOULT:  Yeah, well, seven, yeah, it put us in a position that we didn't really want to be in. But like I said, a lot of credit is due for Scottish for asking the questions of us. And yeah, it shows you the way the game can go. If you build the pressure in the right areas, you can upset anyone on any day. But like I said, we got there in the end and guys are really happy, and we'll move on to Friday night now.       Q. Just going back to the auction. Can you tell us who you watched it with and whose room and what was how was the confidence level being picked up?  TRENT BOULT:  I don't know what the confidence level was. It was a unique experience, and something I felt I had no control over. Yeah, put my name into an auction almost a couple months ago and then you just let it happen. So myself and Tim, and Ronch and Kane were actually sitting around. Yeah, obviously it seemed to happen pretty quickly, and like I said it was exciting.       Q. And I suppose those are always difficult because some guys go for less than they expect and some guys don't get picked up. Was that difficult? What was the reaction like from the guys?  TRENT BOULT:  No, the guys were pretty elated for me. Everyone's pretty close and tight-knit in the group. No, it was pretty special to share with a couple of mates and to go through something like that because it really is a once-in-a-lifetime thing. It was exciting, but I guess the focus is still on the World Cup, there is no doubt about that. There is a lot of cricket to be played between now and then, and that is definitely my focus.       Q. Just on the auction again. I mean, it was only a year or two ago you were regarded as more of a rig ball bowler. You must be amazed how far you've come in the shortened versions of the game?  TRENT BOULT:  Yeah, well, I suppose everyone knows that cricket is my passion and there is no doubt about that. There's nothing better than winning a Test match and a Test match series with the black cap on. Yeah, this World Cup was always going to be a big goal of mine and something I'd love to be involved in. I felt like I put a lot of focus into the white ball and the game with the white ball in the background. So it's nice to be contributing, like I said, and to get some accolades like I have recently is something that I wasn't necessarily expecting. But yeah, we'll focus on that when that comes.       Q. Just on the make-up of the 11 today, no changes, the bowling rotation sort of has been throughout the summer. Do you feel like now everyone's sort of settling into their role and knows what their role is and that's sort of going to be the way it is moving forward? In terms of you feel like that's your 11?  TRENT BOULT:  It's hard to say. It's going to be a long tournament, and like I said, there is going to be a lot of cricket to be played. The great thing about our group is we have four guys on the sideline that are hungry to be out there. And they've definitely got the skills to be out there, so anything can happen. I'm confident that any of the 15 can step up and jump into a role. But, yeah, to field the same side two outings in a row and get the job done is obviously very satisfying for all of us.       Q. You mentioned Test Match cricket. Do you feel like you and Tim are almost bowling with a Test Match mentality at the top of the moment? Are you trying to take wickets and go about it in a conventional bowl in One-Dayers?  TRENT BOULT:  Yeah, we know that if you have a bit of success at the top and give wickets the amount of pressure they put on the opposition. And running in and trying to bowl yorkers and trying to do all sorts is not really the ingredient to doing that. It's about putting pressure and myself in turn trying to keep it as simple as possible. When we get conditions like that where it does swing, and we get that little bit of assistance out of the wicket, then, yeah, the wickets kind of come. So, yeah, that's the focus. We know what wickets on the top can do.       Q. We spoke just before with Preston and he said he felt that his side had exposed some vulnerability, I think were his exact words. This team feels like it's built almost of an air of invincibility about it in some circles anyway. Do you feel that's taken a bit of a hit today?  TRENT BOULT:  I got asked the question about invincibility the other day and I didn't really understand it. I'm not sure how to answer that one. Yeah, we just went out there to put pressure on them. Yeah, I don't really know, actually. That's a tough one to answer. Like I said, we bowled well and set the game up and got through with the bat and got the result we wanted, so, yeah.        
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT