U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2018
Luis Gagne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Costa Rica is not really famous for golfers.  What is the golf situation in the country?  
LUIS GAGNE: You know, I think it's starting to get bigger because, you know, starting the Latin American Amateur and the Latin American Tour, I think that's spiked some interest.  I think because we are such a small country, we have a long ways to go, but I think in the next ten years we could throw out a couple decent players.   
 Q.  How did you get started in golf?  
LUIS GAGNE: Well, like I said, I moved to the States when I was around four or five.  I didn't really get started in Costa Rica.  I got started when I moved to Florida.  My dad's dad actually bought me my first set of clubs and I just swung them and my dad thought I had a pretty good swing, so the rest was history.   
 Q.  How did you end up at LSU?  
LUIS GAGNE: Just Chuck Winstead is a great coach.  That's what I was looking for.  Also I was friends with a lot of guys on the team.  Also their track record, like I have seen over time people who go there tend to get better and build their skills.  That is something that I was looking for.   
 Q.  Tell me about your round today.  You are an amateur, you made the cut at the U.S. Open.  You have got Saturday and Sunday, two exciting days, coming up.  What is your feeling?  
LUIS GAGNE: I'm feeling great.  I mean, the goal this week was just to make the cut.  So like it got a little stressful there towards the back nine because I was one stroke either way.  I made a couple birdies coming in which gave me a cushion.  I played really solid.  It's just a grind.  I don't care if you shoot 2-under or 2-over, you are grinding every hole.  For me to be able to grind for two straight days and make the cut, I'm proud of myself, to be honest.   
 Q.  What do you have to do to this course to get it in the hole?  
LUIS GAGNE: I guess there's a lot of ways to get it in the hole, but the main thing is you have to hit the fairways, which is a huge key.  But once you do that, you also have to miss it in the right place.  Because if you go at some of these pins and you miss it in the wrong place, there's a slim to none chance that you are going to get up and down.   
 Q.  Did you hit out of the rough much today?  
LUIS GAGNE: I believe I hit out of it twice.  No. 13 or 12, I hit it in the right rough and -- actually, I hit it in the bunker, then chipped it out in the rough.  The rough is thick, you know, you really don't want to be in the rough.  Even if it's just the first cut, it's still thick.  Fairways are really key.   
 Q.  Have you played the course before?  
LUIS GAGNE: First time here at Shinnecock.  No.   
 Q.  What's the first day you played?  
LUIS GAGNE: First day?  I came here Saturday and I played 18 with my buddy Sam Burns.  I was just amazed.  The layout, it's like so natural.  It's just spectacular.  It's one of most beautiful courses I have ever seen.   
 Q.  What are your plans now?  
LUIS GAGNE: Hopefully get some rest.  I'm kind of tired.  But rest up, eat some dinner, see what time I tee off tomorrow.   
 Q.  After the Open?  
LUIS GAGNE: After the Open, I'm playing the Northeast Amateur next week and then I take a week off, then I go to France.  I'm playing in the Palmar Cup, so that will be fun.  After that I'm playing the Western Amateur and the U.S. Amateur.  Then probably back to school.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT