U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2018
Luis Gagne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What is it like to be in a U.S. Open at this stage of your career?  What does it mean, and what is it about?
LUIS GAGNE: It's just, I mean, honestly, it's unreal.  I'm at a loss for words.  I mean, this has always been a dream to play pro golf.  And to be able to have my first pro start, even though, you know, like I'm an amateur, my first pro start to be a Major, I just can't even put it into words.
Q. And plus 3, not too bad for your first start in this venue.
LUIS GAGNE: Yeah.
Q. Look back on what you did today that got you there and what you think you might be able to improve on to maybe get an even lower number.
LUIS GAGNE: Yeah, you know, I played very solid today.  I kind of stuck to my game plan.  Just the first thing is you have to get the ball in play off the tee.  And if you do that, then you have to leave the ball on the right side on the green, whether that's on the green.  Or if you have to like miss your approach shot to where you have enough room to get up and down, you know, it's all just a game plan.
I think one thing I can improve on, I had maybe one or two holes where I kind of -- like I wouldn't say spaced out, but I kind of lost focus just a little, and you can't do that out here.
You know, I think I handled myself very well, but there's always room for improvement.  So go out there tomorrow and try to do more of the same.
Q. There's a lot of golf left, but as low am at this point, there is a reward for being in that position.  Too early to think about that yet, but you're doing well.  And there's a reason to think, based on today, that you could do better.  How do you feel about that?
LUIS GAGNE: About the low am?
Q. About low am, about being where you are, and maybe even improving on what you've done.
LUIS GAGNE: Yeah, I'm in great position.  That was the goal coming in here to be low am.  But like you said, you can't really think about that.  I mean, just being here is -- being here is a trophy in itself.  I'm not too worried about what the week brings.  I'm just happy to be here.  This is just a great experience for what I plan to do in the future.
Q. Last question.  In strategy for tomorrow, if the wind stays the same, it's supposed to cool off.  It's going to dry everything out finally.  What things do you take into tomorrow's round to keep the momentum going?
LUIS GAGNE: You know, just more of the same.  Of course, the course is going to play a shade tougher because everything's going to start drying out.  The greens are already firm enough.  With the rain last night, it's still firm.  They're just going to be firmer.  So you just have to aim at the fat side of the green.  And if you were to miss, you can't tight side yourself out here because the greens are too firm and fast to do that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT