SHANGHAI ATP MASTERS 1000
October 13, 2009
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/A. Roddick
  4-3, Ret. 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Do we assume that your reaction, that it was very much like the Queen's situation where you thought perhaps prevention is better than playing on?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I think you always think that. You know, I think with the Queen's thing, you probably knew what you were -- I don't really know, you know, what's going on in there. I'm not a doctor. I can't really self-diagnose myself, so I don't really know -- I'm not going to have a lot of answers for you guys tonight, unfortunately.   
  
  Q. It looked as if you locked it. Is that how it felt when you did it?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Again, you know, it's tough for me to kind of recall the -- it wasn't in slow motion for me.   
 You know, I didn't -- you know, I just felt I pushed off, and then, you know, Michael came on court and did some tests and advised that it probably wasn't worth the risk, you know, until we know more.  
  
  Q. Before you came here, had you looked at what you thought you might need to do to qualify for London?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No.  
  
  Q. Is it pain in the front of the knee or in the back?  
 ANDY RODDICK: It's in the back right now.  
  
  Q. We were told it's left knee pain but didn't say how hard it can be. So how severe the pain is?   
 ANDY RODDICK: Guys, again, enough to make me stop a tennis match, which is, you know, it's going to be pretty significant. Beyond that, I don't -- I don't know. You know, that's not my profession.  
  
  Q. It's obviously very frustrating this time of year when you're trying to qualify. It's a big deal for you and must be very disappointing.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Sure. You know, at this point, my concern is, you know, more along the lines of figuring out what we're dealing with. I mean, I think regardless of what I do from here on out, I still have a pretty good shot, so, you know, that's nice that I do have a little bit of a cushion, I think.   
 I don't really know the numbers exactly, but, you know, I can't really worry about that, because it's out of my hands right now. We'll move on, and, you know, handle what we can handle from here on out.   
  
  Q. And the likelihood is one assumes, Andy, that you go home to the States, get it looked at by the people you know and trust, and then make a judgment from there?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yes.  
  
  Q. 12 months ago here or 11 months ago here it was your ankle, wasn't it?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Uh-huh.  
  
  Q. Is there anything about the court?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I don't think so. I hurt my ankle on a practice court, and if I'm not mistaken, it was actually a different surface for this tournament than it is in indoors, so no, I don't think that's -- I don't think that's right.  
  
  Q. We know you're frustrated now but there is a lot of Chinese fans frustrated out there, because we didn't see Federer here and Murray and now it's you. Do you have anything to say for those Chinese fans?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, it's unfortunate, but I don't know if I can sit here and apologize for an injury. (laughter.)  
 Yeah, I mean, trust me, I think we all want to play tennis. I mean, that's what we do. You know, it's not -- it's not something that you can control, you know. So trust me, as frustrated as they are that we're not here, I promise you we're more frustrated.  
 And again, it's not something that I can sit here and acknowledge that -- it's not a perfect scenario for it, but as far as, you know, apologizing or doing whatever, I can sympathize with their frustration, but again, I promise you at this point I'm just as concerned.  
  
  Q. You have been in good condition in Beijing and you were in the doubles. Did you regret for the decision to play doubles in Beijing?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No, this has nothing to do with playing doubles in Beijing. Normally I played singles a lot longer, and that's probably a little tougher than doubles, so I don't think that theory holds much water.  
  
  Q. Your left knee injury is a new injury or an old one?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No, it's new.  
  
  Q. With the injuries, two top players that we've talked about, Federer, Murray, now yourself, and what we were talking about on Monday, do you think the ATP might start to notice these things?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Ah, I don't know. You know, it's -- that's a question that, you know, I don't really feel like I need to speak for someone else or to answer for them. You would assume so.  
  
  Q. Did anybody speak to you about what you said yesterday to the ATP?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, I think -- yeah, I think we actually had -- I had a good discussion with one of the representatives today. You know, they were receptive. You know, who knows what will come of it, but, you know, to be fair, there has been a kind of a new -- there has been some new leadership this year that's kind of stuck picking up the pieces of the mistakes of the last, you know, kind of leader, which is a tall task, and so it's probably an unenviable one at best.  
 So I don't think my frustrations are directly towards the leadership that's there now; more so just with the way it is and getting the point across that there does probably need to be something changed.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT