WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 19, 2009
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. QUERREY/A. Roddick
  7-6, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Obviously tough match tonight. What was the difference between here and Washington a couple weeks ago?   
 ANDY RODDICK: I mean, I think he just played the big points better than I did tonight.   
  
  Q. You seemed a little out of sorts from the first game. What was there something going on there?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No. I was fine. Just a bad night.  
  
  Q. From the start?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Is there sort of a point at which too many matches in a row has a diminishing affect or is not worth it? Where is the tipping point of you want to peak at the US Open, but not get too mentally drained?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I think so, but our options are limited as far as what we can and can't play. We're a little handcuffed as far as schedule. I've already missed a Masters event this year when I got married, so I guess that wasn't an option here unless I wanted to pay everyone off.   
  
  Q. You mentioned in the last conversation you were kind of concerned a little bit about your serve. Do you feel a bit better about it now?   
 ANDY RODDICK: Early on it felt great. It felt about as good as it has recently. And it hasn't been bad, it's just a matter of kind of getting your arm back into shape.   
 At this point in my career I don't hit a lot of serves during my off time. I think I want to save those repetitions on my shoulder. Early on tonight it actually felt good. It wasn't as good late. It's something I'll work on, but I'm not too concerned about it.  
  
  Q. Is there any positives you can take out of this match? You had a lot of matches, and...  
 ANDY RODDICK: Not really. To be honest, I played well. I feel prepared for the Open. That's what you want to get out of this stretch. I'm disappointed that I couldn't play better here in Cincinnati, which is a place that I enjoy playing.   
 But as far as the Open goes, I'm not too worried about the setback.   
  
  Q. How has Sam improved in the last year?  
 ANDY RODDICK: He's gotten a lot faster. He's moving a lot better. He's not playing himself out of points quite as much. He's got a better sense of when to pull the trigger and when to stay in points.   
 You know, it's all encouraging. It's nice to have the guy kind of moves the right way.   
  
  Q. What's your plan between now and the Open?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I'm not sure. Probably won't go to New York right away. I mean, 11 days at the place before slam even starts is little excessive. You know, so I might actually go home for a couple days and then cruise up there before the week starts.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT