ROGERS CUP
August 15, 2009
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. DEL POTRO/A. Roddick
  4-6, 6-2, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How would you assess your performance tonight?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Overall it was pretty good. I thought we were both hitting the ball very well. Obviously I think I'm going to remember that game at 5-All. I just played a terrible game. It's the first time I've played a loose game like that in a long time. You know, it's unfortunate that I had to end it that way.  
  
  Q. On the match point that you had, you were speaking to the umpire and you were calling something out. I was just wondering your issue. Were you just not ready? Was there a noise from the crowd?   
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I was ready. Just as he tossed the ball up there, a couple of flashes from the same area right behind where he's serving and they snapped them mid-toss.   
 I still hit a pretty good return. I just missed it, yeah.   
  
  Q. You did have a couple of match points even though your serve wasn't 100%.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Match point.   
  
  Q. You had one match point?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Do you have a positive you can take away from the match?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. I mean, I thought I served probably better overall tonight, you know. He takes away a lot of the potential aces just because he's got -- he's got quite a bit of reach.   
 But yeah, I feel like my game is pretty good. I feel like my serve is certainly better than last week, and it probably got better by the match. It's just a matter of kind of getting your arm back in shape after a little bit of a break.  
 Yeah, so I mean, as far as -- I'm very disappointed with result and the way the match finished, but as far as preparation for the US Open goes, which is kind of the point of this whole swing, I feel pretty good with where it's at, especially, you know, post-Wimbledon and kind of having a month without competition.  
  
  Q. You've lost two very tight matches to Del Potro the last week. What is it about his game that is difficult? What do you think makes him as good as he is?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, there's two parts. There's the forehands and backhands of someone that makes someone good. I mean, obviously he hits the ball very big, returns second serves very well. I feel like he's been serving well.   
 You know, normally I think -- I think he's serving a much higher percentage of first serves right now. I think that's helping him; plus, confidence. I mean, he's stepping up at 30-All and hitting the shot without even thinking twice.  
 You know, that's certainly the sign of a confident player. You know, I feel like I've lost to the best version of him the last two weeks and had very, very legitimate chances in both of them.  
 I'm disappointed but, you know, like I said, as the push towards the US Open comes, I feel like, you know, I like where my game is heading.   
  
  Q. Before the last game, it feels like you talked to your box, maybe your coach. Is there anything you said or you were just frustrated?  
 ANDY RODDICK: If I did, I was talking to him. If I did say something, I was talking to him, not everybody.   
  
  Q. I have a lot of people who listen to -- I do radio. They love hockey; they love football. They don't necessarily know that much about tennis. If anyone can draw a parallel, it might be you because you come from the Longhorn state. Is there any kind of commonality between football and tennis you can draw?   
 ANDY RODDICK: Football and tennis?   
  
  Q. The kind of mentality you bring to the game, just for people who aren't really into tennis but might want to learn about it.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I don't -- I don't see -- it's more of a rah, rah, rah, team go, you know, type deal. In football it's -- I think it's more of a team, obviously more of a team deal.   
 I don't know. Besides the obvious, you know, competition and, you know, hard work and yada, yada, yada, I don't know if that's going to be good material on your radio show, though, or if that is considered good material, then that's probably not. (laughter.)  
 Maybe if we start knocking each other's teeth out or something, come in minus molars or something, maybe we'll do that and change it up. We need more fighting in tennis. (laughter.)  
  
  Q. That's a parallel with hockey, not football.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, it's kind of -- the question was hockey and football.   
 That was a good one to end on.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT