WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2009
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/A. Roddick
  5-7, 7-6, 7-6, 3-6, 16-14 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Did you just lose to the world's greatest tennis player ever?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about when you were sitting in the chair and the crowd was chanting your name, what did that mean to you?  
 ANDY RODDICK: That was nice. You know, it showed that they appreciated I guess what we did out there today. You know, it was definitely a nice and appreciated gesture by them.   
  
  Q. How is it possible to hold your concentration? You served from behind on 10 occasions with the title at stake.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, you just keep going. I mean, you don't really -- looking back it seems like a lot, but each time it was just a point, and then another one and then another one. I guess it added up after a while.  
  
  Q. How would you describe what you did today?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I lost.   
  
  Q. Does it hurt more though when you're that close and it's that long, 95 minutes the last set? How does this compare to the other ones?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I think so. I think it's worse.   
  
  Q. What happened on the high backhand volley?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, there was a pretty significant wind behind him at that side. It was gusting pretty good at that time. When he first hit it, I thought I wasn't gonna play it. Last minute, it looked like it started dropping. I couldn't get my racquet around on it.   
 I don't know if it would have dropped or not.   
  
  Q. When do you expect you'll start feeling better and feeling sort of happy with how you performed and the occasion as opposed to the disappointment now?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. I'm not a psychic. I'm a tennis player.   
  
  Q. Even during the match, could you appreciate this as a sporting event, or are you too locked in at that point?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, it's a sporting event regardless of the score. And, to be honest, no. In the moment, like Bud mentioned, I was just trying to survive each time and hold serve and give myself a shot.  
  
  Q. What do you take most satisfaction from in what you did accomplish, even in defeat today?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, you know, I took some satisfaction in December and in November when we started to move forward. It was to give yourself an opportunity to win tournaments like this. I feel like, you know, I did give myself that opportunity today.   
 It didn't work out, but, you know, I definitely gave myself a look.   
  
  Q. Didn't look real easy to have to rally after losing that second set. Was there a struggle inside of you to stay positive? Were you able to blank it out right away?  
 ANDY RODDICK: There's no way, I mean, it doesn't cross your mind. We're human. We're not Cyborgs. You know, at that point, like everything else, there's two options: you lay down or you keep going. The second option sounded better to me.   
  
  Q. Roger is such a tough opponent. What qualities make him so outstanding?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. I mean, I don't know where to start there. You know, he just makes it real tough. You know, he was having trouble picking up my serve today for the first time ever. He just stayed the course.   
 You know, you didn't even get a sense that he was even really frustrated by it. He kind of stayed the course and just toughed it out. He gets a lot of credit for a lot of things, but not a lot of the time is how many matches he kind of digs deep and toughs out. He doesn't get a lot of credit for that because it looks easy to him a lot of the times.   
 But he definitely stuck in there today.   
  
  Q. In that sense, do you think sort of he's the only person who you wouldn't have beaten playing like that today?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. That's such an irrelevant question at this point. It's complete hypothetical and guessing. I don't know. I mean, I don't know.   
  
  Q. How were you feeling physically in that final game?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Physically I felt okay. Obviously, you play for 4 hours and 15 minutes you don't feel like you do in the first hour. But, you know, everything felt okay.   
  
  Q. This whole tournament, has it given you a new belief, a greater confidence that you can be a slam winner again?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No, no. You know, it's tough to kind of digest it and come in here and give you guys a lot of insight so soon afterwards.   
 But, you know, I just keep going. You know, there's not another option.   
  
  Q. When you took that fall, you stayed down long enough for it to cause concern around the stadium. Did you hurt anything?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No. It was okay.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like that was the best match you've ever played?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I played pretty good two days ago. Again, I've been saying all week, I struggle with this, you know, comparisons of one match to another.   
 You know, I don't know. I was happy with the way I played. I thought I played real well.   
  
  Q. A lot of people thought this was going to be about your big serve, Roger's getting around the court, his ability to hit passing shots. Clearly that wasn't really the theme there when you look at how well you played from the baseline and how well he served, did that surprise you at all?   
 ANDY RODDICK: You know, I don't know. You know, he served great. I didn't get a lot of looks at seconds. I felt like when we were in rallies for the last couple sets, I was actually doing all right and holding my own, if not more.   
 You know, but he just served great. He did what he had to. If he wouldn't have served as well, I'd probably be sitting here in a better mood.   
  
  Q. Is it crazy or is it a blessing in disguise that you're expected to play an indoor match on clay in four or five days?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. I got nothing for you right now. To be honest, right now I don't really want to think about that.   
  
  Q. Liberate this man. Well done, Andy.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT