WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2009
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RODDICK/J. Melzer
  7-6, 7-6, 4-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How would you sum up that performance?
 ANDY RODDICK: Considering the way he served the first two sets, I was glad to get through with a two-set lead. You know, I was having trouble getting a read on it. He was hitting all of his spots. I played him a lot of times. That's the best he's served against me. 
 You know, again, like the other two matches, I wish I could have converted on a chance in the third set. But probably hit the ball my best in the fourth again. 

 Q. You walked in with a stat sheet in your hand. What do you look at, and what can you tell by looking at that?
 ANDY RODDICK: I mean, I kind of just -- I mean, I guess you know a little bit, or you have expectations of what you see. First-serve percentage is big for me. Points won receiving second serves is big for me. And the other one is just feeding my curiosity. 

 Q. Did you have any problems with the ankle you injured at Queen's? 
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I was fine. 

 Q. Going back to the stat sheet, how closely does that conform to what you feel when you're on the court? Are you blown away sometimes, or is it pretty much what you expect?
 ANDY RODDICK: Rarely lies, yeah. I mean, I can normally guess. As far as like first-serve percentage, I can normally guess like two or three percent. You kind of get a feel for it. You feel if you're winning points on the guy's second serve, you're normally at about 50%. 
 You know, these are pretty in depth as far as tendencies and where people are serving and all that stuff, too. I don't know much about that. But the basic ones I have a pretty good idea about that.

 Q. A lot of the older, more experienced guys like yourself and Lleyton Hewitt and Tommy Haas are all doing really well here. Do you think a lot of the young guys don't get the grass yet and it helps that you're back year after year?
 ANDY RODDICK: I think grass, you know, it definitely takes some getting used to, unless you're Becker or someone like that. Even Pete his first couple years, you know, admitted he was a little uncomfortable on it. 
 Obviously, I mean, if you've played on it for years and years and years and years, I think the adjustment period will be probably a little bit quicker. 

 Q. Are there still even more gears to go up in the second week?
 ANDY RODDICK: I hope so. 

 Q. In the fourth set, you were up a break, got broken back, then broke right back. Are you more inclined to be upset at yourself for getting broken, or pat yourself on the back for responding immediately and breaking right back?
 ANDY RODDICK: It's not gonna be an either/or question. I feel like I'm certainly well within my rights to feel both. 
 You know, I made -- the game I got broken, I missed one forehand the top of the tape that I actually hit pretty well at 15-Love. You know, that would have been 30-Love. He was leaning the wrong way. 
 I think from 30-All, I think I made two first serves and hit two decent approach shots. He hit good passing shots. One, he slipped and still made it. 
 So I was -- obviously, you don't want to get broken, but I wasn't completely super upset. I mean, it was maybe a bad shot. You know, but then to come back was a good thing. 

 Q. How different do you consider your game today than it was when you made it to the finals here in the past?
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I mean, I think the core of it's the same. I think conditions are different. I think the way people play is different. You know, I don't think it's the same conditions, you know, so that lends itself to playing a little bit differently. 

 Q. If you were to compare, in terms of which you think is a stronger game, your game today versus when you made it to the finals in the past, for you which is the stronger?
 ANDY RODDICK: I think the best I've played here was probably '04 in that tournament. In '05 I was pretty fortunate to get to the final. I could go through why, but just take my word for it. Lucky to get through second round. Lucky to get through quarters. Had a lucky let cord in the semis. I was fortunate to get through. 
 You know, '04 is probably the best I've played here. But as far as comparing to '05, it's probably similar. 

 Q. Do you feel you're playing better than '04?
 ANDY RODDICK: Not yet. Not yet. I feel like I can play better. 

 Q. In baseball over the past decade or so with Bill James, a whole bunch of stats like batting average, win/loss record have sort of been undermined a little bit. Do you think there are any stats in tennis that are not so useful, or should there be any changes in the field of stats?
 ANDY RODDICK: Not so useful? 

 Q. Yes. 
 ANDY RODDICK: No, not really. I mean, I feel like pretty much -- I mean, I don't know how specific you're getting with that question. But I feel like, you know, the normal ones that they show, you know, this, that and the other, I think, you know, they pretty much tell the story of the match most times. 

 Q. Wimbledon has the off day. Makes Monday pretty unique. You have the whole fourth rounds of the men's and women's. Talk about that day in the calendar. A lot of tantalizing matches. 
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, it's a good ticket, I guess. If you're a tennis fan, that's one -- even if you don't get on Centre, your grounds pass will do just fine on that day. 

 Q. Berdych can be almost as good as anybody on his day. How do you feel about playing him? Do you think he's a guy that if he plays his very best is just about as good as it gets - on his best day?
 ANDY RODDICK: Everyone on their best day is as good as it gets. That's kind of the way it is. Berdych is streaky. It's rarely middle of the road. He's either really good or not so good. Right now you expect to get the best of him with the way he's been rolling through the tournament so far. 
 So, you know, obviously I think he's a different player in the fourth round of a tournament or the quarters of a tournament than he would be in the first or second round. So I certainly, you know, expect the best of him. 

 Q. What is the difference between finishing the year No. 1 and just getting the No. 1 ranking? What's the difference in your mind to those two different accomplishments? 
 ANDY RODDICK: I think, you know, I'm not really sure what the exact difference is. I think, you know, if you finish No. 1, it's there. You know, when you have all your little fancy lists and stuff, it's never moving. You know, I guess that's always the goal. I'm not sure why there's maybe more credence put into it, but it seems that's the case. 

 Q. You said in the TV interview about the roof. Has there been a lot of talk in the locker room among the guys who may be the first one to play under it?
 ANDY RODDICK: No. There's really not -- that conversation would be kind of a short one, you know. There's a roof. If it rains, it closes. Beyond that, we might as well guess what color socks someone is wearing. 
 I don't know. I mean, I think the common joke has been that they haven't had to use it yet. All this money and the weather's been nice. 

 Q. You spoke a bit about Tomas. When you've played him in the past, he's given you so much trouble. What are the common dominators there? What is it about his game that's been so difficult for you?
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, I mean, he's got weapons. On a surface like this, he likes the ball in his pocket. Here it stays low enough to where he can get a comfortable hit on it most times. 
 You know, he has stuff that you have to deal with. There's going to be times during the match where it's going to be out of my hands. You know, he can serve big. He's going to hit big from the baseline. It's just a matter of trying to weather what he's bringing. 

 Q. How does, if at all, starting the second week at a Grand Slam change your attitude, your preparation?
 ANDY RODDICK: It doesn't. I mean, every time I go out there, it's about just surviving. You know, no such thing as a bad win, so that's just the way you look at it. You know, the stakes get higher. 

 Q. You've been with Larry for a while now. What's the best part of him when it comes to preparing him for a match? What do you appreciate the most in him getting you ready?
 ANDY RODDICK: He's very studied on the players. You know, he knows a lot about a lot of guys. You know, he's got like almost like a steel-trap memory from certain points when guys have played his guys in the past, tendencies, this, that and the other. You know, he's very thorough, has good instincts as far as reading guys. 

 Q. Do you feel any stronger in this tournament going into the second week than in the past?
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. Guys, you got to realize, it's nearly impossible to compare year to year 'cause it's never the same. You know, a lot of it's dependent upon the draw, who you're playing, when, how. 
 You know, I don't know. I'm happy to be through to the second week. Anxious to get started on that. 

 Q. How much of a motivator for you was last year's showing here, which was not up to the standards you'd established here?
 ANDY RODDICK: Not a lot. I mean, I've never had a problem getting motivated for this tournament. That's never the issue. You know, I came in under prepared. I probably even shouldn't have played here last year. Given the choice, I'd probably do it again. 
 But I went into matches hoping for a good result as opposed to feeling like I was prepared and deserved a good result. 

 Q. And this year that latter feeling, as well? 
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I'm a lot more prepared. I played a lot more tennis. You know, got in repetitions. That's a huge thing. 

 Q. Can I get your thoughts on the press? How much do you like or dislike dealing with the press, having to talk from everything from Rick Astley to the game?
 ANDY RODDICK: Depends on the person.

 Q. In a press conference with several people. As a kind of whole, what do you make of all of us here now?
 ANDY RODDICK: Thank you for clarifying. 
 I normally have a pretty good time with it. You know, I appreciate the banter. I hate to give all of you big heads, but I appreciate your place. I think we're all under the same roof on trying -- no pun intended -- of trying to get the game out there. I definitely understand the give-and-take between the two. 

 Q. Federer is one of the worst challengers. Does that surprise you? What do you think of that?
 ANDY RODDICK: I just found an irrelevant stat. 

 Q. Tiebreaks, you've had a really great record so far this year. Obviously that came into play today. Are you feeling a little mojo when you get to that point in the match?
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know if I agree with your word usage, but that was cute (smiling). 
 I don't know if it's just this year. I think my career record in breakers is pretty good. I feel comfortable obviously being able to win cheap points under tense situations with my serve helps. 

 Q. How much during a tournament like this do you scout yourself possible future opponents, watch them? Even Berdych, those guys, do you watch a tape of any of that?
 ANDY RODDICK: No. I mean, at this point, I mean, a guy you've played five or six times, I don't know if I'm going to do much to surprise him. And I think it works both ways. 
 Obviously, you know, you watch. I'm not studying tapes. But you obviously will check. Larry will ask around. That's kind of more -- that's why I put my trust into him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT