WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2009
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RODDICK/I. Kunitsyn
  6-4, 6-2, 3-6, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Mr. Andy Roddick. Questions, please. 

 Q. How would you assess that performance? Is there any disappointment for you to get broken and lose a set, or you come out with a win and a win is a win?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, a win is a win. And, you know, a set -- it's happened twice now. The set I got broken I had numerous break chances and they got the one that they had, you know, so... 
 I knew I was getting the better of him. I knew I was getting a lot more looks at his serve than he was at mine. Probably played my best set by far in the fourth set. 
 Got through. You know, it was comfortable most of the time. You know, couple things here and there. But overall it was all right. 

 Q. Somebody was mentioning you and Lleyton both winning today. You've been sort of the standard bearers of your countries for seven or eight years. Do you feel like there's nobody behind you? I wonder how Lleyton feels about the same thing. You just keep rolling along and there's no successor. 
 ANDY RODDICK: Uhm, I mean, you kind of made a statement in a question. But, you know, I'd love nothing more than for some, you know, young 17-, 18-year-old to pop out and get in there in the top 15 or the top 10. But, you know, you can't really deal in hypotheticals. 

 Q. Do you feel a burden? It's an individual sport, but do you feel any sort of burden in sort of carrying the weight?
 ANDY RODDICK: Not any more than I have for the rest of my career (laughter). I mean, it's not exactly a new position for me. You know, obviously you'd like it to be different, but that's not the way it is. 
 You know, this ain't Candy Land. We can't really make fantasy worlds up. You just kind of deal with it and move on.

 Q. A question about your twitter account. What made you do that? Do you have fun? Do you update it yourself?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yes, yes, and yes. 

 Q. Do you have fun updating it?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yes. You know, it's a good time. It's something to do. You know, we have long days kind of just sitting around not doing a whole lot at the house a lot of time, so it's good to kind of get their responses. I enjoy it.

 Q. So can you talk us through Rick Astley here?
 ANDY RODDICK: What do you want me to say? I said I wasn't proud, but I'm not going to lie to anybody. I busted my wife on some of her crappy music. She brought up Rick Astley. I can't deny it. It's in my iPod. I bet it's in your iPod, too, so shut up (laughter). 

 Q. You can get arrested in this country for having Rick Astley on your iPod. 
 ANDY RODDICK: You can get arrested in my country for lying under oath, so... 

 Q. How did it come about, this passion for Rick Astley?
 ANDY RODDICK: Okay, calm down. Just calm down. 

 Q. Your next opponent is an Austrian, Jurgen Melzer. Spoke to him before. He said you're good friends. Is it like that? Would you explain this friendship a little bit?
 ANDY RODDICK: I mean, I think a lot of it, you know. We've known each other probably 10 years now, going back to juniors. We kind of grew up together. You know, I think we enjoy each other's company a little bit. 
 Yeah, I mean, I think we've kind of developed a little bit of a friendship over the 10 years we've been on tour now. 

 Q. He's your opponent now. What do you think?
 ANDY RODDICK: I think, to be professional, you leave that -- you leave kind of courtesy in the locker room when you go out on the court. 

 Q. Wimbledon hopefully will be two weeks for you. Is the two weeks all pressure, pressure, pressure, or in downtime can you have fun and enjoy yourself? Do you constantly feel under pressure?
 ANDY RODDICK: A lot of it, every decision you make is based on the fact that you're here to play tennis. That adds a certain element. I mean, you like to get out and about a little bit maybe before the tournament starts. Maybe a couple times I'll try to take a drive and go into the city and have dinner. 
 But, you know, most of the time it's about trying to get through your matches.

 Q. Does it help listening to Rick Astley?
 ANDY RODDICK: I didn't hear that. 

 Q. You played Lleyton at Queen's. Have you been surprised with the result he had today? Could you see that result coming?
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I mean, I don't think it's surprising. You know, Lleyton's ball stays very low on the court. He's certainly capable of playing very well on this surface. You know, especially against a guy who is 6'7", being able to keep the ball down is a big thing for him. 

 Q. Do you find some of the younger American players come to you for advice, pick your brain at all, even particularly playing at a place like this where you've had success?
 ANDY RODDICK: No, no, not as much as I'd like. You know, I certainly feel with the majority of 'em I've kind of made myself available. You know, I'm not gonna force myself on anybody, for sure. 
 But, you know, sometimes. No, it's not regular. 

 Q. Jesse Levine is playing today, a qualifier. Do you know him at all?
 ANDY RODDICK: Uh-huh.

 Q. Have you had contact with him? Has he asked you for any advice?
 ANDY RODDICK: No. I mean, I think he's doing a pretty good job here. We're both from Boca. I think we went to the same high school actually. He was younger. But, you know, I've definitely hit with him. 
 He's been on the Davis Cup practice partner. I like him a lot. He goes about it the right way. He's professional. He works hard. You know, you wish all the young guys kind of had his work ethic and professionalism. So I'd like to see him get through.

 Q. What are your thoughts on Shaq being traded to Cleveland?
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, it works both ways. I mean, the Phoenix cuts dollars, and Cavs have a big man. I mean, it was pretty apparent during the playoffs with Dwight Howard that that was the part that was missing. Keep him healthy. I mean, I think him and Ilgauskas will be able to spell each other. 
 No one's going to have to carry the load of the minutes, so I think it's a great move for them.

 Q. What do you think it will do to James and the Cavs for next year? 
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, it's only going to help. Obviously there's going to be an adjustment period with a 7'3", 350 pounder in the middle. But having to deal with two physical specimens like that, I mean, it will take an adjustment period. It's only going to make their team better. 
 You have to make moves to win championships, and I think that's a solid move putting a guy like that down low.

 Q. If I have that right, there are three guys from your high school still in the draw. 
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, yeah. Mardy went to Boca Prep also.

 Q. So talk about what's in the water there. 
 ANDY RODDICK: Tennis academy is around the school. 

 Q. If they said to you years ago there are three left in the draw, what would you have said? Any idea that would happen?
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. I mean, we had -- I played three on my high school tennis team my junior year, so yeah, it was average. I don't know. You'd be obviously guessing, but you knew there was certainly talent. I mean, our school made up like half the seeds at Kalamazoo at junior nationals, so I guess it wouldn't be that surprising.

 Q. Was your high school tennis team undefeated, or did you go down sometimes? 
 ANDY RODDICK: I actually think we lost because we'd always have to go over and like play the French Open. Our coach would get pissed.

 Q. Friendships aside ahead of your next game, I think you have an 8-0 lead, but you haven't met on grass. Do you think that might make a difference?
 ANDY RODDICK: It makes a huge difference. I mean, obviously he's very comfortable. He's comfortable coming forward. He's gonna definitely try to impose himself on the match. So there's certainly a lot of things to be dealt with there. 

 Q. Talking about Jesse Levine, he's recently taken on a sport mental coach. I think it's the same one that Ivan Lendl used. A few years ago you had taken a look into bringing someone like that onto your group. 
 ANDY RODDICK: I did? 

 Q. You did. 
 ANDY RODDICK: No. I wouldn't want to do that to anybody. 

 Q. Truth be told, who was better in high school in basketball, you or Mardy?
 ANDY RODDICK: Mardy. Well, on team. I would kick his ass one-on-one pretty much every time. I'm more physical.

 Q. Go to the hoop?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. I have a bigger ass. I can box out. 

 Q. You said you like going into London for dinner. I hear you enjoy going to The Ivy. 
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I've been there before. It's nice. 

 Q. Been there this year?
 ANDY RODDICK: Once, yeah. 

 Q. Thoughts on the NBA draft, predictions?
 ANDY RODDICK: What do you want to know? 

 Q. What do you think of the first pick?
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, Griffin is going 1, then it's going to be interesting to see what Minnesota does. I think they have what, 5, 6, 18, 28.

 Q. You don't follow it at all?
 ANDY RODDICK: No, not much (smiling). Supposedly they're looking to trade 6 and 18. Yeah, so, it will be interesting. Something fun will happen. 

 Q. If you had to pick one NBA star to be a prospect on the tour, who would you go with?
 ANDY RODDICK: Nobody. That would make my job harder. 

 Q. Any other favorite spots in London that you like?
 ANDY RODDICK: Wherever Rick Astley is going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT