WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2009
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/J. Chardy
  6-3, 7-6, 4-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Is that the kind of match that you're just happy to see get out of the way?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. You know, he makes you uncomfortable because he plays so big. First he goes for big second serves, so you're kind of just trying to fight him off long enough to where his aggressiveness might get in his own way. That happened a little bit there in the fourth set.   
 But, you know, I felt like I was playing better than he was for the majority of the match. You know, sometimes you just got to stick those out.   
  
  Q. After 12 minutes it was 5-Love. You'd only lost three points. Did you think you would be in for an easy afternoon?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think that was his first time out on centre. I thought it was anyways. You know, he was missing a lot of first serves early on. He really upped his percentages from that point forward, so it became a lot tighter.   
  
  Q. Great weather. Obviously they don't need the roof today. When you're out there, do you glance up and take a look at it?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, to be honest, you don't notice it that much. I hadn't seen it before I walked out. I think they did a good job. It's not this big, imposing thing.   
 I think they did a good job of kind of blending it in with the original surroundings. From court level when we're playing, it still looks like the same old court with the big scoreboards on the sides. Not much has changed from a player's perspective.   
 I'm sure it will be different once it's closed. Yeah, it was fine.   
  
  Q. You've been on twitter a lot this week. How would you sum up your performance in 140 characters or less?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I wouldn't (smiling).   
  
  Q. Did you enjoy The Hangover?  
 ANDY RODDICK: To clarify, he's asking about a movie, not my choice of beverages. Yeah, it was all right. I think it got built up a little bit. Not on par with Wedding Crashers, but it was a good laugh.   
  
  Q. Did you ever have a night like that yourself?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Not even once, ever in my entire existence.  
  
  Q. An ankle update, and just also assess how you felt out there today.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Ankle's fine. You know, it was good news after Queen's when I did it. Said there's going to be some inflammation, it's going to be sore. You know, I could walk on it. I couldn't move it in circles. Range of motion was a little limited. At this point, it's not something that's even worth talking about.   
 What was your second part?   
  
  Q. Just assess how you felt out there today.   
 ANDY RODDICK: I felt pretty good. You know, like I said, it's a tough match to judge 'cause you just kind of have to stay the course and try to get through service games. He's kind of going for winners, going for big second serves.   
 So you kind of just -- it's a match you just kind of got to get through. I don't know if you're ever going to feel totally comfortable against a guy who comes out of his shoes like that.   
 Yeah, you get to advance, so that's good.   
  
  Q. How did you find the condition of the grass, whether it was slippery or wasn't? Was it a concern at any point for you?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No. I mean, first couple matches on grass is gonna be slippery. You know, it's not a hard court. It's gonna be that way.   
 But I don't see it as too much different than something we've played on before.   
  
  Q. Question about American sports. You live in Austin, the heart of Longhorn territory, lifetime Husker fan. Now your brother is going to head the enemy. What are your thoughts about that?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I don't know. I mean, I just don't want to be around him if he starts cheering for Oklahoma football against Nebraska. That would piss me off.   
  
  Q. It could lead to divorce from him?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, we could still see each other on holidays, but just not Saturdays.   
  
  Q. Nothing more important than Husker football?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I mean, you know, I hope he does well. I'm happy for him. I think he'll -- I think college tennis is right up his alley, but you just don't want to hear him talking crap and claiming them as his own. It's a very serious matter, okay?   
  
  Q. Could you see any benefits from a broadcast, a fan, or an injury perspective of reducing best-of-five to best-of-three in the majors?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Could I do what now?   
  
  Q. Could you see any benefits from an injury perspective, broadcast, or fan perspective of reducing that?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, from a broadcasting perspective, what are you looking at? You're looking at probably more predictable time slots to advertise matches, to show matches.   
 From an injury perspective, obviously if you're out there less, you're less likely to get hurt, I guess.   
 From a fan's perspective, I think part of something that makes -- there's nothing better than watching a fifth set in a Grand Slam. I'm sure there are positives and negatives both ways. I don't think it's a realistic option to cut it to three in slams.   
  
  Q. You were asked about this in your TV interview after the match about all the hype being about Roger and Andy Murray, that you were coming in slightly under the radar. Can you expand on that a little bit. I believe you said you're fine with that.   
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't care who you guys are writing about. You know, predicting two weeks from now, that's not how we go about our tournaments. I know it's great and your job is to sensationalize stuff and get it out there. You know, you got to make people read about the sport.   
 As players, we appreciate that, but that's not our job. Our job is to try to get through each round. As far as who's talking about what, I don't really care. You know, I just want to go out and win matches.   
  
  Q. How would you sum up your own chances then in case?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Better now that I got through the first one.   
  
  Q. The fact that you are again in the top four, at least if you look in the book-making odds, that means something? It helps your confidence or not at all?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No, no. It doesn't matter. Doesn't matter to me.   
  
  Q. How much would you like to see another American guy, say Sam or Mardy, make a push to the second week here?  
 ANDY RODDICK: It would be great. It would be great.   
  
  Q. Could you just assess how you feel they've been doing.   
 ANDY RODDICK: I mean, I think they're certainly capable. They serve huge. Mardy returns very well. You know, I think it's important. I think, you know, Mardy's certainly capable. He's done well in big tournaments like the Olympics. He did well at the Open last year. He's made the finals of a couple of Masters Series events.   
 You know, at this point Sam, it would be great for him to kind of make that next push, really get out there. I think he's capable. I mean, anytime you can serve from 6'6", he's got a pretty fluid motion. It's just a matter of putting it there day to day.   
 So, you know, just as an American tennis fan, I'd like to see it, but also as a friend I'd like to see them do well.  
  
  Q. How much advice and encouragement do you give the other guys? They talk about you as a leader, even outside of Davis Cup.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Uhm, I don't know. I'll pick and choose my spots a little bit. But, you know, certainly I think they know that, you know, I'm there if they ever want to bounce ideas off of anyone. It's a little bit different maybe sometimes coming from a player's perspective, because we're living it. I mean, you know, just having a different voice telling you something.   
 But, uhm, you know, sometimes -- I've played everyone out here about 86 times each now, so sometimes they'll come and ask a scouting report or something like that. I'm always happy to help where I can.   
  
  Q. A guy you haven't played is your next opponent.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Two in a row.   
  
  Q. What do you know about him?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, he's been around a while. You know, like a lot of Russians, he plays pretty hard and flat from the baseline. He can strike some winners. He can move the ball, change directions. I'm going to get looks at returns. It's not going to be real similar to today. We're gonna have more rallies. It's going to be kind of more ability to kind of move the ball around inside of points.   
 So, you know, you just try to do the basics: put pressure on his second serve, make first serves, get their service games.   
  
  Q. Do you like playing a guy you haven't played before?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I mean, he's not 19, you know. I think we're aware of what's gonna be done. You know, had the younger kid won, Dimitrov, you'd be scrambling to be finding more of a scouting report.   
 But I feel like I probably know Kunitsyn's tendencies a little bit and he knows mine a little bit even without having played before. It will be easier. It's going to be a plethora of guys to ask about who have played him before.   
  
  Q. How much do your past experiences here help you at this stage of your career?   
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. Every year's different. You're not getting wins on finals played five and six years ago.   
 But that being said, I think it just helps. Little things like going out on Centre, it's not as much -- you always love playing out there, but it's not going to be my first time. I feel like I got out a couple early breaks. Maybe he was a little more nervous than I was. Subtle things like that help.   
 At this point in my career, I'm not going to face many new scenarios. So, you know, maybe that's a good thing.   
  
  Q. Obviously your focus is on your run here. You were talking about American tennis. Any thoughts about your teammate, James, who got to a clay court final earlier, but has had some rough results?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, you know, he's gone final, first round, final, first round. It's just unfortunate for him that the first rounds have come in slams. You know, he'll be the first to tell you he's had an inconsistent year, but James is certainly capable of going on a hot streak.   
 You know, more than anything, I'm sure he's looking forward to getting back to the hard courts of the States. You know, he'll just keep working at it. You know, there's no magical scenario to kind of get out of it. You've just got to work.   
 And it can turn. It can turn in a couple of matches. I'm sure that's what he's hoping for right now.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT