AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 13, 2009
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. BLAKE/A. Roddick
  4-4 (ret.)

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How is it? Can you tell us what you've done and what the situation is?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I'll tell you as much as I know. Obviously we'll know more tomorrow. I met with my trainer and with the doctors. They don't think anything is torn. 
 Like I said, we'll know more, but -- you know, I was just going back after I hit the shot, and there's a difference in height between where the grass court ends and where the concrete goes, and I just unfortunately stepped at a bad angle.
 It kind of just twisted a little bit. Running straight ahead I was all right; side to side was suspect. 

 Q. Kind of a freak accident, isn't it?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. 

 Q. You weren't even running?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, the point was over. I mean, I was laughing at James.

 Q. Is it too early to say about Wimbledon, or must you let it settle down for 24 hours to have a look at it again?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. I mean, I'm going to do everything I can to play at Wimbledon. We'll know more -- I wish I had more answers for you right now. 
 We're scheduled to get it looked at again tomorrow and do some scans on it and see where we're at, but initial tests showed the stability was okay. Strength was okay. 
 It was just range of motion was limited right now. So that's good as far as -- you know, I'm not walking in here saying I'm going to be out six weeks or anything like that. We're looking at days, not weeks.

 Q. Is it swollen up at all?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. I mean, a little bit. 

 Q. You've always worn the ankle straps, haven't you?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah.

 Q. I guess it makes you think what it might have been if you hadn't had those on?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I've been lucky. Well, I mean, you can look at it two ways. I've had numerous times on both ankles where you get it, and it's a three-, four-, five-day sprain, but I've never blown it out. Obviously it's providing a little bit -- the brace has provided a little bit of protection. I always seem to catch myself before I go over all the way, but... 

 Q. Leaving aside Wimbledon and your prospects there, how much of a blow is this? Because you've been looking in such good form this week, hitting the ball great. Your serve has been great. 
 ANDY RODDICK: If I'm healthy, I don't think it will affect it at all. I've gotten in three-and-a-half matches, which is what you're looking -- you come to this event and you're looking -- obviously you want to win, but I think more importantly you want to -- you know, I've faced some tough circumstances in my last couple of matches.
 I felt like I was hitting the ball fine, moving fine, serving really well. It wasn't the first match of the week, so I don't have two weeks to wait before I play match again. So as far as tennis-wise and preparation, I'm not worried about that at this point.

 Q. You say you were laughing at James. Because you had hit the ball through your legs... 
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, well, he had gotten away with one early in the week against Sam. We always joke about his lobs. I tried to hit a lob, and I was kind of almost just back-pedaling. I just misstepped. 
 It could have happened, you know, walking off a sidewalk down a curb. I mean, it's just one of those things, I guess. 

 Q. You have such a great association with this tournament. Does that add to the frustration of what happened today?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. I mean -- yes. You want to play well, and obviously this is the only leadup we have for Wimbledon so it's very important in our calendar. 
 I think more than anything it's just against my nature to be smart about things and not risk further injury for Wimbledon. I mean, I did have 1-All, and it was still -- I was hoping I could walk it off and it would go away, but that wasn't the case. 
 So to kind of walk out of a match is -- I don't like that feeling at all. You know, obviously with the bigger picture in mind, I could only make it worse out there. I wasn't going to help my prospects at Wimbledon at all by going through the motions out there and moving at, you know, 20 or 30% of what I can. 

 Q. What's your take on James' chances in the final?
 ANDY RODDICK: It's going to be tough. I think Andy has been in real good form this week. But James has weapons; that's the main difference. He can strike winners off both sides. 
 He's going to -- he'll have to go for his shots. It's just a matter of if he's able to execute. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT