AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 12, 2009
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/I. Karlovic
  7-6, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Pretty much what you expected, then?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yep. You know, you're not going to get many chances, especially if he's making first serves. In the tiebreakers, I got a couple looks at some second serves.   
 I don't think I lost a point on my serve in the tiebreakers, which seems to be about what you've got to do against him.  
  
  Q. Did that sort of match tell you anything about your game?  
 ANDY RODDICK: In some parts. I mean, you kind of have to hold your nerve a little bit on your own service games. It gets to 30-All, you know if you miss one ball, I mean, that could be a set, you know. You're not going to get any looks to get back into it.   
 I think it's just a matter of, you know, you kind of have to go from not doing a whole lot in the points, kind of just walking back and forth, and then you have to be ready to be sharp when you do get the opportunity or when you do have to play a point. So mentally it's a little tricky.  
  
  Q. Pat Cash said this week that European players have a big advantage when it comes to footwork because they grow up playing soccer. What do you think about that theory, and would you consider it as a training technique?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I think it's extremely relevant. I think it's probably the reason also why you've seen a lot of big servers from the U.S. is because everything we do is overhead, whether it's American football or baseball. Even basketball is all done overhead.   
 So, you know, you normally see the guys from the States, they have pretty live arms. I don't think that's coincidental. I've actually speculated the same thing from time to time.   
 There's no way that it can't help you. You know, if you grow up, the movements are similar with the small steps and, you know, kind of the burst of speed. I think that's spot-on.  
  
  Q. Will we see you out playing soccer sometime?  
 ANDY RODDICK: It's too late for me.   
  
  Q. You any good?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No. I play like an American.   
  
  Q. You must have been pretty pleased with the lob?   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. I asked the people sitting there if I should get bonus points because he was 6'10". The ref didn't agree.   
  
  Q. Can you remember the last time where you won four tiebreaks in a row?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know if I ever have. Wait. Yes, I have. Bercy in 2003. I think I beat Hanescu 6 and 6, and I think I beat Robredo 6 and 6 the next round. Anyways, long time.   
  
  Q. Frightening you can remember that.   
 ANDY RODDICK: But you remember probably most of the things you've written about. (laughter.)  
  
  Q. No.  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, in that case, I'm just smarter.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the mentality of the tiebreak? Do you actually enjoy them?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I like them. I mean, I've played enough of them in my career and I feel like -- you know, I serve well enough, and if I can put returns in the court, I appreciate the urgency of what you have to do in a tiebreaker.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT