SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2009
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/D. Junqueira
  6-1, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How many match points did you have at the end there? Three or four?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know.  
  
  Q. You got the net cord.   
 ANDY RODDICK: At least three. Challenged one, I think net cord one, and I did something stupid on one. So that's at least three.  
  
  Q. That was quick. Was that quicker than you thought it would be?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Ah, I mean, I don't think you go into a match thinking about time. You know, I knew that I was going to be in most return games. I don't know if I thought I was going to break six out of eight times or whatever it was, but I felt like I hit the ball pretty clean tonight and didn't really have him a chance to kind of get into -- seems like he goes into grinder mode.   
 Once these guys feel comfortable doing that it could be long, but I thought I hit it all right.  
  
  Q. As confident as it appear on your backhand now, now maybe more so in your career you are with your slice or with the...   
 ANDY RODDICK: It helps when I get there. It helps that I'm able to fight it off and I'm not scared to hit the slice and maybe leave one hanging to where they can be the aggressor. I feel like I can make up that ground. I think that probably helps a little bit more.  
  
  Q. 24 out of 25 first service points. You like that, dude?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I mean, you'll obviously take a -- I'm not sure what my percentages were. I didn't start serving well, but I think as the match went on it got a little better. It was a little windy, but I'll take that most times.   
 He's not the tallest guy and he has two hands, so I figured I could get him wide on the deuce side and kind of be in a decent position there most times.  
  
  Q. What's your favorite shot in Horse?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Ha. The winning one.   
  
  Q. Got a game plan for D Wade?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, I think, correct me if I'm wrong, I think it was scheduled for Sunday. I think I'm going to be scheduled for Sunday, so I'm kind of pissed. He's like my favorite athlete.  
  
  Q. You're going to have to scrub it completely?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I'm going to have to pull out...of the tournament (laughter.)  
  
  Q. Mardy Fish taking your place?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, the thing was when we were sending -- they were sending the proposals back and forth, and I said, Propose it to Dwyane that Mardy can come and we get two shots for every one of his.   
 They said, No problem. Like it would have mattered. It would be like me playing two of them. Whatever.  
  
  Q. Seriously, you're not going to be able to do it?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Doesn't look like it. I think it was set for like 2:00 in the afternoon. So even if I play night or if I play day, I doubt he's going to stay. You know, if I play afternoon...  
  
  Q. Actually they told us 5:00.   
 ANDY RODDICK: They did? You know what, I knew it might be a conflict. I'm guessing if I have to play Sunday that it's probably not going to happen, which sucks, because they're my favorite team.   
  
  Q. You think Mardy will go?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. I'll have to ask him.  
  
  Q. James kind of thought Mardy would have a better shot, anyway. I just thought I'd fill you in.   
 ANDY RODDICK: I can't argue. Mardy shoots well.   
  
  Q. He said it was going to be ugly actually. He didn't give you much credit at all actually.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, well, that's fine. You know, there are certain people that enjoy running around the outside shooting, and there are certain people who enjoy rebounding and blocking out and kind of doing the dirty stuff. I'll let you guess which is which.  
  
  Q. Get Isner. Sign Isner up for this one.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Who do you have next?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Tursunov.   
  
  Q. Tough?   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, he's tough. He can go for his shots. He's always dangerous because he can pull the trigger pretty much at any time. He can go out and beat most people. I think he's capable of losing to most people some days.   
 That's one where you kind of try to hold serve and stay the course a little bit.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT