BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2009
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/N. Kiefer
  6-4, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. So how did you feel about your form overall?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I felt -- it's pretty solid overall. I think I can get a little bit better. I think Nicolas served pretty well and played pretty well. That's the best he played against me. So, you know, if you can say that and still get through in straight sets, that's a good thing.  
  
  Q. They say you got to the net 25 times and won 18 of those points. Can you talk about your play at the net for this tournament?  
 ANDY RODDICK: It's been good so far. Not only this tournament, but for the better part of the year so far I've been volleying pretty well and been coming in on some good stuff.   
 That's kind of reflects how it's been this year. When I get in, I'm winning a good amount of the points, so that's a good thing.  
  
  Q. Is it safe to say you're getting a pretty good feel coming to the net?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I think so. You know, I'm sticking volleys when I'm there. I'm usually choosing the right volleys to hit right now, so hopefully I can continue.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the next round playing against Ferrer?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I haven't had great success playing against him the last couple times out. I'm feeling good. I feel like I'm playing better now than probably the last couple times that I have played him.  
 You know, I'm definitely looking forward to this one.  
  
  Q. What makes him problematic?  
 ANDY RODDICK: He's just a bulldog. He's not going to give you anything. The guy fights and he moves great. All of the stuff that, you know, you're not going to get style points for, he does great.  
 You know, I don't think anybody, after playing him, is going to walk off the court and say, That guy just gave it to me today.   
 You know, it doesn't sound amazing, but the guy does the basics: He puts returns in the court, and wins he second-serve points on return. You know, basically all the stuff that -- you know, he has great fundamentals, great basics when it comes to match play.  
  
  Q. He goes from defense to offense pretty well, too. Deceptively. True?   
 ANDY RODDICK: He goes -- I don't know, defense to offense. The guy is just -- he's weird. He plays good D, but then if you leave it hanging too much, he can be aggressive. He's just a great mover. He's able to -- I'd say he gets from defense to neutral very well.  
  
  Q. That's the difference between playing here and Miami with the air and the way the ball flies?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I mean, Miami is a lot -- I'd say the air is a lot heavier. You know, ball stays probably lower. The court's a lot smoother.   
 The ball here, it's very gritty, you know, so the balls get bigger and ball gets a lot higher. It's a big difference playing here during the day and the at night, also.  
  
  Q. So what do you prefer, this kind of temperature or Miami? I know you've won Miami and you haven't won here.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, you know, I -- I grew up in South Florida so I don't mind the hot, muggy, kind of, you know, über sweaty conditions. It's always a little bit of an adjustment for me when I come out here.  
  
  Q. Any surprise with Isner getting through, two good wins, Monfils and then Safin?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, who did he beat first round?   
  
  Q. I'm trying to remember. Oh, Christophe Rochus.   
 ANDY RODDICK: He'd been playing all right. You know, when you're 140 coming into this tournament, there are no easy matches. For him to kind of get through, is good.   
 I just hope that, more than anything, that, you know, with our young players, and even -- did Sam win his match?   
  
  Q. No, he lost.   
 ANDY RODDICK: I mean, with our guys you just want to see them do well on a consistent basis. It's great if they're having a good week. You want to start seeing it every week.  
 You know, so it's great for John. There's no question that he has the game big enough. I'm glad to see that he's playing more aggressively this week. For him to hit and stay back, you know, I think he needs to go out there and go for it.   
 From what I've he seen, he's been doing that this week. I see guys standing back even on his serve, and they're still hitting the ball up here. I haven't really thought about that, but that makes sense that he'd be doing good on this stuff.  
  
  Q. What do you think is going on with James?  
 ANDY RODDICK: As far as what, social life? (Laughter.)   
  
  Q. Something about the social life we should know about?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Like you guys are going to get that out of me.  
  
  Q. How are your nuptials coming together?   
 ANDY RODDICK: What's nuptials?   
  
  Q. You're going to be finding out soon.   
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. I have no idea what you're talking about.   
  
  Q. But James, game-wise, hasn't been the greatest year for him.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, you know, he just needs to break through and win a couple matches consecutively. Obviously, you know, I think his confidence might be a little bit low right now, and that's all. That's all tennis is.   
 I've gone through that, also, but then, you know, it just takes a tournament to snap out of it. James plays pretty high risk. He could snap out of it very quickly.  
 You know, but I'm sure he'll get back to work and I'm sure he's going to be real excited to get back out there in Miami.  
  
  Q. What are you doing in clay, Madrid and Rome and then Roland Garros?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, that's the plan.   
  
  Q. How far do you have Texas going?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Not. (laughter.)  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT