DAVIS CUP FIRST ROUND: SWITZERLAND v USA
March 6, 2009
Patrick McEnroe
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/M. Chiudinelli
  6-1, 7-3, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please, for Andy or Patrick.   
  
  Q. Andy, how stoked were you, knowing what you had to do?   
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, I think obviously I would have been happier if James would have won. Obviously, that's what we're shooting for.   
 But it's a team competition. He's picked me up before. I've picked him up before. If they're down, I look forward to the challenge of bringing us back.   
 Didn't really change the scenario much, to be honest. You come into a day wanting to get a point for your team. The rest of it is just makes it circumstantial.   
  
  Q. Patrick, your thoughts before the match with Andy?   
 CAPTAIN McENROE: It's always good to have Andy in that situation. I mean, he's been there many times before. I thought he came out with a great start, sort of set the tone right away.   
 I've said this many times. If you ever want to have anyone when you're 0-1 down, it's Andy Roddick, to come out there and play for you. He handles the whole situation really well. He did it again today.   
  
  Q. Andy, how strong was the No. 341 of the world today?   
 ANDY RODDICK: I mean, he played well. I think a little bit he was probably playing on the house's money. They're up 1-0. He probably didn't feel too much pressure, besides the crowd.   
 To be fair to him, I know that ranking is probably a result of injuries as opposed to talent level.   
  
  Q. Take us through the crazy point in the tiebreak. What's going through your head there?   
 ANDY RODDICK: A lot of quick thoughts. Not a lot of long, really well-thought-out stuff going on. It was kind of a blur.   
 He hit the shot where I dove. I knew if I could dive, I didn't have to hit it that well, because I had a lot of court to work with. I was able to kind of stick it out there.   
 Credit to him, he ran all over the place that point. That ended up probably winning me the match.   
  
  Q. Where do you think that ranks on your all-time point list?   
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. I'd have to see them all.   
 No, I mean, considering the circumstance, the fact there's 16,000 people there kind of going nuts during the point, it's probably up there. I mean, I can think of probably just a couple.   
 Yeah, it was an exciting one.   
  
  Q. Andy, talk about energizing the crowd. I think they got a little bit of a slow start with James. The crowd really didn't get into the festivities. You seemed to immediately pump things up.   
 ANDY RODDICK: I thought it was important. I even said to our guys in the locker room before we went out, it's their job on the bench to get everyone enthused. Don't be scared to turn around and make eye contact with people, get 'em pumped up.   
 I know Marco has played a lot of tennis, but maybe not in this type of atmosphere too much. So Davis Cup, you know, the crowd's there to be utilized. I thought that was a factor.   
  
  Q. Patrick, what was your impression of the turnout in Birmingham and the crowds in the first match and second match?   
 CAPTAIN McENROE: I thought the turnout was great. I think it wasn't totally full, but had to be at least 13,000 there. That's a pretty awesome crowd for any Davis Cup match, particularly a first-round match.   
 I think as Soloman said, I think they were a little slow to warm up. I think they'll come out hopefully a little more energized even tomorrow. There hasn't been that much tennis here in Alabama. So that might have something to do with it.   
 Tomorrow's a huge match for us. 1-All in the doubles is an absolutely crucial match. Andy is always great at getting the crowd into it, letting them feel like they're part of the action. Certainly the Bryan brothers don't have any problem doing that either. We're looking forward to an even more vocal crowd tomorrow.   
  
  Q. What is the team dynamic like with the Bryan brothers around?   
 ANDY RODDICK: It's always interesting with them around, I'll tell you that (laughter). Where they are, hilarity ensues most times, in a good way. I get a kick out of watching them practice. Even when they're on the practice court, they start fighting with each other, I just think it's hilarious.   
 They always add a certain dynamic to the matches. On top of that, they're the No. 1 team in the world. That's always something that you want to have on your side.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT