AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2009
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/F. Santoro
  6-3, 6-4, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. Rather sentimental end to a four-set victory with Fabrice not coming back to Australia?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I don't know if I was aware of that record. I think they said he played the most in the Open era. That's pretty impressive. I'm surprised not more has been made of that. I wasn't aware until afterwards. I think it was pretty classy of Craig Tiley to organize that.  
  
  Q. What did you think of your game today?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Felt good. With Fabrice, a lot of it is about execution. You're never going to feel comfortable with the shots that he's able to hit. You kind of just gotta stick to it and keep going. I thought I did that pretty well.   
  
  Q. Is it a pleasure to play with an artist like Fabrice Santoro?   
 ANDY RODDICK: When you win. (Laughter) Yeah, I mean, it's different. It's different. It's something that you kind of have to -- I think one of the reasons why he hasn't been able to be successful later on in his career is you just don't play guys that play like him much. It's definitely a little bit of an adjustment period.   
 You kind of have to make sure not to sit back and watch too much, you know, so it's always fun to play against him.   
  
  Q. The draw has been pretty favorable for you in terms of matchups, and that's going to continue in the next round. It is important at this stage to keep up your intensity and not take anything for granted?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I'm not good enough to take anything for granted right now. I went out pretty quickly in some Slams last year, so, you know, for me there's no such thing as a favorable draw.   
 You can play who's across from you. You're always in danger of losing. The other day I was down a break in the third set. There's zero a chance of me taking anybody lightly.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT