TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 10, 2008
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. MURRAY/A. Roddick
6-4, 1-6, 6-1


 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How tough is it to get rhythm in a match like that? What gave you the most trouble today?
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, it was a little tough. I thought the first and second set were actually pretty similar. You know, I thought he played a really good game to break me in the first set. I don't know if I missed a ball that game. I think he just came up with it. 
 Then the second, he kind of gave one of his service games away and then I got the momentum. He was able to establish early in the third. 
 You know, I feel like, you know, maybe it's a little odd to play a match where the momentum is established in the beginning of a set every time. But, you know, he played well. 

 Q. More than a year since you played Murray. How different was it today than last time you played him? Has his game changed much?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I mean, there's no question that he's improved this year. You know, there's no question that he's very confident right now. You know, that's probably the main difference. I mean, he could always play tennis. You know, he's always had, you know, his choice of many shots at any given time. 
 You know, I think he's just maybe a little bit more confident playing on some bigger stages. I think he's really established that this year. 

 Q. You served 78% first serves in and still got broken three times. How do you rate his return? 
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, he's very good at taking pace off. I think more so than his returns, it's just his ability to pass off of good approach shots. You know, I think that's the biggest thing. Even if you hit a good approach shot, a lot of times he's able to come up with something, which is -- I mean, it makes it tough. 

 Q. It's kind of a unique situation that you get to come back after a loss. How hard is it to put this one behind you and come back pumped up for the next match?
 ANDY RODDICK: It won't be hard. I thought from the ground I actually hit the ball pretty well tonight. You know, a couple things here and there, you know, but I thought the quality of the points was pretty good. 
 I mean, it was normally decided on a good shot from either person. So, you know, I've been more disappointed after matches. 
 But I thought it was okay. So I'm looking forward to the next one. 

 Q. How do you see your upcoming match versus Roger? Are you surprised he's going into that match with a loss?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I mean, I think everybody here is surprised whenever Roger loses. You know, it's not something that we've, you know, grown accustomed to. 
 You know, we both have our backs against the wall, which is different than almost every other time we've played in a Masters. I think we've always been the frontrunners in our group when we've played before. So it will be interesting. 
 You know, it definitely doesn't get any easier at this tournament, but you expect that going into this event. I mean, you know, it's a tough group, but you don't go into the Masters expecting to have an easy road. You know, these are the best of the best, and that's why, you know, this tournament is what it is. 

 Q. Does it make your task easier that he maybe doesn't have the confidence he had after a win, or does it make it more difficult because he can't afford to lose another match?
 ANDY RODDICK: I'm gonna ask you to rewind to last year. I'm going to ask you who won this tournament, and I'm going to ask you how he did in his first match. 
 He's gonna come out ready to play. I'm expecting his best. And, you know, I'm going to have to play well if I want to get a victory. 

 Q. Roger said a little bit earlier today that Gilles Simon was a different player. He had something different than a lot of other players. How are you going to approach him, how you see his rise in the last couple months? 
 ANDY RODDICK: What's exactly the question? Why is he different? 

 Q. Yeah. How do you approach Gilles Simon as a player? What will be different? Roger said Simon was different. He said he was tough to play. 
 ANDY RODDICK: Okay. Yeah, I mean, he is tough to play. I mean, I think, you know, "different" can be taken a lot of different ways, so I'm not exactly sure where to go with that. 
 Personally, my matchup with him is pretty straightforward. He's trying to extend the rallies and I'm trying to shorten the rallies. 
 You know, I think our matchup is pretty straightforward. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT