INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 10, 2008
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. WAWRINKA/A. Roddick
3-0 (ret)

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you describe what happened, Andy? 
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, I felt something a little bit last night in my back. This was later on last night when we were doing treatment. It was a little bit uncomfortable this morning, but I warmed up and it was fine. 
 I just made a wrong movement and it went into complete spasm. I can't really move or do much with my left arm. I mean, you can't really play around that.

 Q. Upper back in the shoulder?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, on the left side.

 Q. What are your plans now? 
 ANDY RODDICK: I'm not sure. My plan is just to try to get this better. We'll have a better reading on it tomorrow or the next day. I probably won't be able to hit much the next two days or so.

 Q. You hope to stay in Europe?
 ANDY RODDICK: I hope so. 

 Q. Do you know what happened when you did it originally last night? Was it a movement or a serve?
 ANDY RODDICK: I didn't feel it during the match last night. But I went back, and then kind of midway down the left side. You know, it was hurting a little bit like when I moved my neck around I could feel it. 
 This morning probably felt better than it did last night. I warmed up okay and, you know, just one movement out there and you could see the point when it happened. It just triggered it. 
 Even taking a deep breathe right now I can feel it now. It just went into complete spasm, so there wasn't much to be done. 

 Q. You were playing maybe the best game on clay of your career this week. Do you have a key of what? I mean, it was just a combination of things? It was because you were in this form? Why? 
 ANDY RODDICK: I'm not sure. You know, I think I was getting a little bit more height on the ball from the baseline this week, you know, mixing in and coming in also. 
 You know I just felt comfortable. You know, I wish I had a better explanation for you, because then I would do it every time. Yeah, it felt all right this week. 

 Q. It's too bad for you, but for Stan it's the biggest week of his career. He's in the top 10 now. 
 ANDY RODDICK: Top 10? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 ANDY RODDICK: That's a nice jump. It's a good effort. I mean, the players that he's beaten this week are, you know, impressive. I know he had a pretty serious injury last year, and to come back from that so quick and establish himself - and any time you make the top 10 that's impressive. 

 Q. Novak was saying earlier on in the week that lack of clay on the courts made them a little bit dangerous for players, and there have been a few injuries and withdrawals this week. Your injury wasn't clay related? 
 ANDY RODDICK: No. It wasn't like a foot or anything. I probably agree with that on the practice courts. On center court I feel like it's all right. 
 No, but I don't think -- it didn't have anything to do with clay. 

 Q. (From Italian) There have been several injuries this week. Do you think Nadal is right saying there is too much play on clay, continuous play, and that's the reason for your injuries?
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I don't think so. No, I mean, I don't think it has to do with the surface, to be honest. I've been saying for years I think the schedule needs to be adjusted and there needs to be a little bit of time to recover at the end the year. 
 You know, I know it's been getting more attention recently, but I think it's something that's been talked about for a long time, you know. But I -- I think this week it's probably coincidental. I mean, you can go a week without anybody doing it, and this week there was three or four. I put that up to coincidence maybe. 

 Q. You can say it could be a coincidence, but there were six players that couldn't finish their matches in Barcelona and three here, plus Nadal's feet. That's an awful lot of matches that didn't get finished in two tournaments. Is the locker room concerned about this? Do they talk but injuries? Are players concerned? 
 ANDY RODDICK: Like I said before, I think it's been a concern for a long time about maybe the lack of an off-season. 
 You know, I don't know if blisters are like -- that's from just playing a lot of the matches, I think. I think he practiced twice the day before and he came out with blisters, so...
 But this isn't new. You know, this isn't news that it's a packed schedule. You know, this isn't -- you know, I don't think we're reinventing the wheel by saying, you know, there's a lot of injuries. What causes it? I don't know. 
 I mean, I've been pretty fortunate in my career not to have any really long-term injuries, but I've also been pretty responsible with how I select my schedule. 

 Q. You had a lot of success this week selectively attacking the net, and Stepanek also showed that that can be done on clay. Does that give you more confidence going into the French this year, the mixture of new height on the ball and attacking the net can be more effective?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I probably feel better going into the French this year than any time recently. You know, I don't know, I just played well and I was -- I wasn't forcing my shots. I was kind of -- I had a good mix going, so we'll see if I can keep that up. 

 Q. Have you had this back problem before? 
 ANDY RODDICK: I mean, I think everyone has had their back go out. Not this specific one, but I mean, you know, it's no different than if your back's gone out before. It's just not comfortable.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT