INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 9, 2008
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. RODDICK/T. Robredo
6-3, 4-6, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. In the annals of clay court tennis history, it's been an interesting 48 hours in terms of clay court tennis, isn't it?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. 

 Q. What do you make of it all? 
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know if I'm a believer yet, but, you know, playing okay on clay is certainly a lot better than playing terrible. I have plenty of experience in the latter, so...

 Q. You said yesterday that one of the problems you had on clay was that you never got enough matches on it to get a feel for it. You usually go in cold, whereas now you're going in warm. Reflect on it now perhaps since you're getting a few wins. 
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. I mean, it's definitely not going to hurt. But I made the semis here in '02 and lost the first round in the French to Wayne Arthurs. 
 I don't know if this is a sure-fire solution, but it's certainly going to be better than, you know, only playing one or two matches going in.

 Q. Other than simply playing better this year in Rome, is there something different about your approach or tactics or strategy on clay?
 ANDY RODDICK: First and foremost you have to feel like you're hitting the ball well in order to even approach different strategies. If you're hitting the ball like crap that kind of limits you as far as what you feel like you can do. 
 I feel like I've been hitting ball pretty well so far this year. I'm getting a little bit more height on the ball. Tonight I didn't -- I wasn't patient. I was coming in off the guy's first serve, so, you know, I think it's just, you know, things have been going my way this week. 

 Q. I suppose most people would look at a clay court event semifinal without Federer and Nadal as a Godsend opportunity. But you've just got a semifinal and you'd rather play that one than get too carried away with it? 
 ANDY RODDICK: No. I mean, you know, I go out and I try to win a tennis match tomorrow. That's about all I can do. You know, why not? I'm playing okay, and, you know, right now I feel like everything else is kind of a bonus as far as this week goes. 
 I probably would have taken a semi before the week started. I'm just going to go out and leave it all out there and have fun and play a tennis match. 

 Q. Are we going to see more of this all-out, attacking style, or is this just against Robredo?
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I did it because I felt like I was never, ever going to win another point from the baseline tonight. I don't know if I feel like that too often on the hard court. 
 But I don't know, I felt like that was my best chance to win tonight. 

 Q. Did you see any of the James/ Wawrinka match at all?
 ANDY RODDICK: I saw very little, because they kicked us out of our locker room. The women took over our locker room today, so we got sent down the hall with cold showers and no TV. 
 So I was guessing what was happening. Every once in a while it was like, Oh, James must have hit a good shot. Unfortunately I didn't get to watch much.

 Q. You weren't making that bit up about the cold showers?
 ANDY RODDICK: I wouldn't do that. To be fair, it got warmer as the night went on, so I actually got lucky. By the time I was finished with my match it was lukewarm. 

 Q. Many said that the court is very fast. Djokovic said that it's in pretty bad condition. What do you think about the court? 
 ANDY RODDICK: (Laughing.) It's not feeling fast to me. I never played on a clay court that's felt fast to me. I think a lot of it has to do with the weather also. 
 I haven't played during the day since the first day, but I practiced during the day, and it feels a lot faster when the sun is out and the court is a little harder. 
 I think at night it cools down and it might become a little bit slower. I only have to judge -- I mean, I only hit on the one in my little club in Austin, Texas, and this one is a lot better than that one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT