SONY ERICSSON OPEN
April 4, 2008
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Would you say it was a quick, the turn around was too quick or this guy just played out of his tree tonight?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Umm, no, I mean he's capable of playing well. That's probably the best he's played against me, and I think probably the thing, you know, about him is you normally don't see about him is the way he served tonight.   
 I remember last fall he had problems getting the serve in. Came out and served, I don't know what he ended up with, 75% plus. He goes for first serves, which he doesn't do that often. He made it tough for me in rallies. Because once he gets on top of a rally, he's pretty good about switching directions and driving the ball to the corner.   
 So I think his serve helped him a lot in his service game as far as taking control of the points.  
  
  Q. Did you have any hangover from last night, or was that not a factor?   
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I didn't drink last night. Not a drop. (laughter.)  
 I don't know. I mean, obviously it was a pretty emotional high. I don't know. I felt like I was there. I felt like I actually hit the ball okay tonight. My serve kind of tailed off at the end there, but I think he returned pretty well, also.   
 I think the biggest difference between last night and tonight was my transition game. When I came in I didn't have enough on my approach shots, and then kind of, as a result of that in the second set, when I got broken the second time I missed some because I was maybe trying to then correct it too much and actually put something on it.   
 I actually missed a couple -- hit them okay, just missed them. I think that was the difference. I was pretty flawless in transition last night.  
  
  Q. Transition beginning to feel more natural to you?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I feel like you ask me that question like three times a year. You know, it's -- I don't know if it's every unnatural. It's just...   
  
  Q. It's not instinctive, is it?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Are you asking me or telling me?   
  
  Q. No, I'm asking you.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Okay. I was a tiny, when I was younger I was tiny, and I spent my time running around the back of the court about 20 feet behind the baseline because I wasn't very big. Maybe that's the way I grew up playing.   
 But I've been pushing for it for a while now, and I don't feel it feels that uncomfortable, it's just tonight I didn't do it very well.  
  
  Q. You made that great return on the dropshot. You held, and then broke him with dynamite game, and then, boom, gave it back. Was that like the turning point, you feel, in that match?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No, because I didn't play a horrible game that game.   
 You know, he was a little bit fortunate with, you know, like let cord on break point end of the breaker. But I didn't feel like I played a horrible game. I think the game after that when I got broken and I missed a couple of approach shots that were maybe not routine but pretty close to routine as far as, you know, making them 9 out of 10 times.   
 I think that was the breaking point for me.  
  
  Q. A powerful player as yourself, does it ever surprise you how much power he generates out of that rather spindly body?  
 ANDY RODDICK: You know, I gotta go with it's more court position than power. He doesn't give an inch. He stands kind of similar to Andre. He stands right on the baseline and picks it off each way.   
 He kind of just picks a spot and goes for it. You know, I think when he's on he's very, very good, and then sometimes you'll see him lose in the first and second round of tournaments.   
 It's kind of -- that way is either going to work or it's not depending on if you're zoned in tonight. I thought he was good tonight.  
  
  Q. I don't ever remember see seeing him laugh at the net. What did you say to him?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know if I said anything funny. You know, I think maybe he thought, Good luck in the final was -- I don't know if that was a punchline or something. (Laughter) Maybe he misunderstood me and thought I said something hilarious.   
 Ask him. I'll take credit for whatever he says.  
  
  Q. Difficult round for you going quickly over to Davis Cup and everything indoors?   
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I think I've had worse turnarounds as far as Davis Cup. Last year I might've hit two hours that week because I had a torn hamstring when I tried to play last year. So it's probably better circumstances this time around.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk about those potential singles matchups, Andy, with Tsonga and Gasquet?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, they're trying to say Mathieu is on the team, but Clement is on the rooming list as far as hotels go, reservations. So I think we would expect Tsonga and Gasquet.   
 You know, I owe Gasquet one from last year, and I look forward to that opportunity. You know, Tsonga has been -- he's been chatting a lot about this, so I'm excited to get out there and try to defend our title.  
  
  Q. The crowd there, I don't know, last year all you guys came back and said it was incredible, you wanted to go back there. How much do you think that they can help out just in being behind you guys and cheering?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, they're loud, that's for sure. I think it's about 14,500, so something about the South. Even when we played in Charleston in the semi in '04 and we've been in Winston-Salem they've been very loud for us.   
 I don't see why it would be any different. We have a tough opponent in France, and I'm sure they're going to realize that and we'll probably need them.  
  
  Q. You leave here with mixed emotion? At one point you knocked Roger off. One thing you took care of, but didn't quite finish the job?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Sure. Yeah. I mean, losing sucks. Winning is great. I don't know if you're going to find an athlete that says anything different than that.   
 But I feel -- biggest thing is I think you want to leave a tournament not having, you know, lack of confidence. I'm going into next weekend feeling like I'm hitting the ball well, feeling like I'm playing well.   
 You know, I'll choose to leave here looking at the positive, and my year as a whole so far has been pretty solid, and, you know, spectacular in some matches. So, you know, I'll leave here -- I'm obviously disappointed tonight and it was a real good opportunity for me here.   
 But at the same point, you know, to not play your best early on and get through matches and then have a win like I did over Roger was big for me, and hopefully that will stick with me a little bit more.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT