SONY ERICSSON OPEN
April 1, 2008
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Seemed like there was a world of difference between the way you were hitting the ball at the beginning and the end. Fair to say?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, that's fair to say. I just didn't feel clean in the beginning, you know. I guess over the years I've become pretty good at trying to figure out a way to win matches when I don't feel like I'm hitting it that great, and tonight was one of those. 
 But after the rain delay I felt I hit it about as well as I hit in this tournament so far. Hopefully that's a good thing.

 Q. When you're up 3-Love and you've won six games in a row are you kind of bumming or... 
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I'm extremely happy because I'm up two breaks. Obviously I wouldn't have wanted to go off the court, but it's a lot better going off the court than it would have been at 2-0, deuce having to come out and put returns in the court right away. 
 I'm not going to be picky at 3-0 and 10 minutes before I'm a set down and we're on serve, so I was okay with it. 

 Q. Were you seeing the lightening those last few games and thinking, we better get this done?
 ANDY RODDICK: No. I thought someone at the top was really taking pictures.

 Q. There really was lightening. 
 ANDY RODDICK: There was? Oh.

 Q. How about playing Roger next?
 ANDY RODDICK: Is that who I'm playing? 

 Q. I think I think so. Have you heard of him?
 ANDY RODDICK: It will be good. I always look forward to it, and, you know, I do believe that, you know, I'll beat him one of these times. Hopefully that will be this time around.

 Q. Is there anything you can isolate about the matches that have been tighter matches with him that you've done better technically? I assume you've thought about that. 
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, sure. You know, I've actually -- he's one of the few guys that I've probably played three or four really, really good matches against him and came up short. I think I have brought out the best in him a couple of times. 
 Sometimes I've walked off the court shaking my head and wondering, but then a couple of times he hasn't played that great and I've matched him.
 You know, it's just -- all I can do is put my best foot forward, and hopefully right now he's thinking about it a little bit. You know, obviously I think I have to serve well. Just goes down to the basics: You serve well, you return well, you're going to give yourself looks against anybody.

 Q. You're a very goal-oriented person and athlete. Has it been harder for you as the record got lopsided against him not to build him into a monster of frustration in your mind?
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, yeah. If I'm being frank, it is hard. 
 But at the same time, I feel like, you know, I'm out here because I feel like I can still win a Slam. You know, if I'm 1 and 26 against Roger and that one win leads me to a Slam or leads me something that can get that, then I'm okay with that. 
 Good thing about tennis is you pretty much start over at the beginning of every day. Even after some of my tough losses, I think I've always been pretty clear that I would get up the next morning and keep going. You know, I've had a pretty good career doing that so far.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT