WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2012
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/B. Phau
  6‑3, 7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel through that?   Pretty good?  
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, felt fine.   He's tough because he kind of just take swats at the ball, so it's tough to kind of build a match, I guess.   He played well in spurts understand a he had his off moments also.   
You know, just glad to get that break back and then close it out in three.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday Goran Ivanisevic said the only player that he likes to listen to the interviews nowadays is you.   When I asked who is second, third, fourth.   He said first Roddick, second Roddick, third Roddick, fourth Roddick.   He said all the other players nowadays are a bit boring.   
ANDY RODDICK:   The first question that came to my mind was who was fifth and sixth.   I don't know.   I'm not going to comment.   To be honest, I'm not in here for anybody else's press conferences.   I have fun with it.   
   
 Q.   I'm just talking about the past the players said more sort of a variety.   They were answering in a less predictable ways.   Now everybody says, I lose six times, I learn from every win.   Don't you think it would be more interesting...   
ANDY RODDICK:   It would be more interesting, but if they came in here and said something completely off the wall, then they would have to deal with that comment for the next four press conferences.   
So really I'm the only idiot that doesn't answer to kind of give himself a break as far as time goes.   
   
 Q.   Has doing these interviews, has that helped you in your burgeoning radio career?  
ANDY RODDICK:   I have no idea.   I don't know anything about radio.   I just do a show.   
   
 Q.   Has it helped?  
ANDY RODDICK:   Well, yeah.   I mean, I think any kind of public interaction where you have to kind of think on your feet is a good thing.   My co‑host, a lot of times he doesn't like me know what's coming next when we're on the show.   I'm sure I'm able to do it I guess because I never know what you all are going to bring at me and I'm expected to react on point right away.   
I haven't thought about it like that, but I'm sure there are some parallels.  
   
 Q.   Earlier today Gilles Simon was addressing his comments about equal pay for men and women at the Grand Slams.   He said all 128 guys in the main draw here would agree with him that it was not a good concept based on entertainment value and we should ask them.   So how about you?  
ANDY RODDICK:   You're going to have your work cut out for you because 64 of them have gone home.   It's going to be tough to track them down.   
Listen, let's not make this a gender issue.   I don't know what numbers are.   I don't know what we're dealing with.   I've gone about my business.   
I'm sure there's a way to figure out who people are coming to watch.   I'm sure there's TV ratings to look at.   I'm sure there are ample numbers out there to dissect.   
As any business goes, you look at those numbers and then decide where it goes from there.   
I don't know what they are, but I'm sure as journalists they're out there.   If this is an important story, I'm sure you guys can figure it out.   
It doesn't matter who has an opinion, because I guarantee you, both sides, men and women, we're going to be extremely biased towards our own product.   So I'm sure there are better ways to look at it from an unbiased perspective.  
   
 Q.   Not making it a gender issue, it does seem like Federer, Nadal, Djokovic, get a disproportionate amount of attention.   
ANDY RODDICK:   They also win a disproportionate amount of matches.  
Listen, find me a business where someone who is not making as much as the next guy isn't asking to make as much as that person.   We're acting like this is a new issue.   In any business model, whoever is not making the most money in the company wants a raise or wants more money.   
I don't understand how this is new.   Tennis is a business.   It is.   At the end of the day, we're all here because we're making money in some way, shape, or form.   Correct?   You're getting paid to be here; I'm getting paid to be here.   So it's not unreasonable.   
But those top three guys, they sell the most.   They're bringing the most dollars into the sport, therefore they're getting compensated as the three most productive people in the sport.   
It's hard.   I'm the first one to say being a guy ranked 60 to 120 in tennis is a lot harder than a lot of the other sports just because there's no guaranteed salary and you're working for what you get on a weekly basis.   
It's not a matter of hard, tough versus this, that.   It's the structure of our sport, unfortunately, where it's based on performance.   
   
 Q.   Can you bring together those two arguments?   There seems to be a contradiction.   
ANDY RODDICK:   What's the contradiction exactly?   It's the exact same argument.   
   
 Q.   No.  
ANDY RODDICK:   Listen, you make based on what you bring in.   So I'm challenging you guys to look at the numbers and just see who is bringing in what.   I don't know what the answer is, but it seems pretty simple.   
Those three guys make the most because they bring the most in.   I'm confused where the contradiction lies.   
   
 Q.   Well, the contradiction is that the women don't bring in as much.   
ANDY RODDICK:   I didn't say that.   
   
 Q.   No, no.   This is the argument.   They don't bring in as much, but at the same time, the lower‑ranked men are asking for more money which is maybe being brought in by the top guys.   
ANDY RODDICK:   That doesn't mean it's being given to them.   
   
 Q.   But in terms of the argument...  
 ANDY RODDICK:   The argument is fine.   You're asking for more if you're not ma            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT