ROGERS MASTERS
August 10, 2007
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Andy, please.   
  
  Q.  So what do you think was the reason for your loss today?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  There wasn't much between us, you know.  And I actually felt like I played -- it was unfortunate to lose the first set.  I felt like I played pretty well.   
 I'm hitting the ball really well.  I just need to find that fine line between being patient and being aggressive.   
 I feel like I'm on the verge of that.  I actually feel pretty good after, considering I lost.   
  
  Q.  I guess with the two days off with the bye's this time, any effect from Washington?  Any fatigue effect or are you feeling pretty good?   
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I feel fine physically.  You know, having the bye helped a lot.  In the first round the conditions were a little tough so I didn't feel totally comfortable.  But last night and to today, I felt like from the baseline I hit the ball pretty well.  Now I just need to get the other parts going, and I feel like I can do that.   
  
  Q.  What is it about his game that impresses you?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Well, he's solid.  You know.  He never plays himself out of a point.  He's able to kind of hit four spots on the court from any position.  You know, by 'four spots':  short, deep, up the line and crosscourt, each way.   
 And he's playing confident tennis right now.  He's kind of gotten on a roll, and is kind of still riding that -- maybe that high of breaking through.  So, you know, he's a confident player right now.   
  
  Q.  Your serve, Djokovic was returning very good your serve.  Was this the game?   
 ANDY RODDICK: Was what?   
  
  Q.  Was this the game?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Was that the game?  Yes, and no.  I felt like the first set I had more chances on his serve than he did on mine.  My percentage was a little low in the second set.  But I would say it was more so, you know, his passing shots and kind of the way he was able to keep himself in the points.   
  
  Q.  Is he a more difficult player to hit through than many?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, a lot of them, yeah.  I mean, he's solid.  There's no doubt about it.  He doesn't give a lot of free points.  Like I said, he's able to move the ball around pretty well.   
  
  Q.  Is there anything particular you would try to do differently if you played him again now?   
 ANDY RODDICK: Sure.   
  
  Q.  Anything specific?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Why would I tell you?   
  
  Q.  No, I mean, I'm not asking you --   
 ANDY RODDICK: What good would come out of me telling you (laughter)?   
  
  Q.  No, you were saying there are little things that you're working on, you just need to find the balance between aggressiveness and patience.  Are you talking about a transition and that kind of thing?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yes.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT