AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2012
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/S. Querrey
  5‑2 (Ret.) 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It's difficult to tell from that match, but is that a bit of a confidence booster for you?  
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, I mean, listen, I didn't know he was ‑‑I didn't know he was dealing with something out there.   You know, regardless of what he had going on, I hit the ball really well.   
Last couple of days it's been really good in practice.   I don't know why or how or what the, you know, what the process has been, but it's felt pretty good.  
So, you know, we'll take it.   
   
 Q.   Your first experience of this rather sedate surroundings of Eastbourne.   What do you make of it?  
ANDY RODDICK:   No, it's been great.   It's easy.   You know, you walk home at the end of the day.   It's nice.   It's mellow.   It's a good place to kind of‑‑ you know, there's always available practice courts.   There is a long line of them.   It's been pleasant so far.  
   
 Q.   Do you need to sort of take a mellow attitude towards how you are and how you're going to be over the next few days, do you think?  
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, I think so.   I mean, you're here just trying to work.   You know, I felt like this was the best place to do it.   You know, you can't really replicate match situations in practice, so it's something I needed.   You know, they afforded me the opportunity to play here, and, you know, I'm thankful for it.  
   
 Q.   Looking towards Wimbledon, what is it going to take for someone other than Djokovic, Federer, Nadal to win it?  
ANDY RODDICK:   Good playing.   I mean, I'm not really sure how to go about that.   Obviously they've played great and they've, you know, been pretty selfish about Grand Slam titles for a little bit.  
So it's going to take some extraordinary tennis and consistently over the course of a couple weeks.   You know, with the exception of Rafa it's going to take digging out of holes.   And you saw that with Roger and Novak during Paris.   That comes from confidence.   Even being a couple of sets down, they were able to kind of dig in and beat some pretty good players in their own right. You know, there's something to be said for that.  
   
 Q.   State of the courts?   Are they good?  
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, they felt good.  
   
 Q.   They have had a reputation in the past to be a wee bit uneven and a little bit...   
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, I heard that coming in, but honestly they have been‑‑ yeah, pleasantly surprised, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT