THE ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 12, 2007
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Andy.   
  
  Q.  Pretty satisfying, wasn't it?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  That felt really good out there today.  You know, he's probably -- looking through the draw, there's probably him and Karlovic are the two guys you don't want to see in that first round.  Maybe Tim as well.  I think he's seeded, so it wouldn't be possible.   
 I have no complaints today.  I thought I hit it pretty well.   
  
  Q.  How much did it help getting to London last week and practicing on grass?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, you know, that's why we made that decision, to get here.  There's no grass back home.  So, you know, kind of just enjoyed a nice little week here, got some practice in on the grass, which is what we were aiming for.   
  
  Q.  Pretty dominant on your own serve.  Had to be a bit patient to break him?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  I mean, I thought I returned about as well as I could today.  You know, he fought me off for the majority of the second set, even though I felt like I was hitting them okay.  I definitely wasn't expecting to break from 30-Love down.   
  
  Q.  What was your take on the Hawk-Eye business?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  It was pretty straightforward, right?  It wasn't working, then it was.  I mean, it's a machine.  Machines break, right?   
  
  Q.  How does that affect your attitude towards it?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  I feel like it's pretty cut and dry.  If it's working, you use it.  If it's not, tough stuff (smiling).   
  
  Q.  Do you think it's got an even bigger role to play on grass?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  I mean, I've heard -- I've gotten asked that question a little bit.  To be honest, I can't really see what the difference is between grass and hard.  You know, I think it's just interesting because maybe it's the first time it's been done on grass.   
 But, you know, I don't really see what the difference is.  We played with it before, so it's not some new phenomenon for us any more.   
  
  Q.  Surprised Wimbledon has moved with the times and adopted it?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  A little bit surprised, yeah.  They're getting the roof, you know, doing the Hawk-Eye.  You know, it's a bit surprising (smiling).   
  
  Q.  Can you say a bit about what Jimmy has brought to your game?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  It's tough to generalize it, you know, at a press conference.  I've said it a lot.  It's just nice having someone around who understands, you know, playing deep into Grand Slams, kind of what we're shooting for.  You know, anything that I'm going to go throughout on a tennis court, he's probably been through that and then some.  So that's a comforting thought.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT