INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 10, 2007
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please?   
  
  Q.  Was that a useless experience, or did you actually take anything out of the match?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  No.  I don't know if it's ever a useless exercise.  Obviously it wasn't great.  You know, it's going to be tough for me when -- you know, on this stuff, even the stuff I normally do well, without the elements involved I don't do well on the day and that's going make it really tough for me.  I served horribly today, and that made the rest of it a little tough for me.   
  
  Q.  Where do you take it from here given that Hamburg is not going to be any better conditions?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  I mean, it's a tough -- I'm in little bit of an odd position here.  I came in here short on practice.  I was battling a stomach virus for a little while.   
 So I don't feel like I'm in as good a shape as I could be as a result of that.  So somewhere between here and Roland Garros I'm going to have to get in shape.   
 You know, Hamburg is going to be tough for me as well.  The conditions are pretty cold and, you know, so it's -- I definitely have my work cut out for me.   
  
  Q.  I hope this hasn't been asked.  You started to come in at the end.  Was it too late?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  You know what, I actually started hitting the ball a little bit better in the second set, and that allowed me to get in a little bit more.  But I dug a good hole for myself in the first ten minutes out there today.   
 So, you know, unfortunately that made me fight a little bit of an uphill battle.  But, yeah, it could have been a little bit too little too late.   
  
  Q.  Davis Cup question.  Sweden chose indoor for the finals.   
 ANDY RODDICK:  They did?   
  
  Q.  Yeah.   
 ANDY RODDICK:  That's too bad.   
  
  Q.  What do you think about that?  Does it suit your game?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Fast court, yes.  Yes, fast indoors, yes.  You know, I guess I knew it was between that and clay, but that's actually one of the few away ties where, you know, by them taking away our advantage I feel like they're taking away their advantage as well.   
 I guess you feel like it's maybe the same chances on either surface for both teams, so maybe on the indoor hard they'll just be better quality.   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised that they didn't choose clay?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  No.  I mean, I would have been a little surprised either way.  But I'm not really that surprised, no.   
  
  Q.  You handled him pretty well on hard courts.  Do you sense a difference in him when a guy returns to his home footing?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  I think he moves better on this stuff.  You can't expose his movement as much.  It's just a matter of those points where you hit a good shot and, you know, it's tougher to get rewarded for those shots on this surface.   
 That's just something that you have to kind of deal with.  It is tougher.  It makes it a little tougher on most parts of my game.  It's something that you deal with.   
 Obviously he's a bit more comfortable out here, so, yeah, I think it's two different matches.   
  
  Q.  (In Italian) So would you say that your defeat was mostly due to the fact that it was not your favorite surface or you were not at your best shape?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  No.  First and foremost he just played better than I did.  There's a lot of -- you know if it was a close match maybe you could look to one of those things.  But when it's not really even close, I mean he was just better today.   
 You maybe start questioning things if it was a close match, but not today.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned fun yesterday.  I suppose two Argentinians in successive days on clay takes of the fun out of it.   
 ANDY RODDICK:  No.  You know what, it wasn't -- you know, I didn't actually hit the ball that badly today.  I just wasn't constructing the points all the way through.  I constructed to a certain point and then missed bit.   
 But as far as making contact with the ball and hitting it decent, it wasn't horrible.  Like I said, I made it really tough for myself.  I served 50% and so he's getting looks at rallies every time.  When I'm not doing what I do best, and then you're fighting the other challenges it's going to make for a tough day.   
 So I kind of banging my head against the wall a little bit today.   
  
  Q.  (In Italian) What do you think about what happened to players like Correia and Nalbandian who played better few years ago and are playing a little bit less at the top, in your opinion?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Oh, I don't know.  I think Correia is a specific case.  He had shoulder surgery.  I think since been it's been a little bit tougher for him.  I think maybe coming back from that surgery affected his confidence and affected him mentally a little bit.   
 But David still finished, I don't know what he finished last year 7 or 6 or something.  I think when healthy he's still one the top players even though his ranking may not reflect it as of right now.   
 This is probably the first month in a while where he hasn't been one of the Top 12 players in the world, so I think we should hold off on laying him to rest for a little while, please.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT