SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2007
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Could you just take us through what happened?  Was it the volley that you hit?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  No, he hit a volley behind me, and I kind of lunged at it, and I just kind of jarred something at first.  And the more and more it started becoming like a sharp pain, and then I started feeling it even when I was just kind of cruising around the court, not even in points.   
 You know, it didn't help, I was landing on that leg on my serve.  I couldn't really get around the forehand.  So yeah, that's about it.   
  
  Q.  So what is it?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  They said -- I'm going to go get an MRI, but it's just upper I think the medical term is "the bottom of my ass hurts."  (Laughing)   
  
  Q.  Have you felt anything at all this week?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  No.  I never even had a strain in any part of my leg before really.  Not for six years or so, so this is a new one for me.   
  
  Q.  Was that in the fourth game or the fifth game, do you know?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  I was on the side away from where we walk out.  It had to be like the third or fourth, I don't know.   
  
  Q.  Was it that volley that landed on the line or right close to the line?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, I hit a passing shot, he hit a volley, stuck it behind me and I kind of lunged that way.  I think that's when it happened.   
  
  Q.  So how do you feel emotionally?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Well, it's disappointing, but right now I just want to focus on getting better.  Obviously we have a pretty big weekend next weekend.  And that's obviously playing a part in this process.  I'm sorry, I'm just kind of concerned about that.   
  
  Q.  (Indiscernible.)   
 ANDY RODDICK:  No.   
  
  Q.  When did Davis Cup -- you get hurt, when did Davis Cup enter your mind?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Immediately.  Immediately.  Yeah, I was thinking about it when I was out there.   
  
  Q.  It didn't look like you could play much longer at that level, but had you not had the Davis Cup in your mind, could you have played longer?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Probably.  I don't know.  It wasn't getting better.  It was getting worse, which isn't a good sign.  You can do ifs and all, but the bottom line was it was definitely in my thoughts and in my head.   
  
  Q.  Andy, when you came in and had the medical break, it looked like you had a spring in your step, like I could get through this.  Were you optimistic or still pessimistic after the break?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Did I?  Was I like --   
  
  Q.  It seemed like you came out like you were ready to go.   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Did I?  No, I didn't think so either.  I don't know.  Maybe it was a good bluff or something.  I don't know, it didn't take long when you saw me hit that first overhead though.  That didn't really help.   
  
  Q.  Is it special for you to see Cañas beat Federer two times?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Is it special for me?   
  
  Q.  Yes, because you tried to beat him, and he arrived from nowhere and he beat him two times, is it strange for you?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Strange?  I think it's strange for everybody, isn't it?   
  
  Q.  What is your feeling?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  I don't really have a feeling, it doesn't really have much to do with me, to be honest.  I'm as surprised as everybody else.  I think you watch the matches and take what you can from it, but I really don't see what that match has to do with me.   
  
  Q.  It looked like when you first -- for the changeover you didn't immediately call for a trainer, or did you?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  No, I didn't.  I mean, sometimes you get little things throughout the match and you can kind of play through them.  Maybe you're just like sore or something, so you want to play through them.  You don't want to sit around, you want to try to give it a go.   
 When I came back and sat down, I was down 4-3 or something, like I said, I was starting to feel it when I was walking, and I had to run for a couple of backhands that game and it wasn't really working out so well for me.  There were a million things going through my mind, but I thought it would be best to call him in.   
  
  Q.  So when you went off court, did you get a massage from a trainer?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Uh-huh, on my butt.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT