AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 13, 2012
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. ROGER‑VASSELIN/A. Roddick
  6‑4, 4‑6, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on that?  
ANDY RODDICK:   It wasn't that bad.   I mean, I served 80% and had 22 aces.   You know, the guy won I think five points on my serve in the first set and four of them came in succession and he came in on two first serves.  
You know, it was better than what I have been doing.   You know, I thought I had a look there in the third set, and honestly I felt like I was going to take that thing once I turned it.  
Didn't work out that way.   
   
 Q.   Would more matches help?  
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, but in order to get to two matches you've got to get past one.   Unfortunately that's the way it's gotta go.   
But I've come in here plenty of times short on matches and I've played three‑setters first round plenty of times, matches exactly like that.   You know, just didn't go my way today.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it's like the hamstring and it's hard for you to get going this year?  
ANDY RODDICK:   No, I don't know.   That certainly didn't help.   You know, today I didn't feel like it was ‑‑I've certainly played my fair share of very average tennis.   I don't think today was ‑‑the result was not what I was looking for.   The guy played great.   
I didn't hit the ball too badly.   I've certainly played a lot worse this year so far.   But, yeah, you know, like it was alluded to, you know, both ways are contagious.   You know, you win, you can hit the ball terribly and somehow you get through.   It works against you until you find your groove.   Certainly I'm looking right now.  
   
 Q.   Fitness‑wise where are you?   80% fit?   
ANDY RODDICK:   I don't know.   I'm fit enough to play.  
   
 Q.   Is that the main thing you'll work on now before Wimbledon, or to find more rhythm on the grass?  
ANDY RODDICK:   I mean, there's a lot of things to work on.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to play somewhere next week?  
ANDY RODDICK:   I don't know yet.  
   
 Q.   You had an interview this week in which you discussed retirement.   What made you decide to talk about...   
ANDY RODDICK:   I didn't really ‑‑I didn't really say anything.   I mean, I'm not at the point where I'm going to deal in absolutes with my career.   I'm not going to sit here and say, I'm going to play three more years.   I'm not going to sit here and say ‑‑so take that as what you want.   
You know, at this point anything is a possibility.   It's something I said.     You know, I don't think what was said and the way it has been interpreted is completely on the same page.   
You know, I don't have certainty two, three years down the road.   I'm not going to talk about that.   I don't think I'm going to set the precedent on giving‑up dates on a day‑to‑day basis, either.  
   
 Q.   Some players like Ljubicic said in advance it will be at a certain tournament.   Do you think when the time comes, whether it's in five years or whatever, that's how you'll do it?   
ANDY RODDICK:   How would I know that?   I have never done it before.   I don't know.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Do you find yourself now thinking more of what   will be, when it happens, what you'll do?  
ANDY RODDICK:   As far as afterwards?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
ANDY RODDICK:   No, I don't really worry about it.   Maybe that's another thing why it got taken away.   I don't worry about after tennis, really.   
I have great friends at home.   My social life isn't out here.   You know, it's more important to me probably at home.  
You know, I have a lot of different interests, so I don't fear kind of the life aspect of tennis.   I enjoy playing tennis.   I'm probably different than, you know, most of the guys out here.   
I enjoy the work still.   I enjoy being up at the track early and hitting with the guys and, you know, putting in the hours.   I don't know that I enjoy the scene of tennis as much, and I think that's backwards from a lot of people.  
So I have thought about it, and I don't really worry about it.   
   
 Q.   You have had so much success here, and you've gone out first match this year.   Would that encourage you to come back next year, to keep playing?  
ANDY RODDICK:   Oh, I don't play one match for a year.   I don't think that's something I'll ever do.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to still play the doubles?  
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah.   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT