DAVIS CUP FIRST ROUND: USA v CZECH REPUBLIC
February 11, 2007
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Let me welcome, Andy Roddick, the man who decided the result of this Davis Cup tie.  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  I know in the past you've said you don't put too much credence into the series-clinching record.  You're 8-0 now.  Do you enjoy stepping up to the plate for the United States in these types of matches?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  I mean, it's almost an opportunity of circumstance, as well.  So far in my Davis Cup career, I've always been the No. 1 player, therefore the first to play on Sunday.  Therefore, I get the opportunity to do it.  Also I think a lot of the credit has to go to the Bryans, because normally if James and I split, which we've been doing lately on the first day, they almost always give us a chance or give me a chance to close.   
 The 8-0 record can be attributed to the whole squad as opposed to just me.   
  
  Q.  Tomas had a great first set.  Did you ever waiver in your convictions?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  If he would have been able to do that for three sets, then that would have been too good for me today.   
 After the first set, I sat down and told our captain, I think I'm actually hitting the ball pretty well.  You know, I think it might be a little bit easier for me to play knowing that James would probably be the favorite in the second match, as well.  I think that definitely takes a little bit of pressure off of me.   
  
  Q.  Do you think this match was one of your best performances on clay or maybe the best ever?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  On clay, yeah, I mean, I think it's forgotten I've actually won five tournaments on clay before.  I've beaten some pretty good players on clay.   
 But I think as far as the weight of the situation involved, as far as being in a pressure situation, it definitely could be one of my best matches on clay.   
  
  Q.  In a way, is it nice to get the road match on clay out of the way first so now you can go home, play in your backyard - on hard court presumably - against Spain in April?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, for sure.  You know, I think the last couple times we've lost in the later stages of Davis Cup.  It's been an away tie on clay, which is obviously tough for us - or tougher for us.  In a way, I think it maybe is an advantage to get a win here away on clay and maybe go home for some of the later rounds.   
  
  Q.  If we think about the 12 years of no Davis Cup victory, how important is it to change that?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, that's a stat that I don't like, especially considering I've been on the team for I think this is my seventh year now.  Obviously I'd love to be part of a winning Davis Cup team.  Especially providing the tradition we've had in Davis Cup, I'd love to change that.  I know the rest of the guys on the team share that sentiment.   
  
  Q.  Do you think for the Czech team it can be a bit satisfying that they were defeated by really the best team in the world at the moment?  Is it kind of a relaxing thought for them?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  First of all, we have to prove we're the best team before we can be called the best team.  Second of all, I've been in that situation before.  I'm pretty sure that nothing is going to make them feel much better right now.  You know, losing is losing, regardless of who it's to.   
 Maybe two, three months from now it will be a little easier.  I'm sure right now it probably doesn't matter.   
  
  Q.  Did you have any particular game plan going in today?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, I knew that I was probably going to have to be more aggressive than I was the other day.  The other day I think I was relying more upon errors from my opponent.  I felt like I was going to have to step up, play a little bit closer to the baseline, maybe use the lines a little bit more, basically hit a firmer ball.  He's so good at being aggressive, hits the ball so hard, if you give him a chance to be aggressive, it would have turned into a very, very long day for me.   
  
  Q.  The team has played five, six ties together with the same group.  Does that make you feel good knowing you're coming into battle with the same guys every time, you draw on each other's strengths and experience?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  It makes me feel better from the standpoint that we don't have any questions about who our two singles players are going to be.  For a while it was kind of me and then whoever was playing best at the time between Mardy, James, Robby and Taylor.  I think it is a little bit easier when you have one of those guys kind of break away and become a legitimate force.  He finished 4 in the world last year.   
 That's a good thing.  That's a lot easier than trying to pick between a bunch of guys who are between, what, 20 and 35, judging on their recent results.  I feel like it's just a little bit of an easier situation.   
  
  Q.  Talk about next round against Spain.  You met them in the '04 final.  Any revenge factor there or is it just sort of go out, play your game, try to win?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Well, I remember the court that we played on.  It was similar to a sandbox.  I'm sure we'll return the favor.  I'm sure the court probably won't be too slow when we play at home.   
  
(Question regarding clinching the tie.)   
 ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know about that.  I said before that it's an opportunity of circumstance.  You know, I know that going in as the No. 1 guy, I'm going to be playing first.   
 Luckily the Bryans normally give me a chance to go out and close.  I think that's a team record, not just mine.   
  
  Q.  (Question regarding Tomas Berdych's play.)   
ANDY RODDICK:  I felt like I hit the ball pretty well in the first set.  He just played a great first set.  He came out hot, similar to the other day against James.   
  
  Q.  Looking ahead to the next tie playing at home, are you looking forward to that?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, very much so.  I'm just glad we're getting that chance.  It should be fun.  We played under some pretty tough conditions in Spain.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT