THE STELLA ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 15, 2006
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










 Q.  Long day for you.  Were you getting frustrated waiting? 
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, I mean, it was a little frustrating, you know.  Rafa found a way to play three hours even on grass, you know. 
 So, uhm, there's not much that can be done.  I mean, I went to them and said, I don't care where I play, but I'd rather play one today than two tomorrow. 
 So, you know, I don't know if one of them had to play doubles, but I guess the only thing that was a little surprising is playing someone third when you're trying to get four matches in that has a reputation for playing pretty long matches, you know, as opposed to someone who has a reputation of playing pretty quick ones. 
 So that was it, but I'm just glad I got through. 

 Q.  How pleased were you with the way you served at crucial moments tonight, first set especially? 
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, I served pretty well.  I thought at least on the big points I forced him into hitting a shot, you know, whether it be a tough pass or, you know, a rally.  I wasn't just giving points away, which has kind of been, you know, a little bit of my downfall so far this year, is just giving points away. 
 I felt like I tightened it up a little bit today.  That's the difference between being up 6-3 and being down 6-3. 

 Q.  There's a pretty good group of players after your title now. 
 ANDY RODDICK:  Sorry? 

 Q.  Pretty good group of players after your title. 
 ANDY RODDICK:  There always is. 

 Q.  The field. 
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, absolutely, you know.  There's been a lot made of the field this year, but it's pretty -- Queen's is pretty consistently -- it has probably the strongest field as far as grass court players go, you know.  I played Sébastien a couple times in the final, he's gone on to make semis at Wimbledon.  Thomas Johansson made semis here last year.  I mean, it's traditionally pretty strong. 
 Ranking-wise, it's better, but as far as just grass court players, I don't think there's ever been a shortage here. 

 Q.  Couple of good volleys there in the last game, the backhand? 
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, I've been working on like if I feel like I'm not taking any swing at all, it means I'm swinging about that much.  So I've really been trying to concentrate on that, just cutting out a lot of the I guess extra motion in volleys, and it's been -- I've been hitting them pretty well in practice and stuff. 

 Q.  Is that something you've specifically -- you have been putting your mind to that as well? 
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, yeah.  I've been focusing just on -- I can get enough pop with very little moment.  The best volleyers kind of have a still racquet.  I've been trying to work on that a little bit.  It's nice when you feel like you're making good contact after -- especially after putting in some work out there. 

 Q.  You play González tomorrow.  It's going to be a pretty explosive encounter. 
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, it normally is when we play.  We actually just played on grass in Davis Cup.  He's a very capable grass court player.  You know, I think once he found his comfort level last year, I think he made quarters, and he definitely had me on the ropes at Davis Cup before I was able to pull through in four sets. 
 But, you know, I've told people, I was telling people last week before I came that, you know, watch out for him, because he hits the ball big enough and he serves pretty well and he has a nice little chipper.  So he's going to be dangerous. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT