INTERNAZIONALI D'ITALIA
May 12, 2006
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  How heavy were the courts?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Well, I mean, I think the court was okay, but there was -- I guess from when they watered it, there was puddles on the tarp in the back.  So we'd finish the point, the ball would roll through a puddle of water.  So that made the ball pretty heavy, which I didn't understand.  I mean, I know it's got to be someone's job to look at that stuff, right?   
  Q.  How bad is the shoulder?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  I mean, I actually had a -- when I played doubles the other night, it felt like -- I played four, five days ago, it felt like I had a little bit of a pinched nerve.  Doug looked at it.  It didn't feel great for my first couple of rounds here, but yesterday it felt okay and I started serving okay.   
 Then early on tonight, I don't know if it was a combination of whatever, but I reaggravated that.  So I don't think it's serious, but it's certainly annoying.   
  Q.  Were you able to serve a hundred percent?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Tonight?   
  Q.  Yes.   
 ANDY RODDICK:  No.   
  Q.  How would you rate your serve?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  I mean, I could hit a serve if I wanted to, it just didn't feel very good at all.  You know, so you see me winning 52% of my first serve points, hopefully you won't have to ask next time if I was serving a hundred percent.   
  Q.  Good tournament or bad tournament?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  No, good tournament.  Unfortunate ending in, you know, circumstance where you never like to feel less than 100%.  But, you know, to get to the quarters here in my first European clay court tournament at a Masters Series event, you know, it's fine.   
 And hitting the ball, I felt okay.  I broke a couple times -- I broke him each set and had some chances to break other times so, you know, I got to feel like if I start serving well, that that's a good sign.  You know, I broke a lot more this tournament than I normally do, so that's very good.   
  Q.  (Inaudible question.)   
 ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  I don't know.  I was certainly conscious of the fact that, you know, it's the last thing you want to do, is walk out of a match.   
  Q.  What's your schedule now?  Hamburg?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  It's too early to tell.  I don't know.  I'm not ecstatic about the prospect of going and playing in cold weather with heavy balls with a bum shoulder, you know, but we'll see.  We'll probably sit down with -- I'll sit down with my brother and Doug tonight and discuss our plan.   
 But right now, thinking about it, it's not an exciting prospect.   
  Q.  Are you entered?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Am I entered, yeah.   
  Q.  In Hamburg?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, my plan was to go there, yep.   
  Q.  Will you have an MRI or anything on the shoulder?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  No, I don't know if it's that bad.  I think you pinch a nerve and then you start compensating in different ways so other things start to become sore.   
 I don't think so.  It's not -- if I was scared of something like that, I wouldn't have continued playing, you know.  So I'll see how it goes, but it's not in my immediate plans.   
  Q.  Even if the conditions were totally different, would you mind comparing how he played in Lyon in the final and how he played tonight.   
 ANDY RODDICK:  That's an impossible comparison because of the conditions.  You can't just, you know, snap your fingers and go from a carpet court indoors to a heavy clay court outdoors.  You know, it's -- that would be like in the NBA playing on a 9-foot hoop and a 12-foot hoop.  It would be completely different.   
 So, you know, like I said, I don't feel like I hit the ball that badly tonight from the baseline.  My movement was okay.  I wish I could have, you know, maybe hit my forehand a little bit bigger, but that was not feeling great as well.  But in Lyon I played really well last year in the final.   
  Q.  Is he a better player now?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Oh, did you ask about Gael?   
  Q.  Yes.    
 ANDY RODDICK:  Oh, I'm sorry.  I thought you asked about me.  I was like...   
 I mean, he's got a lot of upside.  I think the biggest thing is clay, he can cover a lot more ground.  You know he's long.  He's fast on all surfaces, but it seems like he slides about 26 feet, you know, and he's long as it is.  So, you know, at least on a hard court you feel like you can get him in trouble a little bit easier.   
  Q.  Do you give him any chance against Nadal?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  Sure.  Sure, he's got a chance, you know.   
  Q.  What chance?   
 ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  I mean, obviously, I don't think anybody is the favorite or even close to the favorite, you know, with the exception of maybe Roger.   
 But, you know, who knows?  I mean, I've seen weirder things.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT