AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2006
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question.  
 
 
Q.  Could you get much rhythm out of a match like that?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  No, but I think you kind of knew that going in.  I knew Wesley was just going to come out and really take it to me, be aggressive and try to get in as much as possible.  You know, luckily for me I played three matches, including Kooyong, before this where I got to hit some balls.  So, you know, I wasn't expecting a lot of rhythm out there today. 
 
Q.  What do you take from a match like today then going forward? 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  It was good 'cause I wanted to return well.  I feel like after the first four games of the match, I really started doing that.  I put a high percentage of returns in the court and put pressure on him almost every service game.  And if I can do that, it will make my serve look that much better to the other guys.  I'm glad I was able to follow through on our game plan.  
 
Q.  How do you like the courts? 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  They got lines and everything.  I like them.  They're good.  
 
Q.  Do you feel the draw is starting to open up a little bit for you?  You don't have to play a seeded player now till the quarterfinals?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I haven't looked.  You know, if there's one thing we've learned by seeds getting knocked out, proves everybody can play.  There's no such thing as an open draw.  You have to win matches.  You have to win sets.  And, you know, at least for me, I mean, obviously for Roger, I think every draw feels open for him, but for me there's no such thing as an open draw.  
 
Q.  Were you surprised that Ginepri was knocked out?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Yes, I was.  
 
Q.  Do you see any of the Hewitt match?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, I did watch it.  He just wanted to put you guys through the ringer again, huh?  First match.  But you know what, that whole time, I don't know if I ever really felt once that he was going to lose that.  You know, he is just tough.  He's gonna play his way into form.  You know, that's a typical gutsy match from Lleyton.  That's why he's been one of the best players in the world for so long. 
 
Q.  When you see a match like that, do you feel happy to have a weapon like you have in the serve to sometimes bail you out and keep points shorter because he has to grind every single point just about, no option at all?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  I mean, obviously, he's probably saying when I'm slow running to a ball that, "Man, I like being fast," you know.  Obviously, I think we all like our strengths and, you know, mine just happens to be my serve.  
 
Q.  Has it always been that way?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Has what always been that way?  
 
Q.  Your serve, from childhood?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  No, no, I was little.  I was really small for my age growing up.  Then I grew a lot and then I was able to serve.  But I used to retrieve a lot of balls when I was younger. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  You guys took it easy on me today.  Not even any grinding questions from Bud.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT