SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 14, 2011
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/A. Roddick
  6-7, 6-2, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Andy. 

 Q. How do you think you played today?
 ANDY RODDICK: I played okay. I thought he played pretty well. It was probably the best I hit my chip today of anytime during the week. I wasn't hitting it that well. If it's possible to take a hard slice on the rise, he was doing that. 
 He was missing a little bit in the first. I thought second and third sets he played at an extremely high level and served pretty well. You know, you normally don't count on him making a lot of first serves, hitting aces. I felt like today he did that and got himself out of trouble a couple of times. 
 When he's doing that, he's definitely tough to beat. 

 Q. And you?
 ANDY RODDICK: What about me? I'm tough to beat, too (smiling). 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about the first game in the third set when you had three break chances. 
 ANDY RODDICK: You know, I think he put in first serves on at least two out of three that I can remember. That was pivotal. He had all the momentum after the second set. Sometimes when you run a set out like that, you have a little bit of a lull, and I think that was it. Unfortunately I wasn't able to put a good point together. 

 Q. Looking at the week as a whole, how do you look at how you leave Shanghai compared to how you arrived?
 ANDY RODDICK: It's night and day. I wasn't too pleased with my effort last week. You know, here I thought I played okay for the first two days of the tournament, probably a little bit better yesterday and today. You know, a lot of the points I was losing today, you know, even if I made an unforced error, it was six, seven, eight, ten balls in. He forced me to do that. Hit a couple great passing shots in the breaker. That was all there was. 

 Q. What is your program for the rest of the season?
 ANDY RODDICK: I'm scheduled to play Basel and Paris. 

 Q. Rafael Nadal said something about a special tax regime in UK tournaments yesterday. What is your feeling about that issue?
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, if you would explain it more to me as far as maybe more words than 'tax regime'. 
 I haven't run into that so I'm not sure how they go about selecting people. I heard about it this morning in the locker room. But I think if I commented on it right now, I'd be erring on the side of ignorance a little bit. 

 Q. There was an official comment from the ATP yesterday saying that the players, the organizers, should all go into a room and not come out until certain issues have been resolved. Do you think that would be a good strategy?
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, that's fine. But then you'd have to do it all over again with the ITF. That's the thing, you know, I don't know what that would fix. That would leave out Davis Cup and the Grand Slams. 
 The thing with tennis is it's so divided. We have this entire tour where everyone has like a little stake that they're unwilling to give and be flexible on. So on top of being extremely claustrophobic, I don't know if that would fix anything. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT