AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2005
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  What was harder, the match or the post match interview? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Man, Jimmy's making me grind in those post match interviews.

Q.  Pretty intense, huh?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  But in all fairness, I think he's kind of bringing out a lighter side of the players.  I think he's doing, as uncomfortable as it may be at times, I think he's doing a pretty good job.

Q.  Do you wish that happened everywhere else or is it just appropriate for this setting maybe?

ANDY RODDICK:  I think it's great for this setting.  But I think more stuff like that could be incorporated everywhere.  You know, I think -- you know, like I said, he's asking questions.  People hear about forehands and backhands pretty much every day.  He's getting under our skin a little bit.  But I'm sure it's good for the fans. 

Q.  What did you learn about marketing the game from your tour of America on the bus this summer? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Well, basically, you know, people love watching and stuff.  But people -- even more than that, we do meet and greets before we play.  They just want something, if it's a quick question or a quick picture.  People don't need a whole lot to be real happy with the experience.  If we give a little, it goes a long way. 

Q.  Are the Bryans just natural at that sort of thing?

ANDY RODDICK:  They're great.  I mean, their dad -- he would run the meet and greets.  We would do clinics every day.  They've done that stuff with their dad for forever and a day.  I could tell you what's going to happen in the course of one of his clinics, what lines he's going to use.  But it works, and it's great.  They're really good about, you know -- they do a kids clinic almost every week.  They're really good about it. 

Q.  What do you know about your next opponent?

ANDY RODDICK:  Kohlschreiber.  I actually played him once.  I played him in St. Polten in 2003.  You know, he's pretty aggressive from the baseline.  He's not super big, but he can hit great shots and then kind of go away sometimes.  You know, my goal is just going to try to be to play solid. 

Q.  How many takes of the trophy falling on your head did you have to do to get it right? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Luckily not that many (laughter). 

Q.  Was it a full-weight trophy? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Man, I had -- no.  Let's just say it was -- it was marginal acting.  That's past, so (smiling).  That's gotten the job done, I guess.

Q.  Did you expect a little bit more from you today?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  I mean, you know, I thought I was -- the first set didn't really feel like a 6-2 set.  You know, I actually had to grind through one of my service games and was lucky to get out of it.  You know, kind of tagged on that second break there at the end.  I thought I played maybe better in the second and third sets than I did in the first set.  You know, I was happy with the way I played today.  I think I got better and better as the match went on statistically.  You know, I was pleased. 

Q.  You started a little bit having fun with the umpire.  It seemed rather easy today, the match. 

ANDY RODDICK:  It's good that it seemed easy to you guys (laughter).  It doesn't seem easy to me when you're out there.  You're always thinking kind of that it can slip away or all it takes is one service game and maybe you're in a fourth set.  That wasn't really my mindset. 

Q.  I saw Phil Jackson out there.  Is he a guest of yours today or no?

ANDY RODDICK:  No.  I would have ran more of the triangle offense if I would have known he was in the crowd.  I would have given him the, "Scottie, Michael, give it to Michael." 

Q.  Are you going to try and catch up with him now that you know he's here?

ANDY RODDICK:  I wouldn't know where to start.  I guess you just look up.  He's about 6'8", huh?  I wouldn't know where to find him.  I actually heard, it was on one of the shows on ESPN, they were talking about what he was going to do, since he's not with the Lakers any more.  He said he was going to go to Australia and watch the tennis.  I said, "I'm going, too." 

Q.  When you were on the tour, is there any defining match in your career that people will remember at the US Open or El Aynaoui, final this year at Wimbledon?  Is there one match they ask you about more than others?

ANDY RODDICK:  I think it all depends on where you are.  Obviously here I get questions about the El Aynaoui match, you know, more than the US Open.  In New York, you have people saying, "I was at the semi against Nalbandian."  I think it all depends on where you are at that time. 

Q.  Could you give some comments about men's tennis fashion today?  Is it getting too flashy or maybe too campy for you?  You saw what Nadal and Lopez wear. 

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, they're wearing pants. 

Q.  Yeah.  Do you think maybe it's a little too metrosexual? 

ANDY RODDICK:  You said it; I didn't (laughter).  I can't think of anything funny to say that would not get me in trouble.  I'm going to leave that one alone. 

Q.  For example, like sports stars are becoming like more and more into their looks these days.  Do you think that that happens in tennis, too?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  I think it's okay.  I mean, whatever gets people talking - good, bad or ugly - if people are talking about tennis, that's a good thing. I'm still pretty basic.  I'm becoming really boring.  I'm going to have to -- I don't know how much more creative you can get, but...  No, I think it's definitely become a trend in tennis.  I think you have to attribute that to being an individual sport.  You know, you're not provided uniforms that you have to wear.  You have a lot more choices than you would in a team sport. 

Q.  But you yourself don't plan to wear pants?

ANDY RODDICK:  (No response). 

Q.  You don't plan to wear pants?

ANDY RODDICK:  No, I heard the question (laughter).  No, no.  Maybe if it's cold out. 

Q.  Any difference between Dean and Brad?  Same sort of stuff?

ANDY RODDICK:  You know, I'm getting a lot of these questions, but they're not the same coach.  They each have their strengths.  You know, I'm trying as much as I can -- I'm not comparing and contrasting.  I'm just kind of going with Dean's my coach now and that's kind of what I'm going with. 

Q.  Two years ago you lost against Rainer Schuettler in the semifinal.  Are you a little afraid of the next German? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Oh, I think -- yeah, I don't know what Kohlschreiber has to do with Rainer, except for the fact that they're both from Germany. 

Q.  Are you surprised?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, I mean, I'm surprised, but anybody who has won three rounds obviously deserves to be there.  I think he came through quallies, correct?  No?  Maybe it was Lisnard that he was playing that came through. 

Q.  Yes. 

ANDY RODDICK:  Regardless, he deserves his spot.  He's been there.  He's obviously playing very confidently right now.  Fourth round, you don't take anyone lightly, that's for sure.

Q.  No comparison here, but has Dean done anything or said anything and you've said, "Oh, gosh, that's something different, something new"? 

ANDY RODDICK:  He has kind of just a real aggressive -- he wants me to try new things out there.  You know, we've been working on mixing up shots.  You know, basically Dean was great during the training weeks when we were home.  He's very organized with the way he does things.  It's been really good so far.  I'm happy. 

Q.  Any thoughts on Reynolds/Nadal? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Bobby will not be wearing pants.

Q.  At all? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Touche.  Well done.  I hope that's not the case. 

Q.  You practiced with him this week. 

ANDY RODDICK:  I practiced with him twice.  I think he's done great so far.  It's going to be a big week for him.  Obviously it's a tough match-up.  I haven't seen him play lefties before.  He hasn't played someone, you know, that's kind of playing with that amount of spin.  You know, he's got a little attention on him for the first time, so I'm very interested to see how he'll react.  Obviously, you know, I hope for the best for him out there. 

Q.  This comes up all the time.  Andre last night, do you just marvel at how well the guy can play? 

ANDY RODDICK:  No, he's pretty good.  He's a pretty good tennis player. 

Q.  Any impressions of that match, if you saw any of it?

ANDY RODDICK:  I saw some of it.  They always have pretty entertaining matches.  It reminds me a little bit of when Andre used to play Rafter kind of, just total opposites, just both banging it out.  I mean, with the natural gifts he has, he hits the ball as well as anyone ever has.  Things he can do from the ground.  He can play as long as he wants to.  His main strengths aren't going anywhere.  Those are something that time doesn't really affect too much. 

Q.  We gather from Andre that he's at least open to talking to Patrick about playing Davis Cup.  Would you like to see him on the team?

ANDY RODDICK:  Oh, I think we would all welcome him with open arms. I think that can do nothing but positive things.  Selfishly, I'd love to get in there and learn a lot more from him.  You know, whatever he decides, whatever his reasons are for playing or not playing, I'm sure they're very, very good ones.

Q.  Have you talked to him at all about it?

ANDY RODDICK:  I've thrown it in there, but not too much.  I kind of just wanted to let him know that we would like it.  You know, either way, I understand.  But he kind of has the support of our team.  That's kind of where I wanted to just get that point across.  But as far as anything else, you know, I'm not going to be on him all the time.  I think those are between him and Patrick. 

Q.  Is Andre someone more and more you look up to, not just on the court, but his charities things, the things he does outside of tennis?

ANDY RODDICK:  Absolutely.  He's been, you know, a huge influence in my foundation, starting that.  He's probably the first person who put the thought into my head when I was 17.  So, you know, there's no doubt, even the way he carries himself, the way he's professional with all of you, the way he handles his responsibilities is something that I've definitely, you know, tried to take in. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT