AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2005
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  Did it turn out to be easier than you expected?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, I mean, you never expect to play nights like that.  I saw the stat sheets, 50 winners and 8 errors, or something obnoxious like that.  You don't really expect that, especially going against a guy like Greg who makes it extremely uncomfortable out there.

Q.  When was the last time do you think you returned and passed as consistently well as you did tonight?

ANDY RODDICK:  Well, maybe probably here when I played Taylor last year.  Beat him 2, 0 and 2.  These matches were pretty similar, I think.  I felt like I was seeing the ball pretty well from early on and, you know, I tried not to second-guess it. 

Q.  He started with two great serves right away and then you nailed him.  From that moment on, your intent was pretty evident. 

ANDY RODDICK:  Well, my intent -- my intent is always there.  It's just the, you know, kind of -- making that intent go to work for you.  You always want to return that well and play that well.  But, you know, tonight it was just clicking for me. 

Q.  How are things going with Dean?  I know it's kind of new.  You still feeling each other out?

ANDY RODDICK:  No, you know, we had a relationship before we got together, I mean, with the Olympics and with Davis Cup, you know.  So I was pretty comfortable with Dean from the get-go.  We're pretty low-key.  We work hard.  Kind of stay mellow.  It's going well.  I'm really happy with the team I have around me right now. 

Q.  You've got a third left-hander in a row. 

ANDY RODDICK:  There's like four on tour these days and I got three of them (smiling).  Yeah, Jurgen is extremely talented.  We all know that.  He's going to come out, he's going to hit some amazing shots.  I kind of just have to try to stay the course, you know, stay solid, try to hold on to my service games.

Q.  Could you perhaps give us a word about Greg.  He's coming up to 32 this year.  Still serves pretty well, still in there.  Hits a pretty good ball.  Could he still, do you think, contend - not for Grand Slams, necessarily. 

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  Well, he's still there.  Yeah, I think he can.  I mean, with, you know, with his aggressive mindset, with his serve, you know, I don't see why he wouldn't be able to.  You know, it's not like, you know, back-court movement is totally a key part of his game.  You know, as long as he can hit that serve and hit a first volley, he's going to beat a lot of guys.

Q.  Apologies if you answered this...

ANDY RODDICK:  I forgive you. 

Q.  One set all, did you think, "What just happened here"?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, it was a little weird because I felt like I had almost been dominating the match to that point.  All of a sudden we're one set all.  You he know, it didn't seem right, but I just kind of tried to regroup and, you know, really try to stay the course in the third set because otherwise it could have gotten away from me.  So I think it was good to kind of stay calm and regroup.

Q.  Those two net cords in the sixth game. 

ANDY RODDICK:  Yes, that's just lucky.  There will be some time this year where I'll have something like that go against me.  You know, was just lucky.  It's unfortunate for him. 

Q.  Have you been involved with any of the tsunami relief efforts that are on the tour?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yes.  I did an event with Reebok when I first got here where we ended up raising $10,000.  Lleyton, Roger and I all donated stuff for auctions.  When we get back to the States, I think they're going to release the press release in the next couple days, but we're doing an event in Houston with myself, Jim Courier, John McEnroe and Chrissy Evert.  Proceeds will go to that as well.

Q.  When will that be?

ANDY RODDICK:  Really soon.  I think the Tuesday after here.  I'll be flying straight back, getting off the plane, walking onto the court, playing.  Then got a nice two-and-a-half-hour drive home.  Hopefully.  Hopefully, that's the way it works out.  Got to think positively.

Q.  Are you going to spend more time now again in Florida because Dean is there?  How will that work?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, probably.  I was there for a week.  Got there on New Year's Day.  I was there for seven days.  You know, I understand that he has a family and, you know, he needs to see his kids.  So we'll definitely, you know, probably go half and half on it.  I'll be spending a lot of time in Boca most likely - or more time.

Q.  Pleased a lot with your footwork tonight? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  It's something, you know, we went at it in the off-season.  You know, we hit it pretty good.  I think it's showing out there.  I'm moving a lot -- almost lighter, without forcing it as much.  I can kind of feel it.  It felt good out there tonight. 

Q.  Have you played in many matches four sets, an hour and 30 minutes?  It seemed very quick. 

ANDY RODDICK:  Never, no.  If I was going to do it, it would be with someone like Greg where the points are going to go fast on both sides.  So it's not totally shocking, but I haven't played that before. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT