WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 7, 2004
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Andre raved about that match, said it's one he'll probably remember for a while.  Despite losing, is it similar in your mind?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, I mean, it's disappointing.  But he played -- I mean, he played great.  I was hanging on the whole time.  He didn't really give me an open look, you know.  There weren't a lot of unforced errors, and that's as clean as someone's hit the ball against me.  So props to him.


Q.  How big of a disappointment is it at the moment?

ANDY RODDICK:  It's pretty disappointing.  Yeah, it's not good.


Q.  Do you have anything that you think of now that you could have done better out there?

ANDY RODDICK:  I could have returned a little bit better.  I wasn't giving myself a shot.  Especially second serve returns.  But that being said, every time I did make a second serve return, he was just killing it to the other corner.  So I don't know.  I mean, "Would have," "Could have," "Should have."  But he played too well for me tonight.  He was the better player; he deserved to win.


Q.  You disputed a fair amount of calls out there.  What effect did that have on you during the match?

ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  I'm gonna save myself some money and not comment on that.


Q.  You've played three full weeks.  How do you feel physically and mentally?

ANDY RODDICK:  I feel fine.  Actually, last two nights I felt a lot better than I did, you know, early on in the tournament.  I was kind of struggling a little bit physically and mentally.  But, you know, last night and tonight I felt pretty good.


Q.  You and Andre shared some words at the net there at the end.

ANDY RODDICK:  We didn't really say much.  It was just, you know, I said, "Well done.  That was too good."  You know, he said something.  I couldn't really hear anything, to be honest.


Q.  You complained about the line calls.  Did that make a difference?

ANDY RODDICK:  I already answered that.  I'm not going to talk about it.  I'd like to keep my prize money from this week.  I mean, it didn't really make a difference because a couple of them, it was just -- it was surprising.  It wouldn't have affected the outcome of the match most likely.  It was just a little frustrating.


Q.  Just it's always -- guys lose, but there were so many incredible exchanges throughout that three-set match, so many great points.  I know you don't look at a loss as something that's good, but if you were to just look at the overall play over that - whatever it was, two and a half hours - how would you put that as far as matches you played this year?

ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  It's tough.  You know, obviously with, you know, the electricity that was out there, you know, each point was magnified, you know, more so than, you know -- it was a pretty highly anticipated match.  You know, there are a lot of factors that go into making it kind of a good match, and they were all there tonight.


Q.  Were you amazed at some of the returns he hit?  You know Andre...

ANDY RODDICK:  Not really.  He's the best returner of all-time.  You know, it's...  That would be like you asking him if he was amazed that I served hard.


Q.  Two weeks ago most people would not have mentioned him as a threat at the US Open, the way things were going for him.  Should he be in that category?

ANDY RODDICK:  Well, those people aren't too intelligent.  If you know one thing, it's not to write Andre Agassi off.  You guys had him written off seven years ago.  So, you know, he thrives on that.  You know, I'm disappointed that I lost, but part of me is happy that he just kind of, you know, just -- he let his racquet do the talking, and it's saying something.


Q.  Are you amazed that he can still do this at his age, considering the number of players his age on tour?

ANDY RODDICK:  I am going to be amazed if I can walk up the stairs fast when I'm 34, much less play that level of tennis.  Yeah, I mean, it's amazing.  I can't even imagine myself out here 13 years from now, you know, competing with the best players in the world.  That just seems, you know, amazingly farfetched.  But it's weird to think when he started on tour I was three or four, and he's still out here playing at this level.  So, I mean, that's pretty amazing.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT