CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2011
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. ANDERSON/A. Roddick
  6-4, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Any thoughts on the game there? 
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I didn't serve very well. 

 Q. You still have doubles to play. I heard that your partner, John Isner, has something wrong with his stomach. I don't know if you change your plans. 
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, that would require me knowing what John's stomach feels like. So, you know, I think he went to the hospital midday on Sunday. When they made the schedule at like 5:00 or 6:00 they had him playing singles today. They had to remedy that. I know he spent last night in the hospital. 
 As far as our status for doubles, I don't know. I know he's going to try to be ready for singles. 

 Q. You mentioned you weren't serving great. Your opponent had a big serve. Was that the deciding factor in this match? What are your plans after Beijing?
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, I mean, I broke. I had lots of break points in the first set. I broke twice in the second set. If I break twice and don't win a set, that says my serve isn't holding up. 
 He served fine, but he always serves fine. Most times I feel like if I break him twice in a set I'm fine.
 Tonight I wasn't. That's unacceptable. 

 Q. Just changing the topic slightly, there has been various reports that Andy Murray is gonna call the players in Shanghai to discuss the length of the season. 
 ANDY RODDICK: Do I have any thoughts about the fact that Andy Murray is gonna call a meeting in Shanghai?  
 Q. About the length of the season. 
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, I mean, it's -- I mean, it's a little tedious. I guarantee you've probably asked that question a half decade ago about the length of the season.
 Fact is I think in '01 or '02, the first time that I played Paris at the end of the year, we finished around Halloween. We've had all this talk about shortening the season. I want you to go and check the dates and find out when that tournament finishes now. It finishes two weeks later.
 So are there necessary discussions? I think so. I can't speak for anybody else. If we had been talking about it for this long and nothing's been done, then as far as our opinions and our voice, it's a flawed system. 
 The fact that the player council can vote 6- or 7-0 for something, and as long as we're -- you know, when it gets to the board we can conveniently get outvoted 4-3 regardless if it's a unanimous decision by us. It's a numbers game, and they don't seem to make sense as far as what we feel we need as far as our bodies and frankly our careers. 
 It's a more physical game than it used to be, and the season is longer than ever. So it doesn't seem to make sense, you know. 

 Q. (Through translation.) I remember you said when your ranking dropped to a specific place on the ATP World Tour, you would retire. How far do you think your current position is from that spot? As for retirement, who do you think will retire first, Federer or you? 
 ANDY RODDICK: I think that you should retire. (Applause).







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT