NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 30, 2004
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Andy advances to his second quarterfinal here in Key Biscayne and improves his match record to 23-5 on the season.  He'll take on the winner of Moya-Robredo in the quarterfinals on Thursday.  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Is this routine? 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  It turned out that way.  It definitely felt like a grind kind of going into the second set.  I felt like that was probably the best I've hit my forehand in the last couple weeks.  That was definitely the key to the match for me. 
 
Q.  This place, three years ago, I know you really took a step, made a name for yourself.  Talk about your experiences playing here and how the South Florida conditions are. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I'm used to the them, that's for sure.  It's definitely not anything new for me.  2001 was great.  I knew I was playing well in the challengers, but I didn't know what it took to get to the next level.  Then I came here, had some amazing wins.  It was like a dream week for me.  Then I haven't played so hot here the last two years, so it's good to kind of come down here and win some matches this year.  
 
Q.  When you see a result like the one that preceded your match, does it just emphasize that there is nothing routine about a match? 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Absolutely.  I mean, we don't just say it to say it; that's for sure.   You can't go into a match, you know, expecting to win.  You can go in a match to win it.  But nothing's a given out here, that's for sure.  
 
Q.  How important is it, just confidence-wise, to get to a semi or final at an event like this?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  We'll see.  I'll let you know if I get there (laughing). 
 
Q.  Just looking at the season so far, you've played well. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  It would be great because I've kind of been knocking on the door of a big result all year long.  So, you know, obviously, you know, I'd love to progress further in this tournament.  That goes without saying.  This next match will be a big one for me.  
 
Q.  Moya is up a second break.  Looks like he's going to win.  Going to be a big match.  What do you remember about your last matches against him?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  That I kind of cheesed my way through both of them.  One of them was, I think, three years ago in - was it - Montreal.  I think he actually served for the match.  I had already tapped out mentally.  I was freaking out.  But I kind of got through it somehow.  He kind of just let up and gave me the last couple of games.  Then Houston, it was a dogfight.  I was just kind of scrapping and clawing and, you know, somehow ended up getting through it.  But they've both been really, really close matches, both of them three sets. 
 
Q.  When you do the forehand, forehand, cross-court volleys with Carlos, it gets pretty exciting out there. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know if either one of us is going to stay in it too long.  I think we're going to look for the ball to kind of maybe change directions.  It probably would be exciting, but I don't know how much of that you're going to see.  He loves to kind of take his forehand and work it from the backhand side of the court.  You don't see him too often just camping out in the forehand side of the court.  His forehand is huge, but he uses it a lot from the ad side of the court.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT