TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 14, 2003
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  That must make you feel good going into the weekend?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, absolutely.  I came here with one goal and that was to finish No. 1.  Now that I did that, everything else is kind of a little bit of a bonus. 

Q.  Look ahead to the match against Federer, please. 

ANDY RODDICK:  It's gonna be tough.  I mean, I've said a couple times tonight already, he's definitely played the best tennis through the Round Robin.  I'm still lucky to be here.  That's the way I'm looking at it.  He's probably playing better than me right now.  I just have to try to find a way to scrap out a win.

Q.  Before you found that reserve of energy down 3-2, Love-40, did you know that you even had that reserve of energy?

ANDY RODDICK:  I didn't know.  I mean, I'm not gonna try to fake you guys out and say I did.  I'm pretty taxed mentally and physically from the year.  But the finish line is within sight.  So, you know, I'll do my best.

Q.  Are you proud of yourself when you can pull out a match like this, when you are so mentally and physically taxed?

ANDY RODDICK:  I mean, not... I mean, a lot of it, I think, had to do with the crowd.  I think he let up a little bit.  But, you know, I can't be too proud.  My attitude was pretty bad for the most part of the end of the second and beginning of the third.  So, you know, I'd be proud if I maybe played the whole match like that. 

Q.  When you broke at 5-3, I think you yelled, "Come on, Mac."  Was that in response to other players criticizing his actions? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Well, I don't know.  Maybe it was just something that kind of happened.  I have known Mac for the better part of, you know, going on three or four years now.  You know, I've seen the stuff that he does away from the game of tennis.  You go into a store and you see plaques on the wall, "Mac, thanks for your $2 million donation," "Thanks for your $500,000 donation,"  "Thanks for..." You know.  I just think it goes a lot deeper than him clapping for some tennis players.  So, you know, maybe that was a little extra motivation for what he's done for so many people and what he's done for tennis here. 

Q.  Do you sense that the rivalry in a way between you and Roger, this could be the start of something big for tennis?

ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  I guess time will tell.  I mean, I think we're both gonna, you know, be near the top of the game for a little while now.  At least that's the way it seems.  I'm sure we're gonna have maybe some big matches in the future.

Q.  Is this a match you could have won six months ago, do you think?

ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  You know, I'm not sure.  I mean, I always fought.  But maybe I just didn't have the confidence.  After that one break at 3-2, my confidence just kind of soared up from nowhere and I started hitting the ball pretty clean.  So I'm not sure. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT