NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 24, 2003
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Can you guys talk about the atmosphere in that match?  It almost felt like a Davis Cup atmosphere. 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Yeah, that's what Andy said at the beginning of the match.  He said that it felt like we were out there playing Davis Cup.  It was a good crowd.  On a small court, it made it feel like it was packed out there.  It was great intensity throughout the whole match.  
 
Q.  Why isn't doubles always like that? 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Go ahead.  
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Well, I don't play much doubles.  So for me, when I get out there, I try to get pretty intense and into the match.  With Andy, it's fun playing with him because I'm relaxed with him and I'm just enjoying having good times out there.  
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  I mean, I think, you know, going back to your question, I think you see two top, you know  -- or a lot of guys that are doing really well in singles get on the doubles court, and especially first rounds of tournaments, on a small court like that.  I think they did a pretty smart thing.  They figured they could pack the house and make it a pretty cool atmosphere. 
 
Q.  Andy, what is your thinking behind wanting to play doubles at this point in your career? 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I play a lot for fun, to be honest.  It's not my priority.  I don't think it's Robby's priority either.  We get together, and have a good time.  Sometimes it's fun like that. 
 
Q.  How much does a match like today help you shake the hangover from a match like last night? 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Helps a lot.  It's just getting back out on the court again, having fun.  It was good for me.  I pulled a no warm-up  today and just went out and kind of winged it.  It was good to get out there.  
 
Q.  Andy, you're like a leader, the greatest player in these group of newcomers, Robby and James Blake.  What do you think about some other guys from other countries like especially Fernando Gonzalez or David Nalbandian, they're from the same generation, but you're the best now. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Well, David, he came  -- they both came a long way last year and surprised a lot of people, but probably not themselves.  Fernando, I've actually played doubles with him a couple times.  He's a lot of fun.  You watch him just expecting to see something amazing.  
 
Q.  I've talked to some people and they've said obviously the sport of doubles isn't marketed the same as the singles.  Part of it has to do with, like you said, a lot of singles players, it's based on how good they do in a singles match, whether they're going to pull out, join in doubles later on.  It's not as consistent as singles. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Was that a question?  
 
Q.  That was the question.  Doubles is not as consistent as far as whether you're going to play all the time or if you have, you're in both...
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Obviously, but guys like Knowles and Nestor aren't participating in both.  So they don't have that decision to make.  They're awesome at what they do, but we have two things going on.  I think you kind of have to pick your poison.  It takes, you know, someone, you know, really, really in shape and really dedicated to go out there and play, you know, every match.  You know, if you play the whole year like that, I'm sure it would take its toll. 
 
Q.  Have you guys ever played doubles before? 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  I don't think so, no.  
 
Q.  Were there any, "I got it," "You got its"? 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  There was many of them.  
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I just told him to take them.  He's got the hot hand this week. 
 
Q.  Any memorable "I got it," "You got its"? 
 
ROBBY GINEPRI:  Not tonight  - so, not ever (smiling).  
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, right.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT