NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 23, 2003
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Very exciting match.  Your reaction? 

ANDY RODDICK:  I think Todd just played better on the big points today.  I looked at the stats after the match and was actually surprised, they were pretty decent.  I think I was plus seven winner to errors, plus six aces to double faults.  I had pretty good looks.  I had five chances to break.  I think he hit pretty much every big serve when he needed and he just played a lot better than me on the big points today. 

Q.  Did your service return hurt you again?

ANDY RODDICK:  I don't think so. 

Q.  Not too much?

ANDY RODDICK:  No.  Two days ago, it was atrocious.  I couldn't have hit one into an ocean.  I actually put a lot into play today.  I'm sure my percentage of returns in play was pretty decent.  I was putting them at his feet.  He just played well. 

Q.  Crowd reaction tonight?  It was pretty  -- they were really into it.

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, it was great.  I think the night adds a lot of electricity to the air.  And that was apparent tonight. 

Q.  How disappointing is this tournament result for you?

ANDY RODDICK:  Very. 

Q.  Can you elaborate on that, because it's here especially? 

ANDY RODDICK:  No, I mean, it's not fun losing ever, you know?  Especially, you know, I felt like I was lucky to be in the tournament.  To feel like  -- I don't know.  It's just disappointing. 

Q.  You leave here feeling your game is where, would you say? 

ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  I mean, I kind of am not sure.  You know, I feel like I can definitely raise it, you know, a lot.  I know that it's there.  I know, you know, I have the game that's better. 

Q.  Talk about the tie breaker a little bit. 

ANDY RODDICK:  I don't really remember it.  He got up to just a pretty early lead.  That was, you know, that was pretty much it.  I don't think he lost one point on serve on the breaker.  He served well when he needed to tonight.

Q.  By far, the best he's played against you in your three meetings, would you say?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yes. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT