PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 14, 2003
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Andy. 


Q.  He played very well, but was that basically a case also of a bit too quick after last night for you, a bit too soon?

ANDY RODDICK:  I'm not sure.  He just came out and played a lot better than me.  Obviously, I don't think I played my best tennis by a longshot.  But, credit to him, he came out and he just was better than me today.

Q.  It looked like you were having trouble pushing off to the side.  Were you? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  I mean, but I've been playing with it all week.  I mean, my coming in, it wasn't a hundred percent.  That's not an excuse, you know, just for today.  I've been playing with it all week.

Q.  Will you be okay next week?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  I hope so, yeah.

Q.  Why the wrap on the knee?

ANDY RODDICK:  Maybe I was overcompensating for the ankle somewhat this week, so it just got a little tender, a little sore.  It was just holding like antiinflammatory stuff on it, trying to calm it down a little bit.

Q.  Do you consider yourself brittle physically?

ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  Right now I think because with the ankle, I wasn't able to do much fitness off the court and stuff.  I don't think I came in here in the best of shape by any means.  But I don't know.  I mean, I just wasn't in the greatest shape coming in here.

Q.  How much physical work have you had to cut back because of the injuries? 

ANDY RODDICK:  A lot.  I mean, it's tough to run on a sprained ankle and expect it to be better to play. 

Q.  The stat sheet shows a few winners, a lot of unforced errors.  You weren't getting to the ball and setting it up the way you wanted to?

ANDY RODDICK:  I knew I was making a lot of errors out there.  He was running down a lot of balls, credit to him.  I hit some really good shots and he was getting them back.

Q.  How underestimated do you think he is?  Obviously since Australia, everybody knows about him.  But he's been around a while, he seems to have gotten steadily better in the last six to nine months.  Is he a very underrated player? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Not before.  I mean, he's 26 and he's starting to play his best tennis now.  But maybe people would disregard him because he is getting very good at a later age. 

Q.  Other than running, what does he do well?  Does he move you around a lot, keep the ball deep?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  I mean, he runs and he makes you play every point.  As you guys saw today, he passes unbelievably.  If he baits you into coming in, he feels comfortable with you coming in.  It's not like he feels the pressure too much. 

Q.  Have you put on any weight, gained weight?

ANDY RODDICK:  Have I put on any weight? 

Q.  Yes. 

ANDY RODDICK:  Are you going to cause me to get an eating disorder now (smiling)? 

Q.  Muscle weight. 

ANDY RODDICK:  No.  Probably Krispy Kreme weight. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT