PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 13, 2003
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Turning out to be a very good week for the Americans. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, it's great.  Five out of eight in the quarterfinals, not too bad.  I don't know when the last time that happened was, especially without Pete or Andre.  
 
Q.  Talk about the match.  You had a hard time breaking him, but got yourself into the breakers, then played well. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, I thought I played great return games in the first set.  I had lots of chances.  He just came up with the goods.  Second and third set, I really wasn't in my groove.  I got a pretty decent look on match point in the third.  He played well.  He served pretty well, high percentage. 
 
Q.  Talk about the third set tiebreak.  You played it pretty well.  Started with a double, but after that you were pretty good. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, a lot of things went my way in the tiebreaker.  The shots I was trying to hit just fell in.  I was able to serve pretty big.  I just got through it.  
 
Q.  Are you deliberately trying to come in a lot more this year?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Yes.  
 
Q.  What has prompted this, your own realization that this was something you needed to add to your game, other people pushing you to it?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  My coach and I discussed it.  You know, we came to the conclusion that if I'm going to lose a match, let's lose it on my terms, because the guy is hitting winners, hitting passing shots, you're forcing him, he comes up with the goods.  It's a lot easier for me to take tennis like that. 
 
Q.  Do you find it more enjoyable?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  It's a lot of fun.  It's definitely more fun when you're the aggressor and you're the one pressing the issue.  
 
Q.  Were you surprised by the quality of his return of serve even when you served at 140 or 139?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Well, Sebastien has great hands.  You know, he's quick enough to kind of react.  Those are two things.  I thought he was doing a great job of putting them high and deep, giving himself a chance to get back in the court.  No, I was definitely impressed.  
 
Q.  This is one of those matches, probably doesn't mean much to you, but you actually won fewer points and less games and still won the match, which can happen.  You must have played the bigger points better. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I just played the tiebreakers better.  I mean, that's what it comes down to.  Every point's big in a tiebreaker.  I think just because I got schooled in the second set, that kind of dipped the scales there. 
 
Q.  I know it's a different country, but do you have any thoughts of Davis Cup while you were out there?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I think so.  I think every time you play someone, if you've played them before, you think back to the last time you played them.  It just happened to be I played him at Davis Cup last time. 
 
Q.  And any special emotions going through there?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  No.  I mean, with the exception of having played someone before and learning a couple things, I really didn't dwell on that too much or think about it. 
 
Q.  You've got to be pretty pleased that you managed reach quarterfinals, given you were coming off the ankle injury. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I'm very surprised.  I mean, I didn't play much with the wrist, then I started up again, then I didn't play much coming into the tournament.  I'm surprised, to be honest.  I didn't know how far I was going to get.  If you would have told me quarters before the week started, I would have been pretty happy with that. 
 
Q.  How are the two injuries?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  The wrist is fine.  Ankle is so-so.  But we're taping it, putting a brace on it.  It's just a matter of getting through it. 
 
Q.  Now you get to show Schuettler how you can play when you're healthy or semi-healthy. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I hope so. 
 
Q.  How do you approach a tiebreaker?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Very carefully (smiling).  I don't know.  I try to be aggressive more so.  I think a guy by the name of Pete Sampras - you guys might have heard of him before - he always said, "I try to be the most aggressive person in a tiebreaker.  If I lose it, that's fine, because I was the one trying to make things happen."  
 
Q.  Brian Vahaly was telling us you went and had dinner the night before his match, gave him some tips on beating Tommy.  Who paid for dinner?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I did.  That's all right.  He'll win a couple more matches, then I'll hit him up. 
 
Q.  The guy with the higher ranking, is that how it works?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  He's in debt.  I'm going to hit him up all in one week.  He's having a good week.  He's making a couple bucks this weekend.  Miami, he's mine (smiling).  Be sure to remind him of that.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT