WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 8, 2002
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  Went pretty well, pretty quick. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I played well today.  I played very solid, made very few mistakes that I, you know, I was really disgusted with.  So that's good.  You know, my serve was working today.  I was putting a lot of returns in the court, so that helps.  
 
Q.  Were you kind of disillusioned to see your name on the night match today? 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Not really.  Since Pete had a tough one yesterday, I know, you know, Andre played the night the day before.  Maybe they were counting on an Andre-Lleyton quarterfinal, and that's definitely getting prime time.  So I wasn't too surprised.  
 
Q.  Annoyed? 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  No, I love playing night tennis.  There's a certain electricity in the air.  I really enjoy it.  
 
Q.  I was talking about the concert. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Oh, the concert.  But hopefully I can still make it.  I mean, you got to have priorities here  - tennis, you know, Dave Matthews. 
 
Q.  Otherwise, you wouldn't have minded going three sets?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  No, I went in with the mindset that I wasn't going.  I mean, as soon as I heard it, you know, I knew there was no chance.  But I played well enough where I might actually get there and catch a couple of songs, so we'll see.  
 
Q.  Do you have a backstage pass or anything?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, I might be able to sneak one  - if I'm lucky.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like you've really been taxed?  All your matches have only been two sets.  You really haven't maybe pushed as hard as you can.
 
ANDY RODDICK:  But on the flip side, I've been playing, you know  -- I've had maybe three days off where I haven't played a tournament match, and not a day off tennis since the beginning of World Team Tennis, which is three and a half weeks.  I've been playing pretty solidly for three and a half weeks.  My matches haven't been long, but I've been playing a lot.  
 
Q.  Despite the loss to Canas and the loss to Gambill, these three weeks, it seems like you've been playing really well.  Are you happy with everything right now?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I've been playing  -- I'm very happy with the way I'm playing right now.  I lost to Gambill.  He played a, you know, a great second set.  I might have played, you know, a bad set in the last three weeks.  So, you know, I'm pretty happy with the way things are going right now.  
 
Q.  You play either Krajicek or Gonzalez next.  What is your history with them?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I never played Krajicek.  I played Gonzalez first round of Monte-Carlo and won in a couple breakers.  That's the only time I actually felt like I wasn't hitting the ball hard, was when I was playing him, because he just rips (laughing).  
 
Q.  Off to the concert. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Sweet.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT