WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2002
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Was he just too good today? 

ANDY RODDICK:  No, Greg played very well today.  I don't think I helped myself out much out there today.  I didn't do much right.  But, you know, he put pressure on me and he came up with big points when he needed to.

Q.  You were having a great deal of difficulty passing him with your backhands today.  Was it Greg just doing a great job of reading it or did you not think you hit it well enough today?

ANDY RODDICK:  I definitely didn't hit it well enough.  75% of the time I wasn't even making him play on it.  He was hitting his chipper great and pretty deep.  You know, credit to him on that.   I don't know if it would have been made a difference, but I think I could have hit it better.

Q.  We've all seen the depth of the men's game.  Is this the kind of tournament where someone like Greg can come through and win it?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, I mean, I don't see why not.  You know, he's got the game to.  I think it's more between the ears than anything.  He's playing well. 

Q.  I'm sure before you went on the court when you talked to Tarik you knew return of serve was going to be huge.  While his first serve was good today, looked like you got a pretty good look at second serves, but couldn't produce when you needed to. 

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, I didn't get ahold of many.  By the time I started returning well, it was pretty much sealed up.  I think it had more to do with my second shot.  He wasn't scared of my second shot, therefore it makes those first volleys a lot easier. 

Q.  Where do you think your game is right now? 

ANDY RODDICK:  As far as? 

Q.  As you look at your year, the Grand Slams, what was it that's holding you back? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Uhm, you know, I'm not sure right now.  I mean, I have a lot to work on.  I don't know if there's just one magical thing, that that's going to turn it around.  You know, it's going to take a lot of hard work.  You know, it's something that I'm willing to put in.

Q.  A number of turning points out here.  One was in the first game of the second set.  Did you get a good look at that ball, just sliced wide, what happened?

ANDY RODDICK:  Great look at it.  It was sitting up for me.  That's usually  -- I normally don't miss that shot.  High forehand inside out, normally you can bank on that.  It felt good off the racquet.  I just missed it.

Q.  How disappointed are you?

ANDY RODDICK:  Extremely. 

Q.  Because what? 

ANDY RODDICK:  You know, I put in  -- I've just been working really hard this year.  You know, some events I've been playing pretty well.  Grand Slams, I just haven't put it together so far this year.  But, you know, there's still some tennis to be played this year.  So, you know, I'm going to get back to the drawing board and, you know, see what I can do with the rest of it.

Q.  How much of it is strokes and how much of it is mental? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, you know, mental, it's all right.  It's just a matter of taking my chances when I get them.  Fine line between, you know, losing here and playing really well.  You know, it's just, you know, maybe a match or two can turn it around.  You know, I've been playing well, apart from the Grand Slams.  I've had a little bit of bad luck in the first one and the second one.  I played Wayne who is playing well.  Here I didn't really play my best today.  So far this year, I've played okay. 

Q.  You've shown that you can be a dominating player as an attacking baseliner as opposed to a serve-volley player.  Do you think you're going to add a larger element of serve and volley to your game the rest of this year?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  I mean, something  -- it's something that I definitely need to work on.  It's something that I, you know, will work on.  You know, I'll try to incorporate it more so.

Q.  Can you talk about what it's like to play on Centre Court against a Brit when obviously the people here are so behind the Brits in this tournament?  Is it different than usual?

ANDY RODDICK:  Well, of course.  I mean, it's rowdier than normal.  You know, I don't think  -- maybe that helped him, but I don't think it really affected me too much out there today.  I really wasn't paying too much attention to it.  You know, I didn't do a good job of trying to keep them quiet, you know, with shots.  That's the bottom line.  But, you know, it's still an awesome court.  You know, hopefully I'll be back for many years. 

Q.  Do you start to beat yourself up too much during the match?  When things would start to go well, if one thing went wrong, you were kind of getting on yourself?

ANDY RODDICK:  But I was trying to get myself in the match.  I was struggling; I was on the outside almost looking in.  I was just trying to get myself to get inside of it.

Q.  Can you talk about what's going on on your return games?  Are you not confident enough to step in and take more risks?  Are you not reading your opponent's serve? 

ANDY RODDICK:  I'm not sure.  You know, when I'm not, you know, playing the Arthurs and the Rusedskis, I'm breaking well.  In my other matches throughout the year, I've been breaking pretty easily.  It's just a matter of stepping up and finding a formula.  I thought  -- I thought I started to find it.  The end of the second, beginning of the third, I had a couple opportunities.  I was stepping in and felt good.  Maybe I just need to do that more.

Q.  Tough losses here and in Paris.  How do these results affect your self-belief? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Not a bit.  You know, I don't think  -- you know, a lot of people are up and down.  They kind of go with the wind.  You know, I'm confident that, you know, my day will come in the future, you know, as long as I stay level-headed and, you know, not go too far up or too far down, you know, with wins and losses.

Q.  Do you think you'll win this tournament?

ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.  We'll see.  I think I have the ability to, you know, someday.  But I'm going to have to learn a lot more about grass court tennis first.

Q.  Your first breakpoint opportunity came in the third set off the great stretch net cord ball, then netted another backhand.  Did the ball not come up?  What happened on the attempted pass at breakpoint?

ANDY RODDICK:  I think it just got inside of me.  You know, I didn't  -- I hit it hard, but straight, flat, right into the net.  There's not much more to it.  I just didn't hit it well.  The wind was blowing, the dogs were barking, something got in my eye, you know... Bad bounce for sure, too. 

Q.  How disappointing is it for American tennis, Jeff still in the tournament, but you're out, Pete, Andre, James?  It's a little surprising this early at Wimbledon to see all you guys getting ready to go home. 

ANDY RODDICK:  It is surprising, but I don't know if that affects the overall state of American tennis.  I still think that it's pretty good.  The overall state of American tennis isn't the best it's ever been, but we're still strong as far as, you know, players, winning tournaments, whatnot. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT