WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2002
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Pretty easy match today, huh? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  But no Grand Slam matches are ever easy.  I thought I played pretty well.  The scoreline might indicate that.  But it's just a win is a win any way you get it. 

Q.  What pleased you about your game, particularly today? 

ANDY RODDICK:  I served well.  I thought pretty much all around there were no really lapses, you know.  When I needed a point, I pretty much got it today.  That's always nice on grass.  You definitely have to take your opportunities. 

Q.  Do you approach Wimbledon differently than the other tournaments coming into it? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Not really.  I mean, I think if you prepare differently for every tournament, there's no consistency and there's nothing really you can rely on.  Obviously on grass you want to work a little bit more on returns and different shots than you would on clay.  But as far as, you know, day-in and day-out preparation, it's pretty much the same. 

Q.  What's the best thing about tennis to you?

ANDY RODDICK:  The best thing about tennis to me?

Q.  Yeah.  What keeps you playing it?

ANDY RODDICK:  The cheerleaders.  Wait, there are none.  I don't know.  I just love to compete.  I'm pretty competitive at anything, you know.  You know, I like the competition of you versus someone, you know.  Kind of one-on-one is nice. 

Q.  How much longer are you in Europe for before you get to go home again? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Depends on how much longer I'm at SW19.  So I'm heading home after this. 

Q.  How attuned are you to the results going on on the other courts when you're sitting around waiting for your court call?

ANDY RODDICK:  I mean, you watch it. 

Q.  You do?

ANDY RODDICK:  There's a big scoreboard everywhere.  You know, not much else to do, sitting around a smelly locker room.  So, you know, you pay attention to what's going on. 

Q.  You were talking yesterday or the day before about your fitness when you're at home, how you were getting yourself in shape for this.  What do you do for your fitness routine?

ANDY RODDICK:  It varies.  I mean, at home I think it's a matter of consistency and building up something.  I mean, it's  -- you know, I try to do something every day.  Does no good if you run five miles one day but then don't do anything for the rest of the week.  I try to do some cardio and probably weights every other day  - some sort of cardio, running, biking, whatever. 

Q.  Do you still play basketball?

ANDY RODDICK:  Not as much as I used to.  I just haven't been playing much.  I mean, the big games that I normally play are pretty decent games.  You don't want to go over there if you're not playing for a couple of months and stink it up.  Maybe if I have some more time.

Q.  You faced Alberto on this surface in Houston.  Did you think he didn't have the weapons to win when you came out here?

ANDY RODDICK:  Like I said the other day, it was my match to win or lose.  I didn't feel like he was going to come out and just straight out beat me.  I thought I was going to have a lot to do with the result one way or the other. 

Q.  How much of a disadvantage was it not getting the number of matches maybe that you would have liked coming in here?

ANDY RODDICK:  Well, it was tough.  But at the same time, I'm really hungry right now.  You know, I haven't gotten the number of matches.  I want to step out there, I'm really ready to go, I'm fired up.

Q.  Looks like you are going to get Rusedski in the next round.  How much pressure does facing a guy like that put on your serve to hold?

ANDY RODDICK:  Well, it does put more pressure, but I'd like to think, you know, it goes both ways.  So, you know, it's definitely going to be tough.  I haven't played a grass courter yet in this tournament.  It's definitely going to be, you know, my toughest match to date.  But I feel like I'm playing well, and we'll see how it goes.

Q.  Did your family come over to watch you?

ANDY RODDICK:  Huh-uh. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT