TENNIS MASTERS SERIES - ROMA
May 9, 2002
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Andy. 


Q.  Are you satisfied with your game compared to yesterday? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  I think Wayne was playing smart tennis in the first set.  He was hitting a bunch of lines, so it made it a little tough.  I wasn't happy with my first serve percentage in the first set.  It was kind of I'd make three and miss five.  That's no good.  So I think that was a big difference in the second and third sets. 

Q.  Can you compare your game here and your game in Houston? 

ANDY RODDICK:  It's tougher  -- you know, I haven't really  -- I think I played better in Houston the first couple rounds.  But I'm fighting good here  -- I'm fighting well here.  Hopefully the more matches I get, the better I play.  That's normally the way I work.  But obviously I'm playing, you know, guys that are playing well on the clay right now and have been over here for a while.  A win is a win.  I'll take it any way I can get it. 

Q.  What is the most difficult thing for you to adapt to on that kind of clay, slow, at night?  What do you have to do? 

ANDY RODDICK:  I just have to be patient.  It's more between the ears than on the court.  You know, the court, my last two matches, has been very heavy.  Today it was cold and the balls were cold and heavy.  Then yesterday with the rain.  So it's good that, you know, I won, you know, with heavy conditions that don't favor my game too much. 

Q.  What about Robredo?  You know him? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, we've played twice before - at the US Open last year and at Davis Cup, you know, about a month ago.  But those were both on very fast surfaces.  You know, now we're playing on his favorite surface, you know.  He's going to feel comfortable out there, and it's going to be a different match than what we've played before.  But, you know, I feel like I'm hitting the ball well.  It's going to be a fight.  He's a great competitor. 

Q.  So how have three Americans gotten so far here in Rome? 

ANDY RODDICK:  I don't know.

Q.  Usually doesn't work this way.

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, must be the pasta or something, I don't know.  I'm not sure.  I mean, you know, Andre is a Roland Garros champion.  I mean, that pretty much goes without saying.  It's not surprising.   James is playing good tennis.  He's improving every tournament this year.  He's a great athlete and, you know, his game fits clay.  He has good ground strokes, a big forehand, and he's fast, so it makes for it.  And me, I just got lucky. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT