TMS MONTE CARLO
April 18, 2002
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Andy, please. 


Q.  That was an absolute shocker of a call. 

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, wasn't the best call that I've seen out here this week.  You know, it probably would not have made a difference in the match.  But, you know, it's just frustrating when you feel like you're getting back into a match.  I had a couple break points.  He was struggling to close out the set on his serve.  And, you know, you never know.  If that happens, you never know what's going to happen.  You know, could turn things around.  You know, probably wouldn't have made a difference.  But it's just a little bit annoying.  

Q.  Bring back memories of the US Open semifinal? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Not really.  You know, that one was just a  -- you know, atrocious, you know, as far as, you know, timing.  This one was just a bad call.  I mean, the timing wasn't as dramatic or anything.  This one was more annoying than anything. 

Q.  You dropped your serve first game in the second.  Was that as a result of the anger?

ANDY RODDICK:  I think that was more a result of me flogging forehands seven feet wide all day than anything (laughing). 

Q.  It's all part of a learning process, isn't it?  Everything, every element of it  - calls, bad shots, whatever, wins, losses  - the whole thing is part of the process? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, for sure.  I mean, you know, you're not going to have a great day every day.  You know, Tommy just played well.  I was, you know, kind of had an identity crisis as far as what to do out there.  You know, I didn't know if I should  -- you know, I wasn't hitting the ball in the court when I was trying to play my game.  So I tried, you know, just kind of putting the ball in the court.  That didn't seem to work.  I probably served about 40 percent, which doesn't help.  You know, so I just scrapped and clawed and tried to hang out and fight.  But, you know, it just didn't happen for me today. 

Q.  Played six sets this week in match conditions.  Is that a good balance for the week? 

ANDY RODDICK:  Wish it was more.  Wish it would have lasted a little longer.   But, no, I mean, it's good.  My first clay court tournament.  Last year, I lost second round Bermuda challenger and started playing well.  So we'll see.  I wasn't expecting much, to be honest, coming over here on my first clay court event.  I'm not a natural clay courter.  I can, you know, make due sometimes by  -- with adjustments.  But, you know, it's definitely something I'm going to have to keep doing and just play more on it to get more comfortable.

Q.  What's the rest of your clay court program?

ANDY RODDICK:  Looks like I'm going to go back to Houston when I can get out of here.  Then Rome, Hamburg, Dusseldorf and then Paris.  So hopefully I'll be comfortable by the end of that (smiling).

Q.  Or tired.

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, one of the two. 

Q.  How do you feel about the semifinal of Davis Cup, which will be played on clay? 

ANDY RODDICK:  I'm looking forward to that.  Davis Cup's a whole new ball game.  You know, obviously, you know, I've played at Roland Garros last year.  And I think that's where it's going to be.  That's the rumor around town.  So, you know, I'm definitely excited.  I'm going to go out there and give it my all.  They have a great team, they're the defending champs.  So we'll see what happens. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT