TMS - STUTTGART
October 18, 2001
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Andy. 


Q.  Bit of a crazy match.  He got out early, then you came back, looked to have him at the end. 

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  I mean, I think he was playing better tennis than me all day.  I just kind of fought, scrapped, was trying to find a way to get a win.  It looked like I came pretty close.  When I was up in the third, I really didn't play bad tennis.  I mean, you know, I didn't  -- it's not like I double-faulted or missed easy shots or anything.  He just was hitting the ball really hard.  Sometimes during the year, you maybe win matches you shouldn't win, and maybe you lose matches you feel you should win. It happens.  But I think I'm still improving.  You know, I'm not upset with how I played.  I mean, I'm obviously disappointed, you know, that I lost.  He just played good tennis.


Q.  Do you think you'll learn a lot from that performance, that sort of situation, getting to 5-1 in the third set tiebreak, take a lot out of this?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  I mean, I don't know really what I could have done differently at that point.  But, you know, the more you're in situations like that, the easier it is.  I'm really not sure what to say.  I didn't play bad tennis when I was up.  He just came up with good shots.


Q.  Still think you have a chance?  Are you still looking at perhaps trying to qualify for Sydney?  Is that goal now gone?

ANDY RODDICK:  I mean, I'm just going to try to win matches.  I have two more tournaments left in the year.  I'm going to try to do the best I can.  We'll see what happens.  If I do, I do.  If I don't, I have a little bit of vacation time.  I'm going to try my best to win matches the next two weeks. 


Q.  Have you heard the Davis Cup draw?

ANDY RODDICK:  Yes.


Q.  Playing Slovakia. 

ANDY RODDICK:  Davis Cup is tricky.  They've one in Dusseldorf before in the team competition.  I'm glad we're playing at home.  It's always an advantage.  I've beaten Hrbaty and Kucera once before each.  But it's going to be tough.  Every match is tough.  I'm just glad that we have a home match. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT