TMS - STUTTGART
October 17, 2001
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Andy. 


Q.  You seem to be walking pretty well after Hong  Kong.  How long did it take to get the foot right?

ANDY RODDICK:  After I went home, I probably didn't practice for at least five days.  Then I just went slowly.  I didn't play a point until midway through the week of Davis Cup.   It took a little bit.  But I was just glad that it wasn't anything too serious.  It turned out to be a really bad bruise.


Q.  When did you get here?

ANDY RODDICK:  Monday night.


Q.  How did the Davis Cup go?  Was that a good experience for you?

ANDY RODDICK:  So much fun.  You know, it was great.  The fans were really, you know, enthusiastic.  It was an absolute pleasure to play for my country.


Q.  In light of what happened, did it make it especially special to play for America under those circumstances?

ANDY RODDICK:  Definitely.  You know, I'm a tennis player, and that's the little bit I can do.  That's kind of what I can do to maybe bring up someone's mood or something like that.  That was definitely on the team's mind.  It was good to get a win. 


Q.  Did you ever consider canceling the flight to Germany?

ANDY RODDICK:  I'm not sure.  You know, everybody's a little uneasy right now.  I don't want to live in fear.  I think that's what the people want, you know, is to instill fear.  I don't want to kind of let them win, you know, let them succeed in that.  I'm just going to try to live my everyday life.


Q.  When you think back to the match with Hewitt at The Open, what comes to mind a month later?  Was it one of the biggest ones that will help define your career?

ANDY RODDICK:  I hope it doesn't define my career. 


Q.  It was kind of a boxing match. 

ANDY RODDICK:  It was a really great match.  It was a really good match.  I played well.  He played better than I did.  Turns out he went on to win the rest of the tournament, you know, pretty easily.  I've got this thing going where I'm losing to the winners of the tournaments (laughter).  You know, maybe I can turn that around a little bit.  But, I mean, I was happy with the way I played.  You know, I'm just going to keep going.


Q.  Are you kind of looking forward now to playing for the first time really, I guess, as a professional at a senior level down in Australia, Adelaide?  Is that something you're looking ahead to?

ANDY RODDICK:  You know, I'm definitely excited.  That's off a little bit in my mind.  I'm not really thinking about that too much right now.  You know, I'm thinking about trying to finish the year strong, then have a little vacation time at the end, then it's back to work in December.   Maybe when it comes closer, I start training for it, I will be ready for it.


Q.  They're saying in Australia they're looking forward to hoping that you and Lleyton go at it again, based on what happened at The Open. 

ANDY RODDICK:  I hope so.  We have good matches.  It's a lot of fun playing him.  You know it's going to be a good match.  You know he's going to be intense and I'm going to be intense.  I enjoy battling.  I enjoy, you know, tough competition.  You know he's going to bring that.  As to say if we're going to play each other, that's a ways away.  I'm not really thinking about that too much. 


Q.  When you saw him go on to win it, were you thinking, "I could have won this tournament"?

ANDY RODDICK:  It just didn't have to do with him winning.  If he would have lost in the semis, I still felt I was playing good enough to compete with, you know, most players.  But he went ahead.  If you're going to lose, I guess lose to the winner.  But that definitely goes through your mind.  I mean, it's impossible not to.  You know, hopefully I have more chances, you know, in the next ten years or so.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT