US OPEN
August 31, 2001
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Little did you know you turn 19, these matches all of a sudden get harder. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  That must have something to do with it.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about just being able to survive a match like this, survive the tiebreaker, what that does?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  You know, this could work out positively, that I had a battle going into the third round.  If I would have won 1-2-2, you know, I might not be accustomed because I know I'd have to battle the next match.  On the other hand, I would have taken an easy victory.  Hopefully I can bring some positives out of it.  
 
Q.  What changed, from your standpoint?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I played a sloppy service game at 4-3, then he just lifted his game.  I mean, you know, then he felt like he got comfortable out there.  He was stepping up and playing great points.  You know, I was just wondering how long he was going to keep it up.  He played a really good set and a half after I gave that service game away.  
 
Q.  How much did you know about his game before tonight?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  You know, I haven't seen him play much.  I saw maybe three points against Pozzi.  I asked around a little bit.  I knew he had a decent pop on his first serve, that he hit the ball nice and flat.  That's tough on these courts because they're fast.  It slides through.  His is exceptionally flat.  It's tough to rally if he's hitting the spots.  
 
Q.  How much better are you going to have to return serve to get past Corretja in the next round?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  My first six sets at this tournament, I was returning great.  I was getting breaks, one or two a set.  I mean, I think he just lifted his serving game.  He started probably serving 75% first serves.  You know, I lost my groove a little bit.  Overall I feel like I've been returning well at Washington and my first two matches here. 
 
Q.  When you're out there with a match that's turning around in that way, the crowd is getting into it, behind the underdog, are you thinking, "At all costs get this done in four"?  Is a fifth set something you absolutely die to avoid?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Of course I'm trying to avoid a fifth set.  I don't want to lose sets.  I'm not thinking, "Let's let him get the fourth so we can play five."  Yeah, I definitely wanted to get it over with.  
 
Q.  The other night Patrick was talking about how he personally doesn't like to play the night matches.  He thought no one really should have to play more than one match a week at night.  You had both your matches be the late matches.  Do you have any feelings about it one way or the other? 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  It's definitely a different match at night.  The atmosphere is, you know, crazy.  It's just a different match.  It's fine.  I kind of like playing at night.  It's really easy for people to lift their levels.  It becomes more, you know, dependent on the feeling of the match as opposed to shot for shot. 
 
Q.  Would you rather play at night or during the day?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I don't think I'm going to be playing anymore.  I've already had two.  I doubt I'll get three in a row.  I'll probably say day because I know my next one will be day. 
 
Q.  In that first set, that man had the sign.  Looks like you saw it, reacted to it. 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  He rants and raves, yet he's been out here both nights watching.  You know, maybe he needs a hobby or something.  Get him a set of cards, you know.  
 
Q.  You knew Jack back from junior days.  Did you imagine this might be one of the guys you might be playing at the US Open?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  No.  Of course, you never think about those things when you're ten.  I was worrying how I was going to get money to buy a Frosty at a vending machine.  I wasn't worried about the US Open then.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT