TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2001
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about the pressure that he puts on your serve with his ability to get everything back? 
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah, it definitely makes you think a lot about it when every serve is coming back.  That is what he is known for.  He has great reactions and he is just a great player.  
 

Q.  Have you been able to feel that south Florida has kind of rallied behind you as you made this little run here in this tournament?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah.  The crowd has been great here.  It's helped me through four matches and they were trying as hard as they could to help me today, but I didn't help them back.  It was a great crowd all week. 
 

Q.  How much has this helped your confidence to get this far into the tournament?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  A lot.  Now I know I can do it.  So hopefully I will build on that and have a couple of more good results. 
 

Q.  Despite what just happened today would you describe your week, it must have been-- this is obviously life changing what has happened this week?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  No, not really.  It is tennis-changing.  I played different tournaments and, you know, I will get to play the big boys more often now which is going to be great.  I am looking forward to it.  But it has been a great week.  I played well all week.  And I am very happy. 
 

Q.  His style is the most difficult for you to play against?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I think he is difficult for anybody to play against.  He puts a lot of balls back and he makes you beat him.  If you are having a good day  -- if you are having an off-day, it is going to be a long day. 
 

Q.  How poorly do you think you played?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I played okay.  The credit goes to him.  He played a great match.  I played some good points.  He came up with some shots; all the credit should be with him. 
 

Q.  What happened with your hand, can you describe that injury?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I have like a nerve in there is messed up somehow.  So when I try to line up and actually crank out on the ball sometimes it would cramp up right before I hit it.  It happened a couple of days ago, but yesterday it didn't feel that bad I think playing yesterday made it a lot worse.  When I have to use a lot of wrist action on my serve I couldn't do it so basically all I had was the hard one and you are not going to serve a high percentage with that serve all the time. 
 

Q.  Started to play on your mind at all?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I knew going in I was going to have to battle with it.  There is not much you can do with this for this sort of injury.  I went out there. I tried my best.  I gave it a shot.  That is all I could ask of myself today. 
 

Q.  How is your form on clay and how are you going to prepare for the French?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I am excited.  I want to go over there and get ready.  Clay court is not a mental block for me. I welcome it.  I am looking forward to it.  
 

Q.  Have you had much experience?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I grew up playing on clay every other day  when I was younger.  Because they had it at the academy that I went to.  I am pretty comfortable on it. 
 

Q.  What will be your programming heading into Paris, before the French?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I haven't played  -- after this tournament I kind of have to redo my schedule because I can get into tournaments now that I couldn't get into before.  I don't have any definite answers right now.  I am going to have to talk to my coach and we are going to have to figure something out. 
 

Q.  What do you think about people who say you are the future of tennis?   Do you feel like the pressure is on?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  No, it is not on at all.  They said it at beginning of this tournament and I played care-free tennis.  That is kind of the way I play.  People talk about it a lot more than I think about it.  I am just a tennis player.  I am not, you know, future whatever.  I am here trying to play like everybody else. 
 

Q.  Is it flattering to hear Agassi and other people talking about you, people that you looked up to?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Yeah when the legend say he could be good or he is playing well, I mean, that is obviously a great compliment and it is an honor also. 
 

Q.  Any time you lose you are disappointed.  Is there a different sense that you did make it this far, say from a year ago -- you said you were here just to try to compete, you got that winning feeling, is there a bigger disappointment now?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  Any time you lose you don't feel good, but as long as I go in and give it my best shot and know that I didn't hold anything back and I tried, and I can live with it.  That is fine by me.  Also I had a good week.  It is best week of my career so far so I am not going to go into some tantrum because it wasn't my day. 
 

Q.  More specifically  would you consider your win over Pete, plus your run here, to be kind of a breakthrough for you, can you talk about that?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I haven't thought about it.  I hope so.  We will see.  
 

Q.  Are you playing World Team Tennis?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  I am definitely thinking about it right now for sure.  Yeah, I am definitely thinking about it right now so we will see.  
 

Q.  When did you first feel the problem with your hand?
 
ANDY RODDICK:  The night that I played Pete when I was out to dinner and I started feeling it.  It wasn't bad.  Yesterday it was bad in the morning but it got a lot better by match time.  I thought last night it was feeling good.  I thought it was just like one of those day things that you get, but this morning I woke up and it was thinking something else. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT