US OPEN
August 29, 2000
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Andy.  
 
Q. Tough way to celebrate your birthday.
 
 ANDY RODDICK: It's tomorrow, hopefully celebrate it a little bit better tomorrow.  
 
Q. You were so excited after winning the tiebreaker, seemed like your emotion was at an
all-time high. What were your thoughts going into the third set?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: I probably shouldn't have gotten so excited. By staying calm, I won the
second set. I mean, I was up -- down in the second, and then I just kind of calmed down,
took things easy. It was such a rush to win the second. I mean, if I could have kept
concentrated and battled a little bit, I think he would have started wondering, maybe he's
in trouble a little bit. 
 
Q. Was there a key in your mind, a strategy that you had going in, to beating him?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. I was just going to try to rally and wait for my ball, then take it
and come into the net. But that doesn't work when you don't put, you know, more than three
balls per rally in play. It was kind of tough to do that. I didn't feel comfortable out
there. I just tried to grind, stay in it somehow. 
 
Q. Do you think experienced players, veterans like Costa, are going to be a little
difficult for you for a while just because they've been out on tour for so long, they know
how to play important points?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: I mean, not so much. I've beaten a couple guys who have been seven, eight
years on the tour, that are highly ranked players. I think it's just a matter of how I
play and how I handle myself for the time being. 
 
Q. Do you like the way you served tonight?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: No. That was really bad serving tonight. I mean, I normally don't get
broken seven times per match (laughter). I mean, it was kind of rough when your serve's
not going right. You're just trying to find ways to win like any way. 
 
Q. You said something to yourself that was actually kind of loud, "I'm taking away
everything I worked for." What exactly did you yell out?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: No. I was saying, I'm not doing what I was trying to do. I didn't say,
"I'm not doing what I worked for," or "I'm blowing it." I would never
put that kind of pressure on myself. I didn't feel comfortable like with my game out
there. I've been playing so well since Washington. In practice since Washington I've been
playing well. To get out there and struggle like that, it was a disappointment. 
 
Q. Tonight you used the serve-and-volley as sort of a change-up weapon out there. Do
you see yourself using it more and more?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: For sure. I started doing it a lot more at the Legg Mason, and it worked.
When my serve is going well, it makes it a lot easier to serve-and-volley. You kind of
need a serve for the volley. I'll definitely use that more and more in the future.  
 
Q. Is it hard to turn your attention to juniors now?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: No. Obviously it's a letdown from the pros, wanting this opportunity and
stuff. But I'll be up for it when it comes around. 
 
Q. When is your first doubles match?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: I think it's tomorrow. I haven't seen the schedule.  
 
Q. It's not tomorrow. 
 
 ANDY RODDICK: It's not tomorrow?  
 
Q. No. 
 
 ANDY RODDICK: It's not tomorrow (laughter). 
 
Q. What will you do on your 18th birthday?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: Have no plans right now. Probably go out with friends and family to
dinner or something. 
 
Q. What can you do at age 18 that you can't do at age 17?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: Vote. I don't know. It's just a number. I don't feel any older or younger
or anything.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT