TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 25, 2000
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GREG SHARKO: Questions for Andy.  
 
Q. What kind of experience was that?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: Oh, that was so much fun. I didn't even expect it to be all that. I mean,
the crowd was amazing. They were getting behind me. I mean, it was just an overwhelming
experience. I can't even put it into words.  
 
Q. I'm not talking to you like your dad now, but what do you usually do on Saturday
nights?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: What do I normally do on Saturday nights? Call on all my friends, see
what's going on in the city, do a movie, hang out at a friend's a house. 
 
Q. Do you like this better?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: This was a lot better than a normal Saturday night. 
 
Q. Andre say anything to you at the end of the match?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: I just told him it was a dream come true. He said, "Thanks, that
means a lot." He just said, "Keep at it."  
 
Q. You played well. How many points would you like to be given a chance to play back
over tomorrow afternoon against him?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: Oh, I don't think the outcome would be any different. I played well. I
probably played better than I looked even because he makes you look -- like some of the
shots I hit as hard as I could, he's putting back in the corner against me. It's tough. My
serves, he's just ripping back at you, if I hit it as hard as I could hit it. I could have
served a little bit better, but I'm pretty happy the way I played overall. 
 
Q. He chipped and charged your second serve.
 
 ANDY RODDICK: I'm glad he didn't win the point. That would have been a little bit
embarrassing. 
 
Q. What were your expectations? Did you think you'd get that many games off him?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: I didn't try to set any number for myself. I was just going out there, I
was going to try to hold serve, take breaks if I had any. I didn't know. No, I didn't put
a number on anything. I was just going to try to go out there and try to compete. 
 
Q. How did you prepare?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: I didn't do anything out of the ordinary or different. I just kind of
took it as another match. I didn't really get too up or down about it. 
 
Q. Were you seeing more severe wide angles than you've ever seen before on the tennis
court?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: Of course. I was running like Forrest Gump every flipping point. His
serves, he's just hitting the lines every time. He's hitting it 115, but on both lines
every time. It's hard to return. That's the thing that most people - average tennis fans -
don't see, where he's putting the ball. If you're deep in the court, he'll play short. If
you're up in the court, he'll put it deep. You have to play against it to realize how good
it really is.  
 
Q. The time he ran you wide, into the tunnel, you came back, the crowd applauded. Did
you feel you were contributing to the game?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: I wasn't trying to think about that. I'm having fun. I wanted to lean
over and catch my breath. I decided to hide in the tunnel for a little bit. I just tried
to make it fun, have a good time whenever I'm out there. 
 
Q. Did you get a chance to visit with him at all in the locker room beforehand?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: Not beforehand. The first time we actually met was right before the
match. He shook my hand right before. We talked a little bit about Davis Cup afterwards.
He said it will be fun. I agreed, told him how excited I was about it. 
 
Q. He's walking into the match with an entourage of all his fans. You're walking in
solo. Patted you on the back. What does that make you feel like?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: Someday, I'll have a bunch of people doing stuff for me, too (laughter).
I'm happy with my mom, my dad, you know, some friends that I've had for a long time.
Didn't think about it that much.  
 
Q. Did your brother John give you any advice?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: I actually didn't talk to him before this match. I don't know what advice
he could have given me for this match (laughter).  
 
Q. Who have you been looking up to for the past ten years?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: Ever since I remember watching tennis, I remember Sampras, Agassi, Chang,
Courier, the whole American group. I watched them through their whole careers ever since I
was eight, nine years old. On the women's side, Steffi Graf, Seles.  
 
Q. Did you ever think you would be here playing Stadium Court?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: Especially not this early in my career. Never know about later on down
the line. As a 17-year-old kid still in high school, this is just a dream come true. 
 
Q. Let's talk about the 17-year-old kid mentality. You didn't win the match, but you
made money out there. What was it feeling like to make money playing Agassi?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: I didn't even think about that. I mean, it's not about the money. It's
about the experience, having fun, listening to the crowd and everything. I mean, that
didn't even cross my mind once.  
 
Q. Where will you play next?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: I'm not really sure. I'm going to Davis Cup. My schedule is pretty wide
open after that. I don't have any definite plans. I'll kind of talk to my coach tomorrow,
see what happens after this tournament.  
 
Q. Do you like the idea that you played this match and met him here, rather than never
meeting him and meeting him in the Davis Cup situation?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: For sure. I'm glad I got to meet him here and actually got to play
against him. That was unreal. 
 
Q. What was the conversation like when John called you about the Davis Cup?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: I didn't talk to him directly. He talked to my parents because I was in
Brazil at the time. I didn't speak to him personally about it. 
 
Q. You haven't yet?
 
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I haven't talked to him yet.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT