AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2011
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RODDICK/R. Haase
  2-6, 7-6, 6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. So you got out of jail there, looks like. Tiebreak was pretty important, huh? 
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, it was very important. You know, I mean, it was pretty apparent I needed that to turn it. You know, he kind of blinked for a second there for the first time of the day, and I was able to kind of turn it the way I wanted it to go. 

 Q. Just talk about the first two sets then. He was dictating in the first, hung in there in the second. 
 ANDY RODDICK: He played great the first two sets. I mean, I played a bad second service game for him to get the first break. From then on, I didn't play that badly. I thought my error count was really low. You know, he lost the second set hitting 19 winners and having 8 errors. You know, that was telling. 
 Once I was able to get the momentum on my side, I think he was thinking about each shot a little bit more instead of kind of free-wheeling. But that's what it takes some days. I was able to kind of keep in the match just by serving really well. 

 Q. Were you hoping he was going to come down to earth, or were you pretty sure he was going to at some point?
 ANDY RODDICK: You hope. I mean, listen, I think more often than not, if a guy is 65 in the world and is coming out of his shoes, you're trying to figure out during the course of the match why he's 65 in the world. 
 The biggest thing was that breaker. He wins that, you know, I mean, I think that was the match. 

 Q. So if he wins that breaker... 
 ANDY RODDICK: I think he plays better in the third set. I think it's going to take another set like that where I kind of try to sneak it out in the third set to try to turn it.

 Q. So you're not going to try to do something radically different in the third set?
 ANDY RODDICK: Like I said, I don't feel like from the first time I got broken like it was that bad. That game was not good. But I was trying. I turned it. I started coming in a lot more. You know, am I going to change -- what was my option from there? I'm not going to give him balls to hit the way he was hitting balls that day. 
 You know, I stayed the course and figured it out. 

 Q. Can I get your reaction on Andre going into the Hall of Fame?
 ANDY RODDICK: It's about as surprising as the sun coming up this morning (laughter). 

 Q. I mean what he meant for the game and... 
 ANDY RODDICK: He's definitely one of the biggest crossover stars we've had in this game. I think, you know, the fact that everyone -- he was probably the most relateable superstar we've had, you know, because of his pitfalls then successes. There's a bunch of different stories there. 
 But kind of the guy he ended up being at the end I think is an overall success story. 

 Q. Quick preview on Isner and Cilic, what John has to do there? Then talk about Monfils or Wawrinka for you. 
 ANDY RODDICK: I mean, it's going to come down to a couple points. I feel like John plays the same match over and over and over. I didn't see any of it, but to run away with the third and fourth sets yesterday against Stepanek, I thought that was going to be a really, really, really tough match. He certainly had a tough draw, and he's gotten through comfortably so far. 
 He's got a good shot. I mean, he likes playing here. Especially if the weather stays like this, his kick serve is going to be jumping around pretty good. But, you know, Cilic is 6'7" himself. It's a little tougher to get it up. It's going to be a matter of who converts opportunities. 
 As far as Wawrinka and Monfils, it's going to be a different match depending on who wins. Wawrinka is going to take the majority of the big shots, executing his aggressive play. Monfils will run for days and serve well. It's going to be interesting kind of to see what prevails. 

 Q. Do you have any preference between Monfils and Wawrinka?
 ANDY RODDICK: They're both playing great. You know, Stan, he won Chennai, is playing well here. Either way it's going to be tough. It's just a different strategy going in depending on who wins that. 

 Q. A question about Jim Courier. I spoke with him this morning. He said that you were one of the players he most enjoys interviewing. What is it like to be interviewed by him? What do you think about him in this role?
 ANDY RODDICK: Getting interviewed by Jim is a great experience for him (smiling). 
 Obviously it's a little easier because, you know, I know he tries to take his interviews, touch on the match, but also take it outside the box a little bit and maybe give the players a chance to showcase some personality out there, which is fun and which is what people want to see. 
 I think it's easy with us because he knows I'll be able to handle whatever avenue he goes down. I won't probably get awkward or uncomfortable. Or if I do, I'll at least acknowledge that I'm awkward or uncomfortable, which will be funny in its own right. 
 It's nice to see a familiar face out there afterwards. 

 Q. Is it strange being interviewed by the Davis Cup captain?
 ANDY RODDICK: We haven't worked together yet, so it's no different than normal. More so than that, we've been friends for a long time. 

 Q. Is it something you can see yourself doing in 10 or whatever years' time? 
 ANDY RODDICK: Coming up with witty responses after a match? I think that's outside of my comfort zone. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT