AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2011
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RODDICK/I. Kunitsyn
  7-6, 6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. How well had he played up until the tiebreak, the set points?
 ANDY RODDICK: I thought he played well. He was very convinced of his game plan and executed it well. I don't think he wanted to settle into long points. He was taking the first ball, going up the line with it. You know, it was very high risk, but he was converting for, you know, pretty much all the first set. 
 So I definitely wasn't comfortable early on in that one. 

 Q. What changed? 
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, I kind of I guess got on to his pattern a little bit. I played him a couple times before and, uhm, he wasn't as quick to pull the trigger on his forehand. His backhand, he likes going up the line. But the pattern started playing itself out, so I was able to kind of adjust and get the ball to where I wanted to, where I was pushing to his forehand side. 
 Once I was able to establish that neutral ball there, uhm, I felt like the dynamic of the point started shifting to my direction. 

 Q. As far as the first two rounds of a slam, how contented are you with how things have gone so far?
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, I get to play again so... That's all you want. You know, it could have gotten uncomfortable today if that first set would have gotten away. 
 In retrospect, you always try to convince yourself that's a good thing to get through a tough set like that. Going into the match, if you're given an option, you want it to be as easy as possible every time. 
 Yeah, but, I mean, I feel like I'm hitting the ball fine. I'm serving very well. You know, kind of controlling the match with that right now. That's always a good thing for me. 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about confidence, how it is different when you step on the court and you are full of confidence? Which shot does it affect most, strengths, weaknesses?
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, for me it's not really about one shot, I don't think. I think when you're confident, the court just makes sense; decisions come easier to you. A lot of it comes naturally. There's not a whole lot of thought process. You're not forcing a lot. The ball kind of, I guess, reacts the way you want it to. 
 You know, I think at least for me that just comes with playing matches. I've certainly been out on the court enough the early part of the season here with Brisbane and now here. So I feel comfortable out there right now. 

 Q. Do you have a specific routine on a Grand Slam, knowing it can last two weeks, in order to stay fresh?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I mean, I think you learn as you go. I think you learn what an important part nutrition plays, sleep plays, hydration plays. As much as hitting balls on off days, I think it's more about making sure your body's right. 
 Not every match is going to go five hours. Every match has potential to go five hours. So I think you need to prepare accordingly. Then if you have energy left in the tank, that's a good thing. 
 But, yeah, I mean, I definitely think, you know, I've learned it's as much about, uhm, you know, getting your body back to neutral - not just in slams but in every tournament - but probably more so in slams because kind of the extreme nature of how long you might be out there. 

 Q. You've got a lot of nervous energy. Hard for you to mellow that?
 ANDY RODDICK: No. No. I mean, I think it's easier now (laughter). But, no, I mean, I certainly stay, you know, pretty active on off days. I don't like waiting around to practice until 5:00 in the afternoon. I think it's better if I kind of burn a little bit of energy early on in the day. 
 But 10 years later, I'm able to choose how to occupy my time, I guess. 

 Q. Speaking of five-hour matches, did you catch any of Lleyton and Nalbandian last night? 
 ANDY RODDICK: I was asleep towards the front end of the third set. 

 Q. Your thoughts. An amazing first round. 
 ANDY RODDICK: I watched a little bit of a rerun this morning before the tennis went live. It's what you expect of those guys. They're both kind of well-versed in how to proceed in a Grand Slam match, and it showed. I thought it was pretty good quality. Certainly physical. 
 I mean, that was the match that everyone pointed to in the first round. You often have matches like that, but they rarely live up to the full extent of the hype. That one certainly lived up to it, I think. 

 Q. Is your excitement level at the start of another new year as high as it's ever been? 
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. I have a tough time remembering what my excitement level was in 2002. No, I'm certainly still motivated. I love what I do. I don't know that I take it for granted, you know. I certainly realize that I'm one of the lucky ones that gets to do this. 
 So, uhm, from that aspect I think it's more about treating it with respect, being prepared, and not short-changing yourself. I feel like I do that. 

 Q. You still have areas you want to improve in the game. Are you surprised at all that Roger is 29, has won everything, and still seems pretty pumped up?
 ANDY RODDICK: I think he enjoys himself. You know, like some champions in the past, I don't think it's a tortured existence to be good at this game for him. I think he honestly enjoys it. 
 You know, so I don't know if I get that surprised by it. I certainly get up and am motivated, too. I haven't won nearly as much as Roger, but the time has been about the same. 

 Q. Of your career, the number of European players on the tour has obviously risen quite dramatically. I think 95 of the guys in the draw here are European. From a player's perspective, does that change the nature of the tour or the game at all?
 ANDY RODDICK: Are you talking about since I started? 

 Q. Yes, generally. 
 ANDY RODDICK: I can't talk about anything from before I started. 
 In what way? Like languages in the locker room? 

 Q. Socially, I guess. 
 ANDY RODDICK: I guess it would make sense if there are more Italians and French people, people would be speaking more Italian and French. 
 I would certainly like to see more Americans in the top hundred. I'm not sure how many are there now, but I know it's not what it was when I started. 
 You know, I always hear about the days when they were 40, 50 some odd Americans, Australians. But, again, that's never been the norm since I've been out here. 

 Q. Does it have a different sort of feel than when you started because of that change at all?
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't really remember and/or have consciously thought about it too much. The tour's always just been what it's been. I mean, my friends have been the same since I started. So, you know, it's kind of like high school: you got all your little cliques. As long as your clique is intact, you don't pay attention to anything else.

 Q. Do you think that's had an impact in America?
 ANDY RODDICK: Oh, anywhere. Yeah, I mean, I think any country where success is prominent, especially in America where they've been spoiled in the best possible way, any country - would Neil be sitting here if the top British guy would be 90 in the world? You don't know. That's just the reality of the situation. 
 But he's kind of walked into a couple guys who have been top five, therefore it generates a lot of interest in that part of the world. 
 I don't think that's specific to any region in particular. I think that's pretty common. 

 Q. We're pretty excited about Bernard Tomic in Australia. Can you give us your assessment of his talent at the moment?
 ANDY RODDICK: I'd be bordering on ignorance. I think we practiced one time for a half hour. 
 I mean, obviously he has a great feel for the ball. You know, now it's just a matter of getting -- I haven't seen much of him for the last year. I don't think I have the best -- maybe my opinion wouldn't be very good there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT