BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 24, 2010
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/A. Roddick
  7-5, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Andy, I suppose the last of the first set was really tough. 
 ANDY RODDICK: The what? 

 Q. The last of the first set. You were very close, had two set points, as well. 
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. I think more so than anything, I don't think he came into the match with a lot of confidence. Being able to get through that definitely raised his confidence level. He played well in the second set. 

 Q. It seemed as though your tactics from the outside were a little different to what they were against Rafa Nadal. Do you have any regrets now sitting there?
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, they're different players. Generally when you play different people, you have different tactics. 
 Not really. I mean, I've beaten him three times this year. I feel like with six overall, I have a pretty good idea what to do. 
 Now, if you don't execute it, it makes most game plans look stupid. 

 Q. Better to break the racquet than the foot. Can you explain why you were angry with the umpire. There was a Hawk-Eye decision. Was there something I didn't understand?
 ANDY RODDICK: No. I was angry with myself and there wasn't anybody else to talk to at that moment. 

 Q. You were discussing something with the umpire during that game. What was that about? 
 ANDY RODDICK: What game? 

 Q. During the game?
 ANDY RODDICK: The same question he just asked? 

 Q. Actually, during the game you were talking to the umpire. 
 ANDY RODDICK: The neons in the back weren't quite to the settled position. They were still advertising fun stuff. When you're trying to track a ball, it's kind of neon lights and stuff. Then Tomas noticed it, a couple of them just went out before we played a point. 

 Q. Anything you could have done differently on those set points? 
 ANDY RODDICK: The set points that I had? First return I hit well. I came under it, hit a really good forehand. You know, he kind of took a chance a little bit. He hadn't gone forehand on a second serve. Might have been the only two all day. He went there on both of them. 
 You know, obviously I wasn't looking forehand on either one. Obviously in retrospect, I should have been. 

 Q. I would like to ask you, what is the different situation of this tournament when all players more or less calculate or have to calculate points and things like that. For instance, tomorrow Federer knows that if he wins one set, he's in the semifinal, things like that. Does it change things a bit for a player? You never count anything? You're just told what's going on? Does it change your mind if you play and you win a set, you know you're qualified. It's a different atmosphere completely or doesn't change absolutely anything?
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I mean, it's obviously different, you know. It's the only round-robin we play in any year. Obviously being conscious of something inside of a match other than a win or a loss is a little bit different. 
 I think it makes this tournament unique. I think it's fun for the fans to look at, you know, the little draw boards. I think that's the way to do an end-of-the-year event. I think it makes it unique a little bit more. 
 There's always, you know, normally some sort of chance of something. So it gives us hope, even if it's false hope sometimes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT