SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2010
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. GARCIA-LOPEZ/A. Roddick
  3-6, 3-2 (ret.) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Something about October 13th in Shanghai?   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah (smiling).   
 It's not even that. I mean, it's been just a really frustrating year, you know. Missed three months at the end of last year, the mono in the middle of this year, little things like that. It's just frustrating.   
 I feel like I've had two or three legitimate months. Today, I mean, I felt like, even in the first round, even though Philipp retired, the first two rounds here I felt like I was hitting the ball great.   
 You know, it's really tough to get hurt or tougher to get hurt up a set and a break.   
  
  Q. I know it's still kind of early, but what's the prognosis on this one?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. You know, unfortunately the thing with that area of the leg is you're prone to, if it's not healthy -- I did this last week against Monfils in Tokyo. You know, last couple days in practice, I feel like I've been kind of moving like an elephant, kind of slow, just trying to protect it. I didn't have full confidence, but it was holding on.   
 I don't know. I mean, it's probably pretty confident I'll be back by Paris. I hope I'll be back before then.   
  
  Q. You said you first noticed this in last week's tournament.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Can you explain what happened today on the shot, looked like you may have slipped with your foot, and did that cause it?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No, I don't think anything caused it. Preexisting. You know, I practiced two days after the Monfils match, was practicing with Janko out here, kind of aggravated it. Definitely wasn't healed when I decided to play here.   
 You know, I guess if it would have stayed like it did last week, if it didn't get worse than that, I would have been able to at least stay out there. In all honesty, up a set and a break, I might have won that match today.   
 Strained it a little bit worse, and it was to the point where, you know, moving at all felt like I was getting stabbed in the leg.   
 It's just frustrating. You know, you got to be able to get a little bit of momentum going. I just feel like I haven't been able to do that since April or May. A lot of it's been out of my hands. It's just frustrating.   
 I know there are worse problems. But, you know, it's been pretty frustrating for me.   
  
  Q. I read last year in the week before the injury that you complained about the schedule. Has that been a factor, as well?   
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. I mean, no, because I haven't played that much this year. The schedule, I've been pretty upfront with saying I think it's too long. But I think this is only my 13th event this year. A fair number of those haven't been under the best circumstances.   
 Do I think that's the reason for this? No, I don't. I don't. I still think it's an issue that needs to be discussed and I think luckily our voices seem to be getting to the point where they're being heard, which is a credit to Mr. Helfant and that. At least they recognize that's an issue.   
 But I can't blame that on this. I don't know where something like this comes from.   
  
  Q. Where specifically on the leg is it injured?   
 ANDY RODDICK: It's called a strained adductor. So it's high up inside.   
  
  Q. Is that something that could require surgery?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No.  
  
  Q. What will it take for rehabilitation?  
 ANDY RODDICK: You know, you're asking me a lot of questions. I haven't had an MRI yet. But that part of the leg, on muscle strains, even if it's a tear, it's not a surgical procedure.   
 I don't think it's the absolutely worst-case scenario. Even if it is, it's still a 'no' to your first question.   
  
  Q. What is your next plan? Will you have a rest and come back in Paris?   
 ANDY RODDICK: Right now, I mean, I'm going to try to come back to Paris. I'm going to try to go home to Austin. I'm not going to be able to do much for the next, you know, week to 10 days. So hopefully get some food, get some steak, get some vegetable tempura at home, reassess where I'm at in 7 or 10 days. I hope to play in Basel. I'm going to do everything I can to get back for Basel.   
 I think the fact that I still have a shot at London, even after the last year and everything, I think it would be an accomplishment for me. I certainly haven't given up hope of that.   
  
  Q. You're not an old player, but do you also look at it and say, Do I start to alter the way I approach training, or do you write it off as a bad year?  
 ANDY RODDICK: The thing that's frustrating for me, I was talking about it with my coach and my trainer, is I've become more and more professional as I've gotten on with stretching and training and fitness and everything and building your body back up. I did some pretty intense work after the Open when I could, you know, to kind of build your body up to not deal with stuff like this.   
 I guess the most frustrating part for me is, one, I felt like I was playing very good tennis. When I play tennis like I have been the first couple rounds here, I normally put up pretty good results. Two is that there's nothing we can point at specifically and say. Normally there's a reason why. If it would have happened during the summer, it's because I haven't put in the time because I haven't been able to, this, that and the other.   
 But I don't know as far as, you know, guessing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT