POWERSHARES SERIES MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 15, 2014
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  RANDY WALKER:   Thank you all for joining today.   We're happy to welcome to the PowerShares Series tennis circuit in 2014 and to our call today Andy Roddick.   Andy is going to be making his PowerShares Series debut on February 13th in Birmingham, Alabama, and will be competing in tournaments in Denver on February 19th and Houston on February 20th.   The 2014 PowerShares Series starts its 12‑city tour February 5th in Kansas City.   For more information, including players, schedule and ticket information, you can go to PowerSharesSeries.com. 
Before we open it up to the questions for our participants, I'm going to ask Andy a question about playing in the PowerShares Series.   Andy, since you were playing in the juniors, you've always been a very competitive guy, and Patrick McEnroe was talking on the Australian Open broadcast last night about how you were such a competitor and fought your guts out in every match you played.   What is it going to be like on the PowerShares Series this year where you're going to be able to fire up those competitive juices again? 
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, I'd like to say that I'll be able to be mature enough to kind of put it in perspective that it's not what we do every day now, but I'd probably be lying to you. 
Even when I play these charity expos now, I kind of have to contain myself.   I certainly have my share of, I guess, quasi‑embarrassing moments that come from being so competitive and a little too intense.
I think when you get guys who are programmed from when they're young to have a goal of trying to win something, I don't think that goes away easily, and I'm sure when we get between the lines‑‑ listen, if there's an option of winning and losing, you want to win.   That's just human nature. 

Q.   Andy, maybe if you want to talk about playing in Houston.   You've had some great memories in Houston.   You won your second ATP title there.   You clinched the year‑end No.1 there at the Tennis Masters Cup.   Talk a little bit about what it's going to be like playing in Houston. 
ANDY RODDICK:   Well, it'll be great.   I feel there's so much in the early part of my career over at Westside, from the tournament to Masters Cup to‑‑ we played a Davis Cup tie there, so I played there at the same club clay, hard and grass, which doesn't happen very often. 
But just a lot of good memories, and it's always a place that I certainly enjoy playing.   It's a short drive to my home in Austin, too, which is a great thing, and I'm looking forward to it. 

Q.   Andy, I know you're coming to Denver, and I know you can speak on all sports; I've seen you on the show.   Peyton Manning versus Tom Brady, two large sports personas going up against each other; does this remind you of any great rivalries in tennis or even other sports?
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, I think so.   I think Manning and Brady kind of have all the makings of a great rivalry.   They're so similar in so many ways as far as their preparation and kind of their will to win, and like any great rivalry, I think it needs to happen over time so we can get a little nostalgic about it.   But at the same time there are distinct differences.   Peyton can be self‑deprecating on Saturday Night Live, and Brady is this unbelievably good‑looking guy married to Giselle that has all the cool stuff in press conferences.   So there is enough difference to make it very interesting.
It's just fun.   It also is getting to the point where you don't know how many more times you're going to see it, so you start reflecting and appreciating it each time.

Q.   In your opinion what's the greatest tennis rivalry of all time?
ANDY RODDICK:   Oh, man, that's hard.   It's tough going generation versus generation.   Obviously in my kind of era, it all happened around Roger and Rafa.   But again, it had the same sort of underlying ‑‑ they're different enough personalities to make it interesting.   Stylistically they matched up in an entertaining way, and they both went about it the right way and had a certain level of respect, which is probably different than the ones you saw in the '80s with McEnroe and Connors where they just flat‑out didn't like each other. 
There are different ways to have a great rivalry. 

Q.   And with Peyton versus Brady, is it one of those things like must‑see TV; you can't miss it if you're a sports fan?
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, I think so.   I think the funny thing is these guys have been running the ball the last couple weeks, so it's all about Peyton Manning and Tom Brady, but as the weather has been colder, I think I saw a stat today the Patriots ran the ball 62 percent of the time last week, which was their highest total since like 2008 against Buffalo, and Moreno was a factor, also. 
So we're building up this whole game around these great quarterbacks because it looks like they're running the ball in the cold weather, so we'll see how much they actually air it out.

Q.   What's the best barbecue in Austin, Texas?
ANDY RODDICK:   It has to be Franklin's.   Any time people are waiting two hours for lunch, it's got to be pretty good. 

Q.   Andy, playing in Denver you're going to be matched up in the semifinals against Philippoussis, and the other semifinal is going to be Jim Courier against James Blake.   Talk about playing Philippoussis and also playing in altitude and what that does to a tennis ball up in Denver?
ANDY RODDICK:   Well, that's a bad combination for me, Philippoussis and altitude.   This is actually the first I'm hearing about it.   Mark and I have been friends for a while.   The thing is his service motion is so technically sound that, from what I've heard, he really hasn't lost much on his serve since he was playing, which I wish the same could be said for me. 
It'll be tough, but I'm just excited to get out there and play.   It'll be fun.   I like all those guys who are there.   Jim and James are two of my closest friends.   I'd love to be able to get through Mark and play one of those guys in the final. 

Q.   I know there's a lot to talk about here.   I wanted to ask a couple quick questions about the topic of the day in tennis, since I know you've been through this so many times.   These guys are suffering in the heat.   I know you always liked the heat to a large degree, even though you sweat a lot, and I was just curious how you feel about where the extreme should be, what you're seeing or hearing.   Is it too much?   And also, would you talk a little bit about there's a lot of discussion in sport now about the fact that we shouldn't have a World Cup in big heat.   What's your feeling about all that? 
ANDY RODDICK:   Well, part of me finds it entertaining that every time we go down to Australia we act surprised that it's hot outside.   It's funny, the guys who have the reputation for being prepared aren't the guys keeling over.   You're never going to see Roger outwardly showing heat.   You're not going to see Rafa doing it.   You're not going to see Novak anymore; you're not going to see him doing it. 
Frankly I hated it when they closed the roof.   I felt like I was prepared.   I felt like it was a different tennis tournament once they put it indoors.   They do have a system in place where if they deem it's too hot, and there's a pretty distinct number system that they have used there in the past, and they do have the ability to call it.   Do we need to make extreme things because guys are struggling in the heat?   I don't know.   Personally I don't think so.   I think as athletes we push our bodies to do things that aren't normal, and frankly that's what we get paid for. 
I can't feel it.   Listen, when you play there, it's brutal.   It feels like you're playing in a hairdryer, but that's all part of it.   Each Slam presents its own unique set of challenges and you kind of have to attack it accordingly.

Q.   Is it desirable in your opinion that we keep putting these sporting events in situations like this where it could happen at this extreme level, or is that not a problem?
ANDY RODDICK:   I can't speak to the World Cup.   I haven't been there.   I haven't experienced it.   It seemed like there were other viable options that maybe didn't have that. 
But you're not going to take the Slam out of Australia.   It's too good of a venue.   They have built indoor courts, and like I said, they do have a system in place that they have used before.   It's not as if‑‑ I was reading something where the humidity levels weren't as bad so they didn't use it.   There is thought put into it.   It's not like they're just going rogue with throwing people out there.   They've set the precedent for being smart about it, and they have done it in the past.   I don't think they should just close the roofs because people are writing about it. 

Q.   And the last thing from me, what's the most key thing about preparing yourself for that?   I know you've lived in hot weather parts of the States, but you used to go to Hawai'i to train before the Open.   What's the critical thing?   Is it the adaptation?   Is it good genetics?
ANDY RODDICK:   Well, I don't know that there's one thing.   I spent four weeks doing fitness in Austin, and then when I started really hitting balls, I put myself in heat for two weeks before I even went down to play the first event there.   By the time we got to Australia, I had been in similar heat for three or four weeks.   Frankly it's stupid to train indoors in cold weather the whole time and then expect to go to Australia and not to have your‑‑ your body is not going to adapt that quick.   But it will adapt. 
And frankly I don't know that Australia is as extreme as Florida in the summer or the hottest days in Cincinnati in the summer.   I think you're seeing guys play three out of five, and it's become a more physical game, so you're kind of seeing the toll of that. 

Q.   Someone was telling me that you back in the day played tennis against Drew Brees.   Are you relieved we don't have him on the tennis tour today?
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah.   It's funny, every time he plays a playoff game on national television, this story comes up again.   He played‑‑ he actually beat me the first two times.   I think he was 12 and I was 9, and he was kind of like an after‑school tennis player who was better than all the guys who actually practiced like me, and then I beat him and he started playing other sports.   So who knows how far it could have gone. 
But I think it just kind of lends itself to discussion of what a good athlete he actually is. 

Q.   There were moments during your playing career that you didn't like media.   Now that you've got a radio show, do you view the folks on the other side with a little bit more empathy? 
ANDY RODDICK:   No, I don't.   The only time I had an issue with the media is when I felt like they weren't prepared with their questioning or they were asking irresponsible questions.   You know, listen, I'm not going to have someone who covers tennis once a year coming into the local market, coming into a press conference and using the wrong terminology for our sport.   So no, I never had a problem with media when they were well‑thought‑out, asked smart questions, and seemed to actually care as opposed to just being there because their boss was taking attendance, frankly. 

Q.   Bernard Tomic was booed by fans when he retired after one set with Nadal.   Have you ever been in a situation like that where you were booed by your own fans? 
ANDY RODDICK:   Listen, I've been booed because of the way I've acted.   I don't know that I've been booed because of a perceived lack of effort.   Bernie is in a tough position now because he's developed a little bit of a reputation of giving less than 100 percent effort now, so he might have had a groin injury the other night.   Had it been someone like Lleyton, who has built his career and at least gained the trust from the fan base as far as putting in effort, I don't think the boos would have been there.   Bernie has a certain process ahead of him where he has to kind of earn the respect back as far as being a competitor.   It was an unfortunate situation because by all accounts he is actually hurt, but I feel like the booing is maybe more of a snowball effect from some of the past performances. 

Q.   Talk a little bit about making your debut event in Birmingham.   It's going to be at the same arena where you played Davis Cup against Switzerland.   Talk a little bit about that tie against Switzerland and what it's going to be like to be back in Birmingham. 
ANDY RODDICK:   Well, I'm excited.   We obviously had a great Davis Cup tie back there in I think it was 2009, and we enjoyed everything about it.   It was one of those rare Davis Cup ties where everything went mostly according to script.   We got out with a W.   I played a good match the last day against Wawrinka.   The court was fast; the crowd was into it.   We were able to lean on him.   You know, I enjoyed playing there.   I'm sure it'll bring back some good memories when I'm back. 

Q.   No doubt about it, you gave so much to the game.   You thrilled, you entertained the sports fans for a decade.   How much will this new arena, this venue, allow you to entertain even more as you're playing? 
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, I mean, I think it certainly provides that opportunity.   There's no way to replace playing in front of a crowd and kind of the feeling that gives you, and I have a lot of other interests right now which are very fulfilling, but nothing will ever replace being able to play live sports.   Yeah, I didn't expect it to.   But this is a chance for me to do it, I guess, more in a little bit of a part‑time scale.   I'm looking forward to it.   You know, it's always fun to play with guys that have been so accomplished in the sport, as well.   I'm looking forward to it. 

Q.   Any good one‑liners you're working on these days?
ANDY RODDICK:   You know, if I previewed them they wouldn't be as funny that day, would they? 

Q.   You gave your life to Davis Cup during your career.   What would it mean to be part of Davis Cup again in some capacity down the road? 
ANDY RODDICK:   Oh, I don't know.   Frankly I see Jim being the captain for a very long time.   I think he does a great job.   All the guys love him.   I was able to play for him for a couple of ties, so that's‑‑ Jim is a great friend of mine. 
Honestly that's something I hadn't really thought about much. 

Q.   I wasn't trying to usurp his job for you, but if you were brought in as a coach, as a motivator, someone that could really relate to the players, what would that mean to you?
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, again, I wasn't insinuating that I was going to be captain, either.   I was just saying I think Jim can do all those things.   Basically any skill set that I would apply, he's done it all and more.   He's done a great job with the crew.   Honestly I don't see what value I would add with Jim at the helm right now. 

Q.   Playing in Houston, how about you and your friend, your buddy, Bobby Bones?   Do you have anything planned?   I know you can't talk about it, but are you excited to be working this with him in some capacity? 
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, I mean, we've had a really good relationship.   We're great friends.   He's done such a good job now with country radio being pretty much the guy for country radio nationally.   I'm proud of his career path.   I certainly admire his work ethic.   He gets after it, and he wants to do everything.   It's always fun to kind of watch his career progress. 

Q.   As a barometer, when you were in Miami playing Murray, you played well.   I know he was coming back, but how strong of a barometer is that for you?   You can still do it, I guess. 
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, I mean, listen, I wanted to‑‑ I'm retired.   I can still play a little bit.   I won two out of my last five events on tour.   When I do practice with guys who are currently playing, I can hold my own.   It was never a‑‑ I'm fully confident‑‑ the guys I played against my whole career, a lot of them are ‑‑ Youzhny is 14 in the world; Lopez is 20 in the world.   There's a lot of guys who I played for a long time. 
For me it wasn't a matter of could I still be good on tour.   The question was can I win a Grand Slam, and once I didn't think I could, that was enough for me. 
I certainly feel like I'm capable of playing a high level tennis still. 

Q.   What is it like being a part of this series with all the great names that you've been around, and now you guys are involved again? 
ANDY RODDICK:   Yeah, I mean, listen, it's certainly a big list of names and personalities.   It's almost as if every night it's almost a history lesson of the last 30 years of tennis.   It's really cool. 
I was a tennis fan long before I was a player, and so it's surreal for me to be involved with these guys.   I don't think I've ever fully gotten used to, let's say, participating in the same night as a Pete Sampras or a Jim Courier.   Those guys were my heroes growing up.   But it's always fun to get together with those guys again and be around them and to play against them.   It's always been a blast for me. 

Q.   For fans who will be buying tickets to watch your event, what would you tell them about what they can expect to see perhaps? 
ANDY RODDICK:   (Laughing) Anything, really.   The thing about our group of guys, not a lot of us have been accused of being shy out there.   I think we do understand we all want to win.   But at the same time I certainly understand it's a show, and I couldn't always interact as much as I wanted to while I was playing on tour, but I'm going to have a good time during these matches.   That'll show through. 
I think we want fans to come out and really actively participate in the matches.   You want it to be interactive.   You want it to be fun.   You want to give them a good event on top of the tennis. 
RANDY WALKER:   We want to thank everyone for joining us today.   We want to thank especially Andy, and we'll see you in Birmingham next month.   For everyone else, if you have any other questions you can reach me at Rwalker@newchaptermedia.com, and we will have a transcript.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT