BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 21, 2010
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 I. LJUBICIC/A. Roddick
  7-6, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Really not a big difference out there between the two. Just real close match. What do you think was the difference?  
 ANDY RODDICK: He served great. The last two days was an exhibition in how-to on serving big points.  
 I think I had a look at the first breakpoint I had at a second serve, and from there, you know, I felt like I was getting aced or he was hitting a service winner every time, you know, every time I'd worked my way into a game.  
 I felt I had a lot more opportunities throughout the sets than he did, but he just served hugely. He had complete control over all four spots. You know, he hit em.   
  
  Q. The second tiebreak, you were at the net and it was very difficult for you to stop the point and he passed you.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Okay.  
  
  Q. I would like to know, for you it was a turning point?   
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, when a guy is serving like that, any point you lose in a tiebreaker on your serve is a turning point. I was already --  
  
  Q. Yes, but because you were on fire at this time.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. Well, I mean, I was already down a set. You know, I don't think I'll look back and just think of that point when I think of this match.  
  
  Q. You seem very sincere about his value to the game in your speech on the court. Do you want to elaborate on that at all? Is he just generally a good guy?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, I don't think we know each other that well personally, you know. But I can certainly respect, you know, someone who has put in the years and is, you know, won close to 400 matches in his career.   
 It seems like he always plays the game the right way. You know, you don't see a whole lot of histrionics out of him or anything like that.  
 You know, he was pretty dedicated to Davis Cup for a long time. There are a lot of things that you can respect about him.  
  
  Q. Always tough to lose in any circumstance, especially a final. When you catch your breath down the line, what do you think your take will be on the tournament as a whole?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, I played well. I hit the ball real well, even today. I felt like I was winning my fair share of the rallies once we got into them.  
 You know, I just ran into a guy who served great on the big points. You know, unfortunately that's probably the one thing that I don't have control over out there, you know.   
 I've won enough matches that way, you know, kind of getting through it and serving big in breakers.  
 Credit to him. He came up with massive, massive serves when he had to.   
  
  Q. You're known for your great play in tiebreakers. Yet in some big matches over the past 10 months or so, kind of rough. Was that just a fluke that you...   
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, the thing I always find curious about a big match is it's not a -- a round of 16 at a Grand Slam is not a big match for me unless I lose it. Then it gets thrown into the big match pile.   
 It's completely true. A quarter of a Grand Slam isn't a big match unless I lose it. You're talking about Isner. That wouldn't have been a big match unless I lost it.  
 So we have to make up our mind. I want you to outline what exactly constitutes a big match, and then we'll look at my stats in tiebreakers.   
  
  Q. A definitive match in a Slam is pretty much a big match, I would feel.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, then I would like my record over the course of a year in tiebreakers and Grand Slams, yes.   
  
  Q. Heading straight to another Masters Series event isn't easy, but you must be taking a lot of confidence.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Sure. Yeah, I mean, I played well here. I ran up against it today, but overall I feel like I played well, especially considering where I was at three weeks ago, you know, or a month ago.   
 You know, this is certainly a good result. You know, you always want to win a tournament when you're in a final, so that's disappointing, but I played well.  
  
  Q. From what you've seen of Ivan these last few days, how would you assess his chances of getting back into the top 10 right now?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, I think his ranking is close now, isn't it?   
  
  Q. It will be up to 13.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Pretty good then. (laughter.) He's got to win about four more matches.   
  
  Q. You talked about the bridge to rowdiness yesterday. Did you feel it was a pretty decent bridge? Did you feel some pretty good support out there today?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, they were certainly trying. Another thing about when you're serving that good it's kind of a buzz kill for the crowd.   
 Every time they tried to get going and there was a little bit of momentum, it was one and done. It was kind of like popping a balloon, you know.   
 He did that. He did it all day.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT