BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2010
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/Y. Lu
  6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You played really solid. How do you feel about the first match? Getting through? How do you feel about the way you played?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I actually felt okay. It was weird. He was just coming out of his shoes on every shot. So it was more of a, you know, you're just trying to fight him off a little bit.   
 I was really happy with the way I returned tonight. I felt like I made a lot of returns, so that put pressure on him, you know, to come up with it. It was good.  
  
  Q. You were talking about that the beginning of last month, the return game. Is that something you really feel like you really need to focus on a bit?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah. I mean, if I'm returning well it makes my serve that much better. So tonight it was good. And I have been doing it well in practice.  
 You know, it's something that I feel if I'm doing well, certainly it helps my chances and makes me a tough out.  
  
  Q. What's the key for you for a good return game?  
 ANDY RODDICK: You know, it's just a matter of putting a ton in. I'm not the guy who takes full cuts at returns, but my positioning was a little bit closer today, and I thought that was good. That was positive.  
  
  Q. The conditions can vary so dramatically here. Do you prefer day matches or night matches?   
 ANDY RODDICK: Against Lu I probably would have preferred day just because you can get it up out of his strike zone. You know, he's one who can give the ball a ride if it's in kind of his pocket. So obviously with warmer weather and the heat, you can kind of get the ball to jump a little bit more.   
 But either way, you know, the dimensions of the court don't change. And, you know, it's not -- we shouldn't sit here and act shocked at night and when it's cold ball doesn't jump as much.  
  
  Q. Did you watch Hit for Haiti?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I didn't watch it. I YouTubed it.  
  
  Q. So what are your thoughts on that? You know both of those guys pretty well.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, you know, I think they would probably both tell you it got away from them a little bit there. You know, I think all the years of kind of intense competition might have come out a little bit there.   
 You know, with any great rivalry where, you know, you play that long there's going to be a boiling point. You know, unfortunately, I think we might have seen that the other night (laughter.)  
  
  Q. Any chance of you writing a book and spilling the beans on Blake?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I mean, I don't really have much to say about, you know, bad about our group. I think we were just -- we're just totally different. I think we all get along too well for there to be any good stories for you guys.  
  
  Q. So you already knew probably what happened more or less when you were watching it on YouTube. Were you actually getting uncomfortable?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, it was...   
  
  Q. You know the looks from those guys, huh?   
 ANDY RODDICK: It was a little awkward, yeah.  
  
  Q. Had you read the book?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I read the book.  
  
  Q. It's hard to say, but could you write something like that where you're discussing a long-time rival, fellow player where you're talking as deep about his personality as Andre was talking about Pete's?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, I probably could. I don't know if anyone would care as much as what Andre wrote. You know, I don't know. I think if I did write a book, I would want it to be honest and candid. I wouldn't write a fluff book, that's for sure, you know.  
 But I don't know if that's something that's in the cards for me.  
  
  Q. In the fluff department, the Olympics, did you really get involved in curling?   
 ANDY RODDICK: I did not get involved too much in curling, but the rest of it was all right. You know, I think NBC had their select storylines going in, and I feel every single one of them hit.   
 I thought that was pretty good for them.  
  
  Q. What about the Longhorns' chances? Where should I put them in my bracket? Can they upset Kentucky?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know that I would bet on that. I don't know that I would do that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT