AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2010
Andy Roddick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/F. González
  6-3, 3-6, 4-6, 7-5, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. All about the fight, not necessarily about the form.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, the form wasn't bad. There's not a whole lot you can do when you feel like you're hitting the ball well and the guy is cold-cocking winners. If you look at the stats, winners to errors, of the sets I lost, I think the third set he hit 23 winners. It takes 24 points to win a set.   
 I was definitely up against it. Yeah, sometimes you get out of it.   
  
  Q. Did you get more aggressive from the ground in the fourth set?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Not really. You take what you can get there. I may have gotten a little bit more aggressive with my returns, but that's one of the only shots that I was in control of putting some juice on. You know, the conditions didn't help me much either. It was slow. I was having trouble finding his backhand, even though I felt like I was hitting it cross-court okay.   
  
  Q. Did you feel down and out in the second and third set when things were going against you and he was making all those winners?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, you're down. There's no doubt. Down two sets to one. You're not out until it's over.   
 It's pretty simple at that point. He's playing great. Let's see if you can make him play great till the end. You know, he almost did. You know, I was just looking for a little bit of an opening. I got some momentum on my side and was able to turn it.   
  
  Q. All the previous victories you had over him matter at the end of the fourth set because it seemed like he was getting close, but you sort of knew inside you could out-tough him a little bit.   
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know how much other meetings had to do with tonight. Uhm, you know, I didn't think about that. I was kind of just thinking about what we were dealing with.   
 But, you know, the potential's always there to try to tough someone out as long as you're out there. I certainly wasn't going to out-hit him for the majority of the match. If he's hitting like that and I'm hitting it like I do, he's going to hit it better from the baseline. That's just the facts of the situation. I have to rely on my serve, try to get back in it. Like you said, just try to tough it out.  
  
  Q. Did you feel that broke him a little bit, to have 40-Love game and lose the set?  
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't know. I know he was pretty upset about the challenge and that rule no one seems to know about. I still don't know what the rule is, you know. I can certainly sympathize with his frustrations, you know.   
  
  Q. So you expected the point to be replayed?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No. As soon as it was unchallenged, I was talking to the umpire to ask what the deal was. So I talked to him. He said it was my point if the replay showed it was in. So I guess I knew. I was talking more while the challenge was going on.  
  
  Q. He seemed to self-destruct after that. Do you think he deserved a replay? He was saying he could have had a swing at that.   
 ANDY RODDICK: To be honest, he had a better idea. I was on the far side of the court, away. I don't know. I really don't know. I haven't seen a video replay of it. I'm sure you guys have.   
 So, you know, write your story. I haven't seen it. I don't know. I honestly don't know.   
  
  Q. Two guys 9-0 clashing in the next round. Talk about that matchup.   
 ANDY RODDICK: Yeah, he's just a tough player. You know, he's one of those guys, 6'6", 6'7", just kills the ball from the baseline, you know. He likes to play inside of the court. He's relentless. He goes after the ball every point.   
 You know, that probably won him his match today.   
  
  Q. You haven't played him for a couple years.   
 ANDY RODDICK: I don't think we can put much stock into it. I remember I played him at Queen's a long time ago, he played pretty badly. Then I played him in Canada, and I played pretty badly. I don't think we can put much stock into our previous meetings.   
  
  Q. Did you twist your knee or ankle in the second set?  
 ANDY RODDICK: No, no twisting.   
  
  Q. There were some comments on TV, guys didn't feel like you were hitting out enough on the forehands. Was that mostly conditions? Do you feel you should be giving it a ride a little bit more?  
 ANDY RODDICK: That's a very simple point in concept. It's a lot tougher when the guy is taking haymakers at you all day and you're basically trying to stay in a point. Theories are real good. It's tougher to execute it when you're dealing with the elements.   
 Yes, I was having trouble getting anything on the ball tonight. I don't know what the temperature was. It was cold. The ball certainly wasn't going through the court. I wasn't able to drive the ball the way that I wanted to.   
 So, you know, sorry.   
  
  Q. A bit too chilly for your liking?  
 ANDY RODDICK: Well, in this matchup, yeah. He's gonna do better on a slow court where he can wind up and hit the ball. My opinion for tonight is completely matchup-based. It probably wasn't favorable to me.   
  
  Q. What did you think of the fans tonight? He had a lot of support.   
 ANDY RODDICK: He always has a lot of support. The Chileans are some of the most loyal fans around the world. I don't remember seeing a match of his where he didn't have throngs of supporters.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT