AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/A. Nedovyesov
  6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 
Q.   Pretty comfortable first round there today.   What do you make of the first match of your season here?
  TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, it was not easy one, especially to play opponent I never seen before and I need to do a bit of scouting to see what is his style and what he plays. 
  But good that I was able to keep with my, you know, plan, which was really to be focused on my game and playing consistent from the beginning.   And that's what I did through all the match.   I didn't make any ups and down. 
  Yeah, that was a quite solid win. 
Q.   You have only lost once before the fourth round here since 2006.   The surface obviously suits your game. 
  TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, well, since 2006, there been a change of the surface, but not a major difference, like from '88, from the grass to the hard. 
  But, yeah, no, I like to play here.   I like the crowd, the people, the courts, the atmosphere.   So I hope that I'm going to be able to make another successful run here in Melbourne. 
Q.   Your serve was a huge weapon today.   Feel good?
  TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yeah, I felt good on my serve.   I was facing just maybe few ‑ two maybe ‑ breakpoints down, which I managed to save.   Didn't drop my serve through all the game. 
  He was playing, yeah, really solid, aggressive.   But in the end I think the experience and all those, you know, years on tour just been advantage for me today. 
Q.   Any special motivation for the white and blue shirt, like Argentina shirt?
  TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes, it looks like Argentinian shirt.   But we can say Czech colors are the same.   So it's just a different setup of the red shorts and this. 
  But, no, I think the main idea is because the H& M is the fashion brand, and they really want to go a bit their way what they think is going to be fashion. 
  For this summertime they choose this selection.   I think it's very nice, very interesting, very different to see it than all the others looks quite all same.   So this is something new. 
Q.   Looked like a football player from Argentina. 
  TOMAS BERDYCH:   But I'm not.   I'm still tennis player, and I'm happy for that. 
Q.   Did you expect the shirt to be such a hit?
  TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, when I see the collection, I said like, Yes, that's something what I really like.   It's going to be something very interesting.   Always you can find a positive thing, like positive reaction, and then someone who doesn't like it. 
  But so far I'm getting just the good one, which is very good.   You know, let's hope I'm going to play more and more matches that people can see it more and more, and it's going to be popular. 
Q.   It's supposed to be hotter the next few days.   A benefit of getting off court so quickly today.   How are you going to handle the heat?
  TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes, one of the benefits is that, yes, I've been quite quick, I win in straight sets, which is helpful definitely.   And, yes, it's not an issue, but it's the same for both of us. 
  Definitely you can feel it on the court.   It's quite warm, quite hot out there. 
  If you prepare well, if you able to have a good, you know, regime with the water few days before already, really prepare for that quite well, which I did, because you can prepare for it in advance.   So far everything's going really well. 
Q.   Do you think it's an advantage being a more aggressive player in these conditions rather than a baseline slugger?
  TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I never been the one who's going to try to play a long rally, so I cannot compare that. 
  But, you know, you can have really matches, even with my aggressive game, you can stay there for really long time and it could be very, very difficult to play in these conditions. 
  But really, every single match is different.   Probably the guys, you know, who likes to play longer, they are more used to it.   So, no, I think it really depends on each player. 
Q.   How do you feel about the courts, the surface?   Faster than you remember or still the same as one year ago?
  TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, that's always a question, you know.   I think me, personally, the courts feel faster.   But I'm really not sure, and I don't have that kind of information if the courts were resurfaced before the Open start.   Maybe yes, maybe not.   I'm really not sure about this. 
  But another aspect could be that really the hot temperature makes it different, as well, and can change the conditions I would say dramatically a lot. 
  So last year I remember you could find a really cool weather during the day or the nights were nearly to say very cold, so then the conditions are very different.   So really, if it's that hot, the conditions are very faster. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT