BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 8, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/T. Berdych
  6‑4, 1‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You have Davis Cup coming up.   Do you have any extra motivation?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   It is really close after my match.   It's tough to talk about what is going on next week.   
As you said, it's Davis Cup.   We're going to Serbia.   Another extremely tough match, extremely tough end of the season.   So just get ready for that and try to do my best there.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I would say basically when you give to the player Rafa two games, it's just too much.   I gave him the first game of the match, and then the one that I lost my serve in the third set.   
So basically, you know, there's nothing else I can say about it.   
   
 Q.   After such a long year working and playing tennis, your game suits this place.   The tournament is going to stay.   Do you think you will have better chances in another year?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   First of all, when I'm decided and committed to play, I go and I try to figure it out.   Of course, I mean, that's a question of another season, about making plans, how my season's going to look like.   
Really, I mean, I will have enough time after my vacation to think about it.   Now, I mean, really the season is still not over.   We're going to Serbia, you know, for another tough one.   So there is not much time to think about the rest.   
   
 Q.   Obviously your year hasn't quite ended yet.   Can you just quickly reflect on a pretty good year.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   You know, I mean, it's going to sound quite different right now, especially after the match like this today.   I mean, it's hard to find the positive thing, you know, about the whole season.   
Definitely there are many of them.   But, as I said before many times, the season was very consistent, very good results, beating couple guys from the top 10, playing very solid through all the year.   That's why I'm here.   
Yeah, reaching No.5 in the world, that's it.   
   
 Q.   As you just said, you broke the top five this year.   Have you got any targets for 2014?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I break that.   But still I'm going to be lucky if I'm going to be able to end up No.6, which is one below.   I would be happy to finish the year in top 10, if possible.   
   
 Q.   How do you like the atmosphere, the fans at the O2?   What does it mean to you?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I mean, yeah, the atmosphere and the fans are great.   It's been said really thousand times.   It was not exception today.   
Really, I mean, one of the best crowds that I ever play tennis.   You know, it means a lot.   It means that I'm part of the top eight best players in the world and I can be competing here, you know, at a close, very close chance to beat top four of them, playing in the semifinal.   Unfortunately not happen.   
Really, it's proud to be here and part of these guys.   
   
 Q.   It's strange to see Nadal down 5‑0.   Which was your feeling in that moment?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Why it's strange?   
   
 Q.   Nadal, 5‑0 down.   Did you see him down 5‑0 this year?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I'm not pretty good in the statistic.   The guy that reach the No.1 spot in the world, probably not.   
I don't know why it would be that strange.   I was trying to do my best.   I was playing good tennis.   I hope I deserve the score.   
   
 Q.   The score was strange.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Thank you.   Thanks for the respect.   That's all right.   
I will try to do next time that it's going to be more interesting for the people and it's going to be 5‑All.   It's not going to be a strange score.   
   
 Q.   It was a great match.   It's just towards the end that maybe he raised his level, and it wasn't the same for you.   Is it hard in a third set?   If you had to think back, what would you have done differently at the end?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, it's hard to find something what I would like to do different, you know, next time.   How I see that, yeah, I mean, I gave him that game basically.   Two double‑faults.   It was not much that he really done that game that he broke me.   
I mean, it's difficult to say I would do it different.   I mean, from the beginning of the second set, I mean, my level of game was quite high and I kind of felt that I'm going really on the edge, especially on my serve.   With him, it's always very tough.   
I mean, in the moment when it's going everything well, serving great, you're making easy points.   But I basically felt in that point there is not much I can add more, you know?   You know, that's time it was really tight score.   You know, that's why he's No.1 in the world.   
So, you know, that game I didn't handle well.   That's it.   That's the difference between the sixth player and the first player.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT