BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 6, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/D. Ferrer
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What was the difference between today, because you played so well, and the loss to David five days ago in Paris?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, the match in Paris was very close, as well, you know.   Really, I mean, on this kind of level, with these kind of players, it's not easy at all.   So probably we can play in two days and the game is going to look again very different. 
I'm very glad my game was better.   I was playing well.   My game plan was working from beginning to the end, you know, serving really good. 
A lot of positive things from today. 

Q.   The big match on Friday against Rafa. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   It's going to be a big one, that's for sure.   It's, again, the situation for me that I lost my first, won the second.   Now I'm going to fight for going through for the semis. 
I mean, I probably cannot have any tougher opponent than I have.   But, you know, he's already through.   He's secure for No.1.   You never know. 
But I know Rafa is a big fighter and he will never give a single point for free.   So I'm not expecting any gifts.   So, yeah, I'm just looking forward to that. 

Q.   Federer mentioned the other day about the tournament remaining here at the O2, whereas Novak and Rafa want it to move to other cities.   What is your opinion?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, honestly, as you said, I heard the opinions that someone wants to move, someone wants to stay. 
I am more kind of guy that I really enjoy that you step up on the court and you have nearly 20,000 people there and really have a great tennis atmosphere rather than playing some different cities which, you know, I mean, can be different stage, can be something. 
But I don't think there is any other competitor of the cities that can provide such a tennis atmosphere like it's here. 
So I think that's the season finale for us, and I think it should be with really one of the best crowds I ever played.   Of course, the other hospitality and taking care of us, I think it's really, really on the high level, which probably you can get from the other cities, as well, but the atmosphere and the crowd is one of the best in the world. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT