BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 4, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/T. Berdych
  6‑3, 6‑7, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 
Q.   Just how you saw that match, how disappointing it is to make a losing start. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yeah, well, I mean, really losing to start is not a good start.   But, you know, there are still two other matches to go. 
As I saw the match, well, I mean, it was a very close game again.   It's been really about the small chances.   You know, Stan was better in actually like executing the chances. 
I think it was nearly the same.   He had four breakpoints, make two.   I had five, make zero.   I think that's been really a big difference today.   You know, very close score in the end. 

Q.   So what was the main problem with Stan when you play him?   You have lost several matches now against him.   You think it's pretty even, but he ends up winning.   What's the reason that you see?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, if it would be that simple to know, I would do the things differently to win the matches.   Really, if there is someone who knew that, I will ask for it and try to do it differently. 
But, no, really, the match was basically, it's not about better forehand, backhand.   It's about choosing the right shot in the right moment.   And that's what Stan was doing better today.   As I said, it's been about few points.   You know, he did it better today. 

Q.   Obviously you still have two more matches to play.   How difficult is it to put yourself up?   How optimistic do you still feel for the rest of the week?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I mean, the opponents, especially like on the paper, looks even tougher.   You know, it's not going to be easy at all.   I mean, there is no easy match from this tournament, definitely not. 
You know, I will go just one by one.   So whoever it's going to be for the next, I'm just going to try to prepare for that, then go step by step really. 
I've been here in couple situations which doesn't look good at all and then I was able to go through the group, playing semis.   So really just go one by one. 

Q.   You had the tough match against him in the Davis Cup, but you ended up winning.   Do you think his game has changed since the beginning of the year?   Has he gained confidence?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, he improved, definitely.   He's working, his coach Magnus Norman is doing a pretty good job with him.   The reason is that he can be here, be in the top eight in the world.   That's definitely difference. 
But really, as you mentioned, that match in Switzerland, I think it was, again, very tough one, very close game.   It's been about actually the same scenario like last couple matches.   Couple of chances that day I execute them better, and that's why I won.   Really, it was not about that we can see a huge difference between that. 
No, all our matches are very close. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT