CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/T. Berdych
  4‑2 (ret.)

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Is the problem in your back?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes, it's a problem of my back.

Q.   Will you tell us something about it. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, something I cannot move.   As you can see, I barely can sit; I barely can stand up, walking.
So actually it's quite a bit.   It's pretty painful.   Just the time is going to see how serious it is.   I never had this before, so it's something new for me. 

Q.   When did you start feeling the pain in the match?   Kind of what sort of prompted it?   Do you know what caused the injury?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, no, it was just the one point.   Actually, it was in that game when I hit the backhand return on I think 30‑All. 
Then I started to run for the other side to play just the backhand slice, and just basically in the time from the return to the slice, when I was running, I felt that something is bad, that I cannot basically move there.   I just hit the ball back.
I don't know actually what happened, if I miss the ball or...   Just the pain was there.   That's it.   I mean, before I didn't feel anything.   I was completely fine.   I just had know problem at all.   Nothing. 
So it was just by one point it happened. 

Q.   Talk about the weather.   Every day is the mist.
TOMAS BERDYCH:   We had one sunny day and that was it.   I think it's quite used to here.   Probably we not going to get anything more than that.   But that's how it is.   We are here in Beijing.

Q.   Sad to hear about your back.   Something else, Djokovic the other day backed his friend in the change in doping regulations.   What do you have to say on that?   Do you back such a proposal? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Honestly, I'm not well informed.   I don't know what Novak said before.   Maybe if you can...
I don't know what you're talking about.   I really don't know.   Just, what, about the current system in the doping?   What's the problem? 

Q.   About with Victor Troicki. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes.

Q.   He did not give the sample. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes.

Q.   So he says, Why should he be punished?   He's not been tested for any substance. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I'm probably not the right one to judging this situation.   I mean, one day we have a rules which someone agree on them, and then you have to accept that.
If the rules going to be different, then we will be accepting the different rules and we will go by different standards and different things that they are set. 
But if one day it's said that not giving a sample means that you are positive, that's kind of rule.   If it's a good rule or a bad rule, don't ask me about it.   I mean, it's a rule. 
For sure I would like to change it.   I would like to have it different.   But these days it's how it is.   I mean, you need to be careful basically what you're doing. 

Q.   There was a lot hinging in the match today going into the semifinal.   Rafa, if he went to the final, will be the new No. 1.   Do you feel a little more disappointed that you couldn't go out and compete because of that? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I mean, of course I'm disappointed.   The matches with the guys like Rafa, Novak, Roger, Andy, they're always great matches.   It's always basically a pleasure to be on court with them.   It's really nice to play a match. 
Then when you have to end up after five games, it's really not why you go there, why you play tennis.   You know, if there are these kind of circumstances around which makes the match even bigger, better, it's even more sad for me.   Yes, it is. 

Q.   Could you first just speak about your performance until your disappointing exit?   And also, now that Rafa is the new No. 1, would you just like to say a few words about him, his level. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, about my performance, I mean, it was not many games to see how it was.   I mean, didn't start well; made a break back. 
Then, you know, it's not easy at all to play him.   He's playing really well in this time.   And especially the one side which you can quite feel on the court was against the wind, which was very, very difficult to handle it where I lost twice my serve.
Yeah, I mean, it was quite really short time to see how was the performance.   But really I felt quite good from the beginning.   Nothing looks that something should happen or anything. 
About Rafa, well, I mean, just all the credit.   It's really incredibly well done in how short time he become No. 1 again after the time that he come back, what he achieved.   Just all the respect for that. 
That's really an achievement for an athlete like him. 
THE MODERATOR:   Chinese questions, please. 

Q.   I want to know whether this will influence your performance in the Shanghai Masters. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I'm still here, you know.   I don't know how it's going to be.   I need to see what's going to happen in next couple of days.   I will try to do my best to get recovered, to feel good, and as long as I feel I'm competitive enough and good to go, then I will decide. 

Q.   I'm sorry to see that you're injured.   I didn't see your match today, but your countrywoman participate in the match at 3:00 this afternoon.   What do you want to say to her?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, only thing I can say is just to wish her a good luck.   She's playing really well.   She's on the run.   She's on the best way to win another title. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT