U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/T. Berdych
      3‑6, 6‑1, 7‑6, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It started well in the first set, but then it seemed you maybe lost momentum. Can you tell what happened?
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, exactly like you said.   Started well.   I made the first set, but then I would say, yeah, Stan starts to play very well and very solid and many things doesn't work from my game that I would like to. 
    You know, when the opponent is that solid like Stan was playing today, then, it's not enough. 

Q.   It's his game makes you play not your best or it was something else?
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Always it's a combination, you know, what the opponent allows you, how you play, you know, and today I think it was not the right one, you know. 
    Many things didn't work the way I would like to.   And, of course, I mean, his game is very solid.   He's playing really well this time.   He just took over. 

Q.   If you can, pick something you wanted to do better than you did today. 
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, even that it wasn't good game from my side, I mean, I had a pretty good chance in the tiebreak, which, if I would make it, it was very important moment of the game.
    But, you know, he managed a bit better.   You know, then when you are two to one sets lead, that's much better to go for the fourth set.

Q.   You have played him many times.   What makes it difficult for you to play him?
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, you know, every opponent is very tough.   Every opponent has some game that, you know, he's trying to make me work really hard, and Stan is no exception.
    So, you know, his game is really well.   He's playing good tennis, you know.   He's confident.   In many aspects, they were enough to beat me today.

Q.   Do you think it was his best game against you so far?
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, really, I don't do too much in the history of the matches.   Basically it doesn't matter, you know.   He made a very good game today, and that's why he won.   Today he deserved to won. 
    Yeah, I mean, I don't know if it's his best or not.   Probably that's the best to ask him, because, you know, he needs to know how he feels, what's his limit in the game, and...
    But, yeah, he played solid, and that's it.

Q.   What do you expect for the next week Davis Cup tie, and if you were surprised with the Argentinian nomination without Nalbandian?
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, what I expect?   I mean, we are now in the position that we are the favorite of the tie.   You know, last year it was the Argentinian team that's been in this position.   Everybody knows how it end up.   We don't want to make the same happen.
    Yeah, we will try to do our best to go again for the final. 
    Surprised?   Well, I mean, probably he's not that ready enough, and you know, not recovered well or not yet.   I don't know.   Actually, I'm not in touch with him, so I have no idea about it.
    But because he decide to not go, then probably he's not ready. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT