WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/T. Berdych
  7‑5, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Tomas will move up to a career high No.5 in the ATP rankings on Monday.   Questions for Tomas?  
   
 Q.   Tomas, it looked like you had a hard time reading Rafa's spin today.   Is that fairly accurate?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, that's pretty accurate.   And not only today.   It's really hard to do.   
Well, even if you read it, it's really hard to deal with that.   So that's why he's that good.  
   
 Q.   You played him on hard courts a lot, obviously, over the years.   Is there something different he's doing on hard this year, being more aggressive maybe than in the past?   His record on hard has never been better than this year.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yeah, definitely.   He starts to be way more aggressive, and then especially with these courts, when they are getting, I would say, quite slower, and bouncing much, much higher, you know, it's quite good for him as well because with his heavy spins, it just helps a lot to his game, and he's just showing that it's absolutely right.   
   
 Q.   You had just gotten a break midway through the second set and broke it right back.   Can you take us through that game when you served to try to take it to 5‑3.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, yeah, there was a chance that I had, but actually without the first serve, with him, it's really tough to win a game.   It was the worst thing that I didn't serve a first serve, and then it's really tough to hold your serve.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you need to do to be able to pull out these kinds of matches against Rafa?   What different thing can you do?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I don't know.   Maybe we should have some nice meeting, all the guys that are not able to beat him, because there's not many of them, you know, who did it this year.   And then it would be interesting talk to see what we should do better.  
   
 Q.   Tomas, first time top 5 next week.   How does that feel?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yeah, I mean, it's been a long time actually.   And finally, it's there.   I mean, I'm really happy for it because really it's not been but a few weeks, and I was already trying for it like more than two years.   
It was still far, and now finally, I'm able to do so.   But, yeah, that's another goal which I made.   And, again, just gives me extra energy to go more, go forward.  
   
 Q.   I know you didn't want to talk about it yesterday, but how does it feel specifically to pass Roger in rankings for the first time in your career?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   That makes it probably even more special because it's‑‑ actually, to pass him on the ranking and actually on our ranking system, which is that you have to prove it really for all year, and it really doesn't matter only about a few tournaments that you play well or bad.   
It's even more tougher, and finally it happened.   So I think that's just how it is.   That's the sport of tennis, and, yeah, that feels really nice.  
   
 Q.   What's your next sort of goal?   You accomplished top 5.   What's next for you?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, as I said, I still want to be patient in my game because really the big results, you never know when it's going to come.   
I try to work hard every day and then really aiming for the big ones, which means try to be one day a Grand Slam champion.  
   
 Q.   I realize it's hard to talk about the positives coming out of a loss, but what are any positives that you can take from this week or this match into your US Open?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yeah, you can find, I would say, not a lot, but you can find some positives, of course.   I mean, beating the 2nd player in the world is also a very good match.   That's what I was really looking for because everybody was always talking that I can play well so late, but I'm missing to beating the top 10 guys, and now I did it already three times this year, and it was No.1, No.2 player.   
So it's good, and it helps my game a lot.   So, yeah, it's all about building in confidence before the slam, which I had a very good week, and now let's bring it to New York.  
   
 Q.   You dropped only 15 games in six sets coming into today's match.   Obviously, a big win against Murray, and right there in two very close sets against Rafa.   Given that, what are you looking to do to prepare for the Open with respect to coming off a very successful week?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, as I said, I'm a player that likes to have matches and play a lot of them because that's the only way how to get a good rhythm, get confidence in your game, how to hit the balls.   That's what I got.   
So now the most important thing is just to hold it, you know, take some days off, get ready, be prepared again, get again this kind of energy again to play and be hungry to keep playing matches.   
That's it.   That's what I have the time.   And just looking forward to New York.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to play next week?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yeah, that's a tough one.   I was already explaining how all the situation happened.   So, actually, I'm really not decided yet whatever is going to happen.   
So I don't want to say anything now.   It's just going to get not straight from me to tournament director.   So I need to deal with that first, and then I'll make a decision.  
   
 Q.   You usually play that tournament, so with respect to maybe not playing it, what would you do with that week between now and New York if you don't play?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, as I said in the previous questions, I like to play matches.   I like to get the rhythm of playing actually, you know, because in the break it is hard to get the right rhythm.   
And now I had a pretty good week.   I played a lot of good matches, and I feel good on court.   So now I have to really sit with my team, find out what's the best, what's positive to play, not play, and find out what's best for me, and that's it.   
So then I'm going to decide if yes or no.   It's going to be, I hope, the best decision to do and then just deal with it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT