WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/A. Murray
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   How difficult is it to sustain a decent level of concentration and doing your business when it's a bit like a disco? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, it is.   It's very tough.   As you said, you're there.   You try to be really focused on every single point.   You try to heard the ball bounce and to be really, really in that match.
And then all of a sudden you start to listen to music and songs and talking and introducing and whatever. 
It's really hard, you know what I mean.   It's tough for both of us, of course.   But someone's able to deal with it better; someone's not.   Also depends on which day, which mood, however you feel. 
But, yeah, on the other hand, I would say that probably this‑‑ I mean, everybody wants to talk like how well I played or not, what happened, but I think this was my best, I mean, moment of the game to handle this, because I was always struggling with noise around the court and the distraction. 
You know, I handled it pretty well today.

Q.   Tomas, Andy said he was having difficulty with respect to your second serve today.   Were you doing anything differently today than maybe you have against him in the past?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, it's tough to say in comparing the matches from before.   I'm always trying to be more in this time.   Yeah, I was serving quite well today.   I helped with my serve a lot, and that's it. 
We're going to play probably many more matches, and it's going to go always‑‑ or it could be always very different. 
So, you know, my serve is always the key moment, the key thing in my game, and I will always try to be, you know, really aggressive with that. 
But, no, I didn't do anything different.   It's just how it is.

Q.   You're scheduled to play next week as well, aren't you, at the moment?   That's a lot of matches.   That would be a lot of matches going into the slam if you get to the final here. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yes, that was kind of my tough decision last night, because I was asking the tournament director to hold me a wild card. 
And actually yesterday was almost the last time that I need to decide.   And before playing Andy, then look at my draw to playing Rafa or Roger in the semis.   You don't know what's going to happen. 
I'm more like a guy that like to play matches than just keep on practicing.   I think I had enough of the practice weeks I would say from Wimbledon or even from Paris, which I didn't do well.   And then this and that. 
So I need to decide.   I actually decided to ask for it and go there.   But still, I'm still here and I'm still playing, so let's see what's going to happen then.

Q.   There's a pretty good chance that in next week's rankings you're going to be ahead of Roger Federer for the first time in your career.   Just wondering if that means anything to you. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I'm not good in mathematics, but actually I think there is still one more guy who is not agreeing with that.   He's still in draw and he's still playing. 
So let's see after this week.

Q.   What would you say is your level of form as we speak?   How would you rate your current form? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I always trying to leave some space for the improvement, so I will still leave it there. 
And well, saying that it is pretty good, but it could be always a bit better.   But I had a great three matches so far and playing really well.   Even today it was good.   But I would say almost all the aspects. 
Now it's just important to keep it up and try to bring it for as long as I can.   All in my team are aiming, of course, for New York.   That's the goal for all of us.

Q.   Tomas, after a solid first set, you got down Love‑40 in your first service game in the second set.   Could you take us through that.   That was a very crucial point in the match. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, definitely.   If we look at it just by games or points, yes, this was a very tough one for me. 
But still, you know, again, I was trying to be really focused just on every next point or actually the point that I was right now facing. 
Whatever it is, if it's 40‑Love, Love‑40, it's still the next point.   So you just go one by one. 
That's what I was doing really good today, just be really focused, and that was probably really my best part of today's match.

Q.   Tomas, this morning you had an earlier practice session pretty much, obviously, and knowing that you were going to play Andy Murray, did you have a certain type of practice session?   Tomorrow you're going to play either Rafa or Roger.   Are you going to have a certain kind of practice session, or do you just do an overall, general warmup session? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, especially before the matches it's more just general just practice session.   Just to go there, hit a few balls, have the feeling of the ball, and basically that's it. 
Especially if you start to think a lot, you know, around the game, tactics, or to do something different, it's not so good.   So it's really just about to go there, have a feeling of the ball, feeling good, get some sweat, and that's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT