LAVER CUP
September 22, 2017
Tomas Berdych
Bjorn Borg
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LAVER CUP
Prague, Czech Republic
22 September, 2017
KYRGIOS-SOCK/Berdych-Nadal
6-3, 6-7, 10-7
Europe - 3
The World - 1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I guess the question is to the three of you.  There is always an expectation before an event, and I was wondering after the first day did it kind of meet your expectations?  Did something surprise you or did it exceed it?
CAPTAIN BJÖRN BORG: Well, it was four close matches today.  I mean, right now, personally, I think we should be happy.  I mean, we're up 3-1.  Could be up 4-0.  It was a close doubles match.  But was four good matches, good tennis.  We won a couple of close ones.
We are pleased.  I'm pleased, anyway, as a captain, though.  Today is -- a new day tomorrow.  You know, we're happy.
Q. Rafa, in the doubles rubber, Nick and Jack looked a bit more comfortable together on the court.  Why was that?  What was the difference between you?
RAFAEL NADAL: Well, yeah, just a few points more comfortable than us.  That's all.  No, it was very close, I think (smiling).
Yeah, at the beginning, yes.  Probably the first set they were better than us.  Later was very close.  I feel that we played well later on.  We started to return more and to be more aggressive.
So after, anything could happen.  We have been 7-All in the super-tiebreak, no?  Just happy, I think, the way that the day went.  We win a couple of ones that were very close, super close, we could lose.  We lost finally the doubles, no?
So that's fine.  We had a good result for our team.  Happy to go back to the bed with 3-1, and tomorrow is another day.  But in terms of doubles, I think to be the first time that we played together, we played quite well.
Q. Tomas, you're very familiar with this arena through the Davis Cup finals that you have played here.  How similar or different was it playing this evening over here in doubles compared to that?
TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I think these are two very different things, and I don't think there is a reason to be comparing them.  I think this is a very unique event.
As we said, you know, I mean, it's been a very close match, and, you know, the atmosphere was great throughout the whole day.  At the end I think, yes, there was four very close matches.  We got three points out of that.
So I think that's the most important thing of the day, and really, there is no need being comparing, you know, some matches between this and another event.
Q. Question for both players.  Marin told us today that he needed a little bit of time to get used to this unique black surface.  I was wondering, how did you cope with these conditions today?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think for me it's been fine.  You know, I mean, the other thing is, you know, starting a first match in the doubles, yes, I think that's a little different story, but I think the court is well prepared.  We had plenty of time practicing on it before, so for me I was absolutely fine with the court.
Q. Rafa, there are three possibilities for singles:  Jack Sock, Nick Kyrgios, and Sam Querrey.  Who do you prefer not to play against?
CAPTAIN BJÖRN BORG: Question for me?
RAFAEL NADAL: No, it's for me, but...  For tomorrow?  You know, we can say or we don't say yet?
CAPTAIN BJÖRN BORG: We cannot.
Q. Just who do you prefer?
RAFAEL NADAL: Doesn't matter what I prefer.  I know against who I gonna play, but I not gonna tell you yet (smiling).  That's all.  I cannot.
CAPTAIN BJÖRN BORG: I think we have to wait a little bit.
RAFAEL NADAL: Just wait a little bit.  Every match is tough, every match.  Can happen anything. All the rivals are good, and as you saw today, all the matches decided in a few balls.  Maybe tomorrow will not be a different thing.
Q. We are all new to this.  Could you just explain your thinking about the lineups for tomorrow, what you think of the system and how it sort of works?  Obviously you're not going to announce it till tomorrow morning, right?
CAPTAIN BJÖRN BORG: Well, we might announce it tonight, because in, like, 15, 20 minutes, we get the lineups, but right now we don't know.  The only thing we know is that Rafa, Roger, and Tomas, they are playing the singles for Team Europe.
So we have to wait and see.  I mean, who you prefer, we are still thinking about it.  I like this system, of course.  I think it's a great system how you can choose players to play.  I know you're anxious to find out who's going to play whom, but you have to wait 15 or 20 more minutes (smiling).
Q. I just want to follow up.  Rafa, I know you have played so many tournaments and so many events in your career.  What was the atmosphere out there like today compared to other tournaments you have played in your life?
RAFAEL NADAL: Well, it's different, no?  It's great.  I always loved the team events.  I have been very emotional playing Davis Cup for my country during all my career till last couple of years, have been a little bit more difficult for me with so many injuries that I had, but play for not just by myself, it's something that I love.
Here I have the chance to play for Europe is first experience in my life playing like this, no?  It's great feelings, great feelings having a great team supporting us when we are on court, and I love that.  I love to celebrate a point and see the team there celebrating with me.  It's an unbelievable feeling.
We are in Europe, so we need the support of the crowd.  The crowd have been great today, but we need more tomorrow, no?
So every day is more important, because every match comes double tomorrow.  Tomorrow I don't see it as a decisive day but is going to be a moving day.
Q. A question for Rafa.  You mentioned that you weren't at your best in the beginning.  Can you shed some details how you guys boost each other up, how you communicate and to fight back in the game?
RAFAEL NADAL: We always going to fight back, no?  It's tough with the warmup only three minutes, start the match and feels like you are not 100% ready, no?
And especially for the first match that we play here, you know, something a little bit strange just warming up for three minutes.
But that's normal.  The beginning is tough.  And we played against two prayers that have big serve and they play so quick.  They already played together couple of times.  Nothing new for them.  They know each other very well.  They are friends.
For us, it was the first experience, so we need to get used.  We were a little bit, let's say, not unlucky, no, but was not good that we had the break against that early, because for us it was important to arrive to 3-All at the first set.  Then we going to be more in rhythm like what happened later.
We couldn't have the break back.  But in the 4-2 for them, I think we had big chance to have the break back again.  Then after that the match was very close.  Was very similar level from them, from us, I feel.  Anything could happen.
So I think Tomas played much better later than at the beginning.  For me especially at the beginning was so difficult to return.  So I played much better when the match was coming like him.
I say it's a good warmup for tomorrow singles.  That's the thing that's going to help us.  We hope to be ready for tomorrow that every match is double.  That's it.
Q. A question for anyone willing to answer.  Team World was far more lively on the bench, doing gymnastics and pantomime.  How are you going to respond to that?
RAFAEL NADAL: They are much younger than us (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT