COUPE ROGERS
August 8, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. POSPISIL/T. Berdych
  7‑5, 2‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It appeared you were having some trouble with your serve.   Was that the conditions or just an off day?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, yes.   I mean, I have some trouble with my serve.   But I think it was just wrong decisions in that particular moment.   You know, I mean, even that I lost my serve, I was able to come back, break him twice in the second set. 
Even that I didn't serve as I would like to, still I was able to keep it up and get into the tiebreak.   Of course, in the tiebreak it's probably more about the serve.   But in the end it was really by one, two points. 

Q.   What was it like with the atmosphere playing against with the home support or are you used to that?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I mean, you are not used to that from the regular tournaments.   I mean, even if you play local guy where the tournament is going, I mean, the atmosphere is not that loud. 
I mean, it's nice.   We need this more because that's why we play tennis.   Yeah, I mean, that's a nice advantage that he has.   You know, I'm used to it from the Davis Cup matches.   So, I mean, it was nothing new. 

Q.   Pospisil is 23.   A lot of the veterans on the tour don't know him so well.   What did you learn about his game in the match today?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, he's really on a roll.   He's just going really well.   I mean, I heard he won a challenger last week.   Now he won three matches already.   He's really on fire. 
It's really tough to judge, you know, what's his game kind of going to be.   Basically whatever he touch, it just goes in.   I mean, it starts with his serve, and that's it. 
It's just a matter of who will be the first one to stop him and then everything starts all over again.   It's nice that another young kid is coming up.   He's has a really good game to break through. 

Q.   The underhand serve you did, what was going on?   Was it the referee?   Was it the crowd?   Was it the attitude of the match?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, you know, I'm always the one who's going to be fighting against these strange rule which we have.   It was just trying to show that I'm against it. 
You know, actually, it's a good point.   I'm going to go and ask actually really what's the rule.   I don't see a point why the point doesn't count.   I don't know.   If there is an explanation, I'm just going to go and ask the referees.   I don't want to do it on the court because it goes fire, it's not good for the game and for everything. 
But it was just fun. 

Q.   What is the rule?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I have no idea.   I thought when I'm ready to serve, all of a sudden he just called time violation, I can do whatever I want, so I was serving.   I'm not sure if I'm not allowed to serve from, I don't know how to call it.   If I have a shoulder problem, why I cannot put the ball in like that? 
That's what I need to know. 

Q.   Michael Chang won a French Open that way. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   You see (smiling).   This was the second round of a 1000 Series tournament.   I think the guy needs to get some knowledge. 

Q.   Was it because it was too fast after the time violation?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   You see, that's another point.   You get a time violation, then you are too fast.   It doesn't go together.   That's how the referees treat us.   When you're too fast, you are too fast.   When you are too slow, you are too slow.   You don't have a time. 
You don't know what's the time in between the points.   You don't know when he counts it, if it's by when he calls the score or when the ball end the rally.   You have no idea when to serve. 
25 seconds is not a long time.   In these hot and humid conditions, all the sweat coming to your hands...   Sometimes this is more tougher than to play the opponent. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT