WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych
  7‑6, 6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   There were a couple of incidents in the second set, like when the umpire called a fault, which would have made it a double‑fault.   Was that a distracting factor at all?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think there were only my incidents when I keep losing my serve.   That was the only incidents that's been happening there.   That's it.

Q.   On the set point down, were you distracted by Novak's cry when he slipped on the baseline? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   I just missed my forehand.   That's it.   I was watching the ball.   I was not watching Novak with what happened on the other side. 

Q.   Could you describe specifically what's improved in Novak's game since the last time you played here three years ago, when you beat him, in terms of tactics, mental game, strokes, physically? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, three years, it's a long time.   Actually, I'm not following him, what he's doing, what he's practicing, how he is. 
But I think if you are the one who's following tennis little bit you can see he improve quite well.   He become No.1, won many slams, won many other tournaments, so you can basically see it from there. 

Q.   When you had a double‑break lead in the second set and lost the three games in a row, was that more you losing focus, or do you think he improved there?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, basically he didn't start the second set that well, but I just took a chance of it.   But then, I mean, it was all me.   I mean, I didn't start the game well with the new balls.   I just started with double‑fault. 
Then the whole game was keep going bad.   Once you give him a chance, you know, he just took it back. 

Q.   Was that the story of the match:   you giving him too many chances?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I mean, of course I can play well better than I played today.   If you give him too much then it's a lot.   So you have to play really on the limit, playing really great to have a chance to beat him.   That was not my case today. 

Q.   Do you think he's the favorite to win the tournament now?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I don't know if call it as a favorite.   He is No.1.   He is No.1 seed.   Let's see who is going to face him.   Last time at the Olympics I think he lost to Del Potro.   He has a tough one to go against. 
So, yeah, I mean, possibly yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT