WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/K. Anderson
  3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You have to be happy with that one. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I'm definitely happy, of course.   Even more happy with the end of the fourth set, which was very tough.   Was not looking good to me. 
So, yeah, I'm really happy to have another win and go through. 

Q.   What is it about Kevin Anderson?   He's never beaten you before. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes, he never did.   I'm happy to extend the winning streak.   So, I mean, as I said, it's been said already many times, you know, very aggressive player, serving well. 
I thought that, you know, probably this court could suit him the most, but probably not. 
And, yeah, as I said, you know, the key moments was deciding again today.   That's it. 

Q.   Did you think his serve dropped off a bit in the second set? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think he starts pretty high percentage and pretty high everything, actually.   And from that point he could go only a bit down than bring something more. 
I was actually just waiting to get some chance.   I save some tough points again.   And then, you know, when I get a chance, I took it.   That was it. 

Q.   Problem with your back, everything okay there?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Everything is fine.   It's a matter of age maybe. 

Q.   You mentioned on television that you had a fleeting last couple of performances here.   Do you feel as though you're in a good frame of mind, your game is where you want it to be, the courts are heating up a little bit and playing into your favor?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I said that because actually I got the questions the early days, how the courts feel in the second week when they are a bit destroyed. 
I said, I don't know, I don't remember from the last time. 
Now I can answer it.   And, yeah, I mean, it's good to keep winning again.   It's actually a good feeling.   It's way better than to be home on Tuesday and just looking at the guys, how they play. 
So then in terms of my game, I think everything going well, going smooth.   Just drop a set, which is actually good to face a bit of challenge, not only winning like 3‑Love, which could be really tricky.   Once you get a very tough opponent, then you need to face a tough situations.   You haven't been in that situations before. 
This is good that I have a match like this also.   Yeah, building some confidence again, looking forward to go. 

Q.   Are you surprised at how popular you've been on Twitter since you joined it a few months ago?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I don't know.   Am I? 

Q.   Yes. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Good.   Perfect.   Nice to heard.   Yeah, so that's the reason not like to become a popular or something like that.   I'm trying to be popular by my game and what I'm doing on the court. 
Then, of course, on the court you cannot do everything, all the stuff.   You have to really focus to hit the ball. 
I see that so many people see quite boring so you need to have some fun around.

Q.   Do you feel this could encourage you to have more fun in press conferences or on court, now that people have enjoyed your personality on Twitter, you can bring it more places?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, I bring a really high level on that from the beginning.   So I will try to keep it up and let's see what's going to happen in half year, one year time, if still the people are going to be interesting about it. 
I don't know.   These days is really tough.   People likes the new things, everything new.   They want to see always something new and different. 
But, you know, if I'm going to be able to keep it up, then it's going to be fun for a long time.

Q.   What do you make of Bernard Tomic next?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   This is a very tough and tricky opponent.   I don't even know if we played some match.   I mean, I played him this year probably at Kooyong.   That's the only thing probably that we did.   I don't remember. 
You know, he's one of the best results really on grass.   He can really, really be danger.   His game is very different to the other guys.   I think the patience is definitely going to be the word to stick on.   You know, go one by one again. 

Q.   Were you that surprised at the results of Federer and Nadal in the first week?   Or given the conditions that were here, it didn't surprise you all that much?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, of course it surprised me a lot.   I mean, I wouldn't expect that at all, that this gonna happen.   As I said, it's really great what these guys actually achieved.   To make these wins for them, it's really great. 
Actually, I know how it is to beat Roger here.   It's really nice.   So that's the sport.   That's how it is. 
The other hand, you know, I think these days the people and press and everybody get very used to it, you know, that the beginning of the second week they're going to see the draw and they're going to be seven out of the top eight guys, and the eighth one going to be maybe the 12th one, and that's it. 
Now it's going to be way different.   That's actually why everybody so shocked, and see it like, Wow, what happened?   It's just how it is. 
Couple years ago it was, I would say, normal.   It was just really depends how the players have a shape, they play well, bad, whatever, and that's it.   I mean, really last eight, nine years it becomes like, really, all the guys just end up in the quarters.   People just get used to it.

Q.   Do you think it's better for men's tennis to be less predictable like it is this tournament? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I'm going to be a little bit selfish.   If I'm going to get a little bit of luck, then it's better, yes, because then you have a chance not to play all of them actually if you want to win the tournament. 
But the otherwise, I don't know, let's see what the fans gonna like more.   I don't know. 
For me actually, still it doesn't matter.   It doesn't affect me at all in this tournament.   So let's see what's going to happen.   If it's going to be more often, I don't know. 

Q.   Have you wished you were on the bottom half at any point?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I can wish, but it's never going to happen.   I'm realistic, optimistic.   That's how it is with me.   So I'm absolutely fine with that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT