WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/D. Brands
  7‑6, 6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How would you describe your game today?   Were you scared or worried going into your game today?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   Why?   I mean, if I'm scared, I shouldn't be here and I should be at home.   So definitely not scared. 
Of course, I mean, I went there to try to do my best again because it's very tough opponent.   You know, he can play really well.   His serve is great.   You know, you never know what's going to happen in the next point. 
Yeah, so I'm happy with the way I handle today. 

Q.   Now that there is no Federer and no Nadal, do you see yourself going to the finals?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I see myself in the other half of the draw, so that that means there is everybody who is supposed to be there.   So there is nothing change at all for me. 

Q.   What was your reaction yesterday when Federer lost?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, guys, let's talk about the guys who won.   I mean, yeah, Federer lost, Nadal lost.   I mean, what about the Stakhovsky win, Darcis win?   That's something different.   It's incredible effort to him.   Just all the respect, all the credit. 
I know the feeling how it is, to beat Roger, and it's really nice.

Q.   How does that change the psychology for everybody else when people like that lose so early in the tournament, do you think?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I think everybody is different.   Yeah, everyone is different.   I don't know.   Let's ask them. 
For me it's nothing change at all.   I mean, I'm going one by one that's now my opponents.   Really, I mean, I need to focus for myself, not what the others are doing. 

Q.   How do you feel physically and mentally compared to when you made the final?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I mean, it's three years ago.   So many things change from that time.   It's really nothing that I should be, you know, stick with that, that I've been in final.   Somebody's going to give me something for free?   No.   Everybody wants to beat me. 
It's just a fact.   It's a result.   That's it.   It's been three years ago.   We are here now.   As you can see, also other big names can lose.   That's how today's game is, very tough.   So nothing change for me. 

Q.   You've not dropped a set, so you're obviously feeling good nick?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I'm probably one of the few that is not complaining about some injuries and something, you know, which I've seen.   It's been quite popular last two days.   I'm not one of them, which is good. 

Q.   You were on Court 2, as well, which was supposedly slippery yesterday. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Maybe yesterday.   Today no.   I don't know, I had the experience from last year Olympics.   That was slippery.   In two sets I was 20 times on the ground.   This is perfect. 
I'm really enjoying that.   I like the courts, how they prepare them.   That's it. 

Q.   Are you under any pressure from yourself or from your country to do so well?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I mean, of course you are under the pressure.   That is of course.   Without that you cannot play. 
So I think if you have the right amount of pressure, it's really good to have because really, I mean, even if you don't feel the small nerves before the game, you don't have that good feeling that you can do big things. 
So, you know, I mean, it's always a matter of how to handle that.   If it's not too much, not too less.   So far it's just on the right line.

Q.   You tweeted a picture which included Genie Bouchard and some lyrics to the song.   What was the thinking behind that?   Is there a blossoming romance potentially?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I mean, it's the way.   Just try to put something different, you know.   I just seen the picture and I like it.   I just took it.   You know, just try to make some fun and that's it.

Q.   She tweeted you back. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, I cannot really just make every single tweet what I get back.   So, you know, I mean, maybe this one I just miss.   So I apologize to her for that. 

Q.   I don't think she was offended at all. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I will try to do it better for next time. 
I like the picture actually.   She won.   So maybe it was good luck for her. 

Q.   In that case, if you are not a tennis player, would you want to be a musician or something?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No. 

Q.   What would you do?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I actually never thought about it.   So I can choose any single job in the world that I can do.   And I think besides the tennis, probably the rockstar is the best one, no? 

Q.   Rockstar?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes.

Q.   You be a rockstar?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I don't know that I can be.   But I'm saying, besides the tennis, the other best job is the rockstar.   You're singing in front of 100,000 people.   That's probably the best thing, no? 

Q.   How do you relax apart from tennis?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, music.   I'm not singing.   Don't take me like that. 

Q.   Can you sing something for us today?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, no.   Of course, I was waiting for it (smiling). 
I mean, I like golf.   I mean, there's not much time to play, but I think it's good, really nice to relax.   Go with the friends, enjoy the time, nice weather.   Perfect time to relax.

Q.   In your next tennis match you play Anderson.   Would you describe that matchup, please. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, describe?   I think we played already quite enough time that people can see how the match is gonna look like.   I'm saying that every line or every streak needs to end up one day.   I hope it's not going to be in my next round.   I hope I can keep the winning streak, because I think it's like 8 or 9 to 0 for me in the last matches with Kevin.   I hope I can keep that and will be able to go through again.

Q.   What has been the biggest difference for you to earn those wins?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, all the matches are quite close because we are both great serving, playing quite aggressive.   I think until now my, I would say, more experience were winning over him.   Always in the tough situation, tough points, I was a bit better.   I handled the situation better than him. 
That was probably the decider till now.   All the matches were very close.   Many times tiebreaks.   It was close games.   That's what I expect for the next one, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT