AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 12, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/T. De Bakker
  6‑1, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   With the rain delay and everything like that, must be nice to get on and off the court quickly in your first grass match?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I don't know if it's nice to go on and off, but I think I would prefer to stay longer and stay and play during the whole match.   But doesn't matter.   It's same for both of us.
No, I mean, here we are, and that's quite usual.   I mean, I think it's a preparation for Wimbledon with everything, you know.   Especially these tough moments, it's also good to know how to handle that, and I did it quite well.   So I'm happy for it.

Q.   How difficult is it to get your footing when it's still a fresh grass court?   Does it enter your mind that, you know, it could be a bit dangerous, or do you allow yourself to think you've got to be careful?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, actually for me it's always dangerous on the grass especially, and I always falling down.   And actually I have still in good memory my match from the Olympic Games where the fresh grass was really fresh, and I was always on the ground.   I think maybe I was more on the ground than on my feet.
So even that, this was really improvement and it was not actually that bad.   I mean, yes, these courts are amazing, but when you get a rain delay, you know, before they put the cover, there is still a bit of rain that gets on the court, when they pull it off.   You know, it takes some time when the grass is really, really, you know, dry and you can really run on that. 
It's same for both of us.   I did it quite well today.

Q.   You just joined Twitter.   Talk about it.   Why did it take you so long to join up?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I don't know.   I mean, I was like still ‑‑I don't know.   I didn't pay attention to that too much, but then just somebody like show it to me what it is and how that works, and it was pretty good fun or it's still pretty good fun.
You know, I mean, it's something to taking my, you know, free time during the days and weeks and in the tournament, and so far it's just by the days.   It's pretty cool, pretty fun.

Q.   You have been tweeting a lot.   Can you keep up that rate as... 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   That's a tough one.   But that's my kind of unexperience with the Twitter, that I start with a high level.   I know it's going to be tough to keep it up, but you never know.   You never know. 
Yes, it's definitely good for a start, because it's something new, I like it, and it's really fun and I will definitely try.

Q.   Are you surprised at how quickly you've picked up 10,000 followers, almost 10,000?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yeah, kind of, yes, because when I was doing the Facebook page, as well, I mean, there it took really long, so, you know, I try to do it a bit differently from the beginning, and it works so it go fast.
No, I think that Twitter is, I would say, more popular and more people are using that.   With the reason why you want to use it, I think it's way better than the other.   So the others are just to have that, and keep my fans happy and let's see. 

Q.   Do you think that maybe the tour should allow you to take your phones on court and in the middle the match you can tweet?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.

Q.   "This guy is playing ridiculous" or something?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, then I think you lost the point of the tennis game.   Well, I think it could be pretty good fun.   I mean, let's say if there are some exhibitions during the year, and then if they allowed you.
But still if there is exhibition and in between the tournaments, you rather take it as a preparation than just making the fun during you play, because it's kind of a big distracting from the game.
But maybe, you know, like the end of the year or something, it could be pretty good fun.   Let's see.   Maybe there's going to be some tweets from the court.

Q.   Just getting back to the grass, for you, what is the bigger issue when you are transferring from clay or hard court to grass or the other way?   Is it the mental side, or is it the footwork that you're more concerned with?   Is it a mental aspect about I've got to think about this, or just really working your feet on it?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think it all starts with ‑‑because my game is based on the fact that if I'm hitting the ball clear and I have that kind of feeling that I'm in the position and I'm hitting the ball clear, then it's way easier.   It all starts by my movements. 
So when I move well and I'm on time where the ball is, then the timing, the confidence, and everything is there.
So, you know, it's really something that you have to put on many things, but I would say it all started with the footwork. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT