MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 11, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/T. Berdych
  6‑3, 4‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You were four games to two in the third set; what happened?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, it was actually worst four games I ever probably played in the match.   That was the result.   You know, I mean, I really have no excuse for that.   It was just bad play from me.   That's it.   
This is a huge chance that when you have that you cannot lose that.   That was really bad play from me.  
   
 Q.   Last year you got to the final against Roger.   You are losing some points, but this year the courts are better, or what is your opinion of this year's courts?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I really think last year it was just the shock for the players, but the courts, even last year, were okay.   It's just something that they probably, you know, when they see the blue then they were scared of it or something.  
I don't see a big difference at all.   The courts were prepared really well.   Even this year or the last year.   I mean, really the courts were great.   I don't see any difference in between that.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   The success in Davis Cup for the Czech Republic has been a great thing for the country.   Apart from that, you now you are in the lead with Stepanek or there are some more players?   How do you see the future of Czech tennis?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yeah, it is a big thing for Czech for sure.   It's not happening every year like here in Spain they are winning it almost year by year.   We did after 32 years, and, yeah, it was big.   It's still huge.   We are in the semifinal again.   
Talking leader, so far I am the leader.   I am the highest in the ranking and play the most matches.  
But on the other hand, you know, we have new guys coming up.   Rosol got 30 something in the world, and then we have one young junior that he's now around 100 something, 120 or something.   He's getting really up.  
So, yeah, I think the future for our team is still there.   Even that Radek is getting older and probably he's not going to be with us forever, his experience for sure let's for doubles could be really helpful and we can still make a strong team.  
So, you know, let's hope to make good results again this year.   We will see.  
   
 Q.   Can you make a general opinion of the match?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I think there is no general.   There are those last four games which I said was really bad play from me.   That's it.   Whatever happened before just happened.  
Important is the end, and the end was really not well played from me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT