SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 23, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/D. Gimeno‑Traver
  5‑7, 7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you describe what your feeling is to walk on the court to play Roger Federer?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I said that many times, for me it's kind of a final of the tournament, you know, or celebration of tennis, I would say, because it's always great to be with him on the court, you know, with the results that he achieved and what a star he is.   
It's every single time for me, you know, "the" match, you know, to be ready and to be really focused on.   So, yeah, I like those matches so much.   I would like to play with those guys every time.  
   
 Q.   What's your most memorable match with him?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, definitely is the one from Wimbledon 2010 where it was the first time I beat him on the Grand Slam.   You know, it was Wimbledon, so it was even more special to me.  
Yeah, it was first time that I won actually on the Centre Court in Wimbledon, as well.  
So, you know, it's been really a lot of, I would say the first moments, and then, yeah, beating him there was something really incredible.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember your first memory of Federer, maybe a conversation?   What's your first memory of Federer?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, it's from actually the Athens that I beat him first time.   We came to the court for the warmup before the game, and actually we had a ‑‑they sign us on the same court at the same time.   
So we want to start, and he came and he said, Guys, I have this court.   I said, Yeah, but we have it, too.  
Then he was like, Okay, so we will share.   And then he said, You know what?   Let's split it.   I will take the first half an hour and then you do the second one.   He said, Fine?   I said, Yeah, yeah, sure, of course.   Go.   
It was actually the first time that I ever saw him that close.   I was sitting next to the court watching him warm up and I was saying to my coach, What am I going to do with him?   What should I do?   I was seeing him first time how he sees the ball, how fast he plays.  
My match with him was in couple of hours.   I was like, Okay, what I'm going to do?   Actually I went on court to play him and I beat him.   It was incredible for me.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember the first famous tennis player you ever met when you were a young boy or first famous tennis player you met or encountered?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, like really met personally?   It's tough to say.   It's gonna be from the days that I actually get on tour and get to the big tournaments to play with these guys.  
So not like ‑‑I mean, I would be a kid and someone who introduced me or bring me to, I don't know, Andre Agassi and said, like, Look, this is Andre.   I would be like this, as a kid.   (Indicating short.)  
So it was a time that, I don't know, I start to play the bigger tournaments.   Then I qualify for my first Grand Slam in US Open, I believe.   Yes, US Open.   And then I have been part of the draw with all of the guys.   So sharing the same space and everything.  
So that was probably the first time.  
   
 Q.   What's the greatest moment of your career?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Greatest?   Well, I would say that‑‑ well, it's been the final of Davis Cup that we played in Prague.   That was really something incredible with all the coincidence around the 100 final that we played at home we won after that long.   And how it went, it was really, really incredible.   Incredible for me.  
Well, it's a team event, so for myself, it's gonna be the final of Wimbledon.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT