BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/T. Berdych
  6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Did Rafa's game change in any way since you played him last?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, nothing.   He still play very aggressive, and what he was missing in his first matches when he come back after the injury ‑ or the time that he hasn't been on tour ‑ then, yeah, looks that he was maybe missing a bit of confidence in his game, but definitely not today and not anymore.
You know, I think the only match that he was a bit struggling was with Gulbis, and then, you know, he just starts to feel his game as he did before.   He played really good.

Q.   How closely have you been following his comeback?   How much do you think all of the players been doing the same, curious how he's playing during all that time off?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I have enough of, you know, doing good myself than following the other guys, what are they doing and if they are ready or not.
This is not my job at all.   I need to be focused on myself.   I was not worried at all about him, that once he's gonna come back that he's gonna be strong again.

Q.   How do you think you played today?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, as I said.   It was my first answer that he's back.   He's playing... 

Q.   But how do you think you played?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, me?   I mean, it's known that actually his game is nothing that would suit to my game at all, you know. 
But I think that the biggest difference was in the second set when it was 5‑3, and since that time I serve only one first serve and he serve only one second serve.
That was the reason.   Actually, that was the difference today.

Q.   Is there anything to stop him from just doing his usual run on clay and then going deep in Wimbledon?   Do you see anything that could possibly stop that?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   I don't know.   I mean, if he's gonna be ready and he's gonna be healthy, then, yes.   I mean, there is nothing. 
I mean, he's a great player.   He's the best one that we ever had on clay and winning slams on all the other hard courts, as well.   I don't know.

Q.   What did you think on that overhead?   Was it just the sun?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I just got the ball straight to the sun, which was right up there, so... 

Q.   As far as movement about the court, did Rafa look like the Rafa of old today?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I think so.   Yeah, I mean, he was moving quite well and I didn't see ‑‑maybe he will say something different because it's him, his body, and he has a feeling for that. 
No, but I think he looks strong again.

Q.   What do you think when someone comes back from seven months off and plays so well so quickly?   Do you think they're just an incredible player?   Do you think injury must not have been so bad?   What do you think?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   (Smiling.)   I mean, what should I think?   As I said, I was not really following him, what he did at home and what he was doing, so I guess he make the right decision that once he decides to come back he's gonna be strong again to play. 
So it just show how great player he is. 

Q.   What kind of positives will you take out of this tournament for yourself?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I mean, it was a good tournament, you know.   I mean, I beat a couple of good guys and I had a good run.   You know, my game was also very solid from the last couple of weeks that I have been playing.
So, yeah, it was another good one in the row.   But still, you know, I'm looking to go a little bit more and still trying to push it more and more.   So, you know, next one is in Miami.   Couple days off, you know, and get ready again. 
But besides that, you know, so far my best result here, and that's always positive thing to have, you know, to improving your best result and best achievement. 
Yeah, it was a quite good week.

Q.   Is that a new watch?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, one day it's been a new watch, yeah.   But not now anymore, yes.   (Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT