BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/K. Anderson
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Well‑played. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Thanks.

Q.   You and David Ferrer are the sort of leaders of the pack, of the group who are trying to get in amongst the top 4.   How close do you think you are?   Are you getting closer, do you feel?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think I'm getting closer, but those guys are still running away, you know.   I don't know how they do it, but it's really, really tough, you know. 
If you look at the guys who are there, it's really, you know, very tough time.   But, you know, it doesn't change anything for me.   I mean, I just trying to focus myself, trying to go one by one, either if it's weeks or the matches.
So, really, go day by day and, you know, also trying to be patient in that as well.   You know, hopefully one day I can sit and say, Yeah, all that hard work has been, you know, paying off, you know, that I was able to move, even improve the ranking or make a really big results, Grand Slam or some other, and so that's my actually key and motivation.

Q.   Do you feel you're playing at your best now?   Are you happy with your game?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah.   I feel quite well on court, and especially I would say physically, you know, because I already play quite a while in the couple of weeks, last couple of weeks. 
I still feel like ‑‑yeah, I just finish the match, but that's all right.   I mean, I can go another one again and again.   So that's the important sign for me that, you know, I can be fit for the guys in the next rounds. 
Then I can focus for the game that I want to play and the game what is working.

Q.   You had this very tough Davis Cup weekend in Switzerland with the doubles.   How long did it take you to regroup and to get ready again?   Because you played a lot of tennis there. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, actually, it cost me one tournament, you know.   I have to pull out from the week after and I was not able to defending my title, which I was very sad because that place I really like.
That's actually just because of that.   So, you know, we are not machines, just humans.   I mean, I was not able to go after that tough weekend in Geneva.
But, yeah, that's how it is.   Then I took some days off, prepared, and then go Marseilles, Dubai, here, and keep on going.
So, you know, let's see when this gas going to get empty and I'm going to need to take some rest again and prepare for another run.

Q.   What do you think about this position where you have to wait for the winner of the Federer/Nadal match?   And secondly, can you talk about meeting the winner in the semifinals. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, my position is great.   I'm in the semifinal and I can, you know, just lie in my bed, turn on the TV, and just watching the guys that they're gonna play.
So I cannot be in better position than that.   Well, my thoughts on that match, I mean, I think everybody knows who I would prefer to play. 
But this is a sport, this is tennis, they will go there, and they will try to fight for the win.   The better is gonna wait for me next day.
Yeah, need to get ready if it's Roger or Rafa and try to bring my best game again.

Q.   Why do you think you had pretty much success against Roger recently; whereas if you look at Rafa, you've lost quite a few matches now? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think it's quite simple, you know.   It's the way what I play.   With my style I can do a bit more damage to Roger, you know, because I can take, you know, his I'd say comfort on the court away and he starts to be more under pressure.
And then, you know, that's the way when he doesn't feel, you know, that optimum and that good on court.   I'm not saying that I'm expert to beat him, but I'm trying to do my best to win the matches with him.   You know, in the past at least it's been working. 
With Rafa, it's way different, you know.   With his, you know, lefty hand and heavy spins, it's very tough, you know, especially in these conditions.   If it's going to be hot like this, yeah, it's could be very, very tough one.
But, you know, one day I hope that I'm going to find the way how to beat him again, and why not here? 

Q.   The Czech Republic has one of the great traditions in tennis.   Could you just take a moment and try and reflect on it, the style of Czech tennis, what makes Czech tennis so wonderful. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I don't know if I'm the right person to be summarizing the Czech tennis history.   And the players, what to say about it?   Well, I will make it short:   I think that time I think I'm going to be the last generation which the kids really had, or has been hungry to go and keep winning, you know? 
That was the biggest motivation, because that time in Czech was not easy at all.   You know, they felt that, you know, they have a big chance to, you know, go see the world, play tennis, earn money, be famous, and see it as a really big motivation.
So I think that was a force for everybody.   Yeah, that's why.   You know, saying if you have good coaches, bad coaches, I mean, if you look at Lendl, you know, he went to States.   Basically all of his best results was when he was in States.   Anyway, this is something what talking more about, but I think I think the main reason was this one.

Q.   Talking about your early years and motivation, do you remember or did you hear stories of the turmoil in your country, or could you just talk about your early motivation in your early years. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yeah, I had a big one, you know.   For me, it was it was a really big opportunities.   My family give me all their time and, you know, I felt that, you know, I really need to stay with that, because once you go on this run as a kid it would be just a waste of time.   We don't live forever, so why to wasting time? 
So, you know, really it was something that once I get this chance, especially for my family and then other peoples, then I want to also make me and them happy.   I try to go step by step.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT