DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
March 1, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/R. Federer
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You must be very pleased with that.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes, definitely I am.   I mean, I couldn't be better feeling than this one, you know, coming from court playing Roger I would say almost in front of his home crowd, I would say that (smiling), you know, and to be the one who won that match.   It really feels great.   I'm very pleased the way I played today.  
   
 Q.   What were you thinking when you were down those match points?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, well, I mean, I already have some experience with him, especially with him with some match points down, and then being able to turn the match the other way.  
So, you know, I was always ‑‑ in every single point I was believing myself, you know, trying to be just focused on that single point and doesn't want to see the score and just go one by one.   And again, it worked.   It's the kind of tactic that I will try to stick with and try to bring it for every single match.  
   
 Q.   What is it about your game that he finds difficult?   Because you have beaten him five out of the last eight.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I would say that, you know, the conditions also helped me or ‑‑it suits to my game, you know.   Because in the beginning he was trying to coming more to the net, which I didn't see with him that often, you know.   
I know that he can play this, as well, you know.   That's what is make him so dangerous, you know, that he can bring so many different styles.   That's just show that he definitely doesn't want to play the rallies with me from the back, which, you know, when I play aggressive, that's something ‑‑when he doesn't feel that he has it in his hands, you know, that he can control the ball, he can do whatever he wants, then, yeah, that's what he like.   But, you know, once he's in the other side and he needs to be defensive, that's probably what's make him, you know, that's what I can make the points with.  
   
 Q.   In Marseilles you had match point against Tsonga.   Did you think about that during the tiebreak?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, definitely not.   But, you know, I can tell you that this feels much better than the one I ‑‑ you know, I wouldn't change anything.   I'm happy with the way how it is.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned the crowd.   Does it give you any extra incentive when all the crowd is rooting for the person on the other side?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, no, no.   I was just saying it a little bit in the easy way, you know.   Don't take me too straight, you know.   It's just how it is, you know.   
It doesn't matter where he comes.   Then he's gonna always be the huge Roger, you know.   That's how it should be.   
So it was just that I said that.   No, I think it was nice.   I think they enjoy it, and it was really nice to be part of it.  
   
 Q.   Are you envious of the adulation that he gets wherever he goes?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   Are you envious of the adulation that he gets everywhere, everyone is rooting...   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, no.   It's belong to him.   I mean, he create it since beginning when he played, and after those results, how he's behave, his personality, he definitely deserve it.   So it's absolutely right.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to play Djokovic in the final?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I will tell you tomorrow.   (Laughter.)  
But the feeling that I'm in the final is great.   
   
 Q.   What makes Djokovic so tough for you?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, that's something what ‑‑ you know, I think it's something not similar but it's the way Roger doesn't like my game and I don't like Novak's game.   
I will have homework for tonight to try to find out something what's could work at least a little bit, because the last, I don't know ‑‑I don't even know the high number to say that, that I lost to him.   
So basically, no, I mean, he's one of the best‑moving players I've ever seen, especially on the hard court.   It's just incredible what he can get and especially when he gets there what he's able to play from that position.  
So this just makes him very, very tough to play.   So, you know, I will try to ‑‑I will try to be patient.   The court is very fast, so it could help to my strokes.   You know, hopefully I will be able to bring my serve, which I was able to serve at least in the third set.   Let's see.   Let's wait for my chances.  
   
 Q.   It's 12‑1, but your win did come on the fast surface at Wimbledon.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, that's a pretty, at least, small thing and positive thing that I can look for.   But, yeah, as you said, you know, the score is not very good.   But at least I have a "1," and I will try to bring second one tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You have had a lot of matches in the last couple of weeks, three‑setter tonight.   How are you feeling physically?   Are you in perfect shape, do you think?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I still feel pretty well.   I mean, it's nothing hurt in my body, and especially after every single match that you win, you know, you get the extra confidence that, you know, just puts all the tiredness out until you feel much better after that.   
So, yeah, I mean, I will do my same thing what I'm used to do after every single match, try to relax, prepare for the next one and same routine.  
Yeah, I feel really good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT