DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 28, 2013
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/D. Tursunov
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   I guess you'd like to play him every week, wouldn't you?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, it's tough to say because I think he had some injury problem.   You know, I know the situation.   If you are in the position to playing, you know, one of the top guys and actually you don't feel well, you just have a small issue in your body, it's just ‑‑it's just terrible match, you know.   
But at least you want to try or‑‑ you know, you never know what's gonna happen.   But once you are not really 100% ready, then it's tough.  
So I think it affect this game a bit.   I don't know what he said or not, but it's just my feeling how I saw him on court.   
But the other hand, yeah, I was just trying to just getting better and better on my rhythm on court, and it was basically the point today.  
   
 Q.   Do you welcome an easy match like that?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Of course.   I'm not going to say that I want to play three sets, 7‑6 in the third; of course not.   I mean, every single win counts, and if you have to fight for the win three hours, you better do.   If not, it's just a small advantage.  
   
 Q.   When I talked to him, he said that it was a hamstring, that he was having a hard time moving, just what you're saying.   In terms of even despite that, how do you feel about your play in this match?   Do you feel you're ready for somebody like Federer next round?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, I'm getting better, yes, every match by match.   I mean, basically this is my third day and I already played three matches.  
It's actually not that bad, you know.   The times run really fast.   So as I said, you know, I was really trying to, you know, focus on my serve, trying to get the rhythm.   You know, every single point it's count. That's all what I was doing.   
So, I mean, let's see.   I mean, now the big match is coming.   Roger is playing every single year well here, so he still needs to ‑‑he still needs to win tonight, anyway.   But I'm looking forward to that match, yes.   
   
 Q.   Assuming it is Roger, I believe since 2010 you have beaten him four times and Roger has only beaten you three and you have inflicted some painful defeats upon him:   Wimbledon, US Open last year.   You know, what have you done to get that recent record against him?   Is it more aggression?   Is it more power?   Have you bullied him?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think it's going to be like generally the experience that's been, you know, taken through all the years and all the matches.   But I don't know.   Probably he knows what is working on him, and that's the same thing what I'm going to try to do tomorrow if he wins.  
But, yeah, I mean, it's not going to be that easy, especially here, because the court is really fast.   And once you hit the ball somewhere quite aggressively, quite fast, then it's very hard to do something with that ball.   
You know, so let's see.   Probably this is one of the fastest courts that we will ever play on.   The grass is fast but is a bit different, you know.   So, you know, let's see.   I think he really like fast courts.   But always playing with Roger, it's a special moment whatever round it is.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT