BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 9, 2012
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych
  6‑2, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously you had your chances there in the second set.   What was your assessment of the match?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, you pretty much said it.   Yeah, it was quite close set.   I had some chances in the tiebreak.   You know, if I would be able to make it, you know, try to push him for the third set, then maybe get another chances.   But this would be just if.   It didn't happened. 
Yeah, it wasn't one of my best matches with him, as well. 

Q.   How did you feel about your level overall in the tournament?   How do you feel this is going to carry into the Davis Cup? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yeah, I think I play quite good three matches.   Yeah, everyone has something, you know, something special.   Yeah, this year was not the one that I was able to get from the group. 
You know, next week, it's another week, another event, another big thing.   So I will try to get ready for that again. 

Q.   In Spain the people talk about the surface in the Davis Cup.   How do you think the surface is important to the final?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Then probably the Spanish doesn't know there are some rules that you cannot make the surface actually as fast as you want.   That's the rule of the speed of the court.   So the court is going to be in between of the rules. 

Q.   How would you rate overall Novak's performance today?   Do you think he has a game that's good enough to win the tournament?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   It was good enough to beat me.   That's it, you know.   You cannot judge it by one match because every single one is different. 
As long as he's going to be in semifinal playing with whoever opponent, then it could go even much better, much worse, even the same level. 
Every match is different. 

Q.   For the Davis Cup, is it helpful to have these tough matches and tough opponents even if you lose, or is it hard to go into a big tournament when maybe your confidence isn't as high as it would be if you had been winning?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, it doesn't matter at all.   I mean, it's just another big event coming up for the end of the year.   You know, I'm getting even, you know, more tired, and that's it. 
You know, I'm just going to try to prepare myself as possible as I can for that event, and that's it.   You know, I mean, well, it's hard to say if it's better to play with some lower‑ranked players and keep on winning, and then you going to come up for the match like that, and then you going to see completely different guys from different levels.
I think this is the better option, to play with the tough guys.   Even if you win or not, I think it's better to have a week like this than play some small tournament. 

Q.   It's never nice to ask questions to someone who has just lost, because it's embarrassing for everyone.   Can you tell us what has been the best moments of this year?   This is the end of the year.   When have you been more satisfied and proud about yourself?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I would be very short.   I hope that the best moment is still to come (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT