BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 5, 2012
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/T. Berdych
  3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Is that a match that you felt slipped away a little bit after you started so well?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, I think it was a very, very good and solid match, I mean, from both of us.   Unfortunately there was just, well, small details that just decided today.   Then, as you said, I can say that the match slip out little bit.   
You know, I think the biggest moment was in the second set, 1‑All, that I had that breakpoint.   You know, just hit a forehand return, and it was just like small out.   And, you know, who knows, it could be 2‑1, early break after winning the first set.   You know, there was a pretty good chance.   But didn't happened.   
   
 Q.   In the last week or so building up to what is a big couple of weeks in your career, is it possible for you at all to ignore the fact that you've got the Davis Cup next week?   Have you been able to simply focus on this week?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, definitely.   I'm here.   You know, only when I'm getting questions from you guys, they are making me feel that the Davis Cup is coming for next week.   That's it.   
You know, I have a lots to do here, and then there is another week.   That's it, you know.   So I'm definitely here.   I'm definitely, you know, focused on the matches here, and that's it.   
   
 Q.   You've been in this situation before I think last year when you lost early, were able to come back and qualify for the semifinals.   What is the thinking in your mind right now?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, first of all, I think it's a good thing not to play with this situation.   So it would be better to win the first one, then would be much better situation for me.   But, yeah, didn't happen.   
Well, yeah, I know the experience from the last year.   The reason to qualify, even to lose the first match, you know, it's not going to be only about you.   You will need some luck as well.   But that's how it is.   It's the sport.   So let's see.   
It doesn't change for me.   I'm going to be doing the same:   try to get ready, try to be hundred percent for my next match, whoever opponent is going to be, you know, try to fight in the next game, try to win it, and then try to do it once more again.   
   
 Q.   Were you expecting any more kind of volume of support for Andy from London?   It seemed reasonably quiet in the arena.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, maybe, yeah.   I was maybe expecting more.   But as I said in the beginning, or yesterday, you know, the crowd here is just great.   So, I mean, why to do some crazy things.   We not playing Davis Cup.   It's just a great showdown of the tennis.   
So I think everybody enjoys that.   It was a great game.   Yeah, the people were great.   
   
 Q.   Andy has missed a few match points in his last tournaments.   He started missing breakpoints today.   Was that something you were aware of, that he might start getting a bit nervous on the bigger points as he kept missing them?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Not at all.   I mean, I was like I had full of my hands to try to figure it out, how to get from those breakpoints, not to be thinking if he's feeling good or not or if he's under pressure or not.   I mean, you know, no.   
I was really focusing myself.   Whatever is happening there was just the game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT