BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 2, 2012
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. SIMON/T. Berdych
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Gilles doesn't give you any rhythm?   His balls are very flat?   Is that the reason why his game bother you?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yeah, I mean, he played well.   That's no question about it.   I mean, that's what his game is, and, you know, I think he played really well.
I haven't seen him play that well for quite a long time.   I mean, then it wouldn't be possible that he's the place that he is right now.
I think he played just great, you know, as many guys that, you know, especially‑‑ yeah, like the French guys playing here, it's like from some other planet and playing well.
Yeah, he just deserves to win today.

Q.   How would you assess your game level this week and on this match?   Are you satisfied, tired, struggling or whatever?TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yeah, I was expecting, you know ‑‑or I was able to keep fighting, try to go as far as I can.   Then I need to go straight to London.   
So, you know, I want to play my best.   But as I said, you know, Gilles was just too good today, and he deserved to win.

Q.   How frustrating was, I think it was the fourth game, he saved the three break points?   You had been 4‑Love up in the set, I think.   What was so good about his defense in that game?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I think that was a pretty much key of the second set maybe of the whole match.   But, you know, that happened and, you know, even those three break points in the last game, you know, then when he come up with the serves‑‑ I mean, he didn't serve like that whole match, and then he come up almost with three aces.   It was just too good for him. 
I have nothing much to do with that.   Well, defensive, yeah, I think he's one of the best, you know, moving and defending his half of the court.
But still, you know, it's not only about that.   I mean, maybe if the court is a bit faster or, you know, maybe he make at least, you know, some unforced errors through the set, then you can have a bit of chance.
But, you know, as I said, he just did it today perfectly.

Q.   I'm wondering about the psychology of coming into this event, a very big event and lots of prize money and lots of points on offer when you already know that you're playing in a slightly bigger event next week.   How difficult is that for a player like you who has already qualified for one, knowing all the benefits you could have if you did very well this week?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yeah, for me it was the first time that I was in this position, because last two years I was always coming here to fight for every single point because I was not qualified yet for London and I needed to play my best, you know, play a good result.
And this year it was completely different.   Actually, you know, I was enjoying that.   I was just playing without any pressure in terms of qualifying somewhere and, you know, just I was playing well before coming here to the event that I like.
It was, well, definitely much better position than the last two years.   For me, it was fine.

Q.   Concerning your opponent, Gilles, today, this is the kind of player you don't like to play?   You are very dangerous for players like Federer, but for you it's a problem to play against Gilles?   Can you explain what part of his games are bothering you when you play against him?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I think I already said it twice for those two questions here.   He was just playing just too good today.   He was not making mistake at all. 
And even if you play with Gilles or with Roger and the guy is not making a single mistake, then it's very hard with everyone.   So that was the reason.

Q.   I was more talking about the style of play, the way he plays. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   It doesn't matter about the style.   It's just about when someone is playing really that well, then he can play style whatever he wants, but if he makes it and play well, then he deserve to win.

Q.   We're still waiting for the sort of formal announcement as to whether London will get the finals for a couple more, maybe three more years.   Would you be in favor of the finals staying in London and why?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, if it's‑‑ just, yeah, my opinion on that would be I would like to keep it there.   I mean, I didn't have the experience to play anywhere else than in London.   Actually, yeah, I have been alternate in Shanghai, but, well, I didn't experience any better place to have it even than in London.
In terms of where we play, how the hospitality is, how the crowds are, I mean, I don't see any really bad point about that.   And, you know, I heard like reasons that we should go more often to change the place, the people would see us maybe more or something.
But I think this is a question for the tournament.   Like if the guys wants to have the tournament, then the ATP should allow it and bring the new places for the tournaments. 
But why, when we have such a great event in the end of the year, which is like really gala of the sport, then why to be changing this?   Let's change the tournaments which are maybe not that well prepared but not change something what is working and it's pretty well made.

Q.   Every year there is the Golden Ball in football where the journalists vote.   Who would you vote for?   Sorry, it has nothing to do with tennis. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I don't know.   Whatever.   Tell me some names.

Q.   Messi, Ronaldo, Ramos, Rooney. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Whatever.   Messi. 

Q.   May I ask you why you were laughing at the end with Simon?   It's rare to laugh when you lose a match. What was making you laugh like this at the net?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Everybody is saying that I'm not smiling enough on the court, so I'm trying to change it, you know.   Even if I now start to smile, then people are asking again. 
I don't know what should I do?   I will keep smiling.   I think it's better. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT