SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2012
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Just say something about the match.   I think maybe you played better at the end of the first set, but just couldn't do it in the second.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I mean, first of all I just need to give credit to Novak.   He started really like a champion.   He started really, really great, and didn't give me a chance at all.   
You know, I was just keep trying, keep pushing.   So probably he couldn't even go better before in the first set.   That's why maybe I took some chances in the end of the first set.   
But he just hold it solid and just took over me.   So, yeah, he was just too good for me today.   
   
 Q.   The crowd seemed like they wanted you to win more, they were cheering with you.   We're in the era of the big four.   They're the biggest stars of this sport.   Don't you think it's kind of a backfire, they want a player outside the big four to win more?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I don't know.   I think the crowd was fair.   It was nice.   I was almost full stadium.   No, I think it was really nice.   That's it.   There's not much else to say about it.   
   
 Q.   Why do you think you have such a poor record against Novak?   Why do you struggle against him so much?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, you know, he's a great player.   I think just the game that he's play, you know, it's not the one that suits my game that much.   And basically, I don't know, a few things.   He's the best returning guy on the tour, I would say.   Then his movement on the court is just unbelievable.   Just these two things is quite a lot for my game.   
I like to play quite aggressive, you know, makes the others run.   But this doesn't hurt him that much.   So it's much more difficult for me to play with him.   
That's how it is.   You know, he's right now second player in the world, chasing for the first place.   Actually it's really tough to find the way and have a positive record with him.   Tough opponent.   
   
 Q.   You move on to Abu Dhabi next.   You're going to be part of this development of grass‑roots that they're starting.   Why is it important for you to be part of such a thing?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think it's a part of all things together.   This is the one part.   And the other one is to play the tournament, which is in the end of this year, kind of on the end of the season.   It's beginning of the next season, but it's still this year.   
I think it's a good thing to do.   Let's see.   I'm really looking forward to go there.   It's a nice place to be and have experience.   I hope it's going to be, yeah, successful and they going to enjoy it, like it.   That's always what's the reason.   
   
 Q.   Let's talk about the big four.   Do you think it's positive or negative for the development of the tennis that they won all the Grand Slams and Masters 1000s?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I think this question is going over and over again.   I think it's been said a lot of that.   
Yeah, that's how it is.   We are in the era of tennis that's probably never been that strong.   I don't think it's ever going to be the same.   That's just how it is, you know.   
It's extremely tough to be successful this time because you have those four guys, and the rest is just as tough as they can be.   So, you know, it's really tough right now to win a slam or win the tournament of 1000 series.   
That's how it is, yeah.   They deserve to be there.   They are one of their best in our sport.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   Have you had a chance to enjoy yourself in Shanghai?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   Actually not at all.   I came quite late from Tokyo and then I start to play.   Only Monday was my first day that I didn't had a match.   Then I was keep playing singles, doubles, every day at least one or two matches a day.   So no time at all to do anything besides coming here.   Even the drive is quite long.   There is not much time you can go and do something else.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT