SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 12, 2012
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/J. Tsonga
  6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Talk a little bit about the match today, what you felt you did well to beat Jo. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, well, what was working well for me?   I think it was really solid game and solid performance from beginning until the end.   Yeah, I was feeling quite well on court.   You know, I think the biggest difference between me and Jo was I was able to took the small chances during even the first and especially the second set.   It was not many of them, but I was able to keep it and convert it on my side.   That was just the difference between me and him today, I would say. 

Q.   Tomorrow will either be Novak or... 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, still let's see what's going to happen.   If it's going to be Novak, you know, there is not much else to say about him.   I mean, he's really hungry to keep winning and chasing Roger to become No.1 again.   So, you know, he has a lot of things to play with. 
But me, too, you know.   I'm playing really well so far this week.   I try to bring it for my semifinal again.   Let's see what's going to happen.   He's a great player to play.   Yeah, we are in the semifinal, so just only tough opponents. 

Q.   This year the four Grand Slam winners have been Murray, Nadal, Djokovic and Federer.   They've been talked about for a long time as being out on their own as the top four, then everybody else.   What do you have to do in your game, do you think, to match them consistently?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I would stay with the way what I'm doing.   I believe myself that it is the right way to do it.   You know, I hope that I'm going to be able to lift the trophy at least once in my tennis career, which hope it's going to be in next few years.   That's it. 
You know, try, work hard, and that's it.   Now it's tough to say like what you want to improve, better forehand, better backhand.   It's not about it anymore.   It's just the small details, all the things that have to become well in the right moment. 
I was playing really great in the US Open.   Then come up the match I was playing against Andy, which the conditions was absolutely no playable at all.   Our match was going on, then the next one they just stopped.   So this is kind of things when you see it, you look at it, you say, Well, why it's not me the match that gets stopped and I can continue next day? 
So you also need some luck to do it. 

Q.   Outside of the Grand Slams, are you a fan of the combined events or do you think there's too many?   What's the problem when you're at them, if you have any?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   If I look at it just from my point of view, what I like, then I would say no.   I don't see any advantage for myself, what it's bringing to me.   If you just ask me as a single person, then I say no, I'm not a fan of it.   I would rather just have single events like this one here, many others in the year. 
But, you know, it's some things that not only my reason can change, so let's see what's going to be in the future, if it's going to be more of them or not.   But if it's just by myself, I say no. 

Q.   Obviously your schedule is going to be a little bit more crowded this final push with the Davis Cup.   Talk about the importance of the Davis Cup for you and for the country. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I mean, it's really big thing, you know.   Whole country just lives for that.   It's been 32 years that the Czech Republic, at the time Czechoslovakia, won the Davis Cup title.   It's really long time ago.   Our chance in Spain was very tough, that we lost there in 2009.   Now we are back again in the final playing at home. 
Everything's going to go up for that match.   Even if there is just a small energy left in my body, I'm going to give it there, leave it there, try my best.   Then after that there is off‑season, and I can rest after. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT