U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2012
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/T. Berdych
  5‑7, 6‑2, 6‑1, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How tough were the wind conditions today?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, it was one part of opponent, so it was a really tough one.  
   
 Q.   How did it affect your serve?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, it affects a lot because I have a higher toss.   You know, then when I'm not able to serve, you know, and go for the first serve and not making some points, straight points from the serve, then, you know, that's not my game.  
So actually, it was quite hard to adjust to that, because I'm normally not used to that.   You know, it was really, really tough one.   Yeah, it just happened.   He dealed with that much better than I did.  
   
 Q.   The show must go on, but do you think in this sort of condition the match should be not played, or, I mean, it's impossible because semifinal of a slam, US Open.   What do you think?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I think that our sport deserved to have some rule or if the conditions are like that that, you know, you don't play because of the rain.   We play in Grand Slam in such a big tournament like this one, and especially missing the roof, it's something which should be at least to think about.  
You know, as you said, I mean, we are here in States where they really love show.   Actually, this is not about show.   This is just about somehow to try to deal with the conditions and then trying to put ball over the net.   
Sometimes was even impossible, but that's how it is.  
   
 Q.   The 62 unforced errors, did the wind contribute to that?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, probably did.   Well, probably I made like 62 in all the matches before I get to the semifinals, so I don't see any reason that my game would just crash in that part, you know.   
So it was something what, you know, really affect my game.   But that's how it is, you know.   
   
 Q.   You seemed to make a little bit of an adjustment coming into the net a bit more and found your rhythm.   Do you think you went away from that late?   Should you have continued to push forward a little more?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, probably I should little bit more, because, you know, when you push your opponent and coming often to the net, I mean, it's really hard to play passing shot in this kind of weather condition, you know.   
But also, on the other hand, is also tough, you know, not to make that much mistakes and be aggressive just enough, you know.   
And then of course it's become that I made more mistakes than I normally does.   Yeah, it was something what I want to try to do differently.   
Actually, I made it a pretty good chance with that.   You know, I was quite close in the tiebreak.   Unfortunately didn't make it, you know, so who knows?   Probably we should still be there and playing the fifth set.  
   
 Q.   You just stepped off court; tough loss.   But months from now, will you look back at the US Open this year as an opportunity lost, or will you look at it as a great run with the victory over Federer?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I mean, of course right now it's sad.   Of course I don't like to lose the match, and not the match like this in the semis which I thought that I had a pretty good chance.  
But, you know, I would say that the best word I can say is that the wind blow it away from me.   Yeah, probably in couple of days I can see it positively that I made the semis, played a great match against Roger, and just go forward.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned that you don't think this match should have been played given the conditions.   Was there any conversation with officials about perhaps not playing this match today?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.  
   
 Q.   No?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Nobody cares.  
   
 Q.   How do you think that Andy handled things?   You earlier referenced him handling the conditions a little bit better than you did.   Do you feel that was throughout?   Did he adjust a little bit better, you think?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I think he is the one actually ‑‑well, there is not a player who likes these conditions, but there are some players that, you know, these kind of conditions can suit to their game a bit better than the other ones.  
That's the difference, you know.   Well, yeah, Andy was better in this part definitely, and that's why he actually took the win.  
   
 Q.   The reason why all the Czech and Slovak players always have these huge stars.   You cannot change, you cannot adjust ‑ of course not at the last minute ‑ the Australian player that used the wind, they were always having a low toss.   You all have a very huge, long toss.   There is no way that you can do something about it when you have conditions like this?   I know it's difficult to improvise, but...   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I don't think so.   You know, that's something what you are doing since you are a kid.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, but why all of you?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I don't know.   That's the Czech school probably.   I don't know.   If you look for the Spanish guys, they like to play more Spain more rallies.   Cannot ask why, just you.   
Probably just kind of a part of the game that it belongs to us, and that's it.   
Well, the good thing is that this kind of weather is not quite often, which is at least good.   Well, maybe that's the thing that I can try to improve for the next time.  
   
 Q.   The US Open is over; the Davis Cup is almost beginning.   When will you arrive to Buenos Aires?   What do you think about the series against Argentina?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, as I take my time and, you know, do all my stuff what I need to do here, then I will take a plane and go to Argentina.   So that's about my way.   
And what I think, I mean, we play semifinal of Davis Cup.   We play with extremely tough opponent.   We play in Argentina, which makes the tie even harder, tougher.  
So, you know, we coming again for to play on clay, which gonna be, you know, something what's probably not ‑‑ or most of us doesn't like ‑‑ but that's how it is, you know.   
So try to deal with that, try to prepare for it, and actually on Friday gonna be there.  
   
 Q.   Was there a part of you today that hopes that it keeps raining, that maybe you have to play tomorrow or there might be no wind?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, as I saw the rain in the morning, then, you know, I was like, Why should we come here even for 11:00 when they are expecting the rain, and then we have to wait here until later on?   
Then, you know, coming actually really early, because then if you have to be ready for 11:00 match, then you have to come here like around 8:00, 8:15, which is quite early.  
But, yeah, that's how it is.   I mean, actually, I'm not a big fan of the schedule like this, so I was hoping that probably maybe the rain is going to stay and then maybe tomorrow the conditions could be different.  
But this is just if, if.   Was like that, and that's how it is.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT