U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2012
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/R. Federer
  7‑6, 6‑4, 3‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You must be absolutely delighted with that performance of sheer intensity and power and also mental strength?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I mean, probably there was everything just right today, so that's get up the results or the result what was happening on court.   
Yeah, probably there was not a ‑‑well, not a bad spot.   Of course that I lost the third set.   But, you know, I cannot count on I'm going to be beating Roger in straight sets and not to get in any trouble.   
So, you know, I was always, you know, careful that anything could happen.   Actually, it happened in the third set that, you know, he came strongly back.   
But for that, you know, I'm even more happy with the way that I was able to, you know, hold his pressure and then, you know, add something extra for the fourth set.  
   
 Q.   You always play well against Federer, or almost always against him.   Do you think you match up particularly well with him considering what he is or, I mean, the champion he is?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, it's tough to say, you know.   It's still 11‑5 or something for him.   So, you know, I know, but it's probably the way that, with my game, I'm able to make him some trouble, you know.   That even if he's playing well and then we play a match together, then, you know, probably ‑‑or probably‑‑ there is something in my game that he doesn't like and it makes him a bit struggle, I would say, and maybe bring him out of his comfort zone that he always like to be on court.  
He always like to have a time and he always like to have‑‑ you know, be the one who is dictating the game.   If there is someone different, then someone else who can be in his position, then that's the way I'm, you know, you know, successful in couple of matches with him.   
   
 Q.   How can your game give Andy Murray similarly any trouble?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, there is probably not ‑‑there is probably no secret that I can bring something up, you know, that I will do something differently for my next match.  
It's gonna be the way that, you know, I have a few days off to get ready, to get rest, to prepare again, and, you know, try to keep my game on the same level.   
As I said in the beginning, if my game is well and I'm able to play my game, then I have a quite dangerous game to beat anyone.  
   
 Q.   In the fourth set when he's coming back stronger and the crowd is really behind him, they are cheering on your first serve and when you miss, what's going through your mind?   Do you keep all of this away, or do you feel the pressure on the court?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I just felt it in the end of the third set, you know, where he took the break back.   Then he made another one, you know, and he was really pushing, you know.   
And then, yeah, the set was over.   He still needs two more; I need only one.   I was still in the better position.   That was the way that I was actually mentally ready for that, that I'm still in bigger advantage.   
I just need to stay as close as possible with him.   Either if the crowd is gonna be on his side he's gonna be play well, but whatever is happen, I was just trying to stay close and, yeah, I got a chance.   I made it, and then finish it with my serve.  
   
 Q.   You looked very confident out there.   Where is this coming from?   What's your motivation out there tonight?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   What do you think is the other the kind of motivation I can have?   You know, I play against Roger, one of the greatest players in the world.   I play my first night session match.   I mean, theres thousands of reasons of the motivation, you know.   
That's it, you know.   I mean, that's for me the biggest challenge I can have, and, you know, that's how it is.  
   
 Q.   How much did it hurt when you actually fell over in the fourth set?   Almost a blow to your pride to lose your footing?   You got up and you got your mind right back into it straight after that.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, as long as my hands ‑‑actually you cannot see.   It looks like this.   I don't have the blisters, but quite hard hand.   I was able to, you know, I just scratched a little bit of my hard skin on the hand.  
Then I was quite able to hold the racquet.   Because actually this one could be quite dangerous, because if you make something on your hands then and you cannot hold the racquet.   That could be worse than any other injury.  
So finally I was lucky and, you know, to hold it up and then, you know, to hold my racquet quite well, have a feeling still in that.   You know, I just, yeah, throw it away.   Yeah, it happens.  
But, I mean, it was just one of the incredible shots that Roger make.   So, yeah, it was a good shot from him.  
   
 Q.   How do you consider your year so far?   Before tonight, were you satisfied with the year you had, or now this win makes a sort of big change, in a way, because your first semifinal of the US Open, you beat Federer, and so on?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, if the year would be good or great or I don't know how to say that, then you add in the result like that, then you get a bonus or you get another great result.   (Smiling.)  
I don't know comparing to, let's say, Madrid final or ‑‑ I don't know the other results.   It's tough to say, you know.   It's another one.   It's my semifinal here, which is the first one, and extremely happy for that beating Roger.   That doesn't happen every day.   
So, yeah, this makes the season much, much better, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Has this been a different meaning than the one you had in Wimbledon few years ago when you beat Roger in Wimbledon?   Is this feeling different now compared to this year?   Are you a different player now?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think I'm a different player than the years before.   I would say I'm more experienced than that time.   Well, yeah, actually the situation in Wimbledon was quite similar, especially with the end of the match, you know, where actually I was 5‑4‑up going for the serve.   
The time actually on the changeover was, you know, at that time quite hard for me because it was the first time to beating him on the Grand Slam and that time in Wimbledon.  
But this is the experience what I already learn from it.   This time I made it much better and finish it in the way I did and serving just great.   Yeah, it's a bit different.   It's another match, another tournament.   So, yeah, it comes.  
   
 Q.   There was a moment when he hit a volley and it just dropped in.   Then you turned your racquet around and it looked like you were playing it like a guitar.   Were you as relaxed as you looked at that moment?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah.   You cannot be anything else, you know.   When you play really great shots, really great rally, and then he come up with a shot like that, then, you know, I just give him my credit for that.   
And it was not only this point.   I mean, he did many others like this.   But, yeah, that's Roger.   You know, with him it's not luck.   He really knows, you know, how to hit those shots and actually how to read the situation to make the shot happen.  
Yeah, just, you know, I have to laugh.   There is nothing else to do.  
   
 Q.   You have a good record against Andy, but is he a different player because of what's happened this year in terms of the gold medal and the way he played in the final for the first time rather than not winning a set?   Is he a different proposition for you now?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   We'll see after the match if he's going to be something different or not.  
   
 Q.   Does he appear to be different having Ivan?   He doesn't seem to blow up so much.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well probably he reach the results you said, won the gold medal and has been in the final of Wimbledon, so probably it helps to him a lot.  
But as I said, you know, probably similar to matches with Roger.   You know, even if he's playing well and then, you know, I come up with my game, which probably him doesn't like maybe too much like the other guys, so then, you know, I bring something different and that could be my chance.  
   
 Q.   One of the other big upsets this year was Lukas Rosol beating Nadal at Wimbledon.   Do you think there is something in the Czech mentality that sort of makes you guys less afraid of big wins than other countries?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I just hope you're not comparing me with Lukas Rosol.   Do you?   (Laughter.)  
Q.No, I'm not saying that.   I'm just saying...   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   You did.   You just said that there was a big upset and Rosol will beat Nadal and then you mentioned my match here.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Okay, good.   So first of all, I don't think that we are in the same position, that it's actually that big upset.   But all right, you said that.   
Well, I don't know what else to say.   I mean, is it something wrong that we are from Czech and beating big guys?   No?   Good.   Okay,  
   
 Q.   It's a good thing.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   It's a good thing, yeah.   So, yeah, we will try to do it for next time again.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything that you have done to turn your form around after disappointing results at Wimbledon and the Olympics?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yeah, actually I did.   You know, I took a break after Wimbledon, which, you know, because after the first, I would say, half of the season, which was quite hard for me and I felt quite tired, then, you know, I made it like as a decision.   
Then, you know, always everybody comes, you know, to say that when you're not playing extremely well in the first tournament after that that it was a mistake and why he did that, and, you know, all these things like this way.   
But, you know, I still knew that there was my decision, and that's for my tennis.   You know, I did a good preparation for it and actually that's the results, so, you know, I did it.   I'm happy that I made it, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What's it going to be like not only Andy Murray you're playing against but one of the Czech greats, Ivan Lendl, he will be helping Murray?   What will that be like for you?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I already had that experience from Monte‑Carlo, and since then we didn't play each other.  
So so far when Ivan is with Andy I think we have it 1‑all.   Well, it would be nice to maybe, you know, to get to the lead.   But, you know, I think he's gonna try to do the same.   It's gonna be a nice match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT