U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2012
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/N. Almagro
  7‑6, 6‑4, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What was the key for today?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think the key was the first set, which was really close, especially the tiebreak was deciding in one or two points.   I was the one who made it, and then I start even better in the second set when I get my chance, you know, for the break.  
Yeah, I think the key was definitely the first set.  
   
 Q.   You face Federer now; he had a walkover.   Does it really bother you that he didn't have to play a match today?   Are you any worse for wear?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I just said on court that at least good that I didn't stay that long on court, you know, that I was able to save some energy, as well.  
But, you know, we have a day off.   I think it's going to be fine.   I mean, about him probably he doesn't care at all.   Maybe if I would be in his situation I would be rather to play a match and win it and, you know, keep the rhythm of, you know, one day match, one day off, and then play another one.   
But probably he's gonna be fine with that.   That's how it is.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your matchups with Roger over the years and what you expect when you play him?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, our last actually six matches we played it's 3‑All, so it's a quite nice statistics.   But, you know, this is another one.   We didn't play couple of months.   
In that time, I mean, he played some incredible tennis again.   You know, he won another Grand Slam, become No. 1 again, so, you know, probably is not ‑‑there is no better player at all to play right now, so, yeah, I mean, when I saw the draw in the beginning, it was like, Yeah, that would be the goal to get into play a match with Roger.   
I'm there, so I will try to do my best.   We will see.  
   
 Q.   You had, I don't know, eight or nine matches.   You beat him obviously in Athens and then eight or nine times you lost to him, but it has gotten close lately.   Do you have a different approach now because of that when you play him?   The last few matches have been a lot closer‑ not closer, but at least you've won, as you say, three of the last six.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I mean, last matches it's tough to say if I get closer or not.   I mean, I was able to beat him three times, so whatever situation it was it just happens.   
So he's now strong again and we will see how it's gonna be, but I think it's gonna be quite different match than the matches before.   You know, I'm different player as well.   I'm getting, you know, more experience and, yeah, feeling good.   
So we will see what's gonna happen there.  
   
 Q.   What's the difference with you since Toronto and Cincinnati where you didn't play too well and you seem to be playing a lot better here?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yeah, that's definitely different, you know, from the time there.   But, you know, the season is long.   Yeah, of course it's a goal to be able to keep playing well every week by week, but once it didn't happen, it's just the thing that, you know, you have to deal with that, you know, work hard again, and, you know, win couple of matches and your confidence can get back.   
That's what every tennis player needs.  
   
 Q.   The top three players have won 30 out of the last 31 majors; Del Potro obviously won here.   Is it purely talent?   Is it purely physical?   Is there also a psychological component to it?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I don't think so.   Well, I don't know what could be like psychological thing.   I don't see it.   I mean, they are too good.   I think the statistics just makes it quite clear.   That's how it is.  
I mean, probably if there wouldn't be three of them, would be maybe one or two, it would definitely be different.   But, you know, once one player is on the run winning almost everything, you know, then he get maybe injured or something, then there is another one, you know and he took a spot from him.   
Like Rafa was winning, and next season it was Novak doing the same.   Now Roger is back.   You know, they are quite strong.  
I mean, probably these three great players in, like, let's say one time probably that it would never happen again.   Yeah, that's how it is.   We have to deal with that.   
   
 Q.   Your parents are here.   I see them walking around like tourists having a good time.   Is it enjoyable to have them here for a tournament like this?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, it's really nice.   I mean, they are not able to go to every tournament with me.   You know, they go just few tournaments a year, so this is the one.   Yeah, they definitely enjoy it.   They like to come here.   
You know, I mean, probably doesn't matter on the place in the world.   If you're playing well, then they enjoy it even more.  
So, so far, yeah, I'm doing well.   I hope they can bring me some good luck.  
   
 Q.   They know your tennis since you were a small boy.   Did they ever give you any advice about the way you're playing or something?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, yeah, they spend and give me so much of their time when I was a kid.   It's just because of them that I'm able to sit here and talking after winning matches.  
So, I mean, it wouldn't be on them and they wouldn't give me their free time, I wouldn't play tennis.   Yeah, so that's how it is.   Probably that's the biggest advice or kind of advice that they make.   
   
 Q.   Tomorrow night could be Andy Roddick's last match; he's playing Del Potro.   Could you talk a little about what he meant for the game or means for the game.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I mean, it's another great, great player who's just I would say unfortunately leaving from us.   He made a decision that it's his last tournament.  
We will definitely miss him.   I mean, it was definitely a huge personality and the guy that brings a lot for our sport and makes so many great results, probably all that you can achieve in tennis.   
Yeah, his career was just successful enough and probably he deciding in the right moment, but only he knows when it is.   So just I can wish him all the best for the forward what he's gonna do and we will miss him.   
   
 Q.   Does your shirt say NSW?   Does it stand for New South Wales?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, no, no.   I get many questions, especially when I saw Lleyton.   He was like, Oh, yeah.   So, no, no, it's not like that.   It's like Nike Sportswear or something.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT