U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2012
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/D. Goffin
  7‑5, 6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You faced 18 break points and you won 16 of them.   How did you do that?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Sorry?   18 break points?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, there were 18 break points against you and you won 16.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, there is a day that it could go this way, and then there could be the day that, you know, let's say the other way and you have 20 break points and you open make one.   It's how it is.  
No, I mean, it's a good point and good statistic for me.   Yeah, you know, these guys, you know, I think he has a pretty good future ahead of him.   If he just gonna stay to do what he's doing, then I think, you know, we can see him in the future quite high.  
   
 Q.   He won 21 of his points at rushing net, and I know last year Llodra was rushing all the time and gave you more problem than it did this year.   You seem to be more comfortable dealing with someone who is pressuring you by coming to net.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   You just mention Michael, you know, but it's two completely different players.   It's no way to compare them.   
But, yeah, I mean, he's really talented the way what he can play.   He can play long rallies from the back, he can come up to the net; then playing, you know, very smart on the net.   Yeah, he has many options to do that.   
But, yeah, I mean, probably for me today it was just more, you know, more experience and more, yeah, situations that I played.   Yeah, it's still a difference.  
   
 Q.   You had a tough loss in Winston‑Salem.   When you have a loss like that, does it take a long time to process it mentally, and is it important to have a good match like today to overcome that?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   If it would take long time then probably wouldn't make it today as I did, you know.   Because if something like that stays with you for a long time, then you are not able to play with a guy like this and be able to win actually in straight sets.  
So, no.   And I would even say that I had the experience from the match like that that happened to me last year in London for quarterfinals where I was match point up against Djokovic and I lost the match.   
Actually in the end it was probably a good thing.   It gives me some kind of, you know, even more like a will to go.   I was able to qualify from the group and then actually lost in the semifinals.  
So yeah, I probably get even more like to be even more hungry to go and play and try to win more matches.  
   
 Q.   In essence we know that Roger Federer is great, Rafa is great, Novak is great.   People talk about you like you could be with those guys at any time.   When you look in the mirror, can you see what you're missing from being in that group and being able to win your first major?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, on one hand it's very far; on the other one it's quite close, you know.   
It's really tough to say.   You know, if someone knew it, then, you know, probably he would be the guy that everyone would be coming to him and asking what's to do and what is the best thing, you know.   
That's how it is, you know.   I'm doing what I think is the best.   I'm trying to do it every day, work hard and, you know, hopefully one day I can say that, yeah, actually that was the best thing what I could make and maybe it happens; maybe not.  
I mean, the majors are not for everyone.   This time it's just probably for three guys.   Yeah, it's how it is.   We are probably in the best era of our sport.   Yeah, that's how it is.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel in your heart that you're close?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah.   I mean, on one hand it's close, but, you know, I mean, probably would be close enough if I would be playing with them more finals or something.  
But I don't know what's Andy maybe saying.   He played so many finals and didn't win one yet, so probably maybe that's even worse that he's really close and he still couldn't make one.   It is just something to talk about.  
   
 Q.   If there was one thing that you could improve to make you the fourth out of four, what might it be?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   It's tough to say.   You can always improve many things.   I don't know if only one thing is enough to get you there.  
   
 Q.   Let's just say hypothetically there was one thing that you could do.   What would you do?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Probably would take the consistency of those guys, consistency of the winning.   
   
 Q.   You won a fair number of points today going to net.   Is this part of your game?   Is it just a reaction to him going to net?   I don't remember the exact number of points you won rushing the net, but you did win several, you know, quite a number.   Is that part of your game that is developing, or do you still regard yourself as more of a baseline player?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, no.   This is a part of the game that I definitely need to have in my whole game.   There are matches and players that you can use it more often or tactically it's a good thing to do.   Then you're going to get a player that actually you're not going to get many points that you can come to the net probably that often.  
No, I mean, now it's more about to be really like complex player.   Probably these days about the top 10 guys you cannot say about one that he's only baseline player, he's only one who's coming to the net, he's the only one who's serving well, you know.  
Today actually basically you have to be good in all the aspects, and then probably have a chance.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT