MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 21, 2012
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych
  4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Tomas.   
   
 Q.   How difficult were the conditions today?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I think that the conditions were pretty tough.   I would say, you know, sometimes you can play when it's windy.   But actually this kind of wind was kind of like there was circles around.   You never know from where it's gonna come.   
Actually this one, for my game, it was just, you know, a bit of killer because I like to play aggressive.   These kind of conditions doesn't help at all.   
But anyway, it was quite solid game for the conditions they were on the court.   
   
 Q.   You look like a different player compared to two years ago, one year ago, in the way you play.   You have or chances, more things to do, you don't play the same in the court.   What happened?   What is the reason?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, the reason is that I'm working hard, working hard with my coaches, trying to improve my game, and that's it.   It doesn't happen just in one day, so it needs some time.   
When I was playing, you know, and my game was something different and I was doing it for many years, it's not going to change in a few days.   
So I'm happy that it works, that it's changed.   That's the way how to keep the position, how to keep with the top guys.   So far I'm, I would say, successful.   But still there is a place for improvement, but that's what I need to work on.   
   
 Q.   And you go more on the ranking?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, that's part of it, as well.   So, yeah, I mean, it's quite many things from the past, and that's it.   If you gonna stay on the same line, you're going to stay on the same line in the rankings.   You have to change, you have to improve, you have to do something new, better, and that's it.   
Everybody does the same.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel that Novak got himself more focused in the second and third sets?   What was the difference in his level of play?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I don't know what was difference.   I think it was just small pieces of difference.   I don't know how to say it.   
But in the beginning of the second set, I had like five breakpoints.   He had one.   He made it, it was 3‑Love.   It could easily be 2‑1 with a break for me, and it was completely other way.   So it's tough to say what was different.   I think he was playing pretty much the same.   
But, as I said, the wind doesn't help at all to my game.   But it's the same for both of us.   I have to deal with that.   That's how it is.   
First set, beginning of the second set, I had a feeling I was even better from the rallies, which is not every time with him.   I was beating him from the rallies.   
But, you know, it just change a bit with the conditions.   I didn't keep with that.   Him, yes.   So that was probably the difference.   
   
 Q.   Could you be more precise in the way you are disadvantaged because of the conditions.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   
   
 Q.   Why was it a disadvantage for you and not for Novak?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Actually I didn't say it's a disadvantage.   
   
 Q.   You say it disadvantaged your game.   In what ways?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   It doesn't fit my game.   That's what I already said.   My game is to be much more aggressive, play a bit riskier than him, than Rafa, and maybe Murray.   So when I have to play that aggressive, I mean, when the wind starts to blow, then it takes the ball and I starts to make mistakes.   Actually, that's it.   
Of course, I should be able to change the game.   But this is not that easy.   I mean, you have some game what you playing, what is successful, what is successful in the first set, what is successful with Murray, so I want to keep with that.   
But, yeah, that's how it is.   That's the sport.   Novak has a different game.   Every player is different.   That's how it is.   
   
 Q.   When you finish a tournament like this, beating Murray, playing better from the back of the court, which feeling do you have inside yourself?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, of course, I mean, I'm sad to lost the semifinal, not to play another final.   But, you know, after some times of course I will take some positives from what was working well and also try to see some things that didn't work that good and try to improve that.   
But I think the feeling is going to be really I would say good, solid.   It was the first week on the clay.   I have a semis from here.   So, yeah, just gives me some good feeling for the rest and for the next tournament.   
   
 Q.   When you compare the last two matches you played, do you think there's a difference in Murray being further back in positioning?   Is that a big difference between him and Novak?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, actually it is.   Still, you can see the difference, that Novak is a bit ‑ I don't know how to say ‑ is higher.   His game is still better.   That's actually why he's No.1 in the world.   
Yeah, there is many things that Novak does better, and that's why he's in that position.   
   
 Q.   If Nadal qualifies, who is your pick for tomorrow?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Whatever, Nadal.   
   
 Q.   No?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I said Nadal.  
   
 Q.   Why?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I don't know.   I just pick one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT