MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 20, 2012
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/A. Murray
  6‑7, 6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   How do you feel winning this match?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I feel great.   I mean, actually the first set was really close.   I had, yeah, a couple of chances, breakpoints, set points, and didn't make it. 
But, yeah, I had a good feeling that I'm playing well and that I want to stay there as long as I can, make him run.   The last point counts.   That was important.   It was for my side.

Q.   It's a good start for you on clay. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I was a bit lucky.   I had an advantage to play Davis Cup on clay.   I already played three matches on clay before I came here.   So it was a good start. 
So for me it's not a first matches to play on clay here, which was an advantage.   I'm happy that I'm well‑used and well‑prepared for the play. 

Q.   There is a slogan that says now about the Fabulous Four.   Don't you think it should be about the Fabulous Five?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   So far I'm not at the fifth position yet.   My top was the sixth position. 
It's tough to say, you know.   I think those three guys are really, really on top and they really deserve to be there. 
Well, I think Andy is missing some small thing, too, from those three guys, and that's probably the reason why he's fourth. 
But, yeah, I have a good game to beat him.   I did it a couple of times.   Yeah, I'm trying to do my best to move and get higher positions. 

Q.   Once you were considered just a player who could play very well on hard court, maybe on grass.   Clay was probably not your favorite surface, even if you were born on clay.   Is it changing?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, no, I wouldn't say that the clay is not one of my favorites.   I think only if somebody gives me the question and I have to say one surface, then I'm kind of forced to say something faster, you know. 
But, as you said, I born to play on clay courts.   I have a good results.   I won a title on clay.   I have semis from Roland Garros and already my second semifinal from here. 
I don't see it as kind of the worst surface.   My advantage is that I can play on everything, and that's it.

Q.   If you have to pick your favorite surface to play the best match of your life, where would you go?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I would go grass (smiling). 

Q.   Tomorrow you will play against Djokovic.   How do you think you will manage the rivalry with him?   Will you have some rituals, some particular way to approach this match?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Did he won already? 

Q.   He was winning.   He had a match point. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   It's sport, so you never know. 
I'm going to do everything same like I did before every game.   So nothing changes.   You know, it's a day to play the No.1 player in the world, which is always great.   It's a semifinal, which is fantastic. 
But still, you know, I want to play my best tennis and I want to do well.   That's it.   I just want to focus for myself and do the best on court.   The last time I played him, I was just one point to beat him and finish it.   Didn't happen.   So now could be another try. 

Q.   I don't want to embarrass you with a private question, but how different is it to have a girlfriend who was a tennis player compared to a girlfriend who is not a tennis player in terms of practicing or organizing your life?   Do you see a difference or not?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Actually, yes, I see big difference.   I mean, in the past I was saying that it's probably the best thing just that we are both from the same thing.   I didn't have any other experience. 
But now I can say that this one is way better because, you know, I think it was too much tennis.   If you do it like myself, and I'm dealing with everyday work that you have to play, practice, organize this stuff, then winning, losing, handle this situation, it's quite tough to have it from one side.   If you have to deal with the same thing from the other side, it was quite too much. 
So I'm really enjoying that, that it's different, that I met somebody with a different life.   It's a nice experience. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT