DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
March 1, 2012
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/T. Berdych
  6‑3, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   In brevity, what was your take on that call on match point?   It clearly annoyed you.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I mean, that's how it is.   This is tennis.   That's why we have a Hawk‑Eye, and that's actually how he can ‑‑ you know, how you can judge that the call is late.   
Didn't affect me when he served like 215 first serve and the linesman call it out.   Then Andy was not happy with the call, take a challenge.   Actually, I just hit the ball into the net.   It was not an ace.   I mean, if we look at all the rule books we going to see that if it's not a clear ace there is a repeat of point actually.  
I have no idea what Mohamed did.   As I said, I mean, he is the best referee on tour.   I never had anything like that with him.   Actually, I was so shocked when he said this one.   I mean, yeah, you can be trying serving five match points on his serve, and then when you have a break point and he just give you like this from the back, you know, you don't fight with Andy, but you just get the second from him.  
   
 Q.   What was Mohamed's explanation to you?   How did he justify it?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   He just said that ‑‑ actually, the call was so late that it didn't affect me.   When Andy took a challenge and it shows that it's good, then it's his point, you know.   
   
 Q.   Are you saying it did affect your return?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Actually, this is not the point of the problem, you know.   The problem is that when the linesman call it out and it's not a clear ace‑ which wasn't.   I mean, I just hit the ball into the net because I heard it out, then he cannot give a point to him.   
Even if he take a challenge and the ball is good.   That's why we have a challenge to repeat the point.   Because the linesman wasn't right; the challenge show it's good; then should be two points.   
I have no idea where he find out that it's the point for him.   No, I never seen that.  
   
 Q.   Why didn't you call for the supervisors?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Actually I was asking for it.  
   
 Q.   They wouldn't let you have it?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Actually he said that he cannot change it because it is his judge.   What can I do?   I mean, whatever he says, then he's right.   I mean, that's the problem actually.   
You know, because actually the supervisor should be on court and he should see the situation.   Actually, that's why.   You know, when the players make a mistake, he has no chance to‑‑ you know, he get whatever, point penalty, penalty, whatever, fined, everything.  
But when the referee makes a mistake there is no other excuse.   He just said, Yeah, that's how it is.   I'm not saying anything wrong against Mohamed.   As I said, I never had a better referee than him, but this I was shocked actually.   
   
 Q.   Obviously after he served again it must have affected the rest of the way.   Must have been thinking about it the rest of the match.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I mean, of course you're just trying to stay on court.   You know, you save some match points, you get into the score, you get a break point back, and ‑‑   of course, I mean, he could hit an ace and it would be deuce and no problem.   He can hit another three aces and it's over.   That's how it is.  
But when the point end up like this, actually this is something what actually you don't expect at all, you know.   You just trying to be focus on the game and go point by point, and then something like that came and you know you are right.   What you can do?   
I was at least trying to focus back, to not lost straightaway the points, try to fight again.   But this quite affect for the concentration and to be really focus back again on court.   
But that's how it is.   Whatever.   
   
 Q.   Will it bother you as you go back home after the tournament?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, no.   It's just now.   It's more like I said, a dumb shot than it's going to be‑‑ no, I mean, it's going to be away in few hours.   You know, I'm just going to try to learn from the mistakes from my game, not from this.  
This point didn't cost me the whole match.   But actually, that's what I just said.   It was just a bit, you know, something what I was actually not expecting at all.  
   
 Q.   What did you think of the match overall?   What was your verdict?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, actually it wasn't one of the good matches from me.   I was quite struggling with my serve.   With a player like Andy, it's tough.   
You know, you have to serve well then to be winning at least easier your service games and then have some chance to make some more pressure on his serve, you know, try to build only break points and some chances.   
Actually I was struggling and was fighting so much on my serve, and that was actually the problem of all match.  
But, yeah, I mean, there was definitely a place for improvement.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT