DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 29, 2012
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/L. Lacko
  6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Talk to us about the match.   You did very well. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, actually the score looks pretty easy.   The match went, yeah, actually quite well.   But still, wasn't that happy with my especially the serve. 
But, you know, the other hand, I was facing so many break points but was able to return all of them and won all of the games.   Only one I lost my serve.
So, yeah, actually it was a solid game.   But the good thing is I have enough to improve for tomorrow. 

Q.   These conditions ‑ fast courts, hot weather ‑ is that good for you?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, like it.   It's not many places in the world to get these fast conditions.   You know, it's the tournaments getting slower and slower.   I mean the surfaces. 
And, yeah, here it's a little bit different, but actually I like it.   I'm fine of it.   So, yeah, I'm enjoying to play here.

Q.   Now you play Murray next.   You're 3‑1 against him and he hasn't beaten you since 2005. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, actually, the statistics is one thing, and what's going to happen on court is the other one, so... 
Well, yeah, when I saw the draw I was really pointing my finger to this match, that I would like to get there and to play with Andy, because the matches like this, it's always great.   That's why I play tennis.   And to face him in the quarters, it's a nice challenge to go. 
Yeah, the last one we been playing together was really, really tough one and really good match, so looking forward to that.

Q.   You obviously remember that match in Bercy.   It was close, very close, wasn't it?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah.   Well, I mean, as I just said, to play best‑of‑three sets and we play over three hours, like 3.30, 3.40, something like that, so it doesn't happen every time.
So it was really close one.   I think I just get only one break point in the third set, and I took it.   Then I've been able to keep my serve and finish it up.   So it was really good one, and that's why I'm looking forward to the next.

Q.   You haven't played yet on center court this week, right?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   (Shakes head no.)

Q.   Tomorrow you will be playing.   Does it make a difference for you that it's a bit slower?   Would you prefer that?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I hope I'm going to get a chance to go warm up tomorrow before the matches.   Probably looks like we can play at 2:00, which could be a good timing for it.
So, yeah, I will see how it is, but I don't see that it's going to be much difference.   I think just why it looks slower is maybe the court is visually maybe bigger than the outside courts, so that makes it faster.
We will see.   I've played here many times.   I played many times on center court, so should be fine. 

Q.   Much is made of the top 4, the big 4 in tennis at the moment.   Now, you're right behind them, snapping at their heels.   Do you sometimes get the feeling that the likes of you and Ferrer and Jo‑Willy are overlooked a little bit? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, it's tough to say, you know, because when you look at the results, it's going to be still about those four guys.   If we going to be able to, you know, step there a little bit often and, you know, take some titles from them, then I think we going to get the right, you know, view and everything.
But still, you know, they are just too strong.   They're able to hold it for all the year, which that's the biggest strength of them.   It's not the way that I'm not able to beat one of them ‑ Jo, Federer, whoever else, Del Potro ‑ but the difference is still that they're able to keep it for a whole year.
That's why they are really on top.

Q.   You've beaten I think almost all of them. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   All of them, yeah.

Q.   What does it take for you to win a Grand Slam?   You can beat all the top players. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Actually, that's what I said, you know.   I think these days it's really tough time to be in the‑‑ actually, yeah, one thing is tough time to be in this era of the tennis. 
Because let's say if you look at my draw in Melbourne, I was playing quarters with Rafa; if I beat Rafa, then I need to beat Murray; then in the final I get to‑‑ actually, whatever.   Then I played the final with Djokovic. 
So I need to beat three of them to win a Grand Slam, which is ‑‑ one thing could be also to get some luck, you know.   Maybe if you get in the side of the draw you're not going to face them, maybe.   But they are really consistent to be there.
But, you know, I'm trying my best every day to actually get that goal and catch maybe one of the Grand Slam titles.   That would be enough for me.

Q.   Do you think you're a better player now than when you reached the Wimbledon final?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Of course.   I mean, it's the way of getting all the experience and, you know, get some results from that.   You know, sometimes the experience are good; sometimes they're bad.   You have to know how to learn from it.
Yeah, actually, I'm going my way and improving hopefully week by week. 

Q.   This season you already have a title; you've done great in Australia.   Do you feel that the start of the season is a bit stronger than before?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, the start of the season was very different than the years before that I had.   It was close by the last year, or end of the last year which was very busy, you know, so preparation and the start of the year was different. 
But actually, it was a good choice to do it.   As you said, it was a stronger start.   Actually strongest I ever had.   So, yeah, healthy.   Hopefully it's going to stay for a whole season and I will be able to go week by week and get some good results.

Q.   Would you like have to more fast surfaces on the tour like this her in Dubai?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Actually I'm a fan of it, so, yes.   If there would be only my voice which could decide, then I will be for it, yes.

Q.   Also, you beat Murray at Roland Garros in 2010.   Slow, slow that day. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   It was very slow.   It was rainy, it was a delay, and it was tough conditions, but... 

Q.   You won in straight sets.   What do you remember about that match beyond what you just said? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, well, actually just more memories I still have from the one from Bercy.   But this one was quite‑‑ not quite far ago, but, you know, many matches since that time I've played.
Yeah, actually it was the first time I get to the semis in the Grand Slam.   You know, I've seen it actually like a good, kind of a good draw to play Andy on clay, which I don't think is his best surface to go.
But you still need to beat the No. 4 player in the world, which is not easy on any kind of surface.   But, you know, as I just mean that it's not his favorite. 
So it was a great game.   It was tough to stay really focused on court, because as I said, was raining, delay, and everything.   That's the worst you can get in tennis, which it doesn't go.
Yeah, I take it a bit better than him and won in straight sets, yes. 

Q.   And now Andy is being coached by your hero. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   (Smiling.)   Actually, I never had one name that I would say is my hero.   Many people just giving me the name of Ivan to my mouth that he's a countryman and just few really similar things.   But he's still legend with many, many Grand Slams and great results, so I'm still so far, far from him.
So, yeah, you know, actually I would like it that Ivan would be here to see or match.   But, no, he's not here, so maybe it's going to be next time.

Q.   He's given you little bits of advice over the years, hasn't he?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Actually we just had a few talks, talks like after those semis and Paris, final in Wimbledon.   Because, you know, as we see there a little bit often after this and we just talk, but nothing like...

Q.   Coaching?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, no.   Definitely not.   No. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT