BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 25, 2011
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/D. Ferrer
  3‑6, 7‑5, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Are you now feeling that you're more mentally capable of fighting from these tough situations and getting back from adversity compared to a few years ago?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes, of course.   I'm happy that my game has progressed, which is good.   It shows in the ranking and all the results.   So that's one of the aspects that improved in my game and I'm able to fight back, you know, win the tough matches, that I'm able to fight those matches back. 
I'm happy for this improvement in my game.   That's what I need.   That was something what I was looking for. 

Q.   Was there a point during the game that you thought you could go all the way?   And also what are your thoughts about the Davis Cup final? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, the turning point, I think it was just the one that I made the set point and won the second set, because all the time before I was down, you know, coming up.   When I made the second set, it just gives me a lot of confidence, energy. 
I starts to feel really great on court, made the first fast break, which helps me as well.   I was playing really well and ended up quite straight in the third set. 
About the Argentina, I said it already in the beginning.   As I see Rafa, actually maybe he didn't play his best year.   But actually I know what he's able to do on clay.   I think he's going to be really strong. 
If we look up for David, which had two great matches before this one, and I think he was playing really well today, as well.   You know, he might be a bit tired, but I think he also love to play on clay, especially in Spain. 
I think it's going to be a real, real tough one.   I think that Spain is the favorite and they're going to win. 

Q.   When you see the way that Roger has been playing this week, can anyone stop him?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, so far I don't care.   I still have one match to go to be maybe the one to try it.   So I just need to focus on myself and try to do well tomorrow night.   If I'm going to do well, then probably the question is going to be on place. 
But why not?   I mean, that's the nice about this sport, that you can have three great matches and one day maybe you didn't sleep well or something, just a small thing that actually doesn't feel like you want, and it can goes the other way. 
Hopefully it's not going to happen to him, but that's just a possibility what could happen and then the results could be different. 
But, yeah, he's strong.   He's playing really well.   Yeah, as I said in Paris, I mean, that's the old Roger, that he was winning almost everything during the year.   It's going to be tough one. 

Q.   Did you find it difficult being the second match, knowing it was all in your hands?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   I just look at the score and I see that Janko won.   Yeah, they just told me that I need to win anyway.   If also Novak won, has to be in two sets or something.   I don't like this counting, so I don't even look at that. 
For me doesn't change anything.   Even that would be nice to end up the season winning the match.   Unfortunately if I wouldn't go through... 
But it's still better to end up winning.   This is better.   I won.   I won the group.   Perfect. 

Q.   You're playing Jo in the semifinals.   How do you look upon that match?   What will be the deciding factor?   You beat him a couple of months ago in China. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, it's going to be definitely different match than the three previous ones.   You know, all those three guys likes to play long rallies, fighting a lot, really wants to stay long on court. 
I think Jo is different.   He likes to play aggressive.   He likes to vary the game.   Great‑serving guy.   It's going to be way different.   That's the good about it, that not all the matches are same, all the opponents are different. 
Just need to rest, prepare for it.   Of course, I mean, all the last experience, memories, are positive because I beat him last time in Beijing.   That's it.   That's what I needs to build on.   We both playing well this week, so looking forward. 

Q.   The only match you lost, you had a match point.   That means you feel in great shape?   Also, when you have to play a player like Tsonga who is attacking you, does it bother you or not?   You prefer normally to play players that you can easily take the initiative or it doesn't make any difference? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, for the first, yeah, I mean, I'm feeling good, as I said before I came here.   I'm in different shape, different position than last year, feeling really good.   It just turned up almost to almost win three matches out of three, but only win two.   Qualify or went through to the semis, which is the important thing. 
No, I mean, pretty much I don't care what the opponent is doing.   I mean, of course it's going to be tough.   It could happen we could play three tiebreak sets and it could just decide maybe one or two points, could be completely different matches than all those previous ones.   Maybe not. 
That's what's nice about it, you don't know what is going to happen and you needs to be ready for everything. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT