BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 23, 2011
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/J. Tipsarevic
  2‑6, 6‑3, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You missed a match point the other day.   You saved one today.   Do you enjoy the drama out there?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah.   One point, yes, definitely.   I mean, that's the best about the tennis, that it's not over until the last ball is, you know, bounced twice or whatever, is in the net.   
So, yeah, I think that's really nice about the sport.   That's what I like.   
But the other way, yeah, I mean, I was a bit unlucky on Monday.   I got luckier here.   So, you know, 1‑All.   Still there is a good chance to play one on Friday and to have a good chance to qualify and go through.   So we will see.   
   
 Q.   What were your emotions like when you had to face another tiebreak that was going to determine the outcome?   A few more butterflies perhaps than normal?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, actually before the tiebreak I was feeling pretty good, I would say pretty confident.   Last few games that I was serving was kind of quick, easy.   I was serving well, feeling well on serve.   I was coming up really confident for the tiebreak.   I mean, did not think about what was happening the last time.   
But, yeah, as long the tiebreak went, it was really close.   Then, you know, I mean, I was a good position again, serving up, facing match point down.   So, you know, that's what I said, it's nice about it.   One day it's like that, the other is opposite.   
So, yeah, good to have it like this.   
   
 Q.   Was it quite difficult to prepare for that match?   You thought you were going to be facing Andy Murray today.   How did you actually go about that?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I mean, I had enough time to be prepared.   I mean, I got the note or the information that Andy is pulled out I would say quite early.   I got it the day before in the afternoon.   So it's enough time to be ready for it.   
You know, sometimes you could have it like you play the tournament, you just preparing for your first round, first match, and all of a sudden there is another guy that is going to come up on the court.   
This one was really enough time to be ready for it.   Just doesn't affect me at all.   
   
 Q.   Your second year in a row in the London finals.   Can you talk about how you draw experience from last year that makes you feel more comfortable, settled and play your best tennis this year?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, sure, as I said already before I came here, it's completely different year for me, even coming to London again.   I just made it for a second straight year, which I'm really happy for.   I think this year was ‑ tough to say ‑ maybe even tougher than the year before, because you need to defend your position.   That's what I did.   
And especially the results right before coming here was way better than the last year.   So my form and feeling on court was definitely better.   You know, I already show it in the first match all the way until the end that I was feeling good on court.   Today was pretty much the same.   
So I think my tennis is really, really good.   I'm experienced well from the last year, know what the matches are a bit different than regular tournaments.   
So, yeah, just enjoying to play.   Going to keep fighting for try to go through.   
   
 Q.   You've struggled against Tipsarevic in the past.   Obviously you beat him in Paris.   What is it about him that makes him so difficult?   What are you doing differently at the moment?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yeah, I mean, his game is really solid, you know.   That's the way I would say modern these days tennis.   It's not only that you know how to play aggressively, but you have to really know how to play defense, to be really covering the court from the both sides.   And that's all what he's doing.   
He has no, like, weakness in none of the shots.   Forehand, backhand is really pretty much the same.   He can also make really a lot of damage from his backhand side, which is good for him.   So he's a really, really solid player, you know.   
For me what I changed, it's tough to say.   Both of the matches were really close.   Even that I won two sets in Paris, the match, I was 5‑1 down and I turn it up.   You know, I think all the matches with him is going to be really close and I'm going to be really needs to fight to win.   But that's how it is.   I mean, he's the ninth player in the world, so it deserve to be like that.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you are underestimated as a player?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Tough to say.   I don't know who's gonna be judging that or saying that.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you get perhaps an unfair crack of the whip because so much is written about the top four that perhaps people don't appreciate the quality of the players who are between five and eight and nine?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I mean, that's probably‑‑ that's the one side of these days tennis.   I mean, if you look at the top 10 and you have those three guys that, you know, they are challenging for like the history records.   One guy, it's making it four years.   The other next two years.   Then Novak came with his record‑winning streak.   This is really tough.   
The years before it never happened like that.   There was maybe one guy that did it, you know, and then when the generation changed it was another one.   So then all the others were more seen, more on the table.   But now this one is really tough.   
But I think it's more a question for you guys.   I mean, I cannot change pretty much nothing.   I'm just doing what I can on court and trying to play best I can and winning as many matches as possible and we see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT