BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 21, 2011
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych
  3‑6, 6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Tomas. 

Q.   How are you feeling after that match, particularly having a match point and being a break up in the third?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, I was expecting this question.   But how you can ask that?   How can I feel after a match like that? 
I'm feeling really disappointed, and that's it. 

Q.   You hopefully get the chance to play Andy on Wednesday.   What are your thoughts going into that match?   How keen are you for him to be fit to play after his injury?   You obviously beat him in Paris.   I'm sure you'd go in with confidence of beating him again. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, this is too quick after this match to be thinking what's going to be on Wednesday.   So, yeah, I just need to get through this, through this feeling.   Probably tomorrow I'm going to start to think what's going to be on Wednesday. 

Q.   Do you feel like you missed your chances or do you feel it was his good play that won the match in the end?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I mean, it's everything.   It's like, you know, I had a match point, I had a break up in the third set, and I did something on the match point which I couldn't change it now.   Probably I would try to do the same if I would have a match point again. 
So maybe I was too risky.   But that's how I play.   That was my chance to end up the match.   You know, so it's just tough to say. 

Q.   Were you nervous during the tiebreak?   Do you think that's one of the reasons you maybe tried too hard?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   I mean, as long as the match goes, then I don't think that any of us just feel like a nerve or to be nervous.   You know, it could be maybe in the beginning that you come into the match, not you don't know what to expect, but of course the beginning is so tougher. 
But as long as the match starts, of course there is some pressure if you are a break up, breakpoint, whatever, but it's nothing about to be nervous. 

Q.   Tomas, you took the world No.1 to his limit.   You don't look too far ahead.   If you could take that form into the Grand Slams next year, do you think you could possibly challenge at the Australian Open or at Wimbledon?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I mean, now to be talking about Australian Open or anything in future in the next season is really far to go.   I have no idea what to say now. 
But, I mean, of course, that's why I'm always come to the tournament.   I want to do well.   I want to go as far as I can.   You know, if I'm going to keep playing even better than I did today, then I think there's a chance. 

Q.   Speaking more generally about playing Andy, you've beaten him the last three times you played him.   Do you think your game matches well against him?   Do you like playing against him? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Tough to say.   I mean, Andy's a great player.   Yeah, especially last match was really one of the best I played this year.   You know, it was really nice match.   It was just deciding in one, two points.   I was a bit luckier in the end. 
You know, it could go the same way today.   But, yeah, for Wednesday, we see.   I need to just get this feeling out, which I have tomorrow, and we will see. 

Q.   You had such great support out there.   Did you know you had so many fans in London?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, actually it was a pretty nice thing and pretty nice feeling that I came to the arena.   I felt all the support from the Czech guys and the Czech people, which was really nice. 
Actually, I didn't expect that.   So that was just great from them, that so many people wants to come to see me.   I mean, I'm just even more sad that it would be nice end up of the evening to give them the winning match. 
But, you know, that's the sport.   That's what's happen.   And I hope they not going to get ‑ I don't know ‑ tired of that, and that they're going to come again on Wednesday.

Q.   You can take a lot of positives from this performance.   It's a round robin system, as you look ahead to the next two games. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I don't know what I can take positive from this game.   I mean, probably could be something.   But the first thing is going to be definitely to starts to forget it as quick as possible as I can and be ready for Wednesday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT