CHINA OPEN
October 8, 2011
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/J. Tsonga
      6-4, 4-6, 6-1

     THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Tomorrow in the final, what is your tactic against your opponent? 
     TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, it's a strange question, but we go really quick for the next day. All right. Well, tomorrow, I mean, I just came from the court from the semifinal, so let me enjoy that a little bit. But, okay. 
     So tomorrow, yeah, playing Marin Cilic, it's another tough opponent. We played couple matches against each other. I remember few years ago in Shanghai very close one; then from semifinal of Davis Cup, again five sets both for my side.
     So I'm expecting really tough one tomorrow. He's playing well. He get to the final as me. So about the tactics, actually I'm not going to say anything here because he could get it and he could be prepared for it. 
     Only thing I can say is that I will try to do my best on court as I did in those previous matches. That's it. You know, bring my best game because it's the last game of the tournament. That's what I want to do tomorrow. 

 Q. (Through translation.) In today's match, what do I think is the toughest for you? 
     TOMAS BERDYCH: Which match? 

 Q. Today's match. What do you think is the toughest for you? 
     TOMAS BERDYCH: Between which matches? In this tournament or...

 Q. This match. What's the most difficult part in today's match against Tsonga?
     TOMAS BERDYCH: Thank you. Well, the most difficult part, I would say that was the end of second set. I think I was in pretty good chance. I had a break point to break his serve. I, you know, made a close shot to the baseline; unfortunately it was out. The linesman called it good. 
     With the call of the linesman it would be break for me and then I would be serving to the end of the match. But, you know, with the option of the Hawk-Eye, just the ball was slightly in the out, which, you know, makes I would say my concentration a bit not that sharp for the rest of the game. Then it just makes that I lost the game, lost the set. That was quite a tough moment for me. 
     But the other hand, I started really well in the third set and then break him twice and won 6-1, which I'm really happy for it. 

 Q. As a top player, you just enter your first final in seven tries this season. Talk about in your mind what's the reason to make the players so difficult to play final with today's competition in the men's tennis? 
     TOMAS BERDYCH: Will, if I knew the recipe what to do and how to do it more often in the tournaments, I would wish to know that and wish to do it almost every time that I can do it.
     First of all, I'm happy that I can have really good consistency of my results, which means, as you said, quite a lot of quarterfinals, semifinals, and then finally I have some final for this season. Still one match to go, so I'm really looking forward to that one.
     This match could really change my season from good season to really good season. So, you know, that's just the one thing what I'm looking forward for tomorrow. That's it. 
     I mean, these days competition is really, really tough one. We have four guys that dominating our sport. This year there's just the only one that is winning slams, winning all the tournaments. Pretty much every week that he came he win.
     You know, that's a tough situation. But, you know, we are here waiting for our chances; the chance was here. None of them was coming for this week, and I'm happy that I can take this chance to be in the final.

 Q. Czech will be one of the eight teams to compete in Hopman Cup in Perth next year. Can you talk about that?
     TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, that's going to be the start of my season for the next year. I'm going to start with Petra Kvitova to play as Czech team for Hopman Cup. It's going to be my third time I think to play in Perth.
     I think it's just a great start of the season. For me, it's a really nice situation and opportunity to play with the last Wimbledon champion, which it's not happening every day. I think we can make a strong team. You know, I'm really looking forward to that week. I always like the team competitions, even if was in juniors, Davis Cup. 
     Anything I played for the Czech Republic was always a pleasure to play. So would be nice to have a title from that event.

 Q. Are you going to play the Olympics with Petra? 
     TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, that's kind of a possible option for a Czech mixed doubles team. It's still too far to go. I still need to decide what I would liked to, because there is still a big expectation, especially for my singles side. 
     Then there is a big chance to play me and Radek Stepanek for the doubles, and then to play the third competition in one week, I mean, I don't know if I can handle it. 

 Q. Jo seemed to take issue with the ball or balls. He approached the umpire and seemed to be saying something. Did you catch what he was saying? Is that the reason why his shots seemed to be going awry and going off? The second point is your ankle, you had some treatment on that in the third set. Is that all okay for tomorrow and stuff? 
     TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, so the first issue about the balls, no, I don't think so. That just makes some shots flies, as you mentioned, that he didn't hit the court right. That could happen even if you feel the ball just perfectly on the racquet.
     No, the issue with the balls could be just -- it's just, you know, you open the can and the balls could be slightly you know out of the pressure or something. When you take six balls, you have three and three in the cans, so one can is good and the other one not so.
     That's just the thing of just make sure that the balls are all the same. It always just happens with the new balls. So, no, this is just a basic thing what's happening almost every week. Just if I would be one who starts with the new balls I would just check the balls. If I don't like it, I just change it again. 
     The other thing with the ankle, no, everything is fine. I mean, I'm used to tape my ankles for every single match. As I start, as you run, the tape just feels a little bit loose; I felt that on my left ankle it's getting a little bit loose so I need more support. So that's why I just call physio to get some more tape on my ankle. That's it basically. Nothing serious. Nothing major. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT