THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 10, 2017
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. BERDYCH/D. Thiem   
6-3, 6-7, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  When we spoke with you after your last match, you said that it really gives you something to show young players what it takes to beat you.  What did you show today about what it takes to beat you?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think I showed pretty good tennis.  I mean, I was serving very well throughout the whole match.  I mean, I was making a lot of chances also in the sets that I lost.  But I think I had it pretty much all the time under my control, which was the most important thing, and I was just dictating the game.  That was the plan.   
So, you know, that's a win, which is very important to me.  I'm very happy for it.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're building towards your best tennis now?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: I don't like this best tennis/worst tennis.  I'm just here.  I'm playing some good tennis, and now I'm in the quarterfinals.  That's just the stage of the tournament, and there is a next one waiting on me.  That's it.   
 Q.  When Svetlana Kuznetsova was here, and she of course has won majors and been to quarterfinals before, she said that she feels as though she gets the respect she deserves from fellow players, but not so much from the press and the fans.  Do you feel as though you get the respect that you deserve outside of the players that you play against?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I don't really care about this, you know.  I think we all having a big respects to each other within the players.  I mean, that has been since I get on tour.  And then I starts to know really the big names like Roger and everybody around.   
I never felt that there would be, you know, some kind of a bad, you know, like energy going or not really respect from the other guys and stuff like that.   
So I really don't know what should be different.  So that's all fine.   
 Q.  But how about from outside of the players, from the public?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, the public, I mean, it's always, you know, the public always have some favorite players.  So, you know, you cannot tell them who they should cheer for or, you know, who are -- I mean, sometimes they like to see some show.  Sometimes, you know, they just follow up the guys that they are right there.   
No, I'm happy.  I'm happy with the way how it is right now.   
 Q.  You are working with a new coach.  Talk a little bit about that and what it's been like.  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, it's not been much, because it's just recently that we start to work.  I know Martin for actually very long time.  I mean, we also played each other, so really at the beginning of my career.  So it's really long time ago.   
Yeah, I just felt that this is going to be the right person to help my tennis, you know, to bring it back to play or to find the way I should be playing.  And, yeah, so far we are doing well.  I'm really happy that Martin can be on board, and we can work together.   
 Q.  Why do you feel like he could be the right person?  Because you have switched coaches a few times recently.  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, yeah.  I mean, I stopped working with Goran, and that's -- yeah, that was a change.  Obviously I don't want to stay alone.  So that's why I get Martin on board.   
I think the very important factor is that Martin knows me as a person, and I think he is quite -- you know, it's much closer relationship in that sense.  I think he's much more into it, and I think we are much easier and much faster, you know, on the same wave, which is very important.   
You know, it's like a team chemistry in the team sport, so this one is very important that the coach and player match very quickly.  You know, then the work is much easier.   
 Q.  If you're going to face Novak Djokovic, and we don't know yet, because they haven't played, how would you describe what you need to do to be successful against him?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, one thing is describing.  The other one is to do it on the court.   
So I'm going to try to do it on the court.  I'm going to try to play my best tennis.  Serve well, as I did today.  And just make a game plan, which I'm not going to share with you guys, because he can see it.   
So that's all I can say right now.   
 Q.  How would you describe him?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Him?  I mean, he's a great player.  The amount of results and the achievements that he has done, I mean, is just -- I think, you know, this I always like the best, you know, that this is the thing that should be speaking the most about the player, you know.  Not like how especially, how he feels, what is he, what is that.   
I mean, that's all right, I mean, whatever he is.  But the results are speaking for him, and they are there.   
 Q.  You played a great match against Federer in Miami.  I know you said you didn't like talking about best tennis, but it seemed like that was some of your best tennis.  Is there anything on that match you can build on or you can look back to?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Definitely not, because after that, then tennis was not good at all.   
That's it.  That's one chapter.  It's done.  Now it's another one.  I turn the page, and I'm just going again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT