U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2011
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. TIPSAREVIC/T. Berdych
  6-4, 5-0 (ret.) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You had the trainer out at the end of the first set but you never took a formal injury timeout. Why was that?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Actually, I did. If you're asking just for that, I did. I took the three minutes which I'm allowed to take, since the problem is not what happened right away on the court or in that match, that I already knew what was going on and what it is.  
 So actually, there was no other reasons to staying and doing, you know, something else, something more, because I already had these problems in Cincinnati.  
 So I know what was it, and it was just, you know, form of trying.  
  
  Q. So what it is actually?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Why you always want to know it precisely? I don't even know what it means, so I don't know. Actually, it's a pain in my right shoulder.  
  
  Q. That semifinal in Cincinnati, that was the first time you had felt that pain?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Actually not. I felt it in the end of the second set with Roger in Cincinnati. I was kind of lucky to finish that match up and to close it up in two sets; then when I start with Novak it was pretty much same as today.   
 Just want to give a try and play best of three sets, which is not that long and could be probably bigger chance than here. But, yeah, it's since that time.  
  
  Q. Was it bothering you here before today, or was today the first day it was really a problem since you've been here?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I felt that already in the match with Fognini, but I was able to finish it up. I didn't even go to hit yesterday. Want to just have a treatment on that, relax and don't do anything and hoping that it's gonna be better, but it's not.  
  
  Q. Is rest the only way to recover?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Definitely not. I mean, I need to work on it with the physios, doctors, and try to put it all right to be ready until the end of the season.  
  
  Q. Do you have any sense of how long it's gonna be before you can be back playing matches?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: No idea. I mean, I hope it's not gonna be long, but, you know, everything's gonna take some time. I don't want to definitely not go too early on court that it's gonna come back again, because was bothering me not for the first time, but it's been in Cincinnati.   
 Then I have a week off of just working on it, some relax, some practice, as well; came here and it's still not good, so it's gonna be something more which I need to take care of and really take the time to have it 100% ready.  
  
  Q. I guess all the slams for the year are over now. You've had a fairly good year from a slam perspective.   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, actually, I don't see that. Probably the slams this year was probably my worst that I ever had, you know. I mean, I lost first round in Paris; then I had a fourth round in Wimbledon and here third round with retirement.  
 So actually, it's not a good results on those Grand Slams, I mean, if I look on all other tournaments. So probably these are the only weeks that I lost before the quarterfinals, so all the others I was quarters and far.   
 So the Grand Slams actually are not the best this year; so, you know, on the other way there are only four, so at least it's good. It's not more worse result than that, but still enough of big tournaments to come and still the goal is the same for end of the year.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT