SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 31, 2011
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/T. Berdych
  6-2, 3-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you explain to us what happened in the first four games of the first set?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: I lost four games. I mean, what else you want me to explain about it? It's just how it is. You start a match, somebody wins the first games and somebody not.  
 That's just how it is. All those four games was all close ones. I mean, my serve there was like 30-All, 30-40, deuce, 40-30. So, you know, it was just getting four points, five points in a row all together, and that's just how it is.  
 So you know, he starts without any mistakes, starts to play really well, and, you know, it's really tough to get -- after three matches which the opponents are completely different -- just to get a rhythm that quick.  
 So, you know, finally I get it since the last time, since all the last matches we played I never won a set. Now I won it. Yeah, it was a quite good game.  
  
  Q. You looked frustrated with the two nets. A bit of bad luck there.   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, of course. I mean, the first thing is that, you know, I mean, you can expect like three or four aces from somebody like Roddick, Karlovic. But from Rafa, what he made in the first game when I had three breakpoints, it's, you know, just too good for him.  
 That was just all it was about. To make a break after winning the second set, that would be a great chance for me. He just serve unbelievably well, and that's it.   
 In the end, yeah, I mean, it's just a little bit of bad luck. That's what you also needs to beat these guys. It's not only that you can play better forehands or backhands, you know, you need the luck as well. That's what I was missing a little bit today.  
  
  Q. You were signalling. Were you saying, Just give me one?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, it was like two nets in one game in two points. That pretty much cost me all the match. At least one would be nice.   
  
  Q. You seemed annoyed at something towards the end. You were talking to the umpire. Was there something that you were discussing?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Did you listen what I was saying right now?   
  
  Q. Oh, it was the net cords?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah.   
  
  Q. You couldn't quite put away the balls that were kind of falling in the first half of the court. Was there any particular reason?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Sorry?   
  
  Q. Seemed to me that whenever there was a ball that was coming in short...  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah.  
  
  Q. You were trying to kind of put it away and come forward to the net, and you lost most of those points. Was there a particular reason? Was it that Rafa's passing shot was just too good, or maybe you just weren't able to push it as hard as you wanted to?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: I mean, you have a question like my coach. Do you want to like -- yeah, I mean, I was trying my best, you know. I was trying to attack every shot I was able to, you know, and trying to come a little more to the net.   
 I know that Rafa can do well with the passing shots, so of course I was expecting that. But I think that I make him made a lot mistakes than he usually does in the matches, and that's the way how you can play with him.   
 I mean, yeah, what can I do? I can be running with him like side to side and that's going to be 6-2, 6-2 for him. Yeah, then, okay, so he was better and that's it. So you just need to do something different.   
 Probably it wasn't that bad idea. I was really close today, and was one of my best matches against him so far.   
  
  Q. What's the positive out of this encounter that you're going to take from it?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Of course there is many positive things. You know, as I said, since all the last matches since last time I beat him, I pretty much didn't win a set against him.  
 It was nine matches, so, you know, I mean, I was trying to do something different today. Until the maybe last service game it was working pretty well and I was in a good run, you know to make him work hard and maybe to get it let's say to the tiebreak of the third set or whatever, then could happen anything.  
 But, you know, that was my goal, what I should do in the match, and that was working well. So definitely that's the positive thing. Yeah, as I said, it was a quite good one. Just was a little bit missing in the end.  
 But, you know, you play No. 1 in the world, so it's always, always really tough. But, yeah, there is things what I can take positive from this match.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT