AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2011
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych
  6-1, 7-6, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Were you disappointed with your form? Was Novak in the zone? How do you assess the match?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, pretty much I can be disappointed with the second set. I took over a little bit and was playing well, aggressive enough, and somehow he starts to make at least a couple of mistakes that give me a chance to have a break.  
 Then just lost the set very close in the tiebreak where was also a bit lucky. That's just a part of it. The other two sets he was quite dominating and he was playing really well today.  
  
  Q. Overall, are you happy with how you've played through the tournament and where you're at with your game?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, of course. It's pretty solid start to the year, finishing quarterfinals here in Melbourne. That's what I was looking for before the tournament, at least to get quarterfinals.   
 Then you play third player in the world. It could go anyway and it's not that you can beat him every day. I don't know. I was trying to do my best, and, you know, he was better.  
 So that's just how it is. It was a solid and pretty good two weeks.   
  
  Q. He seems to be on a bit of a roll with the Davis Cup through this month as well. Where do you think he is, and can he go all the way?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, it's tough to say, you know. He's going to play Roger next match, and that's always tough. I think that Roger is really on the top form and playing really well.  
 He's playing a bit different style, but, you know, this surface suit Novak pretty well. He likes to be different. He like to just running from side to side. That's really good for him, this one. He can slide, get to every ball, and it's going to be interesting match.   
  
  Q. Czech Republic has played incredible tennis last two years in Davis Cup finals. Semifinal last year. Do you think with Kazakhstan, first round at home, you can still have a nice progression to the final stages?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Finally we play at home, so I'm happy for that. You know, we can get back to home crowd and home place.   
 The other thing that, as you just mentioned, we're playing Kazakhstan first round. That's where we need to start. That's it. None of us are thinking about any other standings of the draw or any other opponents.  
 First of all, we need to beat Kazakhstan, and maybe we can go far away.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT