BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 22, 2010
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych
  6-3, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
 
 Q. Tomas, a sloppy start. Did you feel too much pressure because it was your first match in the Masters?
  TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, if I would say no, then I would be lying. So, yes, I think you can see in the beginning that there was a little bit of, like, it affect my game a little bit.
  But, yeah, I mean, it's just the way it is, you know. I'm first time, just first match. I think it was just seen in the first game.
  But the match could be completely different. Second game, I had a pretty good chance maybe to make a break back, and then it could start completely different. But it did not.
  Just Novak, you know, not easy, but just went through.
 
 Q. How difficult was it having gone down an early break in each set to actually fight back against Djokovic?
  TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I think that is the worst case in every match, if you start pretty bad with a service game and you just give the break up to your opponent. And if you play Novak, it's even tougher.
  Yeah, I mean, I just -- you know, for me it was quite like, I mean, average match. I didn't bring anything on top of that, you know, to make some more, you know, aggressive maybe on him, on his serve. You know, I had couple of chances. I had it twice, three times, like 30-Love, 30-All on his serve, and then he just took those two points.
  That was quite different, you know. If you just give him more pressure, then, you know, he could make more mistakes. But he just played solid and winning.
 
 Q. How confident are you that you can find your form in the next two games? You have Nadal and Roddick still to play.
  TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, yeah, that's really a tough one because, of course, I mean, it's tough to be coming here after a couple of months when I didn't do that well, you know. I didn't win too many matches. Then, of course, you struggling a little bit with the confident like for the match.
  But you can practice as hard as you can. But the winning confident from the matches, you can't get anywhere else than winning the matches.
  Expecting that, you know, quite tough start to play Novak in the first match. That's really tough to really just bring it from that match.
  But, you know, that's how it is. I just needs to, you know, fight with that situation. I will. I mean, next two matches, yeah, I mean, could happen anything. I mean, I just want to try to do it same, get ready for my next opponent, try my best again, and hope.
  You know, if then it happen and you win that match, I mean, that gives you so much more confidence than just maybe win the first round in, you know, basic tournament.
  So, yeah, I'm looking forward to that and hoping for a better game from me.
 
 Q. Just wanted to know how you feel the court is playing as far as the pace, the bounce, and how it concerns your strengths.
  TOMAS BERDYCH: The court is pretty much okay. I mean, as I said, the surface is the same all over the place we play, you know, since beginning of the year, like Rotterdam tournaments, Marseille tournaments, tournaments in States, then in the end of the year Paris, everywhere.
  So the surface is pretty much the same everywhere. I think it's not any kind of advantage for none of us, you know. We just used to that and we playing. I mean, it's every week when you play indoor season. Yeah, I mean, the surface is fine.
 
 Q. Usually in the tournaments you have a few rounds to become used to the surface and the tournament. Is it very different to arrive here and directly play to the biggest player?
  TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, definitely, it is. It's something new. It's something different for me. All those guys play this kind of tournament at least once, so they already know how it is, and they know how to deal with that.
  But, yeah, you know, that's all the experience what you have to learn if you want to be really top player. Yeah, I mean, everybody needs to get through, you know, all these things.
  So, yeah, I mean, I'm in the beginning. So, yeah, I'm hoping for better matches. I hope it's going to be better.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT