ROGERS CUP MEN
August 13, 2010
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/T. Berdych
  6-3, 5-7, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You seemed to be struggling with your serve during the first set tonight and then suddenly turned things around in the second and even in the third set were serving quite well. What adjustments did you make between that first and second set to raise your percentage on serve?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I don't think it was just any like big adjustments on my serve. I mean, I just -- I was just keep going, you know. You know, tried to do it every time the same, you know, same thing.   
 Yeah, that's how it is, you know, you just start the match and sometimes you don't feel it right, you don't feel the right rhythm, and, you know, all of a sudden just, you know, with more and more games, you just getting closer on it, and that's it.   
 So I don't think that I just changed something that I would serve like with more spin or something, so no, it was just, you know, same as beginning.  
  
  Q. What do you think in such a tight match, in such a match that could have gone either way, what do you think was the difference tonight?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Oh, well, I mean, the difference was really, really small one, you know. I would say that we both play quite a good tennis today. But just, you know, I mean, just everybody see like, you know, forehand, backhands, whatever.   
 But I think the part of the game is the luck, as well. And this aspect I was just missing a little bit today, you know. It was little more on his side, and, you know, it was just about one, two points in the tiebreak.  
  
  Q. You're referring to the net cord? I think he hit -- there was one that just dribbled over I think early in the tiebreak?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, could be the one. We can find couple of more. (Smiling.)  
Q. You've got some taping on your left knee and thigh area. Can you speak about what you're dealing with there, and did that play any part at all tonight in hindering you in any way?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: No. I mean, everything is fine. I mean, I'm not looking for any excuses, so I'm fine.  
  
  Q. Having had the close history, history of close matches with him, and having beaten him the last two times, does this make it easier knowing you can beat him, or does it make it more difficult to take the loss?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: You could just see it on the court that we played today against, you know, such a long match. I lost in the tiebreak of the third set, so I don't think that even with any other opponent you can say it is easier or tougher, so every match is different. That how it was today.   
 It was different match than we play in Wimbledon, and, yeah, I mean, it was about just couple of points. It was -- today it was on his side, so yeah, that's how it is. Maybe if we gonna play tomorrow, it will be completely different match again.  
  
  Q. I remember, I think I noted somewhere at 5-4 you were serving, on those deuce points, each time you kept sliding it out wide to Federer's forehand. Any reason for that? Was that a preferred play, a game plan, something that you had done?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, actually, I mean, I was quite confident for the serve to go wide, you know, and then even if I go -- or if I went wide, and the serve was not like kind of ace or something like that, then I would say he's like -- I mean, he's like -- he's not that strong, I would say, on the forehand return, that side, you know, because from the backhand he can play more options, you know. He can play slice, he can play with a lift, he can just push it up there, just put it in the court.   
 And from the side you have, you know, more -- you just have more angles, you know, to serve, you know, just open up the court.   
 Yeah, I served it, I would say, quite well there but then just make the mistake from the second shot, which is a pretty big mistake, but, yeah, I mean, that's just how it is.   
  
  Q. I know this is a tough loss, and I don't know what is in your nature. From my own personal opinion, you don't look too happy. I don't know, but is it that the crowd actually react to you? You think they were not very friendly?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: No, definitely not. How can I be happy after the match I lost, and I lost 7-6 in the third when I was serving to close out the match. There is no, any other aspects that I can be sitting here and be just a little bit, you know, happy.   
 So you are right, that I'm really sad after the match like that. You know, just I think that's the worst thing, you know. I don't -- I hate losing any other matches, not even if you lose 7-6 in the fourth, if you just lost 6-1, 6-1, I hate it, so just need take some time and then just go again for the next matches.  
  
  Q. Are you satisfied with quarterfinal in this tournament, or were you hoping for something more?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Actually, I'm not the one like who's going to come for tournament, just see the draw and say, Well, I want to go semis. I'm kind of player that, you know, just want to play my best every match I go on court, try to win it.   
 And what happen is just gonna happen. You know, I'm really sad that I lost today, and yeah, of course, I mean, the quarterfinal is -- it's all right result for me that, you know, I beat all those guys who are, you know, just a little bit behind me just, you know, to like defend my position, but this match is -- well, yeah, I'm sad from that and just take some time, you know, to get ready again.  
  
  Q. What did you think of the crowd? Did they annoy you? Did they affect, you know, the tiebreaker at the end?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I mean, it's -- it's all right. I'm happy that so many people just come to see, and they were enjoying, so just let them enjoying, and that's it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT