WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2010
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How was your practice today and are you feeling good?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah. I mean, the practice was pretty good. I mean, I was expecting that I'll be a little bit tired. But, you know, I felt I would say much better than yesterday with my warmup, which is pretty good sign for Sunday.  
  
  Q. Will you sleep well tonight?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I hope so. I mean, I have no problem with the sleeping at all. I did it after yesterday's match, after Roger's match, so I hope it's going to be the same for tonight.   
  
  Q. What's been the difference in this Grand Slam compared to ones in previous years? Why have you particularly done so well this time, do you feel?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, it's just many things. I mean, it's not only like this year, this Grand Slam. I mean, it's more things. I mean, I was saying it so many times that I get really improved, get more and more confidence, you know, after semis in Paris.   
 You know, just give me the point of view that there is a really chance, you know, to play, beat all those top players. You know, starts since the first round, and I'm in the final so far. So still one more to go.  
  
  Q. What makes you think you can beat Nadal when he's probably playing the best tennis of anybody at the moment? Do you believe you have something in your game plan that can stop him?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, of course I have some, you know -- I mean, I have no reason to, you know, just to believe I have a chance. I mean, I won so many matches here. I beat really great players here.   
 So it gives you the confidence to go and bring it to the final and try my best again on court. You know, that's the final of Grand Slam. You just really needs to show your really best tennis to have a chance to win.  
  
  Q. Will you have any fear, apart from the normal nerves you would experience on a big match?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, yeah, of course is a big final. But I would say for me really like new experience was the semis in French Open where it was, you know, like the first experience with that.   
 And, you know, I just learn a lot from that match, and I hope I can really just, you know, turn it here for the final. I hope it's just not going to be any more special than the other matches. You know, I will try to be really concentrate for just my game, for my points, and not to be thinking about the occasions, the finals, you know, playing Nadal.   
 So I hope not.   
  
  Q. You've beaten Nadal already at the beginning of your encounters three times. In the last six matches, you have lost. What happened? How are you planning to change that trend?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, you know, it doesn't happen every match that you beat first or second player in the world. So, you know, at least I beat him three times.   
 Because, you know, as you can see his records against another guys, it's even worse than this one. So, you know, at least I have a three wins against him, and I can just find out some positive things from those matches.   
 You know, I will try to do the fourth one here. You know, I never beat him on grass, so I think it's nice opportunity to do it right here right now.  
  
  Q. Is the key to beating Rafa to be as aggressive as possible?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, this time I think so, because he starts to play really aggressive, as well. You know, I mean, the first years I was playing him, yeah, he played his game. He was really patient on court, moving well. I think he was quite waiting for opponent's mistake.   
 But, you know, last like two, three years, he starts to play really, really aggressive, as well. That's what he's doing right here, as well.   
 So, yeah, you needs to be aggressive, don't give him too many chances, you know, and play my game. My game is to be aggressive on court.  
  
  Q. A couple weeks ago when you arrived at Wimbledon, what were your expectations? You saw the draw. What did you think was going to happen? Did you dream you could get to the final?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, I'm gonna say the same what I did before my first round. You know, I was just looking for my first opponent in the first round, you know, to beat him and make the same procedure for the next one.   
 So right now I'm still waiting till one more to go, and I'm going to same, as well. Yeah, of course everyone who comes to the tournament wants to make the best results. But it's not going to be good if you're going to come and say, Yeah, I want to be in the final.   
 Of course, it's nice to be in the final and win the tournament, but to be there, you need to won so many matches, so many tough matches. You don't know what's gonna happen even next day.   
 So go step by step. I'm still one more to go.  
  
  Q. Would it be fair to say the last couple of weeks have been a bit of a dream for you?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I wouldn't say 'dream'. It's a good results. But the results coming after really hard work, and that's what I'm doing. That's why I'm preparing every day.   
 You know, so it's not like happening as a miracle. You need to do something to bring those good results. That's what I'm doing.   
 So I don't think it's just, you know, kind of luck or anything like that.   
  
  Q. When you beat Nadal in Spain in 2006, there was a bit of an altercation with the crowd and you told them to be quiet. Rafa didn't seem to like that. Have you ever spoken with him or apologized?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: No, it's really long time ago, and I think it's already forgotten from both or all sides, you know, who saw it, what happened there.   
 So, I mean, we never talk about that each other. I think it was quite just, I would say quite a lot of emotions after the match from both of us. Also from him, from me. You know, that's just what happens sometimes.   
 I don't see it any big problems. I mean, we are friends normally. Nothing like that we not gonna say hi to each other or anything like that. It's just really nice. It's all right.   
  
  Q. How much of an inspiration is Ivan Lendl, given what he achieved in his career?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, of course, I mean, it's great what he did, what he achieved. I mean, so many great results. I mean, I'm really only the beginning of his great results. You never know what's gonna happen next.   
 But, you know, I'm still pretty young, and so far I just, you know, made the same what he did: the final of Wimbledon. Unfortunately he never won the title here. But, you know, I'm still gonna get the chance tomorrow, and we will see.   
  
  Q. It seems in the last year or so you seem to have become much stronger mentally. Part of that will be confidence. But are there any other factors that have changed your personality? Is it just growing up? What would it be?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I think it's as you just I would say mentioned all of those things. It's just stronger mentally, you know, winning more and more matches. That gives you a lot of confidence. Of course, I'm growing up, as well. I'm still pretty young, so getting more and more experience every week.   
 But, of course it's the part of the work of my coaches. You know, I change my tennis coach like in the season before this year, so quite two years ago. Yeah, the first year is always like to find out how is gonna work and everything.   
 And this one, it starts pretty well. I think he just find out the weak parts of my game and he just see it maybe from the other point of view and find out what's to do better and just working on those things.   
  
  Q. Has Lucie made a difference to that, too?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: We are quite a long time together, so I don't think it just change in the last year.  
  
  Q. What sort of reaction have you had so far? Any good luck messages for tomorrow?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Oh, of course I'm getting -- after every match I won here, I'm getting so many, like, phone calls and text messages with congratulations just from friends.   
 Yeah, I mean, it's really nice to have that, you know, support and that so many people in Czech just trying to follow it, just want to see those matches.   
 Yeah, I think it's just really nice to have that.   
  
  Q. Lendl been in touch?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah. Well, actually we didn't spoke each other like yet. But, of course I getted the messages from other people that they talk with him. So I'm getting the message as well from him.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT