ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2017
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. KHACHANOV/T. Berdych
7-5, 6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. It's not easy to play a young player who has this kind of powerful game and maybe nothing-to-lose mind-set.  Do you think it was sort of the key of this match today?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I don't really think so.  I mean, first of all, yes, he played well.  But the other hand, you know, I was not really able to put much pressure from the other side and being at least a solid opponent for him, especially making I think just two or three deuce play on his serve.  It's not really enough.
And, you know, my balls doesn't have or did not have enough of, you know, power and the things, you know, like the heaviness behind it, the serve was not going really well.
And yeah, I mean, it's a bit of also issue, also issue with my lower back.  But that's, you know, that's a part of it.  I mean, couple days is good, couple days not.
Unfortunately, today was not.  So, you know, then it's then the game is, it's like that.  You know, it's very slow.  And, you know, I cannot play tennis like that.  So it's just the way to make him much easier opponent.
Q. You played the final in Lyon.  You both lost early.  Playing the week before last time it could be tricky.  Do you think that played a part too?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think it's easy always after to say that judge it, you know, if it was good or not.  I mean, my first initiation was I want to play a couple more matches, and that's what I did.  So in that sense and in that way, it was a good week, and that's it.
I mean, as I said, just to being 100% would be enough and, you know, just to play the game that comes from me would be good to put a good fight.
Q. Just the lower back injury.  Is it throwing because the grass is coming or is it something normal because of the matches?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I really don't know.  I mean, really, it's something that I have it for a few days and then a few days it's fine, few days not.  So it's really hard to tell right now.  So I'm just going to have to do all I can back home and get myself ready.  And that's definitely the most important and actually for the future.  Because then if I'm fit and ready, I can play still, still some good tennis and the way I want to play.  But not like this.
Q. With this lose do you have an idea of your schedule, especially on grass?
TOMAS BERDYCH: No.  It stays the same.  So I'm entered for Stuttgart, Queens, and Wimbledon.  So that's going to stay the same for now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT