WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2010
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/N. Djokovic
  6-3, 7-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen; Tomas Berdych for you.   
  
  Q. On a scale of one to ten, how will describe your match today? Where do you place your match?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: I don't know. It's tough to find some number. I mean, at least it's gonna be eight or nine. Still, the tennis -- I mean, if the tennis, the best one, then you still needs it keep it away. So, yeah, definitely eight to nine. Yeah, I was playing really well today.   
 I felt, you know, quite tired since the morning, but then all of a sudden just came on court, feel great, and just win it in three sets.   
  
  Q. What does it feel like to be in the final?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, right now it's great feeling so far. I'm just trying to be enjoying the victory of today. You know, I think I will try to do the same as I did after Roger. So, you know, today just be thinking about today's match, and since tomorrow, just leave it on side and just get ready for the finals.  
 I'm still not done yet here. One more to go.  
  
  Q. You beat Federer and Djokovic in successive games. You are fear no one now?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, of course it would be bad if I say I'm in fear of somebody. So, you know, playing well, feeling great, still healthy, and I hope some energy still left there for the last one.   
 And of course I'm looking forward to the next one, and definitely not fear to anybody.  
  
  Q. Did you feel your performance improved today compared to your performance in beating Federer?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: It's tough to compare if my performance was better or not. It was different opponent and just different match. We played semifinals, so I don't think so.   
 I just play my -- not the best tennis, but I was playing what I need, just, you know, finish it in three sets. That's important.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised at all considering the importance of that match that you were able to do it in straight sets, though?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Oh, of course. It was the tiebreak of the second set. But, you know, it shouldn't be the tiebreak because, I mean, I was serving to close the set. There I just made couple of mistakes and lost my serve. Then again I have 6-3 up and give some set points to Novak.   
 So yeah, I mean, I was much better in that second set. I just make it a little more complicated. Finally I just made it on my side, and then he starts to be really, really down, you know, I think more mentally than physically.   
  
  Q. Did what happened to you in the semifinal in Paris make you more determined if you ever got in that position again that you wouldn't waste the chance?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I don't know if I can be talking like about the wasting of chance. I mean, well, I'm quite happy that it's quite soon after the Paris. Still the memories from there are really fresh.   
 I just took all the positive things from the semifinals in Paris. You know, I just show that I learned from those experience in Paris. It worked pretty well today.  
  
  Q. What is the key to your Grand Slam success now at the age of 24?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, it's many things. Definitely starts in the first round. You just need to go step by step and beat every player. You know, coming to every match, every opponent with the same goals, same tactics: be concentrated, be patient, and try your best.   
 So far, works pretty well.  
  
  Q. Did you feel mentally or physically stronger than in the past years? Do you sense there's a difference in you?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Of course it is. I mean, it's many things. I mean, I feel, yeah, more confidence. I feel more stronger by mentally side, physically as well.  
 Yeah, I think this is quite enough to just, you know, show the good results.  
  
  Q. You talk about the same tactics going up against no matter who you play, but on Sunday you're gonna have two different styles. Is there a way you're looking at each individual yet, how you might face them?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, definitely not. They're still playing. In tennis, you have no chance to choosing your opponent.   
 So the better is gonna win. The one is gonna be waiting for me in the final. Even if it's Rafa or Andy, it's tough to be finding some, you know, special tactics or anything for them. They both have some experience with the Grand Slam finals. Me, not.   
 So I will try just keep, you know, concentrate for myself and playing my tennis.  
  
  Q. With the way you are playing now, don't you see yourself as becoming the Wimbledon champion on Sunday?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, so far I'm playing, well, quite well here. Of course there is one more match to go, so just need to bring all what I have to that Sunday match.  
 Yeah, that's why I'm here and why I'm trying to win every match.  
  
  Q. Are all your family gonna be here? Anybody coming over now to watch you in the final?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, my father, mother, they came already for the semis. So they are already here, and they are gonna stay until the final.  
  
  Q. This is your first Grand Slam final. Do you think all these years you have been an underperformer with your game, because people are talking about you have the game to be really good?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: What was the question? Like if...  
  
  Q. Do you think all these years you have been an underperformer up to this stage?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: No, definitely not. I know what I'm doing. Every day if I'm gonna go practice, I know why I'm doing that. Somebody is trying to win at least one, two matches in the Grand Slam tournament.   
 I'm in different position. Right now I'm in the final. I'm trying the same way I did before. And, you know, that's just how is the tennis. It's really tough sport that you can face really tough opponents since the first round.  
 So definitely not. I mean, right now I'm playing well; I'm in the final. That's how it is. I don't think it's the way just to be looking for the past or to the future.   
 Right now I'm in the final, and that's it.   
  
  Q. Are you a good sleeper, and do you expect to be sleeping well the night before or will it just be another day as far as being able to relax?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Definitely I think the best thing what I like is to have a good sleep. I mean, I don't think it's anything gonna disturb me from that.   
 Yeah, I will enjoy that, get really relaxed, and that's what I need. You know, the energy is getting lower and lower, and, you know, I think the sleep is the best thing how you can just, you know, bring it a little bit higher and get it back a little bit.  
  
  Q. Do you have a hobby outside of tennis?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, it's not much time to have any specific hobbies. I mean, you know, not much. You know, if you're just spending the time between those matches and everything just relaxing and watching some movies, music. Nothing special.  
  
  Q. Have you worked specifically on your movement over the last few years? It appears that you're much faster and that your balance is a better on your shots.   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: I don't know if something -- I don't know -- well, no, definitely not. I mean, I'm doing still the same things what I did before. I don't know how long you asking for, but no.   
 I mean, I know that the movement is my weak part of the tennis and I need to improve that. I'm almost working on it every day. It works pretty well. I mean, the work for my movement is pretty hard. Yeah.  
  
  Q. Who was your sport idol when you were a kid? Does Ivan Lendl mean something special to you? Did you used to watch him playing an television?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I never had any tennis idols. Well, of course so many people just putting me on side with Ivan Lendl, with part of the similar style of the game and any other specific things, like when I won my first tournament and when he did.   
 You know, it's really nice to be in the part of his name. But still, you know, he achieved much, much more than me. You know, but the things needs to start somewhere.   
 Hopefully this time it's really good time to start to building hopefully the similar results as he did.   
  
  Q. When did you first feel like you were ready to win a Grand Slam?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think this question I can get after the match on Sunday. If it's gonna go well, I mean, why now? Still one to go. Definitely I'm not gonna give you an answer for it.   
  
  Q. Was there a moment this year - you've had a very consistent year - maybe a match or a set or a week where you felt like this could be a really special year for you?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, I start quite well since the beginning of the year. You know, I never had it -- I mean, the first tournament just reached the semis because the years before just, you know, were losing first rounds and nothing special.  
 But then I lost quite early in Australia, which was, you know, quite upset for me. But, you know, just threw it away and went through to the tournaments in the States. There I played really great two weeks or two tournaments, Indian Wells and Miami.   
 I think in Miami just came in the match against Roger when I won that match from match point down. It turns quite a lot in that match.  
  
  Q. Coming back to Lendl, did you ever talk to him?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, we talk after the French Open and a couple of other times when we just met in the United States in US Open. I know him.  
  
  Q. You said you were tired. Do you have any major issues with your body at the moment, or is it okay?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: No, nothing. Just feel tired a little bit. Also like all the stress from the match, which is just gone, so then you just feel a little bit like mentally tired.  
 But that's all right. You know, that's what just came after every winning match. I hope this feeling is gonna come one more again.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT