WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2010
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/R. Federer
  6-4, 3-6, 6-1, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, Tomas Berdych. 

 Q. Will you say you surprised yourself today?
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Not surprised. I mean, there was my key to go to the match like the way I did, and I'm very happy that with my performance today. I was playing really well. 
 I mean, only I just took some weak moments in the second set when I lost quite badly my serve and then just give him chance to win the set. 
 But then I think it was all good, and it was pretty nice match for me.

 Q. Roger said he had some physical problems; that his back and leg were bothering him. What did you notice and what is your reaction to him saying that?
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, I don't know if he just looking for some excuses after the match or something like that. I mean, it happened to all of us. You know, I think he's been every time when he played, he was I think hundred percent ready. 
 So maybe right now he's getting some more troubles with the health. But, you know, I think it just happen today. So I didn't know that. I just heard it first time like you said it right now. So, yeah, just to him hope that he's gonna get back soon and that's it what I can just wish him. 

 Q. He also said he was unlucky and that he definitely gave the match away. What are your thoughts about that? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: I don't know in which point he was saying that he was unlucky, if any specific moment or something. 

 Q. He was saying generally or on big points. 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Okay. I mean, yeah, maybe you can take it for both ways. You can say that he was unlucky or you can say that maybe the opponent was a little bit better and he just won the big points against him. In his position, then he lost the match. 
 You know, I think, yeah, he's a great player. I mean, but still, I mean, when I just read some newspapers in the morning, I was not surprised, but, you know, to heard something from him to the way that he's fine, nothing is bothering him. When we played the last match, I lost. But last time in Wimbledon, I won pretty easily. You know, stuff like that. 
 You know, I saw him quite first time from him the reactions like that. So whatever. I'm in different position. I'm just enjoying the win today, and this is just everything behind me. 

 Q. The last game you went from having a match point to a breakpoint. It's a very difficult turnaround. You've only got one break. If he breaks you there, the set is even. What were you thinking at that point? Was that a difficult situation to control for you? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, well, as I said in the interview after the match in the TV, I think it was one of my, like, toughest close up of the match when I was serving. I would say through all my career matches, this one was the toughest one to close up the match against Roger Centre Court in Wimbledon. It's pretty tough. 
 But, you know, I handle it pretty well. I just closing up with my serve. I didn't lost it. And, you know, I mean, that's how it is. It was a really close match, about a few points. This day it just went on my side.

 Q. The last set was a real adventure. Sixth game, four breakpoints and two double-faults. How did you keep your cool? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, yeah, I did couple of mistakes in that game. Yeah, I served two double-faults. But then, you know, we playing on the grass, so I just was trying to stay mentally in that situation. Because if you can serve well, then still the score, Love-40, it's not done. He needs to win one more point. That was the thing what I was, well, thinking about. That's what happened. 
 So, you know, then I get more relaxed, more concentrate for every point, and just win it, just turn it on my side. I think I played then pretty well, like rest of the game. I think I just deserve to win that game. 
 So, yeah. 

 Q. How do you feel about Roger after the things he said after the match? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I mean, yeah, it's just his point of view. That's what he said, and I don't care. I mean, it's just his opinion. So he needs to have some reasons for it, and that's what he said. 
 Yeah, that's what I said. I mean, yeah, just respect him in all points of what he did, what he achieved, everything. But, yeah, that's how it is. That's was his reason, what he said, and just leave it with him. 

 Q. With your game, we've been expecting big results for a while. What's changed in the last couple of tournaments that you've been able to pull off these kind of wins?
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I think, you know, it's many things. First of all, it's that you win a couple of matches in the beginning of the year, and then you get a confidence. It keeps going and going. 
 I mean, it's not only like about last two weeks. It's already start I would say maybe, I don't know, in the United States, Indian Wells, Miami. So it's quite far ago. 
 You know, it's many things. You get more and more experience. I get, you know, a little bit older to be, you know, more focused, you know, mentally stronger than before. That's what you need. 
 But it's many things together, so I'm very happy that it works. They are all together like in one pack. It works pretty well. 

 Q. What are the keys to your next match? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Oh, well, next match, I mean, I think it's going to be the same as those matches before. That's what I said before the match against Roger, that it's not gonna be that important how he's gonna play. The important is gonna be what's my game gonna be. 
 And today it works. I was playing great. I was playing a good match, and I won. So I'm going to try to do the same on Friday, you know, to be hundred percent ready, concentrate, and we gonna see what's Novak going to do on the court. 
 But the more important thing is going to be how my game is going to be.

 Q. There are two Czechs in the semifinals. It's more or less 20 years since this has happened. Is that a coincidence? Is the Czech tradition coming back somehow? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: It's tough to be talking about some traditions or something. I mean, it's just, you know, happening right now. That's the important thing, that the Czech tennis has a great woman's result and great men's result. That's how it is, you know. 
 I think everybody's trying their best. Same for me, same for her. You know, we both deserve it because working hard. That's it. I mean, I don't think it's like, you know -- I think this is work of you guys to have this results comparing against, you know, Lendl, Korda, all those players. 
 I mean, we are trying to do our best to winning the matches. That's how it is. I don't think it's anything special.

 Q. You don't get any particular help more from the Czech Federation than a few years ago? Do you have any economical support?
 TOMAS BERDYCH: No. I think the situation is all the time the same. I mean, they're doing the job all the time same. I think, you know, it's quite pretty well since I can remember I was junior. So I don't know why everybody's trying to find out something extra. 
 When they see the result, Oh, what's happening some different way? What's extra happening to you? Did you change something in your practice or something like that. 
 For me, it's the same. You know, I'm working same as I did before, and now the results are coming. So don't try to be looking for some extra or miracles; it's not gonna happen. 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about your relationship with Kvitova, because you practice in the same club in Prostejov. 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, we know each other. Yeah, we are friends. Yeah, we practice in same club. Almost everything what you say. 

 Q. How would you describe the moment when you won today, what you were feeling?
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Oh, yeah, I mean, it was really great. Not many other moments can be comparing to this one, you know, to standing on Centre Court here in Wimbledon beating the six-time champion of here. Yeah, it couldn't be, I would say, better. 
 But still there is one match to be better feelings than this one. I hope I can get to that, and we will see. 

 Q. Who came to support you? Who was the first person to congratulate you? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, the first person... 
 It was many people who stand in the way when I just came from the court to the locker room. But, yeah, the first people was my coach, my fitness coach, and then I was getting more and more messages, phone calls from my parents, friends, and really the close ones.

 Q. Your parents will come to England or no?
 TOMAS BERDYCH: We need to just decide if, you know, all the situation gonna be. But I would like if they could come for semifinal. 

 Q. What was your game plan against Roger? Did you learn anything from your victory in Miami that you used today? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, of course I learned something. I mean, it's really tough, you know, to describe what's the real thing what I just learned from that match. It's like many things from the match that you beat those players. 
 I have to say that, well, I mean, I didn't have any special tactics or the situation what I'm gonna do. I mean, as I said, for me the important thing was, you know, to play my tennis, serving well, play aggressive. You know, that's what happens. 
 So this time, these matches it's really tough to find out what you gonna do, like play more slice or something. You just have to see what the situation is on the court and then just trying to work with it. Yeah, works pretty well for me today. 

 Q. You played Djokovic twice and didn't win a set. It was quite a long time ago. Have many things changed since then? Are you more confident? Do you think he can return better your serve than Federer does? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, about the last thing, we gonna see on Friday if he can do it better or not. 
 Yeah, the things before, of course it's going to be everything different, you know, to playing semifinal on Grand Slam against the opponent when we played like many years ago. 
 It's going to be similar matches as the match against Murray I played in Roland Garros where, you know, we played before like really long time ago, and then the match is completely like we met for the first time. 
 Yeah, I think it's gonna be really, really tough one. I think we both change a lot. Of course you need to have some confidence to get to the semifinal, so I think it's going to be really same for both of us. I'm looking forward to that match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT