SONY ERICSSON OPEN
April 1, 2010
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/F. Verdasco
  4-6, 7-6, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Basically a great turnaround, wasn't it?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, as you said, it was a great match, definitely. The beginning was a little bit, you know, for me quite slow, because I was still feeling a little bit tired after the long, long match against Roger, finishing that late in the night.  
 You know, just get to sleep like 3:15, 3:30 in the night. I like to sleep, so I was feeling a little bit less of the good sleep, so...   
 But then finally I get the rhythm, starts to play really well. I think the beginning of the third set Fernando was a little bit struggling. He was maybe a little bit tired.  
 But that was my advantage. I'm very happy that I can use it and go through.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like at the start of the third when he started to really whack the ball that he was losing his control a bit? Did you feel, Right, just keep it steady and I've got him here?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, well, you know, if you don't feel that fit on the court, that you can play long rallies, then this is the other option.  
 I think he's got these options pretty good. He can really swing and make the winners from almost all over the court, so that's his kind of advantage.  
 But, well, you know, I was feeling well. I was feeling that I can play the long rallies, so I was just trying to keep the ball in play as long as I can, you know, just to give him the chance to make an error.  
 You know, most of the time that worked.  
  
  Q. You seemed to be in very-confident mode throughout even in the first set when things weren't going your way. As well as the tiredness, did you bring that confidence through from the great victory earlier in the week?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Of course. That's the combined thing. The other way that you feel tired, but the other side that you just feel really, really confident after match like that.  
 But, still, you just need to get ready for next opponent and not to be thinking that you beat Roger and stuff like that.   
 So just bring the positive things. That's what happened to me. I'm very happy that I can just use it all the way through my match today and just go through.   
  
  Q. Last question. You've obviously got the next game to think about. You must be feeling confident that you can go all the way in this tournament.   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, you know, but still, it's just I'm gonna be facing another opponent. It's gonna be tomorrow, next day, next opponent. So just, you know, go step by step as I did it since my first round here and not to be thinking too much ahead.   
 Just, you know, still I'm feeling well. I'm not injured, anything is fine. So just go for it. Try my best. Play my best tennis.   
 Hopefully I can go through for next match.  
  
  Q. Who do you prefer to face next, Robin or...  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, you know, you cannot choose the opponent for the next round. Both of them are great players. I think it's gonna be a really nice match tonight.  
 Well, depends who's gonna win. You just have to take it as your next opponent. I don't care.   
  
  Q. You have been playing two very hard matches, hard-fought. Do you have enough for the next one?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: I think it would be wrong if I would say that I'm tired and I'm not gonna be ready for next one.  
 I'm feeling well. You know, confidence, everything is there. I'm feeling healthy, which is important. You know, after some long matches you can feel something, you know, just some tight or something in your body.  
 But I'm feeling well. Just need to rest, sleep well, and I'm gonna be ready for next one.  
  
  Q. Looking forward to the Davis Cup tie, facing Chile next time?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, Davis Cup is really, really far, far ahead. It's just right now we are in Miami, then starting all the way the clay court season, then again grass.  
 So it's so many other big like tournaments ahead. Of course, yeah, I have the Davis Cup in my mind.   
 But still, it's really long, long time to go. We will see what's gonna be in Chile.   
  
  Q. How hard is it to focus on the match after a big win like beating Federer?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, well, that's pretty tough, you know, because you can just have in your mind that you just beat the No. 1 player in the world. But that's gonna be the wrong decision or wrong thing.   
 You just have to take it as a next match, next opponent, playing against Verdasco. Just try your best on the court and be 100% just mentally on the court.  
 Finally, well, I would say that it's -- it happens to me, which is pretty good. I'm happy for it.   
  
  Q. How important is your serve to win these kinds of matches that are too long?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, well, I mean, my serve was not that good since the beginning. I was a little bit struggling with the rhythm and with couple of things, but I would say end of the second set I start to serve pretty well.   
 You know, I get a little more percentage on my first serve and just starts to making easy points. You know, the game is not gonna be that long, and I don't need to fight that much.  
 Just it was better and better until the end, which I hold easy my serve. That's it. That's very important for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT