SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 30, 2010
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/R. Federer
  6-4, 6-7, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. What is your feeling about this incredible game?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, well, I mean, every time after the game like that the feeling is great, even if you just saved the one match point and then win in the tiebreak of the third set.   
 So whatever the match goes, I'm really extremely happy, you know. I had a chance. I was break up in the third set. But with Roger, you have to be always 100% ready. You know, he's fighting until the last point. You know, that is how was it the court.   
 But anyway, I'm really happy the way I finish it.   
  
  Q. The last time you beat him was in 2004, right?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, Olympic Games.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like this win is a long time coming?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: You know, already the last match before this one we played in Australia I was two sets up, so, you know, if we gonna play for just best-of-three sets, then I would win the match again. But that one was different, you know, best-of-five sets and on the Grand Slam.   
 So, you know, he came strongly back and won that match, and he deserved it and played well. This one was another chance. I was trying to just go for it same as the match in Melbourne, and finally it happened. I think it was the tenth our match against each other; second victory for me.  
  
  Q. I think you were smiling after the one shot was called out, the video review.   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, well, really I was just surprised what I saw on the TV how close the ball was.   
 You know, it was really important one, and, you know, that just happens. There's no chance to just be sad or whatever, because it was really close call.   
 But, you know, linesman was right. It was pretty good call for him. I just have to smile after it.   
  
  Q. Did you have anyone here watching besides your trainer?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, we have couple of other friends who was here. They were sitting with Group him in the player's box on the other side -- on the other seats. Couple friends.  
  
  Q. Not your parents, right?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: No, they're at home.  
  
  Q. Did you call them yet?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Not yet.  
  
  Q. Roger mentioned that he thought the conditions were very slow tonight because neither of you served a lot of aces; what are your feelings about that?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I was kind of really surprised -- well, I mean, the conditions were all the day same, you know. It was not that humid as usually here in Miami, and the temperature was not that high as always.  
 So it was really a cool night. And yeah, the conditions were a little bit different. But I think it's as he said, the conditions were same for both of us. Just depends who is gonna just handle those conditions better.   
 It was really close just for my side, about one, two points. But the conditions were definitely different than all the other days here.   
  
  Q. Tomas, you've had some big wins in your career. Where would you rank this one and the fact that it's Roger at a big tournament and how close it was?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, definitely, you know, the match like this, to beat the No. 1 player in the world, the best player so far, you know, it's great feeling, you know, just to go through.  
 But still, it was not a final. There is another match waiting next day, another really tough opponent. You know, just this one was pretty good match for me. Just I need to take all the positive things, you know, all the confidence from this match and just go next -- go for next match. Be ready for the other one.  
 Then we can be let's say talking it was good tournament with couple of good wins or something like that. But so far, yeah, extremely happy after that match. But I'm looking forward to next matches.  
  
  Q. There are lots of surprises with Murray and Djokovic, and today and you Federer. Did you think something is happening on the tour?  
 TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I think this just show how the tour is pretty tough, you know, how the players are really strong, and the small difference between all the players.   
 Just all the credit to all those guys who are top 10. As you can see now, so many other players, even if they are 50, 60, me, 20, can beat the top guys and can go through.  
 So just show how the tennis right now is so close, and that's it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT