DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: CZECH REPUBLIC vs SPAIN
December 4, 2009
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/T. Berdych
  7-5, 6-0, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Good evening. We have Tomas Berdych. First question. 

 Q. What do you think was the difference between the first set and the second two? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think the biggest difference was that I had a couple of chances in the first set, and I should take it. If I would win the first set, then the match is gonna be, I hope completely different. 
 But then all the respect to Rafa. The way what he starts to play after the first set was unbelievable. 

 Q. You seemed to lose a lot of confidence or Rafa was playing unbelievable after the 11th game? Can you talk about that game. It seemed to be the turning point for the match. 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, actually that game that it was 5-All, I was serving in the first set, it was really long. I think the mistake from my side was that I didn't serve well. Well, all the points was long rallies, and that was the problem from my side, because I didn't help with my serve. 
 Rafa just get a chances, had a break, then he start to play really, really good. 

 Q. Tomas, can you explain how frustrating it might have been when he went on that roll of 13 straight games. 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, definitely this is I would say the worst case what could happen on the court when you playing because if you can stay with him and then you lost the set like 5-All, then lost 7-5, yeah, couple of balls. But if he's playing the way he did, well, I was trying couple of things, coming to the net a little bit more, trying to play more aggressive, then I was trying also like longer rallies with him. Well, not much things was working at that moment. 
 But, well, I was just trying to, you know, stay a little bit longer on the court, could happen everything. But it doesn't happen today. 

 Q. When you were 5-5 there was a ball that was protested by your captain. Do you think that moment in any way influenced the rest of the game for you, if it was a turning point?
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, definitely, I mean, if you see the ball, which is good on the line, then the referees decide on the other way, then, well, you cannot do much about the situation. If the game is really close, which that game was really close for me, and I was struggling on my serve, so that definitely doesn't help to me. 
 If you have maybe like a game point on my serve, you can serve well, you can took the game and go to sit and have a lead 6-5. But that doesn't happen. He play well. He deserved the game. That's what happened. 

 Q. To lose that way to Rafa, does that hurt the team going forward? Do you think it gives Spain an extra boost of momentum? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, you know, we've been in this situation couple of times before, you know. We played against the teams like France, Argentina, Switzerland with Roger. And the schedule of the weekend, I hope that we can make it similar as the matches before. With Radek we lost all the matches like with Tsonga, Del Potro, against Federer, but then finally we could turn it to the other way and bring the three points back to the locker room. So we gonna trying for the same. 
 That was the first time, you know, to playing Rafa in Spain on clay, it's really tough. You know, he was playing great, and that's it. He deserve to win. He win. He bring the first point. But still there is four others to be fighting, and still there is a chance. 

 Q. After the second set you left the court. When you came back, you looked like you had the same shirt. Did you go there just to regroup or you had a physical problem? What happened? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, after the way that he was playing, you know, that I lost actually seven games in the row. 

 Q. Nine. 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, all right, whatever (smiling). 
 Then, you know, I don't have many chance to like change something, you know. That's the only way what's like my thing what I can change in the game. I just went to the toilet, you know, just go out from the court, you know. Everything could happen. I was trying for everything. But really he was in perfect rhythm. He was playing great. 
 Yeah, he just deserve it. 

 Q. Could you explain to us the first set 5-4, Love-30, and then all of a sudden it's such a big turning point in the match. Did you think to yourself, How could this happen? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think I'm just gonna be saying it once more again because I was already saying about this question. 
 I mean, the game was really tough. My mistake was that I didn't serve not even one serve in that whole game, and that was the problem of the game. I mean, if I could serve like I was serving all the first set, then I think that I would win this game much easier, and then everything could happen different way. 

 Q. After losing this first point, if you were to have to play doubles tomorrow, how do you feel? Do you think you're physically and mentally ready to go back and play the doubles tomorrow?
 TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, well, definitely. I mean, I lost my first match here. On the other way, I was playing to Rafa, which he was great today, so there is not much that I could be like sitting in the room, sitting in the corner and be sad from that. 
 This match is considering of five matches. Right now there is Radek on the court fighting for another point. So, yeah, if I'm gonna get the chance to play the doubles, I'm gonna be ready. I mean, that's why I'm here. I'm feeling well. I hope if we gonna get the chance with Radek, we fight for the point again, as all the other matches before. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT