MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 30, 2017
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. FEDERER/T. Berdych
6-2, 3-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you break it down for us what happened in the third set?  You managed to come back, and then basically the match went down to the wire.  What happened at the end of the third set?
TOMAS BERDYCH: What do you exactly want to know?  This question would be good to specify, like explain me what happened.  What do you think happened?  I just lost by one point.  It's very simple.  It's very straightforward.
He was the one serving out the match; didn't make it.  I had a match point, didn't make it.  I had two, I didn't made it.  So what else to say?
Q. Well, let's go back to the...
TOMAS BERDYCH: Okay.  We played some forehands, backhands, some serves, returns.  He made the one better.
Sorry I cannot have any better answer for that.  Sorry.
Q. Okay.  Fine.
TOMAS BERDYCH: Sorry.
Q. As you just said, it was a very good match decided by one point.  What balance can you do of this quarter of the season?  You haven't played so many matches.  Well, I would like to know how is your balance of this quarter?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, if I look at the situation that last tournament I play absolutely terrible match, I lost from the match point, and here I'm sitting after actually losing from to the match point again, but in the completely different situation, that's, I think, the very beauty of our sport.
You can have one week like that and then the other week those things can change.  They're not going to change from nothing, you know.  I've done quite a piece of work in between the time, and I think that's just show up here.  Which is good, that's it's reacting so quickly, which is important.
I think this was just the very beginning.  The beginning of the year has a bit slipped for me, but I think the season is long, and I think whoever is going to come fresh and strong for the second part of it I think is going to be very dangerous and strong.
Q. What adjustments did you make after the first set that helped you raise your level for the next two sets?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, honestly, I haven't done much, you know.  I think the first set it's been again the commercial for tennis from his side.  I just have nothing to do on the court.  Whatever I did it was just not enough.  He was toying with me from one side to another.  I had really no chance in the first set.
So I was just really hoping to start good, you know, have a first good games, and try to stay with him.  That's what happened.  Then everything can change and turn from that.
As I said, it's the beauty of the sport.
Q. Mentally how do you recover after this game that was so close for you to win?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I can tell you that I got a pretty good lesson last tournament, and I think this is going to be a strawberry cake after that.  It's going to be fine.
Q. Can you just talk about how frustrating it is to be that close to a huge victory and not being able to pull it off at the end?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, it is.  It is.  A lot.  I mean, what should I do?  Should I destroy the table?  Then you see how much I'm frustrated.  I don't know.
Yes, I am.  It's obviously not something that you want to finish the tournament like.  But as I said, I got a lesson on the last week, last tournament, so this is going to be fine to get over with.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT