WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2007
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tomas. 

 Q.  Were you surprised to see how Bjorkman reacted at the umpire in the third set? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't know.  I don't think so I was like surprised because when you look at the situation, it's breakpoint, which is like close, close game. 
 It's one chance to like have a break.  It's first serve.  It's like 130 miles.  It's far line from the chair umpire.  Then he wants to say something to change something in the match. 
 For me it was advantage.  But if he call it out, I don't even can go there and ask that I saw it good because I didn't saw the white chalk and it was first serve and it's very tough to say if it's good or no. 

 Q.  With all the success you've had here, long and frustrating tournament with all the delays, are you planning to take the next week off, or will you be still be playing in Bastad? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  So far all my matches was when I was scheduled on the court.  It was just like second delay in these two weeks.  For me I don't think is too bad.  We have to keep going. 
 I think it's not that big problem.  We will see with the next week.  I'm still in the tournament.  I think I will be there. 

 Q.  Can you tell us about your next match.  It will be a tough one, isn't it? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Of course, quarterfinal it's going to be again very tough match.  We gonna play with Rafa first time on the grass court.  We will see how the match is going to be. 
 We play a couple of times on the hard, some matches on the clay.  We will see.  It's going to be our first time here.  Again, tough. 

 Q.  You must be quite confident.  He's had stop and start matches previous.  Today he was struggling before Youzhny had his injury problems.  You must fancy your chances? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, sure.  So far everything works.  Everything is good.  I won the tournament in Halle.  I'm now in quarterfinals.  Everything is fine. 
 I think the grass can be little advantage for me so we'll see. 

 Q.  Are you confident you can reach the final?  I know it's a big ask. 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, that's big ask.  I want to still say again on the same line, to concentrate just for the next match and we will see. 

 Q.  Can you tell us about your Wimbledon, where you've been stopping, going out?  Are you able to walk around Wimbledon and do your own thing without being hassled? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  You mean like here? 

 Q.  Away from the tennis. 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Like L.A. for the tennis? 

 Q.  Where have you been stopping?  In Wimbledon?  London? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, we have a hotel in Chelsea, so it's not that far.  But, yeah, you have to go by car.  It's like 20, half an hour maximum.  It's nice area there.  We already stay there for fourth year. 
 I think every day it's pretty same.  Just get here, get some practice or be ready for the match in case to play the match, just day off with practicing, some relax, massage or something. 

 Q.  Are you able to go out in Chelsea without being recognized? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, of course. 

 Q.  You must like that. 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, it's nice area there.  We have like couple of restaurants there.  It's nice, yeah. 

 Q.  Rafa told us the other day he tried to ease the relationship between you both.  Are things going better between you both? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think everything is same like before.  I don't see any problem between us two. 
 I said it in Madrid, that it was just emotions after the match, and that's it. 

 Q.  Is it true he went to talk to you, congratulate you for your title in Halle? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, that's right.  Yeah, also we just meet in the locker room.  I congratulate him after his tough match today.  No, it's fine. 

 Q.  You're one of the few people that have a positive record against Nadal, 3-2.  Do you think you have an advantage going into this match? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think it's not the statistic which is the advantage.  I think the advantage is that we not going to play on the clay court.  That's all what the situation about. 
 If we going to play clay court, I can be 5-1 and still it's like nothing.  But if we playing hard or indoor something, then I have chance. 

 Q.  Do you feel the emotions you have in the past between you are going to play an important role in this match? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  No.  We already played a match in Monte-Carlo and everything was fine.  It was I think nice match.  Nothing special in this match.  He won.  He was playing great. 
 Yeah, I mean, I don't think that everybody has to ask about this again.  I mean, the situation is fine.  Is nothing happening.  I think is nothing happened before.  Everything is fine. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT