WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2007
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Congratulations.   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Thank you.   
  
  Q.  If you make it to the quarterfinals, you'll have to play three days in a row.  How difficult is that?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, especially here you have to be ready for the kind of schedule like this because you never know what's going to happen, rain, no rain.  They have some traditions to not play on Sunday, so you have to take this and get ready to play every single day one match.   
  
  Q.  There are some players which were surprised at some point, mad about not playing yesterday, Sunday, considering all the matches that have been cancelled on Saturday.  Were you surprised about it, too?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Surprised?  I don't know what they need to like know about the weather and then they're going to play Sunday.  So that's their decision and we have to take it like this.   
  
  Q.  Does it affect your concentration when your match gets called off because of the rain and you have to go back home and then --   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I think it's part of the tennis, and you have to be ready for many things.  You have to be ready if it starts to rain between the match, I don't know, if you're playing somebody where it's too loud or something.  You just have to be ready for that.  I think the advantage is just stay ready and not be like, you know, again rain or something.  Just be positive.   
  
  Q.  Do you have a particular -- any particular kind of routines that you follow before the match, the night before the match, and any superstitions?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, I think it's still the same, I don't know, if you have day off, so depends how you're feeling.  Once a day practice, then maybe some massage, relax.  There is nothing special.   
  
  Q.  What about on the court?  Any superstitions at all, any little routines that you follow?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think it's getting like together because if you're doing -- if you have like tennis life, every single day is the same, so you just get to the courts, practice, get to the match.  After the match you're doing all the time the same.  But I don't think some special superstitions, no.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT