AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2019
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/T. Berdych
6-0, 6-1, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was kind of a bit of a shocker, us seeing that scoreline in the first couple of sets.  How well was Rafa playing today?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, he was playing well.  Nevertheless, the first two sets it was me back before six months.  For the third set, I finally showed up on the court, so that's good.  That's the only one of the positives I can take from the match.  That's it.
I mean, of course he started well.  If you allow him to start well, then that's not a problem actually on the level like Rafa is to play a good tennis.  That was absolutely understandable for the circumstances that was going on.
Yeah, I mean, for me at least the experience that I can take from the match is that I was able to find a way and find the way I was playing here at least for the third set.  A bit unlucky at the end of the third set, but that's all right.
Q. What do you put the early slow start to the match?  Any signs before the match started?
TOMAS BERDYCH: No, no signs.
Q. First-serve percentage was down.  First time in a while it's been that down.
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, yeah, exactly.  We can go lot of details, a lot of statistics that they were down.  Exactly like I said, it was just not me for the beginning.  That's it.  That's just a very simple fact.
Q. What was going on with the shot clock?
TOMAS BERDYCH: It was not working.
Q. You seemed a bit annoyed by it.
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, we can talk other things.  I think it's already done.  What can we do?  It's all right.  It's just a clock.
Q. After the first two sets, you went into overdrive in the third set.  What spurred you on?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I don't know.  Did you listen what I was just saying right now?  It's exactly the same answer.  I mean, the first two sets I didn't show up.  It was me six months ago.  Now the third set, it was me playing a good tennis and creating the chances.
I think there was nothing really magical behind it.  It was just the way how I dealt with the situation.  Yeah, a bit of experience.  The last time I played a top-three guy was, what, almost a year ago.  It's been a while.
Q. Does this kind of result give you a lot of positive feelings heading into the rest of the season?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, the feelings are good.  As I said, the decision first of all to take that six months' break was good.  Then I had plenty of time to get my body ready, prepared.  I started to do new things.  The new things are working.  I started to win matches.
Yeah, there are a lot of positives that are going to go with me to back home.
Q. Where are you going next?
TOMAS BERDYCH: I will see.  I just need to decide and not overdoing it.  I had planned for Montpellier, that's right now on the table.  I just have to see.  There are tournaments I'm not getting in, stuff like that.  But plenty of time.  The season is very long.  No need to rush anywhere.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT