WIMBLEDON
July 8, 2016
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/T. Berdych
  6‑3, 6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Do you feel it was maybe closer than what the score says? You had a lot of little opportunities in the first two sets. 
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I think there was couple of opportunities. Especially in those moments, I was a bit short on that, was not able to execute them. Especially little bit in the second set when I was 3‑2 up, had couple of breakpoints on his serve, I think that was a good chance, as well. 
But, yeah, I mean, overall, I have to say that he played really well. He was able to, you know, like, defend the game, really play very solid. For him, he just deserves to win today. 

Q. Not to search for any excuse, but you had a tough week, a lot of tough matches. You had to come back two days in a row. I think you were the one who played the most in the four semifinalists. Were the legs... 
TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I don't think so. I was really ready for the match. It was all fine in terms of rhythm, in terms of time to rest and everything. It was difficult in the days before. 
Just before the semis, I get the day off. I got back the rhythm of how it is normally. So everything in that sense was fine. I was feeling good on the court. There was not really any problems on that side, no. 

Q. Is your next event Rio? If so, what is the preparation for that?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I wish. But the tennis world doesn't really work like that. There is still a lot of tournaments in between that. So I'm going to stick with the plan that I'm having now. 
Rio is now really, for me, still far ahead. 

Q. No chance at all to see you at Davis Cup quarterfinal?
TOMAS BERDYCH: No, there is not. 

Q. Do you think Andy can win the tournament now?
TOMAS BERDYCH: I think he can, yeah. Definitely, he can. The fact that probably his biggest rival, Novak, is not in the draw anymore definitely helps for him. I think he has all the tools to make it all the way.

Q. Has he improved since you last played him?
TOMAS BERDYCH: No. I mean, it's hard to say. I mean, every match is completely different. He's playing at home with all the crowd support behind himself. It's completely different story. 
So really, it's difficult to comparing the matches on hard court, grass court, playing here, playing in Melbourne. I mean, we all try to improve. We all try to be in the best possible shape, playing the best tennis. I think that's his approach, as well. 

Q. With Novak being out, how do you feel that's changed the mood of the tournament at all?
TOMAS BERDYCH: I don't know. For me, it doesn't really actually change anything. I was just focusing on my side. It was not happening in my side at all, so... 

Q. You don't feel like people are more aware of an opportunity?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, definitely from that side where was Novak. But, as I said, I was not there, so I cannot really speak about it. 

Q. Are you happy because you're playing great again or is there frustration that you were so close one more time and can't make the last step?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, it's both. Right now, of course, it's a bit of frustration, as well. Even the fact I was still far, but it was a semifinal. You know, that's right now. 
But I think overall I think it was a good run. I think it was definitely good two weeks which definitely show me that's the way to do it, that's the way to go. That's really positive signs for my second half of the year. 

Q. What do you feel Andy has to watch out for against Raonic? What are his main weapons?
TOMAS BERDYCH: I think it has been said many times, it's definitely going to be Milos' serve. But I think Andy is one of the best in eliminating this big weapon of the opponent. 
So I think he actually likes, you know, to play these big guys, just come up with his creative game, try to break the rhythm of the big guys. So that's why I feel that he can do it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT