MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO
April 21, 2007
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  You were a little bit frustrated by the end of the game?  You seemed like you have maybe frustrated by it.   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I mean, after every single match when you lose, of course you are sad.  You want to win, so, yeah, I'm a little bit sad.  But, I mean, that was great week for me, semifinal, and it's not so bad.   
  
  Q.  Did you think you could have broken him?  In the second set there was one game where you went for the forehand when it was breakpoint and seemed a bit annoyed that you missed that chance.   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah.  In the second set I had a couple of chances, maybe one or two really small one, but I didn't make them.  And, yeah, then he's much better on the clay so he take his chances and he won the match.   
  
  Q.  What is the difference between Nadal on clay and hard courts for you?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I mean, if you're going to see these two matches you're going see the difference by yourself.   
  
  Q.  Yeah.  But I'm more interested in your point of view.   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  For me it's different surface.  It's absolutely different.  He cannot -- if he's hitting this hard spin then on the hard court it's like half of the spin.   
 The balls are not so high and he cannot run as much as he can here on the clay.  He cannot slide on the court and it's absolutely different tennis.   
  
  Q.  Why so difficult to break him more than everything, to get a breakpoint?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  That's tough, because he has a good percentage of the first serve.  Then if you put the return in then you're playing so much rallies.  In the rallies he's better.  So it's tough to win with him like four or five rallies in one game when he's serving.   
 But when we play on the hard court that's much different.  His serve is not as good.  And then when you make him a little bit more under pressure then I break him in the match like three or four times.   
  
  Q.  How did you see Federer comparing going into tomorrow's game?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think he has a chance.  He played three nice matches last year.  All the three was in the final.  I think he has a game to beat him.   
  
  Q.  Do you think his game is now pretty much complete on clay, or is there still something he needs to maybe improve?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't know it's the right way to say what Roger needs to improve.  I think that's --   
  
  Q.  Just on clay is there anything?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think he knows what he needs to improve or not, so I think he has a good chance to beat him.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT