AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2007
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 

 Q.  Looks on paper rather like an easy match.  Was it your aggression that made it that way? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't know if it was aggression, but I have to just say that it was my best tennis so far here in Melbourne.  I'm very happy with my game today because, yeah, it was windy and the condition was tough. 
 I mean, the last two matches was very close.  One I won, one I lost.  Yeah, I'm very happy I made the match so easy today. 

 Q.  Does that win today give you confidence to go further into the championship? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, of course.  When you win the match, doesn't matter if you win straight sets or you have to fight in the fifth set, it gives you some confidence.  Then for the next matches, it's just even better. 

 Q.  Any particular part of your game today that pleased you? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I mean, today everything works.  Today was everything fine.  Yeah, from first point to the last one was everything good. 

 Q.  Good news for Lucie as well.  She got through at the same time as you. 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, of course, it's fantastic result for her.  She's in the quarterfinal.  That's fantastic in a Grand Slam.  Yeah, that's good. 

 Q.  The doubles today? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  We not going to play the doubles.  Also for like the schedule, yesterday the matches was canceled so I played today, and now I supposed to play tomorrow. 
 Also the weather conditions is tough, it's so windy.  Both of us playing really good.  I don't think it's good idea to go and just play the mix in these conditions.  Also I think Lucie is like feeling a little bit her leg.  It's not going to be the right decision to play the mixed today. 

 Q.  Since how long are you so close with Lucie? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Four years. 

 Q.  Did you go to the same school, same time, same place? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  We are both from the same city.  That's fine. 

 Q.  Do you find the two of you doing the same thing, being from the same city, do you push each other to be better? 
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I think it can looks like it's advantage.  I think it's true because each other we know what the tennis is, that we need to travel, practicing, all the things what is together with the tennis.  Yeah, it works. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT