ATP MASTER SERIES MADRID
October 19, 2006
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Was Andy Roddick a hard rival today?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Of course.  He's one of the top players.  Now he's getting back on the Top-3, Top-5 guys in the world.  He made a final in the U.S. Open.  He's really tough.   
 But today I was playing really well.  I think one of my best matches.  And I beat him.   
  
  Q.  Your next rival may be Rafael Nadal and you have won twice.  Now what might happen?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I hope I make it a third one and I'm going to be in semifinal.   
  
  Q.  Well played.  The first set depended on one point and the second set depended on one break of serve.  Did you think the match was always going to be like that between these two players in these conditions?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think so.  Maybe it also depends on my side how I'm serving.  But today I was serving really well, and I keep the game to the end of the set to the tie break.  And then it was just about one point.   
 And in the second set, something happened.  I don't know if Andy's okay or how he's feeling right now.  There was just one break.  As I said, I was playing really well today.  But I think when we play indoor or a hard court or grass, it's going to be always the same, so close.   
  
  Q.  Do you think the altitude gives your game the extra impact because of the speed?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I played a couple of tournaments.  I played once in Bastad and Kitsbuhel.  I don't like this altitude because right now maybe it's going to change because maybe here is not so high like in the tournaments in Europe in the summer.  Everything worked good today.  Also the altitude I think, helps.   
  
  Q.  Will without giving away secrets, what is the best way to approach the Nadal match?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think if Rafael is going to win tonight and we are going to play each other in the next match, I think more important from my side is going to be if I can keep the same level of today's match.  And if I'm going to be serving as good as I served today, then I think I have a really good chance to beat Rafael, because we already played three matches.  I won two on the hard court, lost once on clay.  So I think maybe here the conditions can be maybe better for me.  But he's at home.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT