ROGERS MASTERS
August 11, 2006
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Yesterday you played so well.  Today it didn't seem like you had the same control.  What difference did you feel out there?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, that's what I said also yesterday, that every match is different.  About today's match, I have to just say that he was playing great today.  I don't have so many chances to have a break or to little bit change the score in my match today.   
 Yeah, he was playing fantastic.  That was the result.   
  
  Q.  You said you had a plan for Rafael yesterday.  Do you feel a plan for this match?  What didn't work?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, we had also the plan for today, but I was trying to keep on this plan.  If on the start of this plan you are playing not so well, not serving well, then it's not working, and then he's beat you.   
  
  Q.  You're still so young in this game.  Is it difficult to keep consistency when there are so many good players out there, especially in this kind of field?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think that's the more important thing, to keep consistent, play more matches like, let's say, yesterday.   
 On this level, every match is so tough, doesn't matter if it's in the first round or if it's semifinal.  It's very tough.  I think that's what everybody from us players trying to do.   
  
  Q.  Is it tough coming back after a match like last night where you beat somebody like Nadal?  What is it like the next day?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I don't know if tough.  But when you finish the match like with Rafael, yeah, everything is fine.  But then you have to try to concentrate for the next one because here on this tournament, which is only for one week, you have to play every day your single match.  You have to concentrate and get ready for the next match.   
 But, yeah, I think it's also tough.   
  
  Q.  What specifically did you see from Gasquet today, anything that surprised you, anything that you really thought was special?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think he was playing great.  I don't think there was some weakness or some not good things what I can use to beat him.   
 Yeah, he was great today.  That how he play, yeah, was amazing.   
  
  Q.  Following up on your point about it being difficult to come back after Nadal.  The scheduling yesterday, you were last on in the afternoon session against Nadal, there was a late match to start the morning session.  You actually finished quite late, then had to come back for 11 a.m.  Were you tired?  Did that affect you at all?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't think tired.  But if I can choose, I don't like to play the first matches.  11 is not so early.  But if I can choose, I would prefer to play afternoon.  That's the schedule from the tournament so I have to accept that and be ready for my match.   
  
  Q.  Is there almost an emotional hangover after such a big win against Rafael?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I think so.  Yeah, emotions is there after the big match like with Rafael.  But then you have to take everything out and then just go for another singles and just take the confidence from the match, and that's all what you can leave in your head.   
  
  Q.  How longest it take you to put that emotion away?  How long does it take you to come back down after such a big high?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't know.  It's tough to say.  Maybe in the night, maybe in the morning next day.   
  
  Q.  Takes a while?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, it takes a while, yeah.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT