ROGERS MASTERS
August 10, 2006
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  What do you think about the match?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think it was my best match on this tournament and one of my better matches in my season this year.  I'm very happy what I was playing today.   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised that Nadal didn't put up much of a fight in the third?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Sorry?   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised Nadal didn't put up much of a fight at the end of the third?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't know if he doesn't fight.  But I was playing quite well.  I was attacking every single shot and I was making so much pressure on his side, so I don't think he has some more chances to fight and make better result.   
  
  Q.  Do you think it was very similar to your match in Cincinnati a year ago or were there differences from that match?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think there was couple of differences because we decide to try another tactics than in the match in Cincinnati.  I think with this tactics was a little bit easier than this Cincinnati.   
  
  Q.  What are these tactics?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  It was to try to going more for the volleys and make the rallies shorter, because Rafael wants to every time play, I don't know, five, ten shots in every rallies.  That's his tennis.  So I want to make it shorter and something different, and it works.   
  
  Q.  Do you think if he plays too far behind the baseline on the faster hard courts, that this is a weakness he has?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Of course.  But with too many players, it's great for him because he's great moving on the court and still if he's two meters from the baseline, he can run on the court, and the other players make the mistakes, then that's why he's winning so many matches.   
 So I was playing really well, not too much mistakes.  I was attacking him so much and going for volleys.  That was the key.   
  
  Q.  You've beaten him twice.  You've beaten Roger Federer as well.  Can you get right up there with them?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I think it's very tough to say I can be there.  I want to be there.  I'm trying my best to get there.  We will see how it goes.   
  
  Q.  What do you need to do?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think all the time is something what you can improve and to making better.  So I think there is many things, but it will stay only for me (smiling).   
  
  Q.  A lot of people who bought tickets to Sunday's finals aren't probably going to be very happy with what you did today.  What do you think about that, ruining the possibility of a rivalry on Sunday between Nadal and Federer?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't know if the people doesn't like it because I don't know if I'm a spectator and every week I can see the final Federer/Nadal, I don't know if it's nice for the tennis.  So I think it's good that will be some different final.  So I hope I can make couple of more matches and maybe be with Roger in the final.   
 But there is still a long way to go.   
  
  Q.  How do you rate today's win with victories you've had before?  Can you talk to how well you played today compared with your win over Roger in the Olympics and your win over Nadal in the past?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Every time is different match.  I don't know.  I don't want to compare like every single match because once, I don't know, there is sunny, no wind.  Today was so windy.  I don't know.  If we going to play with Rafael tomorrow is going to be absolutely different match.  I don't know why, but it will be.  I think that's why the tennis so nice.  So I don't want to say it was because of this, of this.  Every match is different.   
  
  Q.  You seem not to fear Nadal at all.  Is that true and why?  A lot of players seem to fear when they play him.   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I think this is the biggest advantage of these two guys, which is now top two, Federer and Nadal, because I think when they go on the court, the opponents are, I don't know, down one set because they are fear of them, they think that they are, I don't know, Gods or whoever.   
 So I know him well because we are similar age and we play couple of matches in the juniors and we know long time, so I don't have any reason to be fear from him.  So I'm just concentrate on my tennis and play my best.   
  
  Q.  Is it the same with Roger Federer?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, it's a little bit different because I think he is a much better player and we don't know well each other like with Rafael, so it's different.   
  
  Q.  If you're capable of this kind of tennis, why haven't we seen and heard more of you in the last couple of years?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  So I think that's one of the things what I need to improve, to stay more consistent and play more weeks like this week, and maybe then if I can make it and play more consistent then you will know more about me.   
  
  Q.  I understand you're a hockey fan.  This is a big hockey market.  How did you become a Red Wings fan?  Which players do you know, Toronto specifically?  Do you Kaberle or Kubina, two guys with the Maple Leafs here?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I know many of Czech guys from here, from the States, from Canada, because in summer we have like some action in Czech that calls like Jagr team, and it's all of the Czech hockey players are playing tennis and some stuff for people.  They are in my city, so they are staying like for one week, so we know each other well.   
  
  Q.  There have been many good tennis players from the Czech Republic.  Have there been some who have influenced you or helped you?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I have to say that when I was really young and I have a very good chances to practicing with Jiri Novak, because we are from same city, so I was quite a lot practicing with him when he was top five.  That's I think help me so much.  And also with Radek Stepanek and many other guys because we have just two big cities in the Czech, which is like half players there and half players there.   
 I think I have a good guys with me to practice, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Why do so many good players come from your country?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't know.  We are small country, but I think we have quite a lot players, but not like the top ones.  We try to change it.  Now Radek is top 10 and I'm right now close from top 10, so we will see.   
  
  Q.  Are you healthier now than you were at Wimbledon?  Are you less injured?  Have your injuries sort of healed from then?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, after Wimbledon I think it was many tournament what I was playing before, so my body was tired, and then the injuries coming.  So after Wimbledon I make some rest, then some special exercises, and now I'm feeling well.  I hope everything's going to be fine.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel at all like a villain here?  You begin the week by beating the best-known Canadian player, and now you've beaten a player that a lot of people wanted to see some on the weekend.  Do you feel people are going to look at you as the guy who wrecked the tournament?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  That's tough question, I don't know.  Maybe you have to ask them.  I don't care what the people say or what they want.  I'm here to play tennis and to play my best tennis.  I have to say I'm happy that I can beat all of the players.  That's my reason why I'm coming on every tournament.   
 If it's in the first round the guy from Canada, then in the next few rounds I beat the second player in the world, so for me is perfect.  Maybe for the spectators not, but that's their problem.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of Gasquet, your next opponent?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think it could be not same but very similar because we know each other well also from the junior tournaments.  We are same age.  He is one year younger than me.  We play I think couple of matches, but not on ATP circuit.  We will see.  He has to play well because he's on the quarterfinals.  We need to set some tactics and to be ready for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Nadal didn't seem as dominant in this tournament as he has in the past.  Did you notice a difference in his game this time?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't know some difference because every game and every opponent is different way.  Maybe if he's playing with next six players, he can win easily and he can play his tennis and he will be fine in the next round.  But we set good tactics for this match and I was playing really well.  I cancel his advantage on the court and that's why I win.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT