WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2016
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/L. Pouille
  7‑6, 7‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Tight first set, but towards the end, an efficient performance. What were your thoughts on the whole match?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: The first set, at the beginning, I was a bit finding the right rhythm because obviously, I mean, the opponent before was completely different game style, everything was quite different. So just trying to find the rhythm back again, which I did finally in the end of the first set.   
Since then on, everything was fine. I was able to dictate the game, play what I wanted. Afterwards, it was pretty straightforward.  
   
 Q. How would you describe your road to reaching the semifinals and your emotions on being in the semifinals?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, as I said the other day, everything has been quite quick, going day by day. It was not really the right, you know, schedule, how you usually have it. But it feels great.   
I mean, it's good. I mean, it's great to be in the semis again. But there's still a lot left to play. That's my main focus right now again.   
   
 Q. You've been in a Grand Slam final before here. Would you feel that your career would ever be unfulfilled if you didn't win a Grand Slam?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, it's hard to say. In the end of the day, the most important thing is that you can stand and say, Okay, I've tried everything that I possibly can. I've done all what was there. If you made it one day, great. If not, what can you do?   
I mean, there is so many other guys that they have never reached, you know, the final at least. So that's how it is. So I'm still having some time. I'm, you know, having another good run. I will try to continue in that.   
   
 Q. It could well be Andy Murray in the next round. He's coached by Ivan Lendl. Were you surprised when Lendl came back to coach Andy? Did he ever come close to coaching you before?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: I already answered that question at the beginning. Yes, I mean, I approach Ivan when he stop with Andy first time. He basically says that he doesn't have the time and he don't want to be involved in tennis. Then he come back to Andy. So that's how it is.   
I mean, it's another opponent for me. I just going to try to focus on my next match.   
   
 Q. Was that frustrating that he's turned up with Andy now?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: No, absolutely not.   
   
 Q. You have a pretty even history with Andy. How would you describe what it's like to play against him?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, yeah, I think he also went through some changes or, yeah, different styles when he's playing. I think at the beginning, he was a bit more defensive, you know, playing a little bit more just waiting what's the opponent going to do. I think it was working pretty well for myself. I was able to really dictate the game and play aggressive.   
Now he becomes to be more aggressive, way more creative on the court. So, you know, he's also looking for the way how to improve, how to be better. I think that's the difference with him, I would say the beginning of his career and now.   
Really, I mean, I'm just going to try to get my plan again and try to work it out.   
   
 Q. What do you think you do that gives him the most trouble?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, it's definitely the way I'm playing. You know, try to push him as hard as I can, being aggressive, not giving him the time to create the game.   
   
 Q. When you lost 6‑Love, 6‑Love in Rome, you split with Dani, how low were you feeling at that point? What's happened since then to help you reach the semifinal here?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: It was pretty quick actually. It doesn't take long. I mean, I just regroup myself and I already get a good run in Paris. Now I have another one here.   
It was absolutely fine.   
   
 Q. You talked about Andy, but Tsonga just won the third set. What sort of challenges does he present for you? How do you guys match up?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, with Jo, we also play couple of matches. It's another guy that he's serving well. He tries to work his game around his forehand, playing very aggressive, coming to the net.   
Yeah, we also had couple of good battles. So let's see. As you said, it's not over yet. We already see one comeback from Roger today. Who knows what's going to happen. That's nice about tennis.   
   
 Q. Have you ever thought what you would be doing if you weren't a tennis player?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah. I got this question so many times. I have quite simple answer for that because, you know, since you are kid and you are brought to the tennis court, you don't really think about anything else. You just have your really routine since the beginning.   
That's why I always answer rockstar, because it's completely out. You can't really see anything else.   
   
 Q. How would you describe your personal relationship with Andy? There was a flash point in Melbourne a couple years ago.   
TOMAS BERDYCH: That's it. That's happen. That's past. Otherwise absolutely fine.   
   
 Q. Back in 2010 you made the final and beat Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer on the way. If you are to play Andy Murray, what can you use from that run when you play the next round?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, definitely those are the experience from the 2010 that I will try to look back. But mostly is the fact that that was the first time which I show myself that I can play well for two weeks. I can beat the best guys not only at the beginning of the tournament, but also in the later stages. That's just the few things that I'm going to try to focus on.   
   
 Q. I know you've done well against Andy in the past. Do you feel maybe you missed chances against him at big moments in the slams, say 2012 in the US Open?   
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, there were also couple matches, like you mentioned, the one in US Open, which has been a bit unlucky to me. Also the one we play in Melbourne.   
Yeah, there has been chances as well. I think it will be a really nice opportunity for me to make it happen right here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT