PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 14, 2006
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  How did you feel you played today?  Just talk about why you thought you won the match.   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  So I feel I think very good today because it was, again, my better result and better match than the match before.  Yeah, I'm happy with my tennis today.   
 Yeah, I think more important was that I make the first set because I was one break down, and then I made the set.  I think that was the key of the match.   
  Q.  How hard is it to beat Lleyton?  You know the balls will keep coming back.   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I think it was very, very tough match because we play I think around one hour the first set, and then second set I was 5-1 up, and everything go easily.  Then Lleyton, he's still fighting.  He never, like, give you a ball for like free or something.   
 Yeah, it was very tough.  Maybe I little bit lost concentration, and that's why it was close in the second set.   
  Q.  So why were you able to win?  What did you do better than he did?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  So I think I was better serving.  I think the point was that I play my tennis.  I was playing good, no making any mistakes.  I don't think he play really, really well.  But nobody ask for this.   
  Q.  So when you play against a guy who has been No. 1, won Grand Slams, mentally what's the important thing to do so you can play your best tennis?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think the more important thing, every time I play these guys, I said it before, I have to just concentrate on my tennis.  If I play like hundred percent, maybe more, then I can beat all of them.  I also said that when I play with these guys, I'm not under pressure because I'm not the favorite of the match, and he has to win.  So I think that's my advantage.   
  Q.  How worried were you in that second set?  You had the big lead, he broke back and started to make a bit of an attack.   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I think that's because of Lleyton.  He's fighting all the time.  He can be score 5-0, 6-0, 5-0, and he's still fighting.  You have to still concentrate on your game.  I think that was my mistake.  I little bit lost concentration.  He won couple of games.  Then he has also chance to get back.  But hopefully I made it.   
  Q.  What was going on in your head when you lost focus?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  When I make 5-1, it was -- everything goes very easy, then little bit like, I don't know, I like make off or something.  I was thinking that match is done, it's going to be easy the last game.  But that was the problem.   
 He was still fighting.  That I make some problems on my side.  But, yeah, I made it.   
  Q.  You've been struggling this year.  Is this a turning point this week?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I think here is very important because these tournaments, we have like nine tournaments, and that's one of the biggest tournaments.  I think it's very important to, like, concentrate on some of the big events.  So, yeah, it's good.   
  Q.  Looking forward to playing someone your own age next round?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, Marcos is the same age like me.  But it's going to be first match we play, so we will see.   
  Q.  Never played in Juniors?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, I don't think so.  I cannot remember any match.   
  Q.  When you play another young player who's considered very good, like Baghdatis, does it mean more to you?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, I think it's like maybe something absolutely different because when we play, the guys, like we are same age, everything is going out, like if he's top 10 or if he's like 80, if he made some good results or he's playing bad or no.  I think because we know each other well, not from the court, but we know from the Juniors, so I think it's going to be something different and very tough match.   
  Q.  When you play someone as good as Baghdatis or Nadal, considering they are your own age, it's a good judge of how good you are playing, no?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, can be.  When I go to the court with Rafael, I don't think about his results or if he's playing well, if he's winning every tournament.  I just go to the court, I know like we are same age.  I don't think about this.  If I go play with, I don't know, Federer or somebody, you think like he's some person.  It's different.  But now when we play these guys same age, everything is out and it's different.   
  Q.  When you see these guys your own age have success, does that help with your confidence?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't know what to say.  We are both seeded.  Yeah, I think it's good when the young players are going to do one of the latest rounds.  I think it's good for tennis.   
  Q.  How far are you from playing your best tennis, do you think?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think still a little bit far.  I think my best tennis was in Paris in the finals.  But I think some rounds is left.  We will see.   
  Q.  From this point this year, by the end of this year here, this season, do you expect to have improved in your tennis?   
 TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think every time you can improve and be better.  That's what we are trying to do with my coach, keep going, still trying to improve more, like be more serious, the consistent of the results, everything.   
 I'm still so young to improve and everything.  Yeah, we are trying to do.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT