WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 16, 2005
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  What was going through your mind when he had the matchpoints up 6-5?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  So when he took his first matchpoint, yeah, I was -- it was in my mind was very -- it was everything in my mind.  Because after that point what he did was like I think so lucky, the shot.  He was so late there and he hit with the frame the lob over me and it fells to the court like 10 centimeters from the baseline.  So I think it was quite lucky shot. So only what was point to do was concentrate for the next point and try to make a good serve and then win the point. 
 

Q.  You had some really big serves on those matchpoints in the tiebreak.  I mean, can you talk about your serve.  Do you feel like it can do that for you regularly, get you out of tough spots?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I think the service, yeah, the serve is one of my best shots.  So I have to make my style of the tennis on the serve and then nots to play long rallies like Rafael is doing.  So I needs to play something different than he's like, and I think I make it today. Yeah, I'm happy with my tennis today. 
 

Q.  You survived five breakpoints to keep it tied at 4-4.  Did that do a lot for your confidence and your emotion at that point?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I think so.  Because if you came from the situation where you down and you save some breakpoints, yeah, of course it's very good to your confidence. And then but anyway in these matches every point is so tough, so I was only concentration for one or two points.  So nothing special like I was thinking that I save four breakpoints or I lost one easy shot or something like this so... 
 

Q.  What was the difference playing him this time than the first time you met?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  So I think the biggest difference was the surface, because we play on the clay court and that's the -- I think the surface that Rafael like the most.  And it was so close.  So I was really waiting for the rematch on my surface so... And I make it for myself, so I am happy.  We will see. 
 

Q.  What does it mean for you, being a teenager yourself, to beat one of the most successful teenagers in years?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think for me this match is not that different -- no.  I think is, yeah, not that different like the match let's say with Federer.  Because the Federer, you know, he is older guy, I never play with him like in my category in the Juniors or something like this. But with the Nadal, I know him so long.  I saw him when we were, I don't know, 12 years old.  So we was on the same tournament and we go every category up so we know each other so well. And I don't think it's that -- I don't know how to say.  With the Federer, it was like something amazing.  Of course this match is perfect for me, but it's not -- you know?  You understand?  Because he is the same age like me, so it's not like you play with Agassi; he is a legend.  But, you know, Rafael, we are same age so there is no like this different. 
 

Q.  In the third set you received medical treatment.  What was wrong at the time?  I wasn't able to see it very well.
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, in the third set, in the end of the third set I was getting the cramps in my left leg.  It was only on my serve. But I wasn't sure that before 5-4 and I serve I will do -- I will make four or more great serves because it hurts too much on serve.  So I risk it and I called the medical time. But, yeah, I was a little bit go down and I lost my serve.  But hopefully in the end I make it. 
 

Q.  How often did you play him growing up in Juniors?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think we played twice. 
 

Q.  Do you remember who won those two?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Oh, I think one was when we was like 12 or 13, and one was, yeah, something around -- I don't know.  I think it's 1-all or 2-0 for him, but I'm not sure. 
 

Q.  Do you think that you have highlighted a slight weakness in his game in that he doesn't have a really big game and he can't stop players like you from attacking him?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  So I think no.  I think his kind of the game is very, very good on the clay courts because he is so great moving.  He is like, yeah, I said it, like machine - he is everywhere.  He's so fast. On the hard court, if you really good serving and then you don't try to play the long rallies like he wants to play with you, that's only chance how to beat him.  I don't think it's like some special tactics to play with him or something. But he's playing all the time the same.  He's moving well.  He's everywhere.  And if you make mistake, you make the mistake.  If not, you play the short points or not so strong so he just push it and he make the points so... 
 

Q.  When you got matchpoints, were you very excited, or were you able to stay calm?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  When I went to matchpoint I was so tired, so I didn't think about it.  So I just serve and that's all. I think this is -- sometimes this is better way than you think about the matchpoint and whether you can beat him or something. 
 

Q.  You said when you beat Federer last year it was a really important thing for you.  Does this maybe not seem as big of an upset to you?  How big is this particular win for your confidence or whatever?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, no, no.  I think this is the, I think, the same like with the Roger, but only the difference is the player is the different.  Because I was -- I have much more respect with Roger than with Rafael because -- I don't want to say it, you know, nothing bad Rafael, but it's like, you know, we are growing up, same age, and is the same.  It's like when the Roddick is playing with some guy who is same age, it's the same.  When he was playing with Mathieu, is the same.  They are the same age.  And it's -- I think for tennis it's so, so important if you play with some guy you know him or no, so... 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT