US OPEN
September 7, 2004
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  How did you feel you played today? 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, today it was not really good, not really good my match because I was little bit tired after long three matches before and little bit feel something bad in my neck from air condition.  So I was very tired on court.  But in the first set I had a lot of chances.  I had 6-3 in the tiebreak.   I miss one easy forehand to the net, so that was the key of, I think, all match.  
 
Q.  Would you have been eligible to play in the junior competition?  You're still only 18 years old, right? 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, no, no, no.  I am 19.  
 
Q.  In a couple days?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, couple days.  So I was last year, last year junior, but this year I am first year only in men's.  
 
Q.  The guy you played only made 10 errors.  How are you going to beat a guy like that?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  How beat him?  
 
Q.  I said he only made, your opponent,only made 10 errors. 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yes. 
 
Q.  I would think it would be difficult to handle a guy who plays like that. 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, of course.  Tommy play very, very good match today.  But, again, in the first set, it was up and down.  I lost my serve.  I break him.  I break him one more.  I lost my serve.  And in the tiebreak I had 6-3 and I think that that was the point of the all match.  Because if you make the first set, you know, your confidence is higher and you are one set up. So then I lost the first set, and I think that that was a change.  Everything change.  
 
Q.  What do you take away, what do you learn from this experience by going this far in a Slam? 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, of course after each match you have a lot of experience any way - if you won the match or if you lost the match. So I think today I lost.  It's not so good.  But I think the result in this tournament is perfect.  I was in fourth round.  So I think it's very good for me.  I am only 19 years old, so we will see what will be next. 
 
Q.  Was fitness an issue today?  You were tired?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, little bit tired.  But I think more tired, I was like sinking on the court, not so good concentrate on the court. 
 
Q.  So mentally?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Mentally, yeah. 
 
Q.  Who are the best other players your age in the world, do you think?  You're almost 19.  The guys who are 18, 19, that age. 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think Rafael Nadal.  He's like 49, around 50, yeah.  But he lost here second round, Andy Roddick.  But he is one year -- he is 18 only this year, so one year younger than me. I don't know.  There is few guys who is two years older, like Verdasco, Andreev.   But same age... 
 
Q.  Ancic?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, Ancic is just one year older than me.  Mayer also is two years older.  But there is a lot, but they are two years older.  So maybe after two years we will see. 
 
Q.  Who are the Czech players that you have, heroes in the Czech players?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, no.  
 
Q.  No one that you looked up to growing up?  No one that you admired?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, no, nobody.  
 
Q.  Who did you admire growing up?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Nobody.  I'm trying to be myself and that's all. 
 
Q.  Do you remember Lendl at all?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I remember, but I haven't seen him any time on the court because I was very young, so... I was starting to play.  Okay, I know now who was Ivan Lendl, but not when he was playing.  
 
Q.  Have you ever met him? 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, no.  
 
Q.  You're coached by Navratil.  How long have you been coached by him?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think this September is the third, yeah, third year.  
 
Q.  Who was your main coach growing up? 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think I start with one coach in my city where I born, so maybe he, because he start with me from the beginning.  So that's really tough work with a small, small child to make this work.  And then I play two years with one coach in  Prostejov, when I come when I was 12 years young.  Then I meet Navratil.  
 
Q.  Since the Olympics, are you a little bit friendly with Roger Federer?  Do you talk to him at all?  Not too angry with you?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, no, no, I don't think.  I think he is very good person because he is little bit good with the Czechs because he had a Czech physio.  His girlfriend is from Slovak or Czech, so he's fine with the Czechs.  So that's the sport, and if he lost one time,  what he say? So nothing special about if I saw him, say "hi," and "how are you," nothing special. 
 
Q.  Did you watch the hockey game today?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, I watch.  Not all, but I saw the four goals. 
 
Q.  Did you play hockey?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, no.  
 
Q.  What other sports did you play as a child? 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  You mean like -- nothing like professional.  I play hockey, but just for fun, and also like football and all these sports.  But not when I was young, I wasn't playing hockey and tennis.  I was, you know, thinking which sport.  But only I start with tennis and playing till now.  
 
Q.  When did you start playing just tennis?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Just tennis, at five years. 
 
Q.  Five years old?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, five years. 
 
Q.  Did you stop other sports?  When did you stop playing other sports?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, I wasn't playing the sports, other sports, like for professional.  I start with tennis, and tennis, just play hockey for fun.  Not some special. 
 
Q.  When did you stop playing other sports and just play tennis?  Do you still play hockey?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Sometimes, yeah.  Sometimes, yes.  Because we have some friendly challenge in Czech Republic after tennis seasons and all Czech players came to one city and we are playing hockey and football. But it's only one, two times in the year. 
 
Q.  What position do you play in hockey?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  It's every time change.  
 
Q.  Not goalie, though?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  No, no, no.  
 
Q.  Only Novak plays goalie. 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, Novak plays goalie, yeah (smiling).  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT