US OPEN
September 5, 2004
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  You seem to be one guy that knows how to beat Federer, having done it at the Olympics.  What is the secret? 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't know what's the secret.  But I think you have to go on court.  You don't have to think about you play with Federer because Roger is one of the best players.  So you have to go on the court, concentrate only for your game.  You have to play more than 100% because it's very tough to beat Roger Federer.  I think you have to be little bit lucky because I don't think the Roger that day was the Roger which won the Wimbledon.  But nobody asked for that.  Anyway, it's very tough to beat him (smiling). 
 
Q.  Did you feel you were lucky when you played him at the Olympics?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Not lucky, but I feel it wasn't the Roger what was, let's say, on Wimbledon, on the tournaments before.  But I play my best tennis that match, so I'm very happy to beat him.  
 
Q.  How much has that success at Wimbledon (sic), a result here, fueled your confidence here? 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think it's very good you can beat the player like Roger and Robredo.  I think I have more experience after that matches.  So, of course, I think it's very good for me, I can beat the player like this.  Here I'm in the fourth round, so it helps me.  
 
Q.  By my count between the Australian Open and Wimbledon, you won a total of two matches.  What was going on through that period?  You had a lot of defeats. 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, you are right (smiling).  I don't know.  Something change.  Maybe I try to -- maybe I start better practicing, maybe more practicing.  I don't know.  I think it start after Roland Garros.  I won two challengers in a row.  So I won 10 matches.  Maybe that was the point.  Then I start to play with the better players.  I lost in Kitzbuhel with Massu in three sets.  Was a very tough match.  Then it start on Olympics and here.  So that's the tennis.  
 
Q.  Where were those challengers?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  In Germany, Germany.  Weiden and Braunschweig. 
 
Q.  Fifth set, it looked like the other guy was coming along very well, you weren't playing so well, you had ups and downs in that match.  In the fifth set you came on very strongly.  Why was that?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't know.  I lost fourth set.  In the fourth set, I had one break up.  
 
Q.  2-0. 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, 2-0.  So that was my mistake.  I should finish in the fourth set.  So it's why.  I think Mikhail Youzhny had some problems with the leg because he start with the tape on his leg.  So maybe that's why he was in the fifth set little bit tired or maybe he feel more his pain on the leg.  But I start well.  I make a break, then I hold my serve.  It was (3-Love/3-1?).  I think that was the point.  But anyway, it's very tough to play five sets, the fifth set. 
 
Q.  You get Haas next.  How much confidence do you have against him?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't know how much confidence.  I will go to court.  He's a player who have to win.  So I go there and I will enter the match and I will try to play my best tennis and we will see, because in tennis you never know.  You can go to court with Roger, you beat him.  You can go to court with guy who is 200 on the race, and you lost.  So you never know.  
 
Q.  Have other players asked you how you go about beating Federer?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  No.  Nobody ask me.  
 
Q.  Have you played many five-set matches?  How many have you played? 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  This one was the second. 
 
Q.  Second?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, second. 
 
Q.  What was the other?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  First in first round with Jonas Bjorkman. 
 
Q.  It's difficult to maintain a high level for five sets. 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah, it's very difficult because with these guys, it's very tough to win three sets in a row to beat him like 3-0 or 3-1, if you lost first set.  Maybe that's why I play two times five sets.  But I'm happy to five sets and two times win.  
 
Q.  Last year you were a lucky loser. 
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  What are your missions in tennis?  What do you think you can reach?
 
TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't have the ambitions, like I go to tournament and I say, "I want to be in semifinals."  I go to tournament and I want to go round and round and round.  So if I play first round, I'm concentrate for first round.  If I won, the same for second round, not to come to tournament and I say, "I want to won this tournament," and then I lost first round.  That's very bad.  But if you go there, you won first round, then second round it's okay.  But if you go and say, it's not for me good.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT