OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 17, 2004
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Very big win. 

TOMAS BERDYCH:  Thank you. 

Q.  What do you think about your performance? 

TOMAS BERDYCH:  So I think it was my best match which I ever played because I play first time with Roger and I beat him.  And I think it's unbelievable feeling.  Because, you know, Roger is, in this moment, I think the best player who's on the ATP circuit.  So he's winning every tournament when he come.  And on Olympics I had the chance and I beat him, so it's unbelievable. 

Q.  How well do you think he played? 

TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't know.  I saw Roger only on TV.  I saw him, he was winning.  So, I don't know, I think maybe not -- maybe it wasn't the Roger who was winning, but I beat him so I'm very happy. 

Q.  Tell us about your expectations when you came here.  What did you think?  How far did you think you could go?

TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't have the point to go to tournament and I say, "I want one day."  But I go to tournament and I try to play my best.  I go to first round.  I'm trying to win.  If I win, I'm trying to win next round.  Not I say, "I needs to go to semis or I need to win the tournament."  So I try beat Roger.  I beated him, so it's very nice.  And now I try won next match, so we will see. 

Q.  Can you just discuss a little bit maybe the strategy that you wanted to employ and if that is what worked in this match. 

TOMAS BERDYCH:  I don't think I -- I don't have -- not strategy, but it's really very difficult to play some strategy with Roger because, you know, he's great player.  So I only try to play my best tennis and I try pushing him.  I play best my tennis today, so I won today. 

Q.  Can you say, what did you think his weaknesses were today that you discovered? 

TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think I was serving well today and then I not making so much unforced errors.  So maybe that was the point.  Maybe Roger wasn't in his shape.  So I don't know. 

Q.  Can you describe for us what the final few points of the match were like as you realized you had the chance to win this. 

TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think that the two games before the end I was very lucky because I had three matchpoints down.  It was very tough game for me.  But I holded the game.  And then I go next side to return, and I think that there was good for me because Roger make two -- I think two double-faults.  And if he make the two easy mistakes, it's two point, which is good.  First matchpoint I think Roger play well.  He hit the first serve and then perfect winner from forehand side.  And then the second matchpoint it was good for me because he didn't make first serve.  So then it was good chance for me second serve.  And I hit a backhand winner, and that was the point. 

Q.  What went through your mind when you hit that winner to win the match?  You seemed to not believe that you had won. 

TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think it was everything.  Everything in my head because, you know, if you see the guy, he won Wimbledon, he won Australian Open, and now you are the player which beat him.  So it's unbelievable.  But I don't know what special hit was (smiling).

Q.  When did you start to realize that he was maybe not on his best day today; that you could maybe win the match? 

TOMAS BERDYCH:  I think it was in second set when I broke him, because to broke Roger is very tough.  I broke him to 5-3, and then I lost my serve.  So it was very tough for me because 5-3 in serve.  And then on score 6-5, I break him again.  So that was, I think for me, very good chance because if you break two times Roger, so you can think you can beat him.  But anyway it was tough, the third set. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT