WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2016
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/J. Vesely
  4‑6, 6‑3, 7‑6, 6‑7, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Can you describe how you felt yesterday when all this happened in the end, saving set points, not being able to finish the match. 
TOMAS BERDYCH: It was not really a position I would like to be, especially last night. But the important was that I was able to erase it from my mind very quickly, get a good night's sleep, and come back strong again to finish the last set. 
That's what I did. I think that's all the experience that I already have. That's what really gets me through this. It was really not the situation that I would like to have, but that sometimes happen as well. 

Q. Were you told why you weren't allowed to move to Centre Court last night?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, not really a clear answer on that. I mean, I was asking for it. Especially when I've been playing for last couple of days consecutively. I just felt like there would be a chance to finish. But there was not really a clear answer why not. 
I just forget it and just get myself ready for today's finishing the match. 

Q. How do you see the next match going? I don't know if you know anything about Lucas Pouille. How do you see this one?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I practice with him one day before the tournament started. At least that's the only time we spent on the court together. 
Of course, I mean, there is plenty of things what to see about his game. That's what I'm going to do and prepare with my team. 
With the recovery, you know, I think it was actually a good day to play a set. It's like a day of practice. It's a little bit over. 
You know, I'm quite used to it actually. I'm doing it day by day, so that's fine. I hope that we going to get a good time tomorrow. Hopefully everything goes well. I can make the match done and finally have a day off.

Q. Can you explain what the problems you were having towards the end of the fourth set with the light? Were you surprised the match wasn't stopped, given how much you were asking the umpire?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, this is really repeating the same again. 
Yes, I can't really see. That's the fact. That's how it is. I mean, I was just asking to stop. Obviously when I ask, I've been told, It's too late, you have to finish that. 
There is another fact that, you know, when the referee calls you that the Hawk‑Eye is not in operation anymore. I don't know why actually we have to play in that situations when very accurate machine is not able to operate. I don't think that the human eye can see better than that. That's another fact. 
So you can make a picture about it as you like. I experience this third time in a row. So I'm actually getting used to it. 

Q. At other times in the tournament, some players have complained that the courts were slippery because of rain, and that players should have a voice in the decisions about whether to continue. Given you experienced something with regard to darkness, what role do you think players should have in the decisions about when to resume play?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, that's a very nice question. I think we should have definitely some word in that because I think we are the one who are on the court. We are the one that are performing, you know. The decisions are made by people who are sitting at the chair. That's a bit, I would say, unfair in this sense. 
That's how it is. But we can't really change much about it. We have to deal with the situation as it is. That's all I can do. I mean, I have to be focused what I have to do on the court. 
When you feel that you can't really change any decision, it's really pointless to try to do that. 

Q. How does it feel to be in the quarterfinals again, having your game back and everything?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, actually it feels good. I really have to just give it some time, a little thought what was happening last couple of days. Everything kind of keeps coming. You have to be very focused every single day. You don't really get that day in between that you can just really get some break, you know, just summarize the things what is happening. 
So I almost don't feel like I'm in the quarters yet because it's just keep going, the days. Everything is so quick. 
But overall I think it's pretty good. It's a good run. It was another tough test for me. Just have to get ready for myself for the next one. That's how it is. 

Q. How do you feel you can beat Pouille? If you do, what do you feel about the prospects of Andy Murray being in your way?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I'm not the one who really likes talking about the prospects and the future matches. My opponent next is Lucas Pouille. I just really have to focus on that to try to do my job, win the game, then we can talk about what might be coming up. 

Q. How do you beat Pouille?
TOMAS BERDYCH: I'm going to try to stick with my game, try to play with what I know the best, try to dictate. That's it. I mean, there is not many secrets behind it. Just being very focused from the first point till the last. Just stick with my game. 

Q. I appreciate that Roger Federer is not in your half of the draw. I'm looking to ask people about what it takes to beat Roger at Wimbledon. You're one of only a handful of people that has done that. Talk to me about what you need to do to stop Federer. 
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, obviously your game has to be on the very high level, I would say. Almost be on the line that you are able to play. You have to really play on the edge of your tennis abilities, playing very aggressive, I have to say. I mean, every player is different. So, you know, each style requires something else. 
But speaking about myself, what I remember, I was playing very, very aggressive, not giving him any time at all that he can create anything. I was the one trying to push him on the back foot. That's definitely the situation that he's not really used to. That's what he doesn't like. 
When you get the opponent to the situation that he's not really feeling comfortable, that's, I would say, half of the success. That doesn't mean he's going to give you the match. But that was the plan, that was the way, and it works pretty well. 

Q. How much was the fifth set on your mind as you were leaving the courts, going through your normal routine?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, straight after the match, as I said, it was not the feeling I want to really have that night. But as soon as I was able to get it out of my mind, that was just the main thing, main goal. 
I think I've done it quite well. As I said, I used my experience in that sense. I just get back stronger. I start very good. 

Q. When you were more inexperienced, is it possible to go crazy thinking about what's going to happen the next day? 
TOMAS BERDYCH: For me or him? 

Q. For you, when you had less experience. 
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, probably. I don't know what he says about it. I mean, that's how it is. You have to really try to deal with that situation no matter what it is. You have to do all possible to win that match. 
Somebody's like that, that he likes to think about it, maybe be a little bit more edgy or something like that. Bring more emotions from the last night to the game could help, but definitely not for me. 

Q. You reached the finals six years ago. What is the difference for you?
TOMAS BERDYCH: I'm six years older (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT