WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2016
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/A. Zverev
  6‑3, 6‑4, 4‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. This match was special because you're facing a young, up‑and‑coming player. It can be tricky. 
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think it was more special that it's Sunday and we playing actually. That was a little more special than I'm playing a young guy that I think we definitely going to hear a lot about him in the future. 
It was not our first time. We play already this year twice. This was another match. 
No, in that sense, not really. It was a very tough opponent, I have to say. He is really good. He is really tough. So I'm very pleased the way I handled the match. I was able to really play the game I want from the first point till the last. That's it. 
There was a lot of positives from the match, and I'm happy with the way I played. 

Q. Some of your previous matches were pretty tight. Today you were in control right from the beginning. Were you surprised by that?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I think couple things changed from those matches that I played him. As I said, I was able to dictate the game. I was able to eliminate his good groundstrokes and also the way he's serving, basically his weapons. So that I was doing well. 
Really it was a good game plan from the beginning. 

Q. Seems you found your vintage game since Paris maybe. Has there been something clicking at some point in the match or practice?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think it's little bit more complex. I think I'm just getting back to, as you said, my vintage game little bit. That's very important to me. I'm not really trying to rally out the guys, playing the long shots, which I don't think is the right way. 
I think the result and the game play is the best proof of it. 

Q. Until recently, the season hasn't been up to your usual standards. Why do you think it is? Is it emotional, mental, physical? Any particular reason?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I would say that the beginning was not really the way I want to. I'm not really happy with the beginning of the year. That's the fact. That's true. 
I have to say that, yeah, basically before Paris I just regrouped myself and get back to the things that was working well. 
I hope I'm going to be able to split the season before the Roland Garros and then since Roland Garros. It's going to be with much better results. I'm going to be able to hold up my top‑8 position and finish up the year again for the World Tour Finals. 

Q. What is your team at the moment? Have you had to make any adjustments?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, there is only one change of my coach. Instead of Dani there is Luka. That's all so far. 

Q. Could you give us the full name of your coach?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Luka Kutanjac.

Q. For how long have you been together?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Just since Paris.

Q. There was some replay on TV. It looked like you had your name on your underwear. Have you started a line or something?
TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I did not start. I did not start the line yet. So, no, it's just the few things that I still have. No, it's nothing that should be announced yet, no. Not yet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT