WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2016
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/I. Dodig
  7‑6, 5‑7, 6‑1, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR: Questions in English. 

Q. How much is the challenge of having a match held over, just the overnight sort of focus? I mean, you've been around for a while. Is it something that always is a challenge or you've gotten used to a delay like that?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, no. I think you just mentioned it all in your question. You know, it's always a challenge. But with all the years on the tour, I mean, you get used to it. So really it's just something that, you know, you just have to keep your focus that you don't have a day off after the day that you play the match or that you've been scheduled to play a match.
That's it. So, I mean, no matter if you have to finish for a few points or a set or more, it's just the same thing. You just have to stay focused and be ready for as a new match.

Q. Given the weather forecast for today, how pleased were you being able to get it finished quickly?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Oh, yeah. It's been really up‑and‑down match, but, I mean, first of all, I should have been done, you know, already yesterday. But, yeah, at least a bit of sign of the good timing on this. It's really help. It's good to be done and especially when my opponents finished yesterday. I think it's really good that we were able to finish the match. You know, just now let's see and wait what's gonna happen for the upcoming days. 

Q. A little bit of an offbeat question about changeovers. Strange things happen. Maybe players taking the time to argue with the chair umpire or ordering coffee. How do you kind of view it? Do you really think through everything? Do you just kind of zone out and relax? Is it always different?
TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I think it's all different, because sometimes there are things that they are not really affecting you and there are things that are affecting you almost, I would say, directly. So it's all over, you know, all different things are happening on the court, around the court.
So some of them you can really just easy, let it be and let it go. Some of them, you know, when they are really like, you know, just happening from no reason and they are affecting the game or especially the situation that you are in, then that's a little bit more different. Then also there are days that you're able to deal with them a little bit easier and days there are sometimes ‑‑sometimes they get you a little bit off the balance. But, you know, in the end it's all happening for both of the guys so it's just fine.

Q. If your opponent is arguing with the chair umpire during the changeover, does that distract you or do you get resentful of that ever?
TOMAS BERDYCH: No, no, not at all. I mean, really it's just the way that, you know, he sees something that he doesn't like or something that he wants to really tell to the chair umpire, so that's one of the things that goes completely out of me and goes around. That's not a problem at all.

Q. Do you think you can say anything you want to a chair umpire? Is it like other sports like that? If you look straight ahead and talk and don't get too picked up on the mic, are there ways to speak and argue with the chair umpire that are a little more diplomatic, perhaps?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think in the end I don't really see that many things can really change. I think it's more like the emotional thing. Sometimes you feel that you should say something. You know, maybe he's gonna pick up the point, maybe not. That's really something you can't really, you know, do much about it, but I think that's all. 
I mean, of course you can talk or, you know, you can't really compare with the other sports. I think the tennis is very strict in that and it's very particular, I would say, because that's very special. So that's why, you know, there is not many really talks and not many emotions around that anymore.

Q. You'll be representing your country in the Olympic Games. What are your thoughts about competitors who are pulling out due to concerns about the Zika virus?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think they definitely have their own reasons. The decisions are totally up to them, so I totally respect that.

Q. Can you tell me a little bit about your coaching situation? I know you had a pretty strong statement when you parted ways with Dani about having not so much time left in your career, being a little bit older and wanting to find the right situation. You have moved forward for a few months. Are you still operating coachless or are you happy with how you have it here at Wimbledon?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I'm happy with the situation that it is right now, but as you know, the tennis is a sport which is moving very quickly and very fast. It's not really that you have time, you know, to be doing the things, you know, like once while you're playing.
The situation right now, it's fine to me, and, you know, it's definitely something that I'm looking for. But I definitely don't want to say anything and let any speculations begin and who, where, what, why, and all those things that are very popular. So that's it. 

Q. I wanted to ask you about the football, European Championships in France. Were you following the national team, the Czech team, when they were in the first round? And now, do you have any other favorite team that you would like to win?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, yeah, I have been following. I was watching that. You know, I'm not a big football expert, so I don't really like when people who doesn't know about the sport and they are not close to the sport, you know, they are pretending to understand and saying what was wrong, what was good, how they should play, what they should not do, things like that.
I can listen this all day long about my tennis and about this, so I don't think I'm the right person to talk about the football. So, I mean, they were trying their best. That's the result what happened, and I don't know really any details about it.
So that's about the Czechs. Yeah, I mean, of course I like sports, so I'm following it still. I like to see the matches. Yeah, I think that's a pretty good time to cut the time when it's raining here.

Q. We British are very excited about Marcus Willis playing Federer today on Centre Court. Is that something that's quite interesting, quite surprising for you, a professional, as well, that somebody ranked so low is playing Federer on Centre Court?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, absolutely. I think it's just showing how tennis is a tough sport, and even the guy with the low ranking can pass the ‑‑I think he went through prequalification and then won the qualifying and then now he's won his first round.
So that's basically seven matches, right? He won the title. (Laughter.) So that's pretty well done.
For him, there is really nothing to lose, and I think that's really what so many players dream about to play. I mean, that's just another nice example of what the sport can bring out. 

Q. To what extent are you a creature of habit? Do you stay in the same house every year, eat in the same restaurants, or do you like to mix it up?
TOMAS BERDYCH: No, no, no. I mean, I don't even think I stayed twice in the same house. But I'm just always trying to pick something else, I mean, just to have something different, you know, because the year is getting quite same. And, you know, after so many years on tour it's just becomes really the same.
So at least this is a little change that you can do and you can have a little different house, different place. And that's it, you know. It's important that it's close by, it's convenient. But if it's one or another place, that's absolutely fine.

Q. Going back to the Olympics and the Zika virus, what guidance have you sought or received with respect to the Zika virus?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, honestly, I haven't been really like thinking about it that detailed or really just seeing the things as it is. I mean, right now for me it's much more important things ahead, so I'm just focusing on that. And whenever the time comes up to this, then I might have a look or... 

Q. You've not spoken to any doctors or experts about potential risks?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, yes, there are potential risks. And even if they are saying they are not and they are like 95% sure that it's all fine and all clear, I mean, who's going to tell you that those 5% or that mosquito with the virus is not going to bite you?
So that's definitely not a positive thing and positive sign for such a big event and things like that. And especially with the head of, you know ‑‑I would say with the position all of us, I mean, that's not a pleasant thing. But what else we can do? 

Q. Some players have brought on sort of temporary coaches for a particular part of the season, Stan working with Krajicek, Milos with John McEnroe. Is that something you would consider for yourself or do you more see a coaching ‑‑not necessarily who it would be, but would you see a coach as a building relationship, someone you want to see a long‑term thing playing out?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, it was always more for the long‑terms working relationship. So that's how I see this situation.

Q. A couple questions about Davis Cup. The first one is: Did you make your decision about playing or not the quarterfinal in July in Trinec? Did you already make your decision? 
TOMAS BERDYCH: No.

Q. Not yet?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Not yet.

Q. You will make it after Wimbledon? 
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yes.

Q. The second question is about the fact that the ITF plan to play the final after 2018 in a country which is not the country of both finalists on a neutral place. What do you think about that? Do you think it's a good decision or not?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Wow. They are going even better. Okay.
Well, I mean, that's the first time actually to hear that, so ‑‑ well, I would definitely not be a fan of that. I mean, I experienced both finals, I mean, the one at home and I also experienced the one away. I mean, of course it's all very different, all very different experience, I have to say. But I would definitely never change the experience that I had winning at home.
So with this fact, I think it's a bit unfair to the team that makes it all the way to the final. I mean, of course one way it's gonna be the team you play away or you play home, but, I mean, that's how it is. I mean, that's how it's the tradition been all the time.
I think that the will or the reason of the Davis Cup should be try to make it better for the players. But I don't see really what's this better for the players, you know. I think it's just a bit unfair. You know, the players, they are playing all year almost on, I would say, neutral place. You know, I mean, of course like for me. There are some players of course like Andy here. There are many examples they can play home but in the end not so much. And even if you do this in the Davis Cup, I don't really like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT