ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2016
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych   
6-3, 7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  When you came back in the second set, playing really good tennis, did you feel like maybe that could turn against him today?  What made the difference at the end?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, it was very tough.  It was the straight sets, and then I think there were couple little chances.  And especially with him at least if you get little, very small chance, it's what it's all about.   
But, you know, I mean, it was just close.  It was not really easy and not the way that I hope, you know, yesterday that these conditions might be in my favor a little bit, but it gets even worse today.   
So, you know, he just handled it better today.   
 Q.  You clearly weren't happy about the rain break that you had.  Was that because you felt that the conditions hadn't really changed or how did you see it?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, exactly.  We were playing two-and-a-half sets in the light rain.  Then again, it was another little chance, you know, when I was, you know, still being close and having my chances.   
Then all of a sudden that the decision is like that when, you know, there is nothing really happening.  You have to just go for the break, you know, take all the stuff, go in, then go out again in few minutes.  Really, I mean, that was one of the worst calls that I ever had on the court.   
You know, that's it, you know.  The conditions are tough.  They are not easy to play.  Probably that's when they are, you know, pushed under pressure that they are making decisions like that.   
 Q.  Just to follow up on that, how difficult is it for your concentration?  It's difficult enough to play Djokovic, but when you have to deal with that, how difficult was that for you mentally?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, you can really see.  It was 0-3 on the games after.  So when you're getting the momentum, you are in the match, you're staying very close with him, and then all of a sudden there is a break and then you have to go all out and everything, I mean, of course.   
I know it's same for everyone, but this is a bit a phrase that has been using just to say something.  Somebody can see the situations different, and for some player the situations on the court might be different, as well, in that point.   
So that's how it is.  Really, it was a very interesting decision what they come up with.   
 Q.  Just to be sure, because I missed the start of all the debate with going out of the court or not, is it Novak that asked for the --  
TOMAS BERDYCH: No.   
 Q.  -- the umpire's decision?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: No, no.  Don't really involve Novak in that.  It's nothing to do with that, really.  It's about just decision what they are doing, you know.  They are relying on someone who is closed in little room and saying that he's meteorologist and he's predicting what's going to happen or not.   
I mean, it's been raining for two-and-a-half sets and the court was not really in the good conditions, and then all of a sudden, you know -- I was asking the same question before.  Like when the referee came down and she told us, We wait a few minutes, if it stop or not.   
I was like, Waiting for what?  What's the point of this?  The court won't get better.  It will get only get worse.  We will be sitting in the 10 degrees here and there is no sense at all.  After 10 minutes they just call it and going inside when the conditions were the same.   
Really, I mean, the decisions, I don't know what's been based on, and that's it, you know.  So really, as I said, I mean, with all the things they are here, I mean, they are so much stress with the timing that they are missing only because of them.  You know, again, the only one who are in trouble is us players.  What can we do with that?   
 Q.  I don't know if you saw, but he nearly hit the linesman with his racquet when he bounced it into the ground.  Do you think he was maybe a little bit fortunate to just get a warning for that?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, I think that would be only difference between, you know, where the racquet actually landed.  I mean, that's the only way what can make the difference in the rules.   
I mean, if he would hit the ball boy it would be over.  If not, then it's just a broken racquet.  That's it.  Simple warning.  Simple as that.   
 Q.  Your level of game has been really good during the French Open compared to last couple of weeks.  Is it a silver lining a little bit?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I was playing well.  It was a good run.  Unfortunately with all the things that are happening here, I was again to face Novak in the quarters.   
That's how it is.  So, I mean, I can only leave with the head up and just going forward.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT