ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2016
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. BERDYCH/D. Ferrer   
6-3, 7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Thank you.   
 Q.  Talk about the conditions, the match, and just how the past few days have gone for you.  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Oh, yeah, I mean, the days were long; the weather was really tough and very difficult.   
But the only advantage of that was actually was that bad that we don't have to go on and off the court, which I think is absolutely the worst conditions.   
In this case it was just long and just you have to really make yourself, you know, aware of that.  You know, being just calm and no rush to anywhere.  That's it.   
And then when the time was on and I have to go and play, I just get myself in the good position.  I was playing well.  I was able to use these tough conditions of being cold and very wet as kind of my advantage when the ball was not bouncing high.   
I was able to play fast and through the courts.  I think it was a great job done today.   
 Q.  Can you talk about just the whole tournament for you right now?  How pleased with yourself are you that you managed to rebound from Rome?  Was that a catalyst for this form right now?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, it's another slam.  For me it's always important to go really one by one.  That's what I did.  I go opponent by opponent and I get back to play some good tennis, which was important.   
As I said, I mean, it's no matter what happened in the previous weeks.  It's always important what's happening right now.  That means that I'm playing good tennis and feeling great and confident on the court.   
So that's the most important for me.   
 Q.  Can you look ahead to your next match with Novak.  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah.   
 Q.  Perhaps the heavier conditions a bit better to play him in?  What do you think?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: I mean, it's really tough to say, especially with him.  But I think he can also deal with these conditions quite well, so let's see if it's going to play to be advantage or disadvantage, which I don't know right now.   
Really I have nothing to lose.  I'm playing well and I'm just going to try to stick with that.  I'm going to try to, again, use my tennis as much as I can on the court and really just try to be the one who is dictating the ball.   
Then let's see what's going to happen and how it's going to go.   
 Q.  In terms of scheduling, obviously you guys on the top half have it a bit tougher.  Are you playing tomorrow?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I think so.   
 Q.  So how do you feel about just backing up today with another big match tomorrow?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: I mean, there is nothing else that you can do with that.  There are no other things.  The only thing that can change anything I think has been said in last couple of days.  That's it.   
We have to take it as it is right now and we have to deal with that situation.  Just the best one can get through.   
 Q.  You were sarcastic on you account on Twitter in last couple of tweets.  
TOMAS BERDYCH: I think I was quite honest actually.   
 Q.  You criticize someone here about the roof?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: No.  No.  I been just honest, what I said, which I think it's the right fact.  There is not really the explanation, you know, why we cannot have that when the tournament is doing such well and it's such a big event.   
In the end you don't really see that it's more about players than about the tournament.  I think it was a nice example yesterday.  Overall, I mean, I think it shouldn't be forget that the tournament like this, without the players would never exist.   
That's just how it is, how I feel it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT