QATAR EXXONMOBIL OPEN
January 5, 2019
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. BAUTISTA AGUT/T. Berdych   
6-4, 3-6, 6-3   
 Q.  Tell us about the final.  What was the difference in the end?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: I think it was overall a very good match and I think the biggest difference was one game in the third set where I lost badly my serve where I hit two double faults in one game.   
And I think that just, in such a tight match, just made the big difference and that's why I think Roberto won today because he was playing well overall and he had a great week.  But that was the biggest difference which decides today's game.   
 Q.  How was your game plan and are you happy with the execution?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: The game plan was being aggressive, playing my tennis, which has been very good and very solid throughout the whole week and I was just besides the one game, I was sticking well with the plan and overall I'm happy.   
I'm not satisfied because satisfied would be after winning a title, but I'm happy with the week.  It was a good week overall and that's it, let's move on.   
 Q.  Great start to the season.  Please sum up the week and assess the week.  
TOMAS BERDYCH: I think I already started in the previous question.  I think it was a great week overall.  I mean, coming after six months of not playing this really - my expectations were completely on a different level.   
But, you know, tennis is a beautiful sport and all the experience that I had from the past and all the hard work that I did throughout my pre-season just pays off and I'm really happy with the way the week went.  And, yeah, let's move on to Australia.   
 Q.  Moving on to Australia now.  Is this the start in confidence you needed?  What are your expectations for the coming weeks?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yes, it's definitely a great start for me.  As I said, six months has been a long time and winning four matches in a row, that's great for the confidence, that's exactly what I've needed.   
I'm not sure if I was like seeing this coming, but it's a nice bonus and I definitely appreciate it.   
But still I have to stay very humble, very patient because it's been just the first week of the season, so there's no need for any huge expectations and stuff like that.  So really keep on going, doing it week-by-week, match-by-match.  And Australia is one of my favorite Slams.  I always did well.  So I'm looking forward to the place and I will try to carry on on this momentum and play a great tournament there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT