DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 23, 2016
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. BERDYCH/J. Sousa   
6-1, 6-4   
An interview with:   
 Q.  Talk about the match.  What was going through your head?  The second set was a little bit tougher than the first set.  Talk about the match, please.  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, it's always a bit like that, you know, when the first set goes quite easy.  And I think he's been quite struggling the first set, you know, so then basically there were no way that it's, you know, can be pretty much the same so he could get only better.   
I think he just starts to play a little bit more solid, you know, play a little bit more aggressive from his forehand side, which is like his stronger side.   
Just made couple of games and pushed me a little bit more.  But I think overall it was quite good.   
A first match, you know, playing outside, after a while it's a good test to, you know, to go through and just don't make it more complicated than needed.   
 Q.  In the morning the sun was really bright, but it seemed to have clouded up a bit.  Did that help?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I think it helps.  It's always a bit more pleasure on the court when you get a bit of clouds there and it's not that bright.  This court and this time I think it's quite okay, because like after half an hour, shadow comes up on the court and it's much more pleasant, because I think this year it's quite warm and really, really dry.   
So the conditions are really fast, but that's very well known from this place.  So it's basically as usual it is.   
 Q.  You have been on the tour for a long time.  There is a continuing debate about whether it's Fab 5 or Big 4.  What is your take on that?  What do you think?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I would say overall that we are in the tennis era of, you know, the greatest players so far, even if it's a time of three or four years of domination of Roger, you know, then in between that of really great years for Rafa.  And now basically what Novak is proving on the court, I mean, I think it's really like from another world.   
That's how it is.  I mean, I don't think that we should be counting top 3, top 4, top 5, whatever it is.  I mean, everyone trying to do the best what possibly can, and the results are just proof of that.  For us, I mean, it's always a big challenge, you know, try to chase those guys.   
I think the positive thing on it is I think they make definitely me as a better player, because I'm trying to get closer to them, trying to reach higher levels.  That's the only thing.   
But, yes, it's quite a field.   
 Q.  How do you look at the season so far?  You named these players:  Djokovic, Roger.  How do you look at the season so far?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, yeah, those three losses are -- you know, it's not the easy ones, definitely not.  Those two names are very well known.   
Nick I think it's one of the guys of the new generation that really having some, you know, fire in the arm and can do really good results, good matches.  I mean, it's still very young guy.   
So with these players, you can see almost every month how they improve, how they play better.  You know, I played him month ago in Melbourne, and now I played him on slightly different court.  You know, you can see the difference.   
So it's not easy, you know.  It's coming up also these young guys, so it's getting more and more challenges.  I'm looking forward to it, actually.   
 Q.  Have you played enough Davis Cup to play the Olympics?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Nope.  I'm going to Germany.   
 Q.  You're going to Germany and not Brazil?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, what do you mean?  I'm going to Germany for the first round.   
 Q.  Oh, you are going to Germany?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I have to play the first match to be qualified for the Olympics.   
 Q.  How does an Olympic year change the dynamics for the season?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I would like to say that I have done it already three times, which is true, but on the other hand, you know, you are much younger and the body can deal with the things I would say a bit easier.  And also the place that, especially the last Olympics has been, it's been much easier for us or for the body.   
So it's gonna be interesting.  But for me, the most important thing is to keep very specific of my schedule, trying to really think of the weeks that I really need to do that I really want to play and really plan the schedule very carefully.   
Yes, it's different.  I mean, it looks like just one week extra, but these weeks I do something before, something after, because it's quite far, and then it adds the thing you have to play Davis Cup, as well, so it's another at least week or two.   
Yeah, it's going to get tough, but you have to be smart with that.   
 Q.  Staying with the Olympics, would you like to play mixed doubles?  If you did, who would you choose?  Who would you prefer?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, I got this question already last week, and, well, I mean, as I said, it's Olympics, it's every four years.  Really, if there is a chance to win a medal in any kind of discipline, I would like to try that.   
If everything stays well, I feel good and I feel, you know, strong enough to be competitive for all three events, then I'm going to definitely try that.   
You know, I already said that I would like to play with Pliskova if we find a way to, you know, to make it happen.  Let's see.   
But I think really, I mean, I already said that twice through the press, which I think it's maybe a bit not fair to her but also it's because, you know, you guys getting me these questions and it's still quite enough time really to deal with these things.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT