AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2016
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. FEDERER/T. Berdych   
7-6, 6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You were expecting this kind of game today by Roger, this kind of attacking game?  How did you feel throughout the match?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I was definitely expecting the game like that.  He come up with a game that it was really good.  You know, he was playing really, really aggressive, without any mistakes, without any unforced errors.   
He was just too good today.  I mean, that's it.  That's the way that he needs to play I think this time.  He's been doing it, I would say, quite accurate today.   
 Q.  From your point of view, do you have regrets on how you approached the match?  What did you think of your performance today?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, no, definitely not regrets.  I mean, there are few things that I think -- you know, I was able to making some chances in the first set; same in the third.   
I mean, when you break him and then you lose your serve right after, that's definitely not a thing that's going to help.   
But, as I said, you know, he was playing really well, quite aggressive, and especially without any easy mistakes.  I mean, when you don't get any single point, you know, then it's a bit difficult.   
I'm not asking, you know, like to have all the points for free, but it's something that you can build on and maybe you can take a little advantage or momentum from that.  But he was just too good today.   
 Q.  Given your last couple matchups with Roger, how would you assess his level?  Has he gone up another level or do you feel like your performance wasn't there?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: I think he's still on pretty high level, playing a great tennis.  That's it.  I mean, he's just proving how great player he is, how difficult at this time it is to play him.  To facing Roger in quarters, it's quite difficult to have it like that.  But that's all right.   
 Q.  The first set, how critical was that tiebreak?  You fought so hard after he broke back early.  It seemed like you didn't have much good fortune in that tiebreak.  How important was that in determining the outcome?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I definitely felt okay with that.  I mean, I made a break and then I lost my serve.  Still, I was trying to stay with him, I mean, get to the tiebreak.   
And then also unfortunate there were a couple of calls, which when you get two points which are like that out when you need it, it's the other way around.  All of a sudden it's three points on the other side.  It's quite a lot.   
That's the small things that also make a big role in the end.  It was a close set.  I mean, could go either way, and then -- but everything is just if, so that's how it is.   
 Q.  Were you asked about day versus night conditions?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: No.   
 Q.  How do you see the court playing day versus night?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, it's quite different, especially this year.  I mean, the conditions through the day are quite different because the temperature, it gets much lower.  It cools down and then the courts are much slower, lower bouncing.  It's different.   
For the result, if it's the faster one or slower one, who knows.  Again, everything is 'if'.  We play during the day and that's how it is.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT