AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2016
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. BERDYCH/N, Kyrgios
6-3, 6-4, 1-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Could you hear the music that he was hearing on his side?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, honestly, difficult.  I mean, it was probably on my side.  I don't know.  But I was really just trying to stay focus, trying to be close for myself, and that's it.  I've been through many very loud matches, so I'm probably very, you know, able to block these things, you know, just leave the noise on the side.
So, you know, it's questionable.  So difficult to say.
Q. Can you talk about the challenge he presents both as a player but also as an unusual personality during a match.
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, no, I think it's just one thing, and it's a player himself.  That's how he is.  He's very dangerous for the top guys.  He can play really some big tennis.  He can be very dangerous.
You really have to play a good game, have a good effort.  That's what I did today.  That's it, you know.  That's his game, that's his style.  He can be very dangerous.
Q. When he took the third set, started to come back, was it more that he started getting better or did you feel you were doing something differently?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think it's combination.  I probably stepped down a little bit from the gas and I just probably gave him more space on the court.
Yeah, as I said, he's a great player.  He just took advantage of that.  It was just couple of points which, you know, on one side it was just close in, the other one was close out.  All of a sudden the gap just become huge as a score.
But I didn't felt that way, that it's going so fast.  So that's all right.  I mean, he can play well.  He can play big.  But, you know, I just refocus myself and then play well again in the fourth set.
Q. It looks like with him the angrier he gets, the better he plays.  When he got angry with the umpire, were you just shutting all that and not paying attention or did it distract you at all?
TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I'm just really trying to focus on myself and not really looking over the net.  The only thing, you know, you just need to see is the ball.  That's the only thing I was really focusing on.
So really, I mean, that's his way.  I mean, that's how he's going to be.  That's all.  I mean, there is no need to judge that.  It's how it is.  You know, I'm happy to go through, just play a well match today.
Q. Did it surprise you how quickly the end came?  Kind of out of nowhere the match ended.  What did it feel like for you?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, he's a type of a player, you know, I mean, he's winning his games very easily, serving big, not giving you much of the chance.  Once you get the chance, when you smell the opportunity, you just have to take it.
That's all what I did.  You know, I mean, his games are going quite fast.  Either if it's one or the other way.  He likes to take a very short time in between the points, between the serves.  Everything kinds of feel very fast.
But, you know, as I said, just a different player.  Just makes you to be very, very sharp, very focused, and just trying to look for your chances.
Q. When he was going off the court, he told the umpire, You're a terrible referee.  I'm not sure I heard, but you told the referee, It's not true.
TOMAS BERDYCH: You said he said something?
Q. He told the umpire, You're a terrible referee.
TOMAS BERDYCH: Okay.
Q. Perhaps you told the umpire, No, you're fine, or something like that.  Did you say that?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I just told him that it was a difficult match.  I know him, that he can do better than that, because I think he has a couple of things that might be different.  But, I mean, not a big deal.  It's just the way as it is.  Same as me, I can have a great match, not doing any mistakes, then winning very close and playing not really well.
I think that's same for the umpires as well.  But, again, I think that he was in the tough and difficult position for tonight.  But yeah, I mean, that's how it is.  If there is high expectations, you want to be good, you have to succeed as well.
Q. You're into the second week.  Can you evaluate the first week for yourself.  Are you happy with how things are going?  You made the quarters last year.
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I think the week's been quite solid.  So far it's been guys that I never play before.  That's becoming more and more of those, so that's good.  That's what I'm pleased with.
Especially my game, it's getting better and better while the matches are keep coming.  So that's also a very positive for me.  Yeah, I think for the third round, it was a very, very tough and difficult opponent.  So it was a very good test for the third round.
So, yeah, feeling good.  Body's fine.  So looking forward to play more.
Q. You've been very focused at the end of the third set.
TOMAS BERDYCH: Third set you say?
Q. Third set.  Is that because you wanted to build up a psychological advantage to start the fourth?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, of course, you doesn't want to lose 6-Love the set, then let the player really being on top of you.  So you really trying to look for any single chance, any single game.  Then also like a long-term of the whole match, I kind of felt really well through all the match, feeling physically well.  I was trying to keep with him.  Even the score was going on his way quite easily, just try to make him play.  You know, just try to make him more tired.  You never know, could be four, five sets.  Every single game that he needs to fight for it little more, drain some energy.
It's a battle of the whole match.  It's not only about now we playing a set.  Okay, the set is done, we play another one.  Everything comes.
So, yeah, I just don't like to leave the games for someone for free.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT