AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2016
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. BERDYCH/M. Basic
6-4, 6-0, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You said after your first match that you felt like it got better and better as it went along.  Does that sum up your tournament at the moment, you're gaining momentum?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, it's been quite good today.  It was better than the first match.  It also depends, you know, every opponent is different, the game styles, just to adjust.
Yeah, I felt quite good.  I mean, the conditions were quite tough, especially for the first set.  But then it was better.
I think it was a good day at the office.  You know, straight-sets win, always helpful, always good.
Q. Is there anything you would like to work on or improve before your next match?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, there are always things that you want to get better, you want to get them improved.
But I would say it's just how the tournament progress, how the opponents are keep coming.  It's just important that every match that I step on court, it's going to be slightly better, the game's going to be, you know, slightly higher level of the game.  Just keep improving how the tournament goes on.
Q. How do you prepare yourself because this morning was cold and rainy, and then the sun and hot?
TOMAS BERDYCH: I would say that is really true of our sport.  You never know what time you're going to play, what the weather going to be look like.  Here in Melbourne, I think it's even more.
So for me it's not the first year, which is a good thing.  I've been in these conditions for a while, or last couple of years.  So I experience already like, you know, starting the match in the extreme heat, finishing the match almost wearing a jacket.
That's how it is.  You just have to be ready, prepared.  I think it's just how you working out, how you preparing yourself in the off-season.  When you feel good, strong enough, then doesn't really matter what the weather is, hot, cold or rainy, whatever it is.
Q. There's a chance of you facing Australia's Nick Kyrgios in the third round.  What do you make of his game?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, it's definitely a rising star coming up.  I mean, he has definitely a game to play a big matches, play with a big opponents.
But, yeah, I mean, he's going to play aggressive.  He's serving well.  As I said, you know, it's a guy that he likes to have a big matches.  So I have to be really, really being there, being prepared, being very focused from the first point.
Q. You played in Davis Cup finals and Grand Slam finals, charged atmosphere.  Should it be Kyrgios in the third round, is there anything you can do to sort of feed off the energy from a crowd like that that will be heavily behind their man?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, of course.  I mean, he's a local, so that's how it is.  But anyway, I still feel that the crowd is pretty nice here.  Always enjoy to play the matches here.
Whatever the crowd's going to be, it's just about myself, how I'm going to be focused and prepared.  That's just the thing that goes on the side.
I mean, I've been playing many matches with Frenchmens in the Roland Garros, American guys in US Open, many Davis Cup matches away.  You know, I think that's all right.  That's part of the sport.  I think it's what we want to have.  Hope the people's going to like it.  It's going to be a nice match.
Q. You faced Nick a few times in the IPTL.  Did you have much interaction with him off the court or on the tour in general?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Not really.  It's just been that we met couple of times with actually this year IPTL.  I saw him there first time actually two years ago.  So no, not really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT