QATAR EXXONMOBIL OPEN
January 5, 2016
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








T. BERDYCH/S. Stakhovsky
7-5, 6-4
An interview with:
TOMAS BERDYCH
THE MODERATOR: Straight-set victory.  Happy to start the season this way?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, definitely I am.  It was not an easy opponent in the sense of not really giving me the right amount of rhythm that you would like to.  But, yeah, I took my chances and it was a good start.  Just feeling good on court.
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How could you rate your first performance of the year?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I'm probably not the great rater of, you know, just of the performance.  I think it's the best way is to win and to get the first match done.  That's why I succeed today.
As I said, it's always tricky to play him.  He's one of the few that likes to come a lot of to the net, playing a lot of slice and a lot of variation in the game.
You know, I just took my chances in the first set, end of the first set.  Made a set.  Same thing in the second.  It was quite solid game today.
Q. This was your seventh win against Stakhovsky.  What do you think works so well for you in terms of the matchup?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think I'm able to keep the quite high level for him, playing still quite aggressive and fast from the baseline, returning well, which puts a lot of pressure on him.
Then when I made my chances, then I'm able to execute them well.  So that was the case of the match again today.  When he's playing well, I try to stay with him.  And, you know, once he gave me a little chance, I'm able to step up and, you know, overcome his game.
So that's what has been working pretty well in the past, you know, six, seven matches.
Q. You reached the finals of ExxonMobil last year.  Do you expect to win this year?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, it's long way to go.  I mean, of course the goal is to come for the week and for the tournament and leaving with the trophy, but on the other hand there are, you know, five guys that are in the way and they're going to try to stop me.
The first one is done.  I just need to get ready for the next opponent and try to keep doing the same thing all over again till the end.  That's the goal and that's what I'm going to try to do.
It would be great.  It would be great to leave with the trophy in the end.
Q. You're a must follow on Twitter.  What do you say to your Twitter fans/followers?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I just haven't done anything yet.  I mean, I will definitely.  So it's great to have that support.
You know, I'm going to try to keep the high level of entertainment and, you know, just bringing some inside stories, as well.  Yeah, just keep on going.
It's going to be another interesting year with a lot of new things coming up, and just thanks for all the support.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT