BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 19, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych
6-3, 7-5
An interview with:
TOMAS BERDYCH
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Don't you have the impression you could have won that match?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, it's not about 'if' and whatever impression you have.  It's always about the result.  I think tennis is about that.  There is only a winner and loser, nothing in between.
Yeah, I think there was a slight good chance.  But, yeah, that's how it is.  It was quite a few mistakes in the tough moments.  That was deciding today.
Q. It's hard enough to beat Novak Djokovic anyway, but what was the mindset like when you come out knowing you have to win in straight sets?  How different is that?
TOMAS BERDYCH: It's just the fact of the statistics or of the counting around.  You don't really think about it.  You just go on court and try to play your best game.  Every match starts from zero.  That's it.
If you start to think too far ahead, it's no chance.  So no matter which match you play, no matter which opponent, especially playing No. 1 player in the world, no, it's just the same thing.  You just try to focus, try to play well, stick with your game plan, and that's it.
Q. How would you sum up your week and your year?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, obviously it's not the way that I would like to finish the year.  It's a bit disappointing not to have any wins here.
The other hand, I think it was a very good and solid year for me.  I'm just going to try all the positives from the whole season, just keep doing what's on the plan, just working hard and be strong again for the next season.
Q. Similar to your match against Roger Federer, you were level with him until the end of the sets, then increased your errors.  How would you assess your mentalities playing against the best players in the world?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, how I deal with it, the preparation is the same for every player, whether you play the top player or the guy top 20 to 50.  In that sense it's the same thing because you just have to do well.  Every single small error or margin of not being on court can cost you the match.  So you really don't want to do that.
Q. How is your mentality against the best players?  Do you think it's an area of your game you need to improve on?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, there are certain areas of the game that I definitely need to work on.  I mean, no matter if you are 5, 6, 10, No. 1 in the world, you have to keep working on your game because the opponents are not sleeping and they are trying to improve as well.
Yes, I mean, that's definitely one of the aspects that I need to work on or basically be able to get better in those matches, playing those top guys.  That's it.
I don't know if it's a matter of being more focused or being stronger or whatever part it is.  You can call it really whatever you want.  In the end it's a matter of if the ball lands in between the lines, you play good tennis.
Q. Two years in a row you sort of finished your season with a Davis Cup final.  Not the case this year.  What do you think, is Great Britain the favorite or...
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yes, I experienced this two years in a row, playing a final.  For me it was just one extra week in the season which already has been very long.
On the other hand I think it's a good week to have, especially for Britain, it's going to be a massive week.
You know, talking about the favorites in Davis Cup, it's always a very fine line.  I think we never been the favorites in most of the matches, and we won twice in a row.  So I don't think that's really important to have a favorite of the game.  It's always about winning three points and don't really matter who is going to make them.  If you look at the setup and the teams, I think they have a pretty good chance to win.
Q. You have faced Federer and Djokovic in this group.  Which was the toughest opponent and who do you think will win the tournament?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I'm not really good in predicting the winners or the results or whatever.
I always was choosing Roger, going with those names, so let's try something different.  Rafa is basically looking pretty good.  Anything can happen here.  I think it's very open.  There is still a lot of tennis to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT