BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 17, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/T. Berdych   
7-5, 3-6, 6-3   
An interview with:   
TOMAS BERDYCH   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Assess the match and then assess your play here so far in the tournament.  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, today, I mean, there is not much to talk about.  I think it's been all about one point in the third set when I had the breakpoint up.  I had him on the good run.  The rally starts pretty well for me, but I was not able to break him.  Then I lost my serve.  Basically, that was it.  That was the difference today.   
Yeah, I mean, it's not a great one, not to have a win, but that's how it is.  That's fine.   
 Q.  In the second set you had a moment where you were dictating the game.  In the third set you got maybe a little bit nervous or Kei came back to play strongly?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I just said it now.  Everything was fine.  I was playing very good second set.  I was playing well in the third.  I was the one having a first chance having a breakpoint in the third set.  Had a good rally, had a good position to finish the ball, but I just didn't make it.  Then he took the chance.  He break me next game.  That was it.   
 Q.  Obviously a different format.  How do you pick yourself up from here?  What do you think your chances are?  Talk about your next match.  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Next match is against Novak.  Another one to play with him, challenge him, just try to have a good one for the last match of the season.  That's it.   
I'm just going to try to go there, try to play some good tennis, and that's it.   
 Q.  You have been through some changes with Dani as your new coach.  How do you rate your season and how do you feel now with all the changes you had at the beginning of the year?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: I think the season has been pretty good.  It's been very well through the whole year.  Also in the terms, as you said, it's a new team and new things.   
As you look at the season, there is basically no time to do anything, to work on some specific things.  I mean, we're playing from the first week of January till now.   
You also need to have some time to rest and time to get prepared between the tournaments.  So really the time for the real changes, it's going to take time.   
But I would say quite as many that we work on were already in place and were working quite well during the year, so I'm happy for that.   
Yeah, I'm just looking forward for the next year, just keep going.   
 Q.  The fifth time you played Kei, fourth time you lost.  What is it about his game?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, it's difficult.  Well, difficult.  The last time we played was 2012.  Now it's been a very, very close match.  I would just repeat the same thing I said already two times:   
It was a very close one, decided by really one or few points.  That's it.  I mean, he's a good player.  He's a player from the top eight.  That's it.  Not much to say.  I mean, he's playing good tennis.  It was just a close game today.   
 Q.  Finishing in the top 10 again, you've been a Grand Slam finalist, you're 30 now.  Where do you feel like your game is?  At this stage in your career, what do you think you can do to push ahead a little bit further?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, keep doing the things that I'm working on, being patient on that.  Just, you know, try to stay healthy.  That means really taking care of myself, of the body.  If you are not fit and healthy, then you can't really work hard and try to improve.   
That's the thing.  On one hand you're getting more and more experience.  The other one, probably you have to choose the schedule more carefully.  There are new things coming up.   
But anyway, I still feel that I have like at least two, three years of good tennis ahead of me.  I'm just looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Everybody talks about this surface being a slow surface.  Do you think you're still struggling with this surface or it suits your play style?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, honestly, I never been a big fan of these courts particularly.  But that's how it is.  I just need to adjust for that.  I just need to prepare as best as I can and try to play some good tennis.   
But, you know, it's the same for everybody.  It just depends how the other guys are able to adapt, you know, adjust their game on the court.  That's kind of a big challenge for me, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT