BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 15, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. FEDERER/T. Berdych
6-4, 6-2
An interview with:
TOMAS BERDYCH
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You fell down in the first set.  Did it hurt you or do you feel okay?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, it hurts me when I fall down, but it doesn't hurt now, which is good.  In that sense, it's all good, it's all fine.
It's just a small thing.  Last couple of weeks, I'm quite used to falling down on the court.  Thankly [sic] it's always with a good end, so it's all good, all fine.
Q. You will play Nishikori the day after tomorrow.  It's been three years since you played him.  Do you feel it's pretty weird that you haven't played him for that long of time?  What kind of match do you expect?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, yeah, I think this is the tennis today.  I mean, you're going to get some players that you almost play week by week, you play them really very often in one or two years.  Then there is a player that, you know, you didn't face for a long time.  I think that's the case of playing with Kei.
But, you know, I quite practice a lot with him.  It's not going to be really unknown to play him after long time.
What I can expect from that?  Definitely it's going to be different match than today.  I mean, it's a completely different player with a different style of the game.  I'm just going to need to get myself ready, prepared, try to brush this match off from my head and get ready for the next one, which is with Kei.  Just be ready, be strong.
Q. Knowing that you play in the same group as Novak Djokovic turned this game to be a key game in the sense that it forced you probably to beat Novak if you want to qualify to the next round.
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, that's a pretty much straightforward scenario if this is the case.  But, you know, as I said, the tournament is quite long.  It's consisting of at least three matches in the group.  I lost one, and now I just need to refocus and get better for my next match, then just keep doing the same thing back and forth.
Now I'm definitely not thinking about match with Novak.  I'm just trying to get ready for the next opponent, then just going to try to get ready and prepare for the next match again.
Q. Can we have a last word for you about the Fed Cup.
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yes, really incredible achievement.  Just been able to see on the live score because it's been through the day.  I had my stuff to do.
But, yeah, at least this way I just want to congratulate the whole team.  I think it's amazing achievement they've done to win four times in five years.  It's really big one.
I know how it feels.  It's really great feeling to win, especially at home, have a title.  So well done for that.  It just show how well is the women's Czech tennis right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT