CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. You came to Beijing very late. Did that affect your performance today? How different are the playing conditions here from last week?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, the conditions are completely different. There was not really much time to get used to it. But I don't think I can adjust to this anyway. So it's just really a matter of the day, if you are able to deal with it or not. Definitely I was not able to deal with the conditions. 
But on the other hand I still had pretty much chances that the match could go my way. I was just not able to made them. Yeah, I'm just very disappointing with today's match. 

Q. You have been trying to qualify for London many years, and qualifying many years. Is it different this year? Is it getting easier to deal with the pressure?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Honestly, I don't even look at it. I learned quite a lot from the previous years. It's always the same. So there is no need to be worrying about that or giving it any extra attention. I mean, it's just going week by week, playing the tournaments and the tennis. That's it. 
I mean, in the end, we will see if I'm going to make it or not. But there is no extra needs to be, you know, checking out the situation. 

Q. What do you think Cuevas did well today in the match?
TOMAS BERDYCH: I think he played a very solid match. But as I said before, I still had pretty much a lot of chances to make the match my way. It makes me very disappointing today. 

Q. You weren't expecting it would be that tough to adjust from Shenzhen? Did you think it would be okay to start right away?
TOMAS BERDYCH: I mean, that's how it is. That's the way. You can't do anything with that. That's the circumstances that they put you in that situation. Of course, I mean, this is also matter of having a bit of luck. I mean, I'm not talking about much, but I'm just maybe needing little bit here, little bit there, then the things can go the other way. 
Just talking about today's match, it hasn't been perfect setup for it. But still I had many chances. Could have been a bit luckier with the weather in Shenzhen, coming here earlier, maybe somehow to get used to these conditions. I don't think so, but it's just the circumstances that they created and put you in the situation. 
That's all right. That's our sport. You have to know how to deal with that. One day you deal with that like this, the other one a bit better. So that's fine. 

Q. Maybe next week you will go to Shanghai. It will be the first time you have been in China for three weeks. How do you feel staying so long in China? Do you like the Asian season?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think three weeks is not that long. I'm already after one and a half. You know, there is just the last one coming. That's all right. It's fine. 
I made one tournament title. The other one didn't go my way. You know, just going to try to do well in the third one, my last one. 
It's always a difficult part of the year. We have to travel a lot. The conditions are always very different, very difficult, week by week here in China. It's not easy to adjust. That's it. 
It's the same for all of us just ahead of the last and big tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT