CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Congratulations on your victory in Shenzhen. How has your preparation for the China Open been?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Thank you very much for the congratulations.   
The preparation, I just got here. I'm basically going right straight from the airport. That's my first stop actually from the airport.   
I just came here doing this and I'm going to go 5:30 to hit, then just try to rest as much as possible, get myself ready for tomorrow's match.   
   
 Q. This year is one of your biggest victories was in the Australian Open. You beat Nadal. Before that you lost many times to him. When you face these top players, how do you overcome problems? A lot of Chinese fans are saying that you've been updating your social media less frequently. What has happened?   
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, first of all, yes, you mentioned, it was a good win with Rafa. It was a good run. I mean, I'm just trying to prepare myself as any other match: just try to do well, play good tennis, that's all. Even if it's with a top player or a lower‑ranked player, doesn't really matter. The preparation is still the same.   
Well, I think I'm just trying to keep whatever I was doing before. I also need to do stuff like training, rest, relax, spending some time with my family, also other things. I cannot really spend 24 hours on the social media, as well. That's the answer for that.   
I'm trying to do my best to bring some fun things for the fans on that, as well. But, yeah, that's it. Just trying to do my best.   
   
 Q. Last year in Beijing, you were in the final. What is your goal for this year's tournament?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, yeah, last year it was a good run. As I said, every single year this event is extremely packed for the draw. It's not easy tournament.   
But I like the challenge, so that's why I'm here. I'm just liking my chances. I'm just going to try to set myself up again for the first match, be prepared, start the tournament well, and keep going all the way.   
I mean, it's always difficult to predict. I'm definitely coming here to play the best tennis, try to go as far as possible, possibly taking the trophy. But it's five matches to win, and it's a long journey. I need to be ready for all that and that's what I'm going to try to do.   
   
 Q. When you were in Shenzhen, you had tough matches in the semifinal and final. When there were rain delays, what do you do to relax yourself?   
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, it was extremely tough, especially for the mental part, being focused, being ready on the court, being sharp for the game, when it's so many times interrupt and you have to do the same thing back again. Yes, it was extremely difficult.   
You can't really do much with that. You just have to stay patient, keep waiting whenever they call you for the match, just prepare yourself, just go and try to play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT