WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. SIMON/T. Berdych
  6‑3, 6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel after that match?   Do you feel in good shape going into the quarterfinals?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Sorry?   Excuse me?   
   
 Q.   Do you feel your form is good going into the quarterfinals?  
THE MODERATOR:   He lost.   He's obviously got a lot of matches.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Does he know right, or is he trying to make fun of me?  
   
 Q.   No.   Sorry, sorry.  
THE MODERATOR:   No.   
   
 Q.   You have played Simon before and you have beaten him before.   Was that the best he's ever played against you?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I wouldn't judge it that specifically, because I think it's too short after the match.   And definitely it was not my day, not the day that I would like to be on the court and perform on the court like that.  
So I don't want to really underestimate, you know, his performance, which I think was very good, very high level.   Especially the way I played, I was not competitive enough for today, but, you know, that's how it is and just need to take it, and keep moving forward.  
   
 Q.   Was there a particular area today that you felt that you struggled with and that you want to go away and work on, or was it just a general game altogether?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, in the end it became kind of general, but, I mean, definitely he was very well observing the pace of the balls.   Then, you know, being very solid from all of the shots and being very sharp.  
Yeah, I mean, he just put up a very solid game.   If you want to beat him, you have to be really on top of it, and playing really well, but it was not the case for me today.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you got to the final here a few years ago.   Do you feel a better player now than you were then?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   You see, I think this just our sport can prove it many times that you can feel as a better player but the results are something different.   So it's really hard to judge that, you know.   
I'm pretty sure that I'm a better player than I was back then, but, you know, the results are different or the result on this tournament is different.   
So it's really, I would say, thin ice to judge this.   
   
 Q.   Obviously the British players here come under so much pressure from everybody in Britain.   What's your relationship with the Czech Republic like?   Is there so much pressure on you that it affects you negatively, or is the support something that's really helped?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, it's a very big difference if you have the tournament like this in your home country and then you perform in this place, but, you know, of course I feeling support from the home crowd and the people in Czech Republic, but it's really difficult to be comparing this with being British playing here.  
So, no, I don't really see any situation that I might, you know, like see it a bit similar like this.   So for me, it's hard to judge.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT