WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/J. Chardy
  6‑2, 6‑7, 7‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   So what could you see at the end?   How much could you see?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Not really much.  
   
 Q.   Enough?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Enough, yeah.   Enough for this year.   You know, I passed this experience last year, and unfortunately with a different finish, different end.   
I'm glad that I was able to learn from those experience.   You know, it just felt really like I'm still playing that match, you know.   That was last year, the last one.   This year the first one.   
So the conditions were extremely tough, I would say, from the beginning.   The opponent was playing really good tennis.   It was a good test for me to start with.  
   
 Q.   The first set went, you know, quite straightforward, and then suddenly he seemed really up for it.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yeah.   I think there was a point of my set point in the tiebreak of the second set which I, you know, just didn't make my first serve.   Then he went full on for the second‑serve return.  
You know, he hit very close to the line and just make the point, which is okay.   It was really like up and down that set.  
But from then on, I think he played a very solid game.   Was a good test for me to start with.  
   
 Q.   Were you confident it would be one won in four and you would get it done tonight?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yeah.   It's much better.  
   
 Q.   Of course you wanted to, but did you think you would?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I had been told at 4‑3 that Hawk‑Eye doesn't work anymore because of the dark.   Exactly the same thing I heard last year.   
I said, No, I'm not going to lose the match again because of this.   
Well, then, then not the chair umpire but the supervisor just came and he asked me like if I want to stop right now.   
Well, I mean, I had a bit risk and I just took the chance that I'm going to try to finish the set.     I was in much better position.   I mean, if the things don't go my way, okay, we are going to go tomorrow and playing the fifth set.   
If everything works out, then, great, I have a day off and I'm back on my schedule, which is, you know, day match, day off.  
I just took that risk.   Everything went good.   I'm glad for that.  
   
 Q.   I had a chat with your physio, Per.   Can you talk a little bit about your work with him?   You started out last fall, I believe?   What type of guy he is and also what the work you have done together has meant for your game.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, exactly like you said, we started last year in fall after the US Open.  
I think he's definitely a very key part of our team, especially these days when taking care of the body of the sportsman is very important part with all his experience that he has got even from tennis, from football, and from all the other works and jobs that he has done in the past.  
You know, the best thing is when you can have a physio who doesn't have much of overwork, that means actually what he's doing, he's doing it right.   That means keeping myself in a good conditions without any injuries, and I can play a lot of tennis, which I did, especially this year, played the most of the matches so far.  
So, yeah, as I said, you know, he's a very important part of my team, and we are all trying to moving and going forward.  
   
 Q.   But, I mean, not to talk too much of your age, but you're not the youngest tennis player anymore.   But do you still feel like you can put on at some things on your physical condition?   Is it even more important now than when you were young and you could maybe keep a lot of things going?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yeah, it is.   But I think this is ‑‑no, I don't want to say it has nothing to do with Per, but Per is in the position of basically taking care of my body that then I'm able to do and all the physical, all the fitness training, all the tennis training and preparation.  
So, I mean, there are guys who has each the specific role, and like you said, it's extremely important.   I currently don't feel to be old.   I'm feeling really good time of my career.   There has been many things that I have changed that I'm starts to do differently.   Most of them or I would say almost all of them works pretty well, and all of them has been good options.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT