ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  T. BERDYCH/R. Stepanek  6-3, 6-7, 6-3, 6-3    THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   Q.  Congratulations.  TOMAS BERDYCH: Thank you.   Q.  My question would be 2010 basically the best results for you both here and then again at Wimbledon.  I'm wondering, do you feel like you're ready to achieve those results again with the game you've been playing lately?  TOMAS BERDYCH: Yes, that's why I'm here.  That's what I'm trying to do:  trying to go all the way, the long journey.  As I said, many times before, the preparation was very well set up.  All went perfectly. So, yeah, I'm feeling good on court.  That's why I'm here.  That's why I'm here, to do some good results. Still, needs to be done one by one.  It's not happening overnight.  Just need to be ready for these two weeks.   Q.  Talk about it overall.  Obviously you've known Radek forever.  Just going out there and playing, were you comfortable overall?  TOMAS BERDYCH: Oh, yeah, of course, I mean, as any other opponent.  The feeling that we know each other is just something that goes away once we step on court.  We both were trying to win. All I can say is that Radek put in a very great game for the time that he's been out.  I think he come back very strong.  He's playing some good tennis.  So just wish him to stay healthy for the rest of the season and for the rest of the time. Really I think we put a tough battle today.  That's it.  I think I felt quite good through the match.  Important is just to win it and just be ready again for my next opponent.   Q.  You've known him for a long time.  He's a very good player right now, yes?  Talk about your relationship with him.  You're good friends.  How has that gone?  I know you played a lot on Davis Cup over the years.  TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I think there has been said already enough.  Yes, we are good friends.  We had some great success in the Davis Cup winning two titles in a row, and some other things as well. Yeah, I mean, we are good teammates.  That's it.  That's how it is off the court.  Then whenever we just step on court, even if it's for the team, then we're wishing the best for each other. Then if it's match like this today, it's about to win it, no matter if it's your friend or not.   Q.  I would like to ask about Nadal requesting the ATP about the umpire, Bernardes.  In 2010, ATP semifinals I think, there was on issue when you were playing against Nadal.  That time you blamed Bernardes for an altogether different reason.  You said he didn't take good control of the situation.  He should have done more instead of letting Nadal go on talk like that.  Do you think that such a move from the ATP is bad?  TOMAS BERDYCH: I don't know which move.  I don't know if there is an issue that Rafa has.  That's definitely just his way.  I don't even know why I should be commenting that.  That's how it is.  That's how it's been done.  That's all.  I don't really remember that match that I played or what you were talking about. So, no, really this just goes away from me.  Whatever he feels, that's his decision.  I will not change anything.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT