MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 19, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych
  7‑5, 4‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.

Q.   It was a very hard match.   How do you feel now?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   By the result, I'm very disappointed.   But by feeling, it's quite good.   I'm fit.   There is no issues with that. 
Yeah, that's how it is. 

Q.   From outside it looked like you were dominating a lot of the points against him.   What made the difference at the end between the win and the loss?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I left him a big gap in the third set.   That was the decider, definitely.   It was really just about a couple of points that didn't go my way.   He defend them very well.   That's basically all what was the difference. 
I mean, I was making him run all the way through those three sets.   Yeah, there was just a couple of things that didn't went as I would like to.   That's makes the difference today. 

Q.   It was a close match in Dubai.   You found something different to play him compared to previous battles?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Definitely.   It's not about finding something different, it's about being able to execute that for that reason you have to really work hard, work the right way.   That's what I'm doing last couple of months. 
It's still not there.   I think it's still too short time.   But, yeah, I mean, the results are coming.   The weeks are getting better and better.   I hope I can still get some positive from that, still keep myself improving. 

Q.   According to the statistics you both ended with a huge amount of unforced errors.   Was it related to the wind and humid conditions?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, not at all.   It's been related to the way that I had to play with him.   You know, as I said, there's been just a couple of points that didn't went the way that I wanted.   Otherwise I think I've been pushing him quite hard.   I had enough chances to make this match happen on my way and I could be the one with the trophy today. 

Q.   Are you happy with your fitness level and that?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   As I said, as I speak about those things, I mean, I'm on the right track.   This is still not over.   I'm still need to keep working on it and keep improving myself. 
We are, well, three to four months from the start from the new things that I've been working on.   As I said, it's very clear on the results on the matches that they are there, they are the right things.   Just need to keep doing that and keep pushing myself, being better and better. 

Q.   How do you explain the start in the third set, that blackout?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, you are being pretty rough to me.   Wow, okay. 
Well, what can I say?   I mean, I think even those three games that I lost, I've been always ahead.   I had my chances, especially on my serve.   It's been one break.   That game I think I was 40‑15 up. 
As I said, there have been a couple of shots that didn't go my way.   You know, that's it.   He took an early lead of that set.   But I was still trying to get back, still trying my chances. 
I had the chance with the breakpoint to get it even.   That's all right.   I mean, that's the experience that I need to accept and move on. 

Q.   You were very aggressive.   I think you played well tactically.   The problem came about your forehand.   You made three forehand mistakes when you were up 3‑2 in the first set, and again in the second game of the third set three forehands.   Of course, you're taking more chances with the forehand.   Do you think there was some tension, some reason, technical or mental, or just a coincidence?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I like that you are doing my stats from the match.   I might asking you and hiring you as a coach.   It might be very interesting. 
Well, I will also have one question on you.   If you like this match better than the one that Rafa played with Novak that you mentioned as a potential final? 

Q.   I think today everyone that said it was an anticipated final is wrong. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Thank you. 
The answer is, of course, the forehand is the thing that I need to creating all the action with.   If there are things that you miss the court for the clear winner by four centimeters, if you would get scared of that, that you miss one shot, you wouldn't go for it again, I would definitely not be here, being as a finalist. 
So, yes, it was the difference which makes the match today.   I made those mistakes from it.   I already answered twice.   I don't know why you asking me for the third time. 

Q.   About the forehand. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   What is the problem of this?   It's a big problem that I lost.   Probably that's the reason of these couple of shots that I didn't put in.   I'm definitely going to work on them more and be better. 

Q.   You must obviously be very disappointed today.   But don't you think tomorrow you'll leave with a different feeling with the satisfaction of a great week?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I mean, as I said, there are positive things I definitely going to take from this week.   I mean, even from this final, it's been a very good game.   I've been pushing him very hard through those three sets.   Just in the end, you know, there was a small difference today. 
So I think it was a very good week, very good start for me.   Just putting myself for the good position and having a good run on the clay. 

Q.   You were close in all of the games in the third set.   You seemed very positive out there, you looked confident.   Was that important for you to be really focused and believing that you could have won that match? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, definitely.   I think we just keep going the same thing again and again.   What else I can say about it? 
I've been break ahead in the first set, and I lost the set.   Won the second set.   Basically I could easily be sitting here in a different position if you want to say it like that, as well. 
That's tennis.   That's the sport.   Even if the things doesn't go your way, then you have to stay focused, stay self‑belief, keep working hard, keep trying to battle up, try to come back.   If it's possible...   If not, that's how it is. 

Q.   Do you think it's your best beginning of a season ever?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, definitely it is.   I'm having the most points.   That's the best proof of it.   Winning the most matches so far, as well.   Yeah, I think I'm doing pretty well. 
But, yes, there are some things to still keep improving.   I'm going to try to work on that. 

Q.   Do you think clay is the best surface for you against Djokovic?   Is it easier for your game to play him on clay?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, probably.   I have a little bit more time to play my aggressive game.   For him and for his movement, I think he's still more comfortable on the hard, either that he can slide a lot.   I think he's still there little bit more confident. 
But, yeah, that's how it is.   I never said that I hate clay.   I always can come up when I'm prepared with some good results.   So, yeah, I'm really looking forward for some next weeks playing on clay.

Q.   Did you also notice a lot of crowd support for you?   Is that important?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, it's definitely a great feeling be out there.   Even if you playing with one of the greatest of our sport right now, you know, you can still feel there is support on your way. 
Yeah, that's a nice feeling to have on court.   But still they are not the one that they can win it for you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT