MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
April 3, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/T. Berdych
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Usually you can find your way against him.   You have a game that matches him quite well.   Have a good record.   Has something changed in the last time you played him? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I would say that the only change is that basically Andy changed the game plan a bit.   He starts to play much more aggressive in those last two matches that he played to me.   I think that he's been doing that pretty well.   I think that's the only reason. 
So, you know, I'm just going to need some time to put myself‑‑ prepare better for the next time I'm going to play him.
Now I know what to expect and just be more ready for it. 

Q.   He talked a little bit about the conditions today, just the sun getting in the eyes on part of the court.   What was your experience with how things went out there conditions‑wise? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, again, the sun, it's not an issue for me.   It's not a problem.   It's been a bit windy again.   I would say quite circling around.   That's definitely the thing he would like and he would appreciate more than me.
But that's how it is.   I've been through this situation.   No, I don't see it really as issue.   It's just the thing that it's there.   It's same for both of us, and that's how it is. 

Q.   Have you changed anything on your serve lately motion‑wise? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   (Shakes head no.)

Q.   No?   Because I was thinking watching the match it wasn't looking as usual.   Maybe it's me. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I haven't change anything on my serve.   Not at all.   It's just trying to improving and working on it, so...
But, no, there is no change at all for my serve.   No. 

Q.   And level‑wise, what do you take out of these U.S.   tourneys?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   It's been very long, as usual.   It's the longest two tournaments that we have.   It's really hard part of the year.   But, yeah, I'm through it.   I think it was a solid two tournaments for me.   Just, again, recharge myself, prepare, and now I think that the toughest part of the season is coming for me.
So I'm just going to try to do my best, be as ready as possible, and try to keep doing what I was doing until now. 

Q.   Talk a little bit about what your expectations are after Indian Wells and Miami and what's next for you. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   The plan is pretty simple:   going to Monte‑Carlo.   Playing there, and then so far on my schedule it's just the 1000 series tournaments, Madrid, Rome, then week for to prepare, and then playing Paris.
Yeah, the schedule is pretty much done, simple, and just need to prepare for the part of the season and playing on clay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT