BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 20, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/T. Berdych
  6‑4, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Did it get to the point out there where you kind of said to yourself, This guy is just unbeatable today; he's just too good?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, kind of feel like that from the beginning.   But, yeah, he played pretty well today.   It was one of his very tough performances.
Well, especially in like 2‑All in the first set, I think that there was a bit of like ‑‑not a key, but the time when I pretty much put maybe too much pressure on myself, which was maybe not really necessary there. 
Served two double faults, which was no need for that, and, then saved the game.   But still, it was not maybe not necessary to put that much pressure. 
And then, you know, he starts to feel very confident and very easy to control the game.

Q.   Why do you feel that you're putting a lot of pressure on yourself?   You had a great year; made grade strides this year.   What was it about today?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, if you play against somebody like Roger and you see him‑‑ I mean, we didn't play our first time, so you really know what's going on from his side. 
And when you feel that he's in control right from the beginning, then of course you have to come up with your best game from the beginning of the match.   That's basically it. 
I mean, you just want to play well.   You just want to play your best.   There is a very thin line in between that and overdoing it.   It's not so easy, really, to control it every single time that you go play with a player like this, even if he's playing in such a good shape.
So, yeah, today I stepped a little bit over it, so hope the next time, next day, it's just going to stay on the line.

Q.   You have had success against him before.   What do you feel like you did do then that you may not have done today?   What made a difference today?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, it's really not about comparing the matches.   We played already quite a few.   Every single match is different.   You play all different kind of surfaces, conditions, balls, everything is different every single time.
There is no chance to be comparing those matches.   It's always about to being ready, waiting for a chance, and once the chance is there, you have to be ready for it, to take it. 
But today he was the one who was stronger for that.

Q.   Was there something that he's doing?   A lot of times it ebbs and flows in the matches.   Was he doing something where you could turn around the momentum and gain some momentum in the match?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, if he was doing something?   No, he was doing pretty much everything perfect.   (Laughter.)

Q.   There can be ebbs and flows where sometimes a match can turn it around a bit. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, no.   As I said, today he was doing pretty much everything on the top level, and there was not much that I can ‑‑well, no, no chance.

Q.   When you have results like that against Federer or Djokovic, how do you reset when you walk away from the tournament?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, it's definitely not the greatest week, I mean, to coming out from the tournament in the quarterfinals and playing a match like that. 
But you have to take it as it is and just try to see something from the match, try to see what were the things that was in my charge and I can change them and try to learn from it and just keep pushing forward and keep preparing myself for the next one, being ready, being prepared.   That's the best thing how you can compete with these guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT