DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 27, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych
  6‑0, 5‑7, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Do you think that was possibly a match you may well have won?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I don't like to talk like that.   You know, I mean, you better win or not, and that's how it is in the tennis.   We don't have anything in between.
So that's what happened today.   I was not the lucky one, but I can still find couple of things which they are positive, they are negative, as well, which is good, which is a thing that I always look for.
Obviously very disappointed with that.   I mean, it was a close game, but that's how it is.   So I was trying to get my chances, but not in the end.

Q.   How did you turn it around after the first set?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, I get quite used to those kind of situations that you play with him, and then you just thought that you are on another planet and you have nothing to do, so you just have to wait and be patient and try to keep focused, self‑belief, and try to keep going. 
I have been in a situation like this in Rome when I was set and 4‑1 down and then I won.   In Beijing, same thing.   I got splashed pretty much the same thing all the way through.   Here it was the first set.   But it's always about just try to stay there, you know, try to fight with all what you have and waiting for a chance.

Q.   You mentioned Beijing.   Was it easy for you not to think about that match when you went down 6‑Love?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I mean, there is no need to think about those matches.   I mean, it's just how it is, basically.   I think it's just the experience that could help me and actually did, you know.   There I was a bit panicking.   I don't know what to do with that.
But, no, I felt that, okay, it's just normal.   Just stay with him.   Try to focus on your things.   Try to play your game.   Hopefully you're going to get a chance.

Q.   When a match finishes as close as that, is it easier to accept a defeat or easier to... 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   Well, I mean, defeats are not the things that you want to have, but if you lose like, you know, pretty easy 6‑1, 6‑2, I mean, you were definitely the second one and you had nothing else what you can do with that.   But if you lose a tough match like this, yeah, it doesn't feel the best way.

Q.   Are you nursing a leg injury at the moment or any other injury at the moment?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   No injuries. 

Q.   Despite your defeat here, you're still on a very consistent run of form from the start of the year.   That must give you confidence moving forward that eventually it's going to crack, you're going to win something eventually if you keep on this trend?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yeah, definitely.   And I think that I'm on a much better schedule than I have been in the last year.   I mean, it's not easy to come up with the results like I did last year, but I'm pretty much close to it, and now I have the advantage of having basically two weeks, more than two weeks of, you know, have some rest, have time to prepare myself, because basically the last three months I was going nonstop without, you know, any break at all.   That's really tough. 
That's also count, you know, especially with my tall and heavy body, it takes a little bit more energy than that.   But, yeah, I'm really looking forward to these two weeks, which I hope I'm going to use for my positive and it's good to have the results like that.
It's good to finish at least the way that I was close.   I was playing some good tennis or decent tennis.   Not the best.   Yeah, I'm looking forward to tournament in States, definitely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT