DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 26, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/S. Stakhovsky
  6‑3, 4‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Pity it had to go to three, wasn't it?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, well, not at all.   I think especially in the second set, end of the second set, he come up with some great shots, you know, through his games.   Then also for the break.   
But that's how it is.   You know, you have to know how to deal with those situations.   Again, it's very good that I handled the third set how I did, two breaks.   Always positive with a guy like that when he doesn't give you much chances.  
So I'm quite happy and positive about the game today.  
   
 Q.   Are you happy with your game overall, three sets a couple of times?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yeah.   No matter what it takes.   It's easy to win in two sets, under an hour, but if you have matches like that, it's much more appreciated.   So, you know, whatever it takes, I'm ready for it mentally, physically.   
I think those kind of matches like today, yesterday, they gonna count in the end.  
   
 Q.   Probably Novak next?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yeah.   Well...   
   
 Q.   One would think.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, there is not much to say.   You know, I played him many times.   You know, I think it's definitely the guy on a roll right now.   You know, it's not much else to that.   
But for me, it's gonna be the same, you know.   I just need to come up on the court, try to bring a better game, try to improve myself, have to have a plan which we gonna try to set up before the match.   
I think those kind of matches in the beginning of the year are very important.   Then, you know, this is not probably the case that you're gonna beat him every time that you go on court, but it's really good to test yourself, to play with him, and have a good match and try to find a way what are the things what can be working on in the future.  
   
 Q.   When you go out on court, having known that something that really wasn't anticipated happened right before you with Andy losing and Borna having a big win, does that give you pause?   Do you think about it?   Is that in your mind?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   I think I get quite used to it let's say with the matches with Rafa.   I was able to have done that in Melbourne.   
So it's not really about how many matches are in a row, but it's just about the way you have to come up very well prepared, you know, have the clear idea of the plan, what to do, how to do it, and then try to execute on the court.   That's it.   Try your best.   Fight hard till the last point.   That's all what you can do on the court.  
   
 Q.   Do you get a chance to watch other people's matches?   Did you see Andy's match, for instance?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, today I have seen a bit of it because I was playing after and there was no "not before."   So it's always good to check out what's going on, to be prepared, which is, yeah, one of the sides of tennis that you have to keep sitting and watching the opponents.  
But, yeah, I saw a few.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT