DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 25, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/S. Bolelli
  7‑6, 5‑7, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Tough afternoon's work?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yeah.   It was a hard day in the office.   Yeah, it was not easy at all, and, you know, I kind of expected it not gonna be easy match.   But then in the end after two sets which were very close, then I took my chances, and, you know, started to play finally my game and get a bit more to the rhythm, start to serve better.   
So I need to take the positives from the match, which was definitely the third set, and so that's good.   It's another win.   That's fine.  
   
 Q.   You like a tough workout like that?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, whatever it takes.   I mean, it's not about if it's tough or easy.   You know, sometimes when it's easy, then you kind of really not appreciate what's going on.   But also the matches where you have to fight a bit are, I would say, more like generous for the experience, which is good.  
So every match like that comes, and so I'm good.   I mean, as long as I'm just gonna do my stuff, get recovered well, and be strong for tomorrow, that's it.  
   
 Q.   500 career match wins.   Only eight guys currently playing have reached that.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, thank you.  
   
 Q.   How does it feel?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, it feels great.   I mean, it's nice.   But we just talked about it last night with Dani, that I just need to really make sure that I keep my body fresh, you know, and let's make another 500, you know.   (Smiling.)   Let's try to chase Roger now.   This is really something too far.   
It's a good sign.   Just try to keep hitting more and more, try to play as long as I can, and that's it.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about that point in the second set, at the end of the second set, 12th game where you lost that on the line call?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I don't think there is much to say about it.   I think it's just ‑‑it's always going to be about the decision of the chair umpire.   That's how we deal with that situation, so in the end I have to respect that.  
   
 Q.   But how did you react mentally?   Did it get you down?   Was that the reason why‑‑ did that charge you up for the final set?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, honestly, I would say that actually was needed for me.   You know, I felt that I need to put some steam out and get it done and, you know, probably lost the second set because of that.   
But the outcome, it's much better, you know.   I got the rhythm back.   I had a great third set, and I think it was worth it.  
   
 Q.   You seemed to be disputing a Hawk‑Eye decision at one stage.   Do you find Hawk‑Eye sometimes doesn't get it right?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think it's quite silly to talk about it, because we all have to respect that.   It doesn't work the way that whatever you see on the court that's what the Hawk‑Eye said, so it's how it is and it's better not to talk about it and just leave it as it is.   
   
 Q.   You will be playing Stakhovsky tomorrow, another one‑handed backhand.   Do you find yourself adapting your game when you're playing someone that's got a lot of slice?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I think I can expect some more slices tomorrow back again.   I mean, he's playing really well last couple of weeks.   He's having a solid weeks, and it's not going to be easy opponent.   
I mean, there is just few guys that are keeping the way that he plays, you know, coming quite a lot to the net, mixing up the game.   So let's see.   I need to just get ready for it, be prepared, and that's all my focus what I'm going to try to do right now.   
   
 Q.   Just going back to the issue with the umpire, obviously he said replay the point.   Were you feeling that you should have been given the point, that it was your point, you had won the point, or what specifically was the issue in your mind?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I don't think that we have to be digging in these things.   I mean, that's what I said.   I mean, my only thing was like if he thinks that he's judging the same situation the same time, if he is the same thing he said yes, so that's it.   It just made picture for myself.   
As I said previously, I cannot do anything more with it.   I just have to respect his calls and so that's what I have to do now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT