DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 24, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/J. Chardy
  7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You had to work a little bit for that one, didn't you?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes, I did.   I mean, some of the things were a little bit on my side that I made it complicated a bit more than usual, but the outcome, it's important that I won the last point of the match and get through it.   Not every day it's going to be perfect.   We don't have to be perfect.   So, you know, it was a solid day to make.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to switch from indoors in Rotterdam to here?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, of course it is a bit of change.   But really, I mean, there is no way to finding excuses of that.   It's just the way how fast you are able to adjust to this, and only time of playing and hitting the balls is the best resolution how to solve that.  
So that's what I am trying to do.   You know, definitely keep winning the matches is going to be very positive to that.  
   
 Q.   The weather was better again today.   You have been practicing through sand storms and everything where I guess it must have been a bit slower.   Does it speed it up a little bit?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes, it speeded up a little bit.   And then also, I mean, when you come here and you expecting that, okay, the conditions are gonna be different and you want to play and keep hitting the balls, and then you've got those extreme conditions, that's nothing what's you are really looking for.   It doesn't help your rhythm from the beginning.  
That's why also it's maybe a bit delayed, but, you know, I think I'm playing tennis quite enough time already to get used to it and be prepared.   So as I said, I handle it and tomorrow is a next day.  
   
 Q.   Did that bad weather compromise your practice time, or did you get in as many hours as you wanted to get in?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I would say pretty much by hours it was fine.   Only once we had to skip it.   We had a session for one‑and‑a‑half, and actually after half an hour we had to leave the court.   
It was the afternoon, so it was better.   But in the morning of that day was really impossible.   So by time‑wise, no, but by quality pretty much, yes.   But as I said, the good thing is it's same for everybody, and we have to deal with it.  
   
 Q.   I believe you have Simone Bolelli next.   You lead head to head 3‑2, but every set seems quite close.   What do you make of that match?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, he's definitely the guy that's playing really well these last couple of weeks.   I mean, winning the doubles title in Melbourne, it also give you a lot of confidence for your singles and playing well.   
So, you know, it's not going to be easy one to play, especially in these fast conditions.   That's what he likes.   So I'm going to definitely have to bring my better game, playing better and just try to go for it again.  
   
 Q.   I just want to know what motivates you to keep going?   I mean, so many ups and downs in your career.   What motivates you?   What's your inspiration to keep going in your career?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, firstly, I mean, of course there's going to be up and downs.   For my case so far it's been only the downs are with the losses, which is the usual.   You know, I mean, that's what's you're going to have in tennis.   But the good thing is that I have much more wins than the losses, which is very good.   
The motivation, I mean, it's all about having goals, and even if it's goals for the days, weeks, month or whole seasons, it's always very important to have them.   I always trying to really, before every single season, just try to have those goals that keeps me going.   There is still one big unachieved, so I hope that one day I'm going to be able to make it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT