AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2018
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. FEDERER/T. Berdych
7-6, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Very good start to the match for you.  What was the key to Roger turning it around?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, as you said, it was a good start.  I had a good chances, a couple set points.  Then, you know, I think he just get more confident after he saved the first set.  Then it was very difficult with him again.  After having been basically a whole set down, it gives you a lot of boost.  Especially with him, I think it was just the deciding thing.
So, I mean, everything is 'if'.  But winning a first set would be completely different story.
Q. What are the positives you take out of the tournament?
TOMAS BERDYCH: It's a lot of them.  I mean, it was a great tournament overall.  It's another quarterfinal.  But as I said, my goal was to play some good tennis.  On court, that's what I had.
Q. How demoralizing was it in the first set?  How did you feel after you had lost it having had such a good lead?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, it's not the best feeling.  But there are still worse ones.  That's how it is.  I mean, one day you're winning, one day you're losing.
As I said, it was a key of the match.
Q. What did you think about your own game?  What let you down the most?
TOMAS BERDYCH: I wouldn't say it let me down.  I think I played a solid match.  I played a very good tennis.  I faced the best opponent that you can have.
I mean, when you look at the draw, it's a bit sad.  But that's how it is.  I mean, that's probably what you going to find with my name always in the draw.
That's all right.  I'm happy with the way I played.
Q. Did you come out here with a very different game plan?  You met Roger last year, the results didn't go your way.  Did you start off with a different game plan compared to your last matchup in the Australian Open?
TOMAS BERDYCH: It's a year's time.  In tennis, everything change very quickly.  Even if we would play tomorrow again, the game would be different.
Definitely not comparing one match which was year ago to today.  No, I just took it as another match.  I tried to put maximum of my tennis into it.  But I was not able to make it happen.
But anyway, overall I think it was a very good run.
Q. What were the biggest differences from what you saw Roger this year and last year?
TOMAS BERDYCH: I don't know.  Maybe he has couple more gray hair.  I don't know.  I mean, guys, I'm not any analyst of Roger's game.
Yes, he's playing well.  I mean, he has definitely, especially with what's happening in the draw, a very good chance to win another title.
Q. How close to your best was that first set?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, quite far.  I lost it.
Q. Still played well.
TOMAS BERDYCH: Yes.  I said I played well.  I played a good match, but I didn't play my best.  When I played my best, I was able to beat him.  That's what not happen today.
Unfortunately tennis is not playing if you play well or not.  You count the points.  If you win the last one, no matter how you do it, that's the most important thing.
But as I said, I'm not leaving with head down.  I think it was a very good tournament.  After what I've been through at the end of the last season, I'm very pleased with that.
Q. You mentioned the draw.  Did the open feel of the semifinals, Edmund and Chung, make this slam quarterfinal feel different than other ones you've been in before?
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think so.  I mean, if you look at the players and how it is, I mean, of course, young guys.  It's a bit different story than playing Roger in quarters.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT