AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 29, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. MURRAY/T. Berdych6-7, 6-0, 6-3, 7-5An interview with:TOMAS BERDYCHTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. A really tight first set.  What was the difference out there today?TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, firstly, you know, I'm really not happy and not really in a, yeah, good mood.  I'm very disappointed to lose this match.  I mean, it was a big match.  But anyway, I just need to come back stronger and get myself better for it, and that's it.  I mean, what was the difference?  I had one bad set for the second set, and that's it.  I mean, I was just trying to get my chances, trying to fight for it, but as I said, it was not enough and I'm very disappointed with it.Q. What do you think changed between the first set and second set for you?TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, we going to be looking for just small details.  It's probably, you know, probably for you guys that you might do something about it.  There is no any excuses.  He's been playing well through all the match, and that's it.  You know, I handled better the first set.  He just took advantage of me not having a great second set, and that's it.Q. There seemed to be an extra needle or tension in the match.  Did you feel that?TOMAS BERDYCH: No.  I mean, it was a big match generally.  That's how it is, I mean, when you're playing Andy Murray for a semifinal of a slam.  What else you need to get more attention?  So I think it's a big match anyway, and that's what I felt on court.Q. You exchanged words after the first set.  Do you remember what happened there?TOMAS BERDYCH: I really remember that, even though you can see that, that I just won a set.  I say to myself, Well done, Tomas.  That's it.  That's what I said.  I think I'm allowed to do that when I win a set.  That was it.Q. Were you surprised he was upset by that?  Andy started complaining about that to the chair umpire.TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I mean, I was not really looking at it at all.  What, I have to be worried about every word that I'm going to say?  I mean, I just pumped myself up for winning a first set and that's it, then sit on the chair.  I'm not really looking left or right what's going on.  I just keep focusing myself and that's it.  Maybe next time I should stay even more calm and that's it.  But, no, I mean, I was just doing my stuff and that's it.Q. Did you notice him change his tactics at all during the first set?TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I think he keep the same tactics all th way.  He was able to execute it quite well.  I think it was a battle about the baseline today, and whoever holds that better, then make it for the win.  So that's what he did.  As I said, I need to just come back and be stronger next time.Q. Were you unhappy at his reaction after he broke back in the first set?  You seemed to stare at him as you walked towards the chair during the changeover.TOMAS BERDYCH: No.  Again, I mean, where should I look?  Really, guys, don't try to make any big deal about it.  That was a match as any other else, and that's it.  I lost my serve, which I'm not definitely happy about, but lives go on.  Then I was able to win it in the tiebreak, and that's it.  There is no really big deal about anything what was happening today on the court.  I mean, it was a great battle.  It was a good match.  Unfortunately with a bad end for me.  That's how it is.  That's the sport.Q. How would you rate Andy's chances of winning on Sunday night?TOMAS BERDYCH: I'm really not good about it, you know, guessing who can win or not.  So, you know, just let them play.  Let's see who's going to be opponent for him for the final.  That's all I can say.Q. Some suggestions from former players on social media say that's about the best he's played in 16 months.  Fair comment?TOMAS BERDYCH: I definitely wasn't checking on that.  I have different things to do right now.  Yes, he's playing well.  He made a good match.Q. What were you looking to do going into the match, and what do you feel you did well today and not as well?TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, as I said, I had a plan which I want to keep.  I mean, I was able to do that for the first set, and that's it.  I mean, it was mainly battle of really who's going to hold the baseline better, who's going to stay closer and dictate the time, and that's it.  So I was successful first set.  I still need two more, which I didn't made.  So, you know, just really need to go back, get stronger and be ready for the next one to win.Q. How do you look at your entire tournament?TOMAS BERDYCH: It was a good start.  The season is long.  This is a good start, but this is not enough.  I just need to get myself back, you know, get ready for the next one, my next schedule, and that's it.Q. Was it at all hard for you coming back after beating Rafa to get mentally reset for the next round?TOMAS BERDYCH: No.  I mean, if you want to do a good result in a slam these days, this is all the things you have to be ready for.  I mean, you cannot always look for any excuses that you have to beat three or four or however many top guys.  You have to be ready whoever is there.  That's it.  I mean, I was ready.  I was doing everything fine.  You know, just it was not enough of my performance today.Q. He didn't sound very happy about everyone talking about the Dani connection before the match.  Was that something that bothered you?TOMAS BERDYCH: No.  I probably didn't get that many questions.  As I said, you know, there is not any big deal about it.  I mean, that's how it is.  I think all the things end up how it should be.  If you start to work with someone new, I mean, probably there would be talks around it.  But really it's not important at all.  I mean, it's how it is now.  I mean, that's it.Q. Two semifinals in two years at the Aussie Open for you.  What do you think you need to do to take the next step?TOMAS BERDYCH: I mean, working hard, working on the things that's been working for me good these almost two weeks.  Even try to improve those and just be ready for the next one.  I mean, it's always a long way for the good result.  You have to be ready for it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT