AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  T. BERDYCH/R. Nadal6-2, 6-0, 7-6An interview with:TOMAS BERDYCHTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Nobody can beat Tomas Berdych 18 times in a row?TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, no (smiling).  I heard that already.  I did, so...Q. How was it?  What were your feelings when you were playing?  Did you expect him to come back?  You thought it was in your hands?TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I mean, I start pretty well.  I start with the plan that I set up before the match, and then it turns that it was the right one.  I was able to keep going with the same plan all the way through the match.  Even though that it was the first two sets kind of looks easy, you know, but you're playing Rafa and you know what kind of opponent he is and you have to be ready for anything.  So, you know, that's why I keep myself really focused and was keep going all the way till the end and trying to make my chances.  Even though he just changed a couple of things - he gets better in the third set - but still I was able to finish it and close it up in three sets.Q. What did he change?TOMAS BERDYCH: He changed the style and the way how he's played.  He starts maybe quite defensively from the beginning, but then, you know, he see that that's probably not the way how to do it.  So then he starts to be a little bit more aggressive, go for the shots a little bit more.  But, yeah, I mean, it was a way that he's been making more points.  But still I was able to handle it pretty well.Q. Tell us a little bit more about how much Dani has changed your preparation?  Anything specifically he has done that you hadn't been doing before?TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, we set up before the match the right tactics.  Then I was able to execute that on the court.  That's what I'm really happy.  I was playing a really good game.  But, you know, I just need to look forward.  The tournament is still long way to go, and that's it.  Really, I mean, that's the preparation that we are doing for every single match.  That's our job.  You know, I think I'm going to keep it a bit secret.  That's basically what the chemistry of each team is.  That would be really like, you know, pointless to setting up the tactics and the way how we want to prepare for the matches if I just open up everything here.  But he changed a lot of things.  He changed a lot of positive things.  And the best is I'm really able to execute them really, really quickly.  That's how it should be.Q. Did you find he's on your wavelength tactically?  You agree on things?TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, we agree on that.  But as I said many times, it's not only about sitting on the table and talking about the tactics, it's also about you have to know what to do with that.  If you have a plan it's nice thing, but if you never tried it before or never practiced before, I mean, that's useless.  You have to first really go and spend the time and hours on the practice courts, and then to be able to create a plan and make the tactics happen.Q. Did you lose also some weight recently?TOMAS BERDYCH: No.Q. Did you ever think that after not being able to hook up with Ivan you would have such great coaching success with another coach?TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I learned in the past, especially from the tennis, really mostly the things are changing really quickly.  So, I mean, everything was placed in order.  I mean, after the Shanghai, I get home.  I approach Ivan, we have some talk and things didn't work out.  Then I need to refocus myself for the end of the season and finish up the year quite in the good level.  And once I done my season, I was just finally taking off, because really the end of the season was like really hectic and tough.  I set it up to myself that that's the thing I would like to do, like to change, so let's move on and do something.  Yeah, that was the opportunity and the possibility, so that's why we end up together.Q. When you were out there really taking it to Rafa, what were you saying to yourself?  Must have felt great.TOMAS BERDYCH: Oh, it feels great.  I mean, really the good thing is, as I said, the plan that we put together was the right one.  Everything was working.  I was able to execute it really well.  But still, I mean, until the last point you can't think about anything else.  You have to really keep going till the last one.  When it's done, it's done.  It's great.  But I might be thinking about it and enjoying the time probably till tomorrow morning.  When I woke up, I need to get myself ready for another one.  As I said, I mean, there is a still long way to go in this tournament and I need to be ready for it.Q. If you wind up playing Andy, what will it be like preparing for a match with his former coach who was with him for a long time?  You've had success against Andy in the past, but how will it be working with a former member of your opponent's team?TOMAS BERDYCH: Definitely it might be an advantage for us, but that's how it is.  And what is more important is, again, to be prepared for that match, to be ready, to set up the plan, and try to execute them on the court.  Really the preparation is exactly the same like for all my past opponents so far here.  I'm not going to change anything else with that.  Just try to focus on my things and keep going for it.Q. If it's Kyrgios, what are your thoughts?TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, if it's Nick, I mean, it's a guy that really likes to play a big matches, likes the big show.  You know, he knows how to profit from that.  But still it might be his first semifinal, so, you know, I think there are some experience that are playing for myself.  But, anyway, for the preparation it wouldn't be anything different.  You know, just same things.  I mean, be ready for it.  Just have a plan, go for it, and try to stick with the plan.  That's the way what's working pretty well so far, so why change that?Q. Are you watching the match tonight or do you prefer to enjoy your win doing something else?TOMAS BERDYCH: No, actually, I'm going to keep Dani watching that match.  I think that's the job for him.  I don't have to spend really all the time to looking at that.  But, yeah, I mean, I'm going to see something definitely.  I mean, I'm interesting in that.  I want to see something from it.  But, as I said, you know, today I have the only time I can enjoy the victory.  Since I wake up tomorrow morning just all the focus goes for the next opponent and my next match.Q. For many years players didn't have a coach.  Now they all have a coach - most of them.  How important is it to have a coach?  10%?  15%?TOMAS BERDYCH: It's a very important part of the team because really, I mean, you're spending such a long time on the tour.  It's a guy, really, that is very important to yourself.  I think the tennis just gets to such a high level that without the team around you it's almost impossible to be successful for long time, you know, long period of time.  I mean, okay, you can have a good time of the year, a few couple of months, but it doesn't work.  I mean, it's all about the routine, all about really the hard work.  You definitely need somebody who is experienced.  On such a level like I am right now, you really need someone who can bring just a little bit to add to your game, to give you that little difference compared to the others, to make a difference on the court.Q. When you consulted Ivan, Ivan recommended Dani to you.  Why did he say he was good?TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I mean, I'm just going to say it very clearly.  The time that I talked to Ivan was after Shanghai when the season was still on and everybody was under all the agreements that we had - me with my coaches and probably Dani with his team - and we never talk about anyone else because my approach was to Ivan and not to be asking anyone else.  So we didn't talk about it at all.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT