AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  T. BERDYCH/B. Tomic6-2, 7-6, 6-2An interview with:TOMAS BERDYCHTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. It's your eighth consecutive quarterfinal here.  Why do you think you do so well at this tournament?TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I like this place.  I always trying to come back very prepared.  You know, you have pretty much a good sense of time when you going to play and you can plan the things quite easy.  So, yeah, I mean, that's one of the reasons.  I mean, really, the conditions and the way how it is all around here, that feels good to me.  So that's why I like to play here.Q. You've been very strong so far in the tournament.  How do you feel about your game and how are you approaching the match against Rafa knowing that recently you haven't had the best record against him?TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I'm feeling very good.  It's been a great, great run so far.  But, yeah, I just put myself in the best possible position right now.  I'm just really looking forward to it.  I'm going to have to, you know, add something extra again.  I mean, that's how the tournament is developing, just move forward, just be ready for it.  You know, I'm feeling strong both like physically, mentally.  Just looking forward to the match.Q. What kind of help has it been with a new coach, a fresh pair of eyes from Dani taking on Rafa this time?TOMAS BERDYCH: Let's see.  It's going to be easier to judge after the match.  So far, as I said in the past, we didn't spend that much time together.  But the good thing is that I'm able to, you know, execute the things that he's telling me what to do, how to set up for the matches.  So far it works pretty well.  I think it's definitely the advantage which I was surely looking for.Q. Do you think scouting is one of his strengths as a coach?TOMAS BERDYCH: Yes.  He is very good in that.  He knows how to put up the plan before the match and how to prepare the player.  Yeah, that's the positive what I was looking for and what I needed.Q. What are the keys for you when you're playing Nadal?  What do you need to do in order to have a chance against him?TOMAS BERDYCH: No, I mean, it's the same thing.  As I said, I'm just in the best possible position right now.  I'm feeling good about it.  Just need to go for it.  It's not about, you know, putting up some tactics right now.  I mean, it's too early after the match.  The facts that I know right now are that I'm feeling good, and my tennis is on the high level, which is also very positive.  That's the main facts I need to carry on and just go with that to the match.Q. Rafa is really famous for his mental strength and coming back from difficult situations.  Where would you rate him in terms of the greatest competitors that tennis has had?TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, there is no question that he's one of the best of our sport, all our era of sport.  That's not question about it.  I don't know how much specific you want me to be.  First, second, third, it's always just opinion.  He just proved many times that after hard times he's able to come back.  He knows how to deal with that and that's it.Q. How hard is it to play someone that never gives up on the court no matter what situation he's in?TOMAS BERDYCH: I mean, that's the sign of the best players.  You know, without that he wouldn't be on the position that he is right now.  So that's how it is.  That's one of the facts.  But, you know, I'm just ready for it.Q. Were you feeling any pressure at all in the match against Bernie, particularly in the second set when it was tight?TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I mean, he bring some better tennis after the first set.  I think he just played much better in the end of the second set, but I still had my chances during the whole second set.  So, you know, I was just waiting to get one more, and you know, I created for myself.  I've been waiting for the chance, and I took the second set.  I mean, it was a close second set, but then, you know, he seems that he went really down after that lost of the second set.  I was able to do the stuff that I want to.Q. When you're playing a local player at a big tournament, is it tough or can it also be something that can lift you with the atmosphere and the crowd against you?TOMAS BERDYCH: I mean, always you can take it from both sides.  I mean, it's not easy.  It's always a challenge to do that, but I've been through those situations quite many times and I know how to deal with it.  So that was just another match that, you know, I handled quite well when the circumstances was not so easy.Q. When you reached the final at Wimbledon, do you remember the feelings you had at the time?  Was it any different compared to now, for example, after having a strong four matches?TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I do remember that feeling, but, no, every single tournament.  Every single slam is different.  There is no need to be comparing that.  I mean, it's not going to get you any better; it's not going to get you any worse.  It's just how it is.  Right now I'm much better player than I was back then.  But it's always about all the circumstances all around, how the weeks go, how the opponents are, everything.  There could be so many things, so there's no way to compare that.Q. Can you compare tonight's match with your previous three rounds?  Do you think it was your strongest performance tonight?TOMAS BERDYCH: Yes, it was.  I'm very happy with the way I'm able to add and increase my game every single match that I played here so far.  That's what I want to keep doing for the rest of the tournament.  That's it, you know.  I mean, there is no necessary to play your best in the first round and then your game goes down.Q. Given how the seeds have been tested or have fallen in the early stages, how much confidence does it give you to look ahead to the second week?TOMAS BERDYCH: No, it's not important to me at all.  I mean, I'm trying to really focus on myself, what I'm doing here, how I'm playing.  And, as I said, I'm feeling good.  I'm hitting the ball nice and clean.  That's important to me.  You know, I'm able to keep increasing the level of my game.  That's what I definitely going to need for the extremely tough match for the next round.  That's just the plans what I'm really trying to focus on.Q. You had that famous volley with the two sets lead against him a couple years ago here.  You don't remember that?TOMAS BERDYCH: To Rafa?Q. Yes.  You had a volley for two sets to love.TOMAS BERDYCH: Okay.Q. You came very close then maybe to beating him.  Does that give you confidence that you can play him that tough on a big stage here?TOMAS BERDYCH: No, it has nothing to do with that.  Definitely not.  As I said, every slam is different.  Every opponent, even if is the same one, then the match is different.  So, no.  It's going to start from 0-0.  That's how it is.  No comparing with the past.  Just trying to be in this time and looking forward to it.Q. Were you surprised you weren't playing on Rod Laver Arena tonight?TOMAS BERDYCH: No.  I don't really care about it.  I mean, you know, I got my time on the big court.  So far I played there two matches.  One of my favorite courts is the Margaret Court.  So, you know, it's another two wins added there.  Just now, you know, get some time, you know, find some spot to have a hit on the Rod Laver just to be ready for that.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT