AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  T. BERDYCH/J. Melzer7-6, 6-2, 6-2An interview with:TOMAS BERDYCHTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Tough first set but seemed like you gained steam as the match went on?TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah.  I mean, the whole match was not easy one.  The tough condition again today.  He was playing very smart.  His game plan was actually good to go.  But after the first set I find the way how to deal with that, how to handle it, and, you know, even though I was each set break down, I managed to come back and to play some good tennis.Q. How would you rate where your serve is at at the moment?TOMAS BERDYCH: Just the serve?  Well, I mean, of course always it could be better.  But in the tough situations and the tough points, I'm able to help myself with the serve.  So overall I would say it's going a good direction.  I can still keep some variations, especially on the second serve, one of the things we work on already. I would say overall quite good.Q. You are someone now that each time we have a Grand Slam people are wondering what you're going to wear.  Is that a fun aspect for you?  I know you've grown that relationship with H&M.TOMAS BERDYCH: I mean, that's nice.  I think it's a good connection when people are getting kind of excited what's going to come next, what's going to be the next line.  For them it's very important.  It's a fashion brand, it's not a sports brand at all.  They trying to bring always something very special, something different to the courts as well.  I actually really like it.  It's very nice, clean, easy.  Suits very nice for the summer.Q. Lots has been made about some of the hairstyles of the guys on tour.  Have you noticed any of those on court?TOMAS BERDYCH: Actually, no.  I mean, there has been talk that I'm not going to play in the cap anymore.  But in the conditions like that I just have to.  It's important to keep yourself fresh and just try to go through the heat and the sun and not playing with your hair.  Let's leave it for the football players.Q. For the soccer players?TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, soccer players.Q. You got a couple wins already obviously and then announced some pretty happy news yesterday.  Sounds like it's good times for you.  Things are going well.TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, things are going well.  Everything is going smooth.  The thing is just that it's been officially announced yesterday but the thing is quite old.  It's from the last year already.  But, yeah, I'm feeling good.  Everything is going well. As you said, there was couple of changes in the end of the season as well for me in my team.  Most of the things are working on, which is good.  You know, I'm a good run so far, two wins, and looking forward to keep and adding some more.Q. Congratulations on your engagement, even if it's old.TOMAS BERDYCH: Thank you.Q. Can I ask how you popped the question, proposed?TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, it was simple, as you normally do.  We had a good time.  It was in holidays after the season.  Actually, it was funny.  I had some plan how to do it, but like three days we get pretty bad weather, so it's almost impossible to do that. Then it was nice, and they help us to make a nice setup.  It was like after the dinner on the beach.Q. Obviously this is a big step for you in your personal life.  A guy like Novak has had big changes in his life, too.  How important is it for you to maintain that balance, having the strong personal lives off the court?  How much does that help you on the court?TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think both things goes quite well together.  I feel good about it to have a good personal life, and then combine it with my tennis life as well.  Because I know that whatever is happening in tennis or around my career, and then I can come back home or wherever I am, I can talk with my partner about basically everything.  We can talk about the other things, which is great, that I can just completely switch off from the tennis. That's basically the best way how you can relax.  Like everybody is asking, What do you do for relax?  You don't have to go anywhere or do any special things.  It's just that you don't have to think about again, forehand, backhand and stuff like that. So you just talk about different stuff.  That's the best thing.  Then once you step back on the tennis side, then you are absolutely focus for whatever you do.  That's it.  So for me, I think it's a great combination.Q. Does your fiancee have any input on your outfits?TOMAS BERDYCH: No, no, no.  Honestly, no, because the designer team is quite big and strong and they are already coming up with the ideas.  Basically the whole line or the whole year is already almost preset, so I already knew what's going to be going on through the whole year.  Well, it's going to be interesting.  There is going to be -- or even me and my input is just like slightly.  It's good about small details and most likely how is the fit and fabric and stuff like that.  That's how it works so far.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT