AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  T. BERDYCH/A. Falla  6-3, 7-6, 6-3  An interview with:  TOMAS BERDYCH   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  How did you feel out there?  Quite a good start.  TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, I think the conditions were quite tough today.  It's been quite windy, not just the one side of the wind, which at least it could be a little bit easier, but this one was quite circling around. And the opponent was also very tough for the first round.  You know, he's a very solid guy.  I think it was a good test for me for the first round.  I'm glad to handle it the way I did.  You know, even I drop some games of my serve, then I was able to find it right away back, you know, bring the breaks up again, winning the tiebreak. So, yeah, I think for the occasion and the circumstances, it was a very good match today.   Q.  First Grand Slam of the year; where did you feel you were in this straight-sets win compared to where you thought you would be?  TOMAS BERDYCH: You know, I think this is very sort of like philosophical question.  I think I like to be really living in how I feel right now, how was the match, what's going to be the next 48 hours, and that's how it is. So really, as I said, the conditions were not easy.  The opponent, same thing.  You know, glad to make it happen, win the first round and go for it.  You know, I experience already so much like different scenarios.  Like winning a first match and playing incredibly well tennis, and then basically you have not much work to move it forward. Then, you know, then when you start kind of slowly you need to fight for the first few rounds getting the rhythm, and then you can go deep in the tournament.  Really it's always matter of that day.  That's what is my next approach. Just get ready tomorrow, some practice, some recovery, and be ready for my next opponent.   Q.  How did you feel today then?  Was there some confidence in your game?  TOMAS BERDYCH: Oh, yes, there is a confidence in my game.  I mean, I had a great week in Doha.  Played very good matches there.  And then just took the time to make the transition from time difference and stuff, use the time here for preparation.  Everything went well.  Everything was good.  I'm really happy with the way, you know, it's been last couple of days.  Feeling good on the court.   Q.  Obviously you made the semifinals here last year.  You made a Grand Slam final before.  Do you think you're in a good position this year to make the final and hopefully win?  TOMAS BERDYCH: That's definitely one of the goals for the season.  To achieve those goals, first you have to work extremely hard for that.  That's definitely what's I'm trying to do, what all my team's trying to do, help me to achieve that.  You know, we are in the beginning of the season with quite a few and big changes in my team, so let's see how fast it's going to be able to, you know, work out and see the results, the real results.  But, yeah, that's the main thing.  That's the main goal for the future.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT