QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 10, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/T. Berdych
  6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What was your assessment of that?   How do you feel now going to the Australian Open?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, first of all, it's a disappointment to lose the final.   That's of course.   But on the other hand, I mean, it's been a very solid week.   It's been a couple of good matches, and it's always good to have some of them on the belt and going for the slam, which is, you know, very specific because it's very early in the season.
You know, you don't play that much before it, but, well, I think I manage to get and squeeze it as much as I can, you know, play as many matches as possible.   That's how it is. 

Q.   The rest of the week nobody's been able to make a dent on your serve.   Obviously he broke you right out of the starting gate tonight and four times.   Was it something that wasn't working with the serve tonight?   Something he was doing?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think it's been a bit of combination of both things, but still, you know, I think that I have been selecting the shots quite well, quite good.   But, you know, in the end sometimes not all of them work pretty well. 
I mean, it's been couple of times that I miss it by very short, you know, or a couple of let play which didn't go the way that I want to.   And, you know, when you play with a player like David is, every single point like that, when you kind of unlucky lose it, then, you know, it makes a big difference. 
So, you know, on one hand it's been a solid game, you know, the shots that I was trying and I was selecting were good, but not all of them were coming into the court.

Q.   How tough is he?   He just never goes away.   I mean, that's like one of his big things?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Ah, well, that's the one thing.   But, I mean, he would probably never achieve what he did in the past.   We are talking about a guy who is established in top 10 for many years that all of us needs to have something special, you know, if you want to hold the top 10 position for such a long time.
But anyway, I have been able to make my chances, but, you know, unlucky in the end.   I was not able to execute them right way.   But, you know, for the start I think it's a good start for me.

Q.   With all the fitness you have been doing and the matches you got here, is this the best prepared you feel going into the Australian Open?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yes.   I mean, the preparation is consisting of preparation before and then playing some matches, and then, you know, getting ready and adjusting for the conditions in Australia, which, you know, it's going to be quite different for now, you know, some time difference and also a bit of weather.   Will be quite warmer there. 
So that's all part of the preparation, but so far everything is going well.   Everything is going smooth.   I'm feeling good. 

Q.   After the three sets yesterday, three tiebreaks for David, and he obviously looks tired after that, and you talked yesterday also about your fitness coach and how he worked with you towards being so ready for the competitions and others to come.   How did you miss this opportunity of David being a bit tired from yesterday for today's final?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, first of all, David is never tired and not after the match he played yesterday after two‑and‑a‑half hours.   You know, I have seen him playing five hours and then he played the next day for Davis Cup.   So this is absolutely question not right. 
You know, then the rest of it, it's really not ‑‑I have nothing else to say on that. 

Q.   What's your schedule next week?   You're playing Adelaide? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I just play one match.   I just play with Lleyton one match on Wednesday and that's it.   I'm not playing the whole event there.   I'm just going for one match to play with Lleyton. 
Right away I'm going back to Melbourne, so I'm going to be all the time in Melbourne preparing and just fly there and back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT