QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 9, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/A. Seppi
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You are playing very, very well.   Do you have any explanation about that?   Is Vallverdu giving you something new?   Did you do something special?   Because you are playing...   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, it's been a very new thing, I mean, a few new things that, you know, has been on for me, and as you mentioned, I mean, for me it's a new team.   
Well, let's go one by one.   I start with Azuz, my fitness guy in IPTL.   So it's been almost a month that I have been able to do some fitness with him, some fitness preparation, and it's been very good.   It's been almost all the things that we have done there, has been very new to me.   
You know, he's very professional in the sense that what he's doing, he find out very quickly what's my weak points and what's the things that I need to work on more.   Immediately we start to do on that.   
Really, I think, that's what I feel on the court, that my movement is improving quite a lot.   Really, I think that was a very good move.   
And then talking about Dani, I mean, we met with Dani for the week and maybe a week, 10 days, in Czech, and then we traveled to Thailand and already that we have managed to do a quite good preparation.   What's very important is that it's a guy that he's very experienced and he knows quite a lot of, you know, the new things, new stuff.   
I think the most important fact is that it's a guy from basically from the outside coming to my team.   He see many things in the different eyes, which is very good and he is very important to me.   I really like the way that we are working so far.   
   
 Q.   (Question about spelling.)  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   It's Azuz Simcich.  
   
 Q.   From where?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Croatia.   He used to be, well, doing athletics, triple jump and then some sprints.   But then when he stop he become a fitness trainer.  
   
 Q.   (Off microphone.)  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, for me, as a tall guy, I mean, the fitness and the movement on the court, it was definitely something that was a weak point.   But it's not always just about you gonna do instead of do 10 sprints you're going to do 50 of them.   It's also about how efficient you are and how able you can transform the power on the court.  
I think that's what he discovered very quickly, and that's what we are working on constantly and daily, and that's very important.   It's a lot of trying to get that, you know, flexibility and that range, range of motion for my body.   That's what I definitely need.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how you're feeling this week, your matches played?   (Off microphone.)  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, so far I'm feeling very good.   I think it's a good follow‑up on that, you know, practice, preparation that I have done and then also for the change, that it's been only my team.   And I'm very glad that, you know, the things that we were working on that I'm able to bring them up on the tennis court so far and be able to transform them in such a short time.   
They are all kind of working, which is very good to me.   And, yeah, I mean, it's four very good matches which I'm happy with.   Some of them were in the tough conditions.   Some of them were quite nice and pleasant, but, you know, now is the final.   That's the last one and the most important one to go.   
   
 Q.   What went right for you tonight?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, it's been quite similar with all of them.   I mean, I managed to, you know, get the right game plan and then stick with that, tried to stay very close to the baseline, tried to stay on top of the opponent's game and trying to dictate the play with the shots and the selection shots that I want.  
And also, so far the selection that I have been doing, you know, trying to really taking the right shots in the right moment.   That's, you know, quite enough to be working well and making good result so far.  
   
 Q.   (Off microphone.)  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, you can always see with two different ways, two different views.   I think it's not necessary to explain both of them.   But for me this is the way how I went through the tournament.   It's been so far quite easy by the result, but, you know, I still need to do my job and win those matches.   
I'm really happy with the way I handled it so far, that I get to the final and, you know, just going to face a very tough opponent.   I'm going to try to do my best to, you know, make a first trophy of the year.   
   
 Q.   What makes David such a tough opponent?   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, we already played, I mean, it's maybe like a week ago, that it's been exhibition match, but not in the way that, you know, we will have fun on the court and we really put a big effort to that match.   I mean, we played almost three hours there, and it's been a pretty ‑‑it was really good.   You know, it was a very tough one.   
He's a big fighter.   He's very solid from both sides, moving extremely well and very experienced guy.   
So again, I'm going to need to bring my weapons, all the cards that I have, try to play with them tomorrow in the final.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT