QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 6, 2015
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/D. Istomin
  6‑1, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How satisfying was that for you to start the new season in that way?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, it's always a pleasure to have a match like that on the belt, especially for the first one of the year.   And, well, I mean, it's good to put something from, you know, from the practice court and then be able to bring it on and succeed on the match.   
You know, I have been in similar situation last year where I was playing quite well, but then get on court and unluckily lost a very close match.   And it was maybe not the best way how to start the first week.   But this year it's different.   I feel much better.   I feel very good on court.   Having a win like that, it's just a good sign to go.   
   
 Q.   Specifically with your new coaching setup, what things have you been working on?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, firstly was ‑‑well, I would say the biggest part of the time I spent with my new fitness guy was during the IPTL when we work mainly on my fitness and condition preparation, and then when I get home after that, then, well, Dani joined the team and we start to work on some tennis things, as well.   
There have been a few things that we set up as I would say like a short time, short‑term goals that we want to work on and trying to implement it to my game.   And then, of course, there is going to be some work coming and some adjustments during the year.   But the first one has been try to get more variations for my second serve, especially, and then, you know, try to use a little bit more my forehand and just couple of things that they are going to be, I would say, the key for the beginning and start of the year.   I think it was a good choice, and I felt to have a very good preparation.  
   
 Q.   Can you address a little bit why you felt it was time for a change in coaches and choosing Dani as your coach?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think ‑‑well, it's always hard to say if it's the right time or not.   I mean, the results, it's gonna be seen probably a little bit more in the future, but, I mean, still I had a very solid five, six years with Tomas, and it was a great result that we achieved together, but I just felt that if you want to get and if you want to make that step higher, it's just the right time for me in my stage of the career just to try and do it, you know, try to get someone who is coming with like a fresh view from the outside and with fresh and new ideas.   
I think that Dani is perfect example of that.   I think he's very experienced in this way.   I mean, his past job was working with Andy and those experience, even the working with Ivan in the same team and, you know, winning two slams and Olympic medal, it's something that gives you so many experience.   He's a hard worker guy, and that's why it was a choice for him.   
   
 Q.   Could you please talk about your next game?   You might play either Monaco or Kavcic.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think Kavcic won his first match, so it's going to be him.   Well, again, my main focus is going to be for my game, for the way that I'm going and how I'm going to handle the match, trying to focus on few things which we gonna set with Dani before the match, and that's it.   
I mean, it's probably not gonna be about like really much looking what the opponent is going to come up with but mainly about my game, with my tennis.   And if these things are working, then I should be able to go through.  
   
 Q.   If I can ask you a question about Rafa, we have seen him injured quite a bit through his career and everything, and a lot of people think, oh, well, he will never come back, and then he often comes back out of that even stronger than he was.   How do you assess him as a strong competitor and looking ahead to the Australian Open?   Does he look like he's, you know, underplayed or can you never count him out?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Ah, well, it's a tough question, and especially after that time that he's been off and then he come back and he almost had his best season ever.   You know, he showed to all of us that he's very strong after coming back from the injuries.   
It's really hard to judge.   You know, it's not really easy to coming back from the injuries.   But once you are able to make it like that, then probably he knows how to be prepared and how to come back very strong, and, you know, we still talking about the guy that Rafa is.   
You know, once he decide that he will come back and he's strong enough, then he's gonna be on the high level to compete back again.  
   
 Q.   What did Ivan Lendl tell you about Dani?   What was his words for Dani?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, honestly we didn't talk about it, and because I had a meeting with Ivan and it was after the Shanghai, and then the main reason was just I was basically trying convince him to add him to my team and unfortunately didn't work out.   That time Dani was with Andy and the team, so there was no ‑‑basically I have no clue that there is something like this possible in the future, so we didn't talk about it at all.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT