BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 12, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/M. Cilic
  6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Tomas I'm sure you feel much better today than you did the other day.   Can you talk a little bit about the last 48 hours, what you did in between the two matches to turn it around. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, basically, yes, you're right.   I felt much better on the court.   But still it was not one of my best.   That's fair to say. 
But, you know, I think that's the beauty of this event.   One day you can be swept out from the court like I did, or I've been actually, and in two days' time you can come up and you can play a different tennis. 
Well, basically there were no miracles in that time in between the matches.   But, you know, I just had a good practice session yesterday, good rest, refocused again, and go for another match. 
More importantly, you know, it's like stay self‑confident, self‑belief, really just keep on going, keep on pushing.   You're not going to get nothing for free.   You just have to work for it hard, that's it. 

Q.   You've always lost your first match, then won your second match.   Is that because it's taken you some time to settle on court or perhaps because you're always playing a higher‑ranked opponent in the first match?   Why is it?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, you can see it both ways, as you mention it.   I think it's very typical tournament which we have just once a year.   Somebody is more flexible to adapt for that, bring up the best tennis right away from the beginning, play great.   Me, takes some time.   Hopefully there is the third one. 
Well, definitely it's going to be with the toughest opponent that pretty much I can get here.   But, you know, the chances are still there.   It's just about hitting the ball and playing some tennis. 

Q.   If I'm not mistaken, all of your years here have been in London, and the contract goes through next year.   What are your feelings about keeping the event here in London?   What is your experience?   From a calendar point of view, atmosphere point of view, what are your thoughts on that?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I would say there are two points of that.   I'm not pretty much the right one who can decide between them. 
One is definitely that I never experience anything before, but what I experienced last five years, it's incredible event with great atmosphere, with the spectators.   They come up every day, fill up the stadium, make a great atmosphere.
That's why we play tennis.   That's the best feeling when you step on court and have a crowd like that.   Of course, the hospitality and so on, so on, it's on the highest level. 
The other one, it's just pretty much a question why not give the opportunities and bring the tennis and the World Tour Finals to a different part of the world.   That's the only thing. 
It's hard to choose between these two options.   It's definitely not my job to do that. 

Q.   You played Marin quite a few times this year.   How would you rate his performance?   Was it one of the worst this year? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I don't know.   I'm not going to judge all the 10 meetings, then we going to be here for a long time. 
Let's do the last one.   Let's put it this way.   I mean, it's match as any other.   Me personally are just trying to come up to the court and try to play the best as I can, trying to prepare for that.   I didn't have the greatest start of this event at all.   I was able to come up and change something, play better tennis. 
Let's put it this way.   With the way he played, he would never win a US Open. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on Novak in the next round‑robin match?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I'm going to try to, you know, maybe three, four games.   That would be better from the last time (laughter). 
Well, that experience was really experience, you know.   As I said after my first match, it couldn't be worse than that.   So let's see.   It's pretty much same scenario for that.   It couldn't be pretty much worse than that, as well. 
You know, it's always a huge challenge to play No.1 player in the world.   The way he's playing, where are we playing, it's pretty much all set up for him and for his game.   That's how it is. 
So for me it's going to be great to play a match with him, maybe the last of the season, maybe not.   But even if it's the last one, it's with the No.1 player in the world.   It's really, as I said, huge challenge.   I'm going to try to, you know, bring all I have what is left in me, challenge him. 

Q.   It's been seven matches, seven pretty quick straight setters.   Are you surprised by that?   Why do you think that has happened?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, no, I'm not surprised at all.   I mean, the tennis could go really either way.   It's not about that something is wrong or not.   That's how it is.   That's the fact. 
I don't think that we have to look for it more deeply.   Just take it as a fact, and that's it. 

Q.   You would have no problem traveling to the Middle East or Asia or somewhere else at the year‑end championships?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, of course, that's what I'm saying.   You know, let's see what are the advantages there.   If there is something what they can come up with, better possibilities or something like that, let's do that.   If not, my personally, I have a one and a half hour flight, so for me, London is great. 

Q.   There was a recent naming of several Italian tennis players in a soccer match fixing investigation.   I'm wondering, what is your level of concern about match fixing in tennis?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Honestly, I don't know much about it.   I'm not the one who is looking really for any single news on every single thing.   I just believe that, you know, there is certain people or the right people who's going to take care of it, who's going to deal with that, who's going to make it clear from our sport.   That's it. 
Even if there is some or there is no, we have to always wait for the last verdicts or whatever it is.   Then it's not good for our sport, but if it's going to be clean, that's how it should be done. 

Q.   In your game it's a lot about belief.   Do you believe with your best game, you said today this was not the best tennis you could play, that you can challenge Novak Djokovic?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, well, it's been just twice I did it.   I beat him, you know.   We're talking about one of the best players in our sport.   So it's not going to happening pretty much every single match. 
Of course, it's about a self‑belief.   I'm here to do my best, to go on court and try to play the best tennis.   Hopefully I'm going to be successful. 
But, you know, I also have the experience when I played quite a good tennis, it didn't work out at all.   Then I didn't play my best tennis, I was really 6‑2, 5‑2 down, then all of a sudden I turned the match around and I won. 
I think that's just the beauty of the tennis.   Every match, it's different.   You know, just get ready, be prepared, just go for it. 

Q.   I want to praise you for your sense of humor.   You are great on Twitter.   You're becoming better and better on press conferences. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Thank you. 

Q.   Apart from that, in the year 2009, there were 10 matches out of 15 at the Masters, the ATP Finals, that went to a third set.   Now you see it's a fact that seven matches went two sets.   Do you think there's a difference between maybe now, now maybe players are more satisfied, they have less hunger because once you lose the first set, I won't say quit, but you don't fight as much to come back?   I'm trying to provoke a clever answer. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think the best is if you're going to go and you're going to see all the guys, ask them personally what they think about their matches. 
Me personally, I would say no.   I've lost pretty bad match in the first day, and there is not much else I can do.   It's just, you know, recover from that, try to change few things, try to do it better, and then come up stronger for the next one.   And that's what I did. 
So in my point of view it's no for what you were mentioning here.   I hope it's also no from the other guys.   But, you know, I think only them, they can judge it the best.   They can say how they feel, what's their approach, what they can do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT