BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 31, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/K. Anderson
  6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   An obvious first question:   How do you explain your domination of Kevin Anderson?   Your good record, we'll call it. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, it was very close today to end up that streak.   You know, but in the end I managed to extend it for 12‑0, but really today, you know, it's just a number.   It's just a statistic. 
But Kevin just played a great match today.   He changed a few things.   He's been successful in the first set, and then he's been playing really, really good tennis all the way. 
So I was really needs to make and work really hard on that and win.   I mean, why is that?   You know, I think that our games are quite similar, and, you know, I'm doing something a little bit better, and so then it works out.   That's probably the only explanation. 
But, you know, it's just a sport, so it could go either way.

Q.   Is it something to do with the fact you read very well his serve?   For instance, he's a big server.   Is there any explanation with that?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yes, he's a big server, that's true.   But, you know, as I said, the few things that he changed today was definitely the one that he ‑‑ he didn't go that much for the big first serve, and you want to keep more percentage in the first serve, you know. 
Because especially, I would say, that my advantage is that I can push him a lot from the second serve.   Then he's very much under pressure, and that's something what he doesn't like.
But when you are keep serving well and you have a high percentage, it's not so easy to give you a ‑‑ or attack the first serve that much.   So that was the thing that he changed today, and he's been serving much‑‑ I would say, much more efficient, you know. 
Not much more speed or anything like that, but higher percentage.   It's been a tougher one, or so far the toughest match that we ever played together. 

Q.   Looking further ahead past London to the International Premier Tennis League, can you talk a bit about that?   You're committed, I think, to playing in all four venues. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I just think it's an interesting new event coming up.   You know, I think it's just something new, something different, and, you know, I want to be part of that. 
If you look at those teams and those players that they are in those teams, it's really a pleasure to me to be part of that and be chosen from those guys. 
I think it's going to be fun.   It's going to be something that it's good to have.   I mean, it's good to have something also different.   You know, if the people wants it, if the people likes it, why not? 

Q.   With London, you just qualified by winning today, so congratulations. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Thank you.

Q.   Does it still feel exciting for you, or is it something you expect at this point?   Because you have qualified quite a few times now. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, and no matter how many times you make that, it's probably never going to be, you know, like routine thing.   I mean, it's always just proof of having a great season, and especially in this era of tennis when you have the guys like, you know, all of them, and then so basically you kind of fight for only four spots, I would say. 
You know, normally it was like really eight and it was quite open.   You know, it was pretty much really open before every single season, and this time in last couple of years it's been pretty much very set in the beginning almost.
So it's not easy.   Really, what I really like especially this year, it's that, you know, I made it like myself.   That I don't have to wait for anybody to lose or win or, you know, doing anything like that.   That's definitely the best feeling.   That's the best reward to make it happen this way.

Q.   You play nine times this tournament.   You reach six time at least the quarterfinal.   Is there any explanation, or what do you especially like in this tournament?   Because the surface change more or less every year, so is there any explanation about the fact that you play well here all the time or most of the time?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, okay, maybe let's put it a funny way.   When I came here the first time the surface was very different and I won.   And then you guys keep changing it, and it's ‑‑ I was not closer to the final. 
But, no, really, the results are good, they are solid, and, you know, it's a big event.   It's the 1000 series.   It's always great to have a good week, a good run.
You know, if you have a place where you make a title or really having a good results, then it's, I would say, a bit easier that you can follow up on that and just play well.

Q.   What are your memories of nine years ago?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Ah, yeah, it's really long time.   No, but it was really incredible run.   The final I still have, you know, in front of my eyes sometimes.   You know, I was two sets up.   Then I lost two sets.   Really it was one of my first experience of playing those long matches. 
So, yeah, it was a very special one. 

Q.   Do you wish there was still more fast indoor tournaments?   Because everything is pretty slow now. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I don't know.   I think it's just the way of be able to adapt for whatever it is.   Well, the most important is like to keep the same.   So if one day somebody decides, okay, let's do it faster, but let's go and let's do all of them.   Not that we have all the week something which is different. 
It's the same thing with the balls is just the issue.   It's almost impossible to solve, but that's how it is. 

Q.   What do you think it is about this tournament that a lot of different guise have won it?   You won a Masters Series here, only one, I think.   Soderling and Ferrer won their only ones here.   What do you think it is about a lot of different guys to win it?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think every time the end of the season could be very tricky and it could create very different situation with all sorts of players.   You know, some of them are fighting to get forward to the final. 
Some of them right now are fighting to become No. 1.   You know, there are lots of things that, you know, are playing a role.   And then, of course, it's for many, or really out of top eight guys, it's the last tournament of the year.
So basically if you don't play really for one of those goals and then, you know, you are kind of tired in the end of the season.   So really, there are a lot of things and a lot of aspects that are different than all other tournaments during the year, so that could be one of the explanations. 

Q.   Today you served at 52%.   First question is:   Is it more gratifying to pull through in a match like this where you struggled and you had to come back from breaks?   Second part of the question is:   Do you need to serve better in your next match, or what do you need to do in your next match?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, 52, yeah, it's not the best number, but sometimes you don't really have to need the best numbers.   But, you know, if you are able to make it still in the end, it's always good no matter how the statistic is.
Really, that's nice about the tennis.   Not every time the people with the best statistics are winning the matches.   Well, definitely I'm going to need to make it better for the next day, because I think the first set was nothing really special from my side today.
But, you know, in the end really I think it's more rewarding if you win a match like that where you have to come back, win, and really fight for the victory.   It's really more rewarding.   Or it feels really good to have a match like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT