CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/T. Berdych
      6‑0, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   The first 11 games must have been tough to take.   Can we check your fitness is okay?   You're not injured or anything like that?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   I expect that (smiling).   
    No, I'm not actually.   I felt pretty good.   In the beginning I felt really good during the whole tournament.   But I met somebody in the final who I've never seen before.   Really the way that he performed today was really outstanding.   
    There is really not much I can add to that because, really, I was just swept out from the court.   Yeah, that was it.   
   
 Q.   Was that the best anyone has ever played against you?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, actually I just said to my coach now that I probably played maybe over, what, 600 matches in my career, and I met guys like Andre, Roger, all those probably in their best times.   But I have never, ever experienced anything like that.   
   
 Q.   Near the end of the match it looked like you were trying to give your racquet to the ball girl.   What was going through your mind at that moment?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, there was many things.   I don't even think all of them are publicated [sic] here.   
    No, I mean, that was just really sign of, you know, total‑‑ I don't know even how to explain it.   It was just sad.   I want to just release a little bit, you know, the tension or something.   It was nothing else in that.   Really, I couldn't have done anything different.   
   
 Q.   Your serve was broken six times tonight.   It's been broken once before tonight in the entire tournament.   What was Novak able to do on your serve?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, are you guys planning to grill me here more than I've just been done on the court?   You probably seen that.   
    What changed?   Whatever he touched, he put in.   What should I say?   I mean, probably you can watch it one more time and you will see what was different.   
    As I said in the beginning, I haven't meet anyone playing like that ever in 600 plus matches.   Here I played four before.   
    So, yeah, he just played outstanding tennis today.   
   
 Q.   I think a lot of people will have admired the way that you kept on right till the end.   Did you feel you were determined to win at least one game?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, of course.   I mean, anyway, the score doesn't matter.   It's always like the whole fact that if you win match or lose match.   Still, you know, there is the full stadium.   It's a final of the tournament.   You just have to try.   I mean, you have to try for anything.   
    It was a similar down in Rome where I was a set down, 5‑2, pretty much the same scenario.   Then all of a sudden I just come up and I win that match against Novak.   
    I mean, not that I was hoping for that.   But at least really try to do something, try to win one game, then hold my serve.   Just really to give a try and let's see what's going to happen.   
   
 Q.   On something different.   There were stories after the US Open about you stressing a desire that you would like Lendl to not necessarily coach you but work with you a little bit, offer you some advice.   Have any conversations taken place between the two of you to that effect?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, as long as I can say that we are meeting after my tournament in Shanghai.   So I have a meeting with Ivan.   That's all I can say pretty much right now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT