CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/M. Klizan
      6‑4, 6‑1 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   What do you think it is about Klizan that gave Nadal so much trouble and also gave you a battle, as well?   
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, it's a very talented kid.   As you can see, he's really the one that if he's going to continue the way he's doing now, it's going to be definitely another player which is going to be very dangerous and very unlikely to play.   
    But it's still long way to go.   I think, as we all do, he had a great night last night, amazing tennis, amazing game.   Probably many things just clicked together.   He managed that win.   
    So today I just really needs to be ready for him.   I played him very tough match this US Open.   I won 6‑4 in the fifth.   I kind of knew what to expect.   I know what's his strength in his game.   I was well‑prepared for that.   I was taking my chances well.   That was the result.   
   
 Q.   What are your initial reactions to your matchup with Djokovic in the final tomorrow?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, it's a final and it's against Novak.   It's really special day for me.   Every Sunday that we have to go on court and play, it means a lot because it's a final.   Playing with No.1 player in the world is always a bit special.   
    But Novak is playing in incredible form, back again.   Really, he's having a great record playing here in China Open.   There is a new challenge, a new day, a new opportunity for me.   I'm going to try to go there, try to take my chance and, again, try to play my tennis.   Let's see what I can do with that.   
   
 Q.   What were you thinking in the second game of the first set when Martin fell down?   What were your initial reactions to that?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, honestly I haven't seen the moment when Martin fell down.   I just seen him on the ground.   Then I missed the shot, and I look at him, just try to get the reaction if he's good or not.   He starts to limp in the back of the court, just sit there.   
    When I saw that he's putting a sock down, I was like, Oh, maybe it's not going to be good and he's going to need some ice or something.   
    He said, No, it's fine.   He just wait for some tape.   So finally it was good.   Because always to finish the match like that, it's not the way that we all want to.   It's really much more pleasant to fight for that and have a match like we had tonight.   
    So hopefully Martin is going to be good and he's going to be healthy because he's playing really well.   Just wish him all the best and good luck for the next week.   
   
 Q.   I see that you got a Wechat public account and sent three or four voice messages to the Chinese fans.   It seems like you are looking to coming to China to play your match.   Do you feel the support from the Chinese fans?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, you are absolutely right.   I'm trying to cover almost all world with my fans.   I know that there are a lot and many here in China.   I'm trying to bring also some news and some other stuff that they can see just on the court, or now from the press conference.   Yeah, I'm trying to make them happy, trying to bring them something different.   
    It's really great.   Since the first days, it's always very nice and pleasant welcome.   I've been two days in   Hangzhou.   I already had nice support of the Chinese fans.   Really, for me it's a great time coming here.   It's connected with good results.   But it goes well together.   
    When you feel good, you have good support, you play well.  
   
 Q.   In 2011 you won the title, defeating Cilic.   Cilic won the US Open final.   You made it into the finals of Grand Slams.   Cilic won a Grand Slam title.   Is this a motivation for you?   Is it still your dream to win a Grand Slam title?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, yes, it is.   As you exactly said, it's not only 2011 final here in Beijing.   I mean, I played him this year in Rotterdam in the final and I beat him there.   
    But that's tennis.   Every single match is different.   I think he played his unbelievable performance in US Open.   So he definitely deserved to win that title there.   He just proved that he played the best tennis in those two weeks.   
    I mean, yes, it's always another motivation to go when you see another guy to win a slam.   But for me it's been a tough year because there are two new winners of the slams, and I lost two times, once to Wawrinka in the Australian Open, and he won, then I lost to Murray in the US Open, and he won.   It's another challenge for me to go and keep trying and hopefully one day to be successful.   
   
 Q.   Just now you said in China you have many fans.   At the China Open, Djokovic has more fans.   It is the home field for Djokovic.   Tomorrow what is your feeling about the competition with him?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I don't think it's only here in China.   We talking about the current No.1 player in the world.   With all his results, all his Grand Slam trophies, it's obvious that he's so popular around the world.   China is not an exception.   
    So, as I said, I'm just trying to make my fans happy and bring them something extra and something different.   Novak is doing it, as well.   I think that's nice.   We need to do that as sportsmen.   That's really just the normal way how it is.   
   
 Q.   Cilic won the US Open because of the assistance of his coach.   Will you use his approach to improve yourself?   We know that Djokovic never failed at the China Open.   As for tomorrow, are you well‑prepared for tomorrow's competition, so tomorrow you can play as well as your performance, just like this competition?   
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, the first question was really I don't know.   It's just about Marin, that his coach was helping him.   Yeah, I also have a coach.   We trying to do our job, our work.   That was just for the first part.   
    Then the second, yes, I mean, it's really short after today's game.   But I need to take the same approach for tomorrow's final, get rest, get recovered, have a good sleep.   Same procedure, doing my routines tomorrow, be prepared.   
    I mean, as I said, and I speak before, yes, it's a final.   It's always a pleasure to play the No.1 player in the world.   So it's going to be a great challenge to me.   I'm really looking forward to that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT