U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  T. BERDYCH/T. Gabashvili6-3, 6-2, 6-4THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Straight sets.  Happy with your performance?TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah.  I mean, it was tough conditions again today.  Very different than the previous days. So, yeah, it makes me feel good to handle the game like that.  Yeah, I was happy with the way I play.Q. At this point getting deeper into it, are you feeling more momentum?TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, every single match gives you extra boost, extra confidence, extra feeling what you want to have when you go deeper and deeper in the tournament. So, yes, I do feel good.  As I said, it's one by one.  That was another opponent, and now I'm going to face another tough young guy. So, yeah, just need to get ready for that.Q. Facing Thiem next; what do you expect?TOMAS BERDYCH: These days is more common you going to play a guy you never play before.  Younger guys coming up, there is much more of them than I would say in the past two, three years when the time was pretty calm and we were playing just really all against each other but not any new faces. But the time is a bit different.  I mean, it's nice to play him.  It's a young kid.  It's a good challenge to me.Q. Talk a little bit about the match and how you felt you played, the rain situation.TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, I mean, it's usual stuff when you start up and then the rain come up.  It's pretty much all the time the same.  Just you need to put yourself in some quiet spot, just do your routine and stay relaxed, and just be ready for whenever they call it and the court is ready. That was the same thing. Yeah, the conditions were really tough.  I would say one of the wettest day you can have on court, which is something that's also not very pleasant. But, yeah, I mean, besides that everything works well.  Everything was good.  I found the rhythm, as well after playing a tough second round.  Always the match like that helps.Q. Is it easy to find a quiet spot?TOMAS BERDYCH: Yeah, no, I'm always find some spot.  Yeah, I mean, these days the locker rooms are a little bit more emptier, so you can always find a spot to just lie down, just be in the quiet. But all are different.  All guys don't need the same.  So you always find a spot.Q. It's going to be your first time playing Dominic Thiem.  Have you seen much of him?TOMAS BERDYCH: Just now I was standing in front of the TV watching the match seeing how he play.  That was not only what I seen him play, but most recent, which is good to see. He's really playing well.  You can see it's a young kid coming up, just showing how he play without any nerves, any I would say extra pressure, any feeling.  He just go for it.  That's how it is.  That's how it should be. But, yeah, I'm looking forward for that match.  Always to play a guy for the first time it could be even more trickier.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT