WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/B. Tomic
  4/6, 7/6, 7/6, 6/1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You were talking briefly at the end about your wrist.   Could you explain the problem?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I mean, the problem just started in my first match when I slip down and when I hit the ground.   I just touch the ground with my wrist and basically I just hurt it in there.   It was from the first match.
Then when I woke up the next morning after the first round I starts to feel it.   I basically couldn't move my wrist at all.   It's very sore, very painful.   So I was just trying to do all possible I can just to be ready for my next match.
You know, it was not 100% fine.   I need to really, you know, think about it.   That's definitely something what you don't want to have in the match.
But, you know, I'm through.   I was fighting also with that and I manage it, so, yeah, I'm happy.

Q.   Were you in much pain as you played?   It was a very brutal match, wasn't it?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I wouldn't say it's a pain.   It's more like a discomfort.   That's something that you have in your mind that you need to think about, you know, when you want to move and, you know, just ‑‑especially in my tennis, you know, when I play my backhand mostly or more with my left hand, it's quite an issue.

Q.   Towards the end of the third set you called for medical advice or assistance.   Did you take tablets or something?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I just asked for some painkiller tablets.   I don't want to use it since beginning because I know that always these tablets makes me feel like, you know, a little bit not so sharp, you know, that you kind of feel like you are more tired and not so focused.
So that's why I keep it till the end.   But basically they didn't help me at all.   It was just a try. 

Q.   Seemed to do you good because you ran away with the match after that, didn't you? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, definitely.   That's the positive thing.   You know, I managed to survive that, to fight for a tough victory.
And I'm happy, you know.   I have another day off, and I will do all possible I can to be ready.   Hopefully I'm going to be ready for my next match on Friday.

Q.   You had a similar match with him last year in the fourth round here.   Were you expecting another tough one, or did you think, since he's 86 in the world now, it would be easier?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, definitely not.   It's definitely his best surface, which suits to his game the most.   You know, he's always a very danger player on the grass.
All I know is just you need to stay really as close as possible with him and really stay patient.   Because as this match proves again, you know, he played great three sets, but then after losing a third set he just completely went down and that's it, you know. 
I was waiting for this chance, and finally it gets.   I got easy fourth set. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT