ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. GULBIS/T. Berdych
      6‑3, 6‑2, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   Can you speak about what happened today?   You played very well in the fourth round, and today was very difficult for you.   Can you explain what happened?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, exactly like you said.   You know, maybe not only fourth round, but today was really different day and really different story.   With the way I played today, I really couldn't even possibly think that I can make that match and I can win, because really the way I played today was pretty bad to be successful today.  
   
 Q.   Do you have some explanation about that?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   I mean, it's really about to review that and sit down with the coaches, how was it, what was going on.   You know, it's really too soon after the match to really know what happened.  
    But, you know, it's the tennis.   I mean, the tournament lasts for two weeks.   This is the fifth match in those days.   Really, for the best ones you really need to be ready for all those two weeks.  
    If you have a day like that, then you really have no chance to come for the good results.  
   
 Q.   I just want to ask you, you've seen Ernie play for a while.   What do you think about his game today?   What do you think of his chances against Djokovic?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, about his game, especially today, well, he played solid, but he doesn't have to bring anything really special today.   You know, I was not in the shape to cause him some damage and make him some tough time.  
    He just played solid, and that was definitely enough to win today.   
    Well, the chances with Novak, you know, definitely he's not the favorite, but he has a game to play well and, you know, to make some tough time for Novak.  
    If I see it overall, I think Novak is playing in really great shape this tournament.  
   
 Q.   Where do you start your grass season?   How do you look at your chances for Wimbledon?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I'm starting in Queen's, as I did last year, and I'm staying all the way till Wimbledon in London.   I experienced it last year.   It was pretty good, so that's my plan for the grass.  
   
 Q.   You talked about the top guys and you have to bring your best against the top guys.   Gulbis was not really to be called a top guy.   What do you think makes the difference in him?   Is he now better than before, or was it just he played good today?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I mean, he's improving or he improves a lot.   Definitely he does.   
    I mean, he starts to work and he starts to do what he needs to do.   He's trying to show that he's not only the guy with a good potential, but he's really the guy who can bring it up and play some good tennis.  
    Yeah, on the other hand, of course it was not my best day.   It was not the day that I would, you know, be enough to, you know, stay with him and, you know, push him into the tough situations.  
    But, yeah, he handled it quite well.  
   
 Q.   You had difficulties with your serve.   It was because of Ernests or the conditions?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, of course it's always because of the other guy, you know.   Or ‑‑ yeah, it's also because of him, and I would say mostly because of me.   
    I mean, the serve is starting from my hand.   If you're going to serve well, then no matter who is on the other side you are the first who hits the ball.   I think that's the explanation.  
    No, he's the one who makes you feel under pressure serving well, returning well.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   Can we say that today he beat you like kind of at your own game?   Like you had to maybe try something totally different to try to deal with what he was giving you back?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   No ‑‑  
   
 Q.   A fast, hard groundstroke game?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   I mean, no.   I will not agree with you.   I mean, my plan was to play aggressive, playing fast, playing the way I'm used to do and what my game is, and especially what those previous matches with him was working on.  
    I mean, we played in Rotterdam.   We played many matches in the past.   This was the way what was working, you know, when I was playing aggressive.   But today I was not aggressive at all.   The balls were missing the power, the depth of the length in the balls.   
    That's already too many things that I was missing today.  
   
 Q.   Sometimes it seems if your game doesn't work you don't want to like just keep the ball in play; is that right?   Is it too boring for you?   You like playing longer rallies, higher over the net, or is it completely crazy the question I put?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, it's a question.   You can ask whatever you want.   
    I don't know why I should do that.   I mean, that's not the way that I am used to play, that I used to do in the matches.  
    I definitely need to find my rhythm if I don't have it, but not with the way that I'm going to putting the balls up and try to run there like a rabbit side to side.  
    You know, that's something like if you would probably ask Rafa to serve and volley and, you know, if he feels it's boring and why he doesn't do that, you know.   
    That's definitely the same thing.   No, I think every player has their own style and needs to deal with that and try to bring his best.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT