ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/A. Nedovyesov
      6‑7, 6‑4, 7‑5, 6‑3 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   That was a tough one to get through, but in the end you managed to win six in a row.   How did you feel about the match?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yeah, I mean, it was definitely a tough one.   As I said in the first round, you're not going to get any easy opponents at all.   This one was another proof of that, that you're in the second round and you're not going to face an easy one.  
    Really was playing well.   The only thing I was struggling with was his serve, which was serving quite well, very high percentage.  
    Once I found the rhythm how to return that, it was fine.   That was the key of the game.   
   
 Q.   The conditions were a bit tough.   It's a bit chilly and stuff.   You managed to handle that.   
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, since I came it's like that, so I'm quite getting used to it.   It's really the same for everybody, so it's all right.   
   
 Q.   You were getting a little irritated at the amount of noise from the crowd.   I find that interesting for someone like you who has such experience with Davis Cup away ties.   Was it different because it was kids or what was irritating you today?   
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, it was not about the kids.   I mean, the kids are kids and they going to always enjoy it.   They want to be really loud.  
    But I was more irritated by the referee, because once you tell her or once she said something about to be quiet, I can barely hear that and I'm on the court just few meters from her.  
    I don't know.   I see the first time and she was really probably not well experienced for that.   She definitely couldn't hold the situation.   
    Really, I mean, she was trying to step in in the wrong time when already the guy was serving or...   
    Really not experienced enough to handle it like that.   
    Of course I played many Davis Cup matches, but even that we played in Argentina where it was crazy loud, once you were ready to play there is completely silent.  
    If not, then the referee take care of it and that's fine.  
   
 Q.   You get to play Bautista‑Agut next.   I believe you beat him and also lost to him.  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I lost to him already twice, so...   
   
 Q.   How do you look ahead to the match, and what's difficult for you in his game?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   His game is very solid.   He's great baseline player and playing very solid from both sides.   
    Really it's a guy coming up.   It's a not easy opponent.   Basically all the matches we played was on hard and indoor, and I think that that suits to his game I would say a bit more.  
    Let's see.   It's going to be on clay.   I'm going to try to use that, that we going to play on clay, and that I'm playing well.   It's going to be or first time on the slam and you need to win three sets.   I am really looking forward to that.   
   
 Q.   I want to ask you about the football World Cup.   Who's your favorite team?   
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, could be anyone because the Czech teams did not qualify for that.   So really I will just be looking for good matches as a spectator and that's it.  
   
 Q.   Who's the best team for you?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   I guess you're from Spain, so I should say Spain.  
    No, you know, I pick Spain in the last World Cup and they won, so I will follow up on that.   
   
 Q.   Both top seeds in the women's draw are out.   I was wondering if I put you on the spot and asked you, who do you think can win the title on the women's side?  
    TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I have no idea.   I think this is unpredictable to say any word on this.   I will not even try.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT