SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 27, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/A. Dolgopolov
  6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How well did you have to play today to do this win in two sets against a pretty tough opponent?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes, I mean, it's very tough opponent.   It's very tricky opponent.   Even the conditions was not the perfect way that I really like.
It was quite windy, and, you know, so it was the facts that was a little bit more difficult.   But, yeah, I handled it quite well.   I mean, I didn't start the both sets, or I was not really up in the both sets all the way.
I mean, I was break down since the beginning of the first set.   Then, you know, break down in the second set, so it doesn't look that well.
But, yeah, I managed, especially end of the second set, I hold pretty well and that's what I'm very pleased with.

Q.   Can you just look ahead to each of the next two guys, Nadal or maybe Raonic if you play him?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, Rafa, I mean, I didn't beat him for really ‑‑I don't even know the number.   I mean, I stopped counting or I don't know the other numbers, which is next one already.
So that would be really nice to change that, and there is not much really say about him.   It's one of the greatest players playing really well, and really it's hard to find something what hasn't been said yet.
And Milos, it's a young kid, you know, big serving guy.   I would say one of the best serving guys in this time.   He likes to play very aggressive from the baseline, but once you manage to make that return back, then I think that's a pretty good chance and, you know, that's it.
So I think it's gonna be nice and interesting match and let the better win tonight.

Q.   Was it your consistency today that saw you through?   He's so streaky. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think that's his way of‑‑ the way how he plays.   I think he's playing really well this time, and if he managed to keep playing like that, it's going to be very, very dangerous player, as he is. 
But, you know, when he kind of make this gaps of going up and down in his game and he kind of make it shorter, then that's how it is.   He can really play well, make a big damage.   That's how it is. 
But for my kind of approach of the game was really like be patient, be very focused, because any time could go other way and could change, and that's basically what happened today.

Q.   Alex is such a different player with his style and all that.   Is he somebody you like to play, and is he somebody that your mind has got to change on how you approach playing him?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, if I like to play him (smiling)?   It's always hard to say if yes or no. 
I think I have it, like after today it's 4‑0, so, yes, I like to play him in this sense, but as you said, it's very difficult, very different player, in sense of really hard to find the rhythm.
If you are not really in the good shape, he can really kind of like destroy your game, because he will give you and he will force you to play the style what he wants and so it's a very tricky player.
But in the other way, if you feel good, you're hitting the ball well, then I think, yeah, it's manageable, yeah.

Q.   I think this match brought you back up to No. 5 in the rankings for next week.   Are you very attuned to the rankings or they don't mean as much to you?   What's rankings value for you as a player?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, it is a big value, of course.   That's the thing why you play tennis.   It's also one of the goals that we have in tennis.
But the other way around, especially like now when it's one week 7, one week 6, another 5, and then 7 again, I think it's not really that super important.   I think it's more like for longer time, because with the system how we have with the points and how it is, it's I think even more important when you are more stable, more consistent and you are able to keep it up for longer time.
The best way to end up like that in the end of the year.

Q.   I know you're not playing Davis Cup in the next group.   Do you think there is too much Davis Cup right now?   Some people talked about doing it only every other year or something like that.   Would you support that kind of change?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Definitely.   I mean, I don't know if it was Craig or someone else asking me about what I would like to see different in Davis Cup, that was my first answer, that it should be at least every two years. 
It could go well with the Olympics.   I think that's definitely the first thing that I would say.

Q.   Have you talked to other players about that?   Do you think a lot of people would support that on the players' side?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I'm not really positive guy that even if you're gonna have 20 of us saying the same thing, then you will always find probably the one who say, Well, no, I like it like this.   That's it. 
Probably even if you are 20 of us saying the same thing, they like to do it the way they do, and that's it.

Q.   Is there an understanding that ‑‑I mean, the money that is earned every year from the Davis Cup is what the ITF gives back to the game and helps grow it in all these countries all around the world.   Without the income every year, they're not going to be able to help these young players develop in Third World nations, like a Sandra Samir from Egypt.   That's what they use the money for, or a lot of it.   Does that... 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   All right.   That's some point.   Honestly I'm not in the side of any managers and, you know, dealing with stuff like that.
I mean, it's understandable, yes, it is, but I think you can always find a way, meaning, let's say, if you're gonna make it more attractive in those every two years, you're going to get all the players to play, you're gonna make more money than you can do it now, and you can have the one year just off, and you can still earn that money.

Q.   Was it hard when you won in November and then had to already begin defending again in February?   That's a very quick turnaround from end to beginning. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I have even harder one.   When you play semifinal, you win the semifinal in September, and I think it's the next Wednesday after that weekend you get a phone call and saying, So, Tomas, what do you think about the first round, playing against Holland?   Are you excited about it? 
I said, What?   What are you talking about?   We are playing final in Serbia.   Just forget about it. 
I mean, we want to play the final and that's it.   Why everybody or why the draw is so early, and basically let us enjoy to play the final.   It's like if I would be now in the semifinal and you would come and show me the draw of the next week in Monte‑Carlo and ask me, Well, you're going to play quarterfinals against Rafa.   What do you think about it?   I'm going to maybe play him tomorrow, but let me focus on the things that we are right now. 
So I think this is really ‑‑ you know, that's just how it is.

Q.   Can you just talk a bit about this year?   Obviously you're having a good year and you had your longest winning streak.   You've won a tournament and stuff. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I'm very pleased with that.   There's no question about it.   As I said, it's really nice feeling to keep winning and keep playing well, and I will try to continue with this.
I think, well, the result, I didn't do anything really like completely different or I didn't change anything really much in my preseason or anything like that.
So it's about really the small pieces, putting together really maybe the daily routine, working hard every single day, and that's just the result of that.

Q.   You're one of the top players who are kind of like a little bit under the radar as opposed to Roger or Rafa.   Are you happy with that?   Just kind of doing your own business and not caring if you're getting that kind of fanfare about you?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, compared to them, I'm missing maybe like 35 Grand Slams, so I can really understand why is that (smiling). 
I wouldn't be really ‑‑ you know, I'm really not upset.   That's how it is. 
So, no, I'm just trying to do it, or I'm going to do it same.   You know, maybe one day just Stan show us how to do it.   He won in Melbourne.
So let's keep hoping, let's keep working, and if one day becomes the title, then that's basically why I play tennis.

Q.   Will you watch the match tonight?   And do you have a preference between Milos and Rafa?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I will not watch that.   I think I have enough of tennis in a good way.   You know, it's not the way that‑‑ you know, probably if there would be an opponent that I never played before, but I had quite an experience with both of the guys, so that's the thing.   And, well, if I can choose, I don't think I can, so let's just let the better win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT