LAVER CUP
September 24, 2017
Tomas Berdych
Marin Cilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAVER CUP   
Prague, Czech Republic   
24 September, 2017   
ISNER-SOCK/Berdych-Cilic   
7-6, 7-6   
Europe - 9   
The World - 6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  To both of you, how do you relate to this last doubles and your last match in this tournament, in this game?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: What to say?  It was another very close one.  It would be very hard to be looking for things that went wrong.  It was maybe one ball there, one ball here.   
I mean, it's not really much of big science behind it.  That's the indoor tennis and especially in the doubles.  We faced a great team.   
You know, I think we have done all that we could on the court, but unfortunately it was not the lucky charm for this team.  But that's also part of the sport.   
MARIN CILIC: I think in general we played really well, good doubles.  I think the tennis was really high quality from both teams.  You know, both me and Tomas were serving really well.  John obviously serving every single day and on high level.  Then Jack definitely proved to be a small difference in their team.  Also, he showed in last two days that he is playing doubles really well, and he likes the conditions here.  He was quite dangerous off the back and off the return, as well.   
You know, I think overall, few points here and there definitely made a difference.  Maybe just a couple decisions or just couple reactions that you can question.   
But I think me and Tomas are pretty definitely happy with the way we played.  We fought until the end.  We were a break down in that second set and came back.  We had the momentum on our side and just was -- we had a set point second serve where I missed the return and, you know, in the end, small differences like that can make a big difference.   
 Q.  Of course it's not over yet, but can you tell what should be the memories, what would be the memories of the first Laver Cup for you?  
TOMAS BERDYCH: Well, for me, it's definitely going to be good memories.  I think this is a huge event which I think we all can be honored that the first year has been happening in Prague.  I think we all should be proud of that.   
Well, yeah, I think I'm really pleased and glad to be part to this team, and I'm going to have just positive memories.   
I mean, it's not over yet, that's true.  I hope that our team's gonna complete it, and then we're gonna win.  Then of course the memory is going to be even better.   
MARIN CILIC: For me was just a lot of fun to spend time with Tomas, with rest of the team, with Björn, as well, to get to know him a little bit better, with Thomas Enqvist, as well.  I think we all learned a lot from each other, and this experience is going to hopefully make us better on the court and maybe unite us a little bit more as friends, as well.   
It was definitely nice to have Roger and Rafa in the same team with us.  Also to learn from them, to discuss with them things, the tactics and, you know, just mindset on the court, as well.   
Overall, it was a nice learning experience, and it was great to be part of it.  As Tomas said, we are definitely rooting and hoping for our team to finish it off today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT