DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 27, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/J. Tsonga
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   For a straight‑sets match, that was pretty close, wasn't it?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes, it was very close.   Especially the second set was very tight, very close.   I faced many break points I think two games in a row in my serve, which was very tough, but I think that was really the key of today's game, that I managed to save that. 
And then when I got a chance in the end of the second set I got a bit lucky, that's true, on that break point when Jo helped me.   But, you know, you have to be ready, and also this part of game, it's there.   I managed in straight sets.

Q.   What was the powder on your back about?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   (Smiling.)   Glad that you are not the third one asking me if I got a sunburn, you know.   Definitely not in my room it's not the sun.
No, I mean, I just asked to get hot cream on my back, and it was really a hot one.   It starts to be really burning and really uncomfortable.
So I was just asking to get something which can help me to basically put it out or just try to clean it or something, whatever.
You know, finally happened, and, you know, I could concentrate more on my game than on my back.

Q.   You played a lot of tennis this season.   How are you bearing up physically?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I'm feeling quite good.   I mean, really, I don't facing any troubles, nothing at all.   Really feeling good.   And, yeah, that's the best thing, you know, that's the best thing what I can have right now.
Really, I'm trying to take care of my body in between all the time and, you know, when every single match is over, just trying to do all possible I can and to recover the best.   So far I'm doing it quite well, and it's very important part of the game, as well. 

Q.   You have a 7‑1 record against Kohlschreiber next.   You must be quite confident going to the semifinal next?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Oh, yeah, I mean, the record is one thing, but then always the match going to start from the zero.   And I have seen Philipp play here and he's playing really well.   He's playing very aggressive, very confident, too, and it's always a tough opponent to play.
So, yeah, I will really need to refocus again, really be prepared, and start with my good game tomorrow again.

Q.   Just a follow‑up, Philipp was in earlier, and he said that what he's been doing the past eight attempts hasn't worked, and he's going to try something different.   I mean, does that give you, you know, confidence, someone is coming into a semifinal against you and feeling he has to change his game plan to beat you?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think for the beginning it's a good start, because I really kind of know that feeling a bit, you know.   I mean, I have a similar record to like Rafa or to Novak, so, you know, I was sometime I was thinking about it, you know. 
I will not tell the answer if it's good or bad, but, you know, let's see.   I'm really, really looking forward to that, and really, doesn't change much for me.   I need to be really focused just on myself.   I know him as a player, and the most important always for my game is my own way how I'm going to be hitting the ball and handling the situations, and that's my main focus.

Q.   The other day you were talking about all your results in Grand Slams.   You have made it to the semifinals in all of them.   Do you consider yourself unlucky to have shared the same era with Federer, Djokovic, and Nadal?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I'm not.   I would see it from the other way around.   You know, to see and face those guys, I think it's really an honor to be part of that.   I had opportunity to play to all of them, many matches to all of them.   I beat them at least twice each. 
So, you know, I think it's part of the game, and it's something that I can say that, you know, I have been part of this.   I have been able to manage to be so far fifth in the world, and that's such a tough competition, you know, with all those guys. 
And still, you know, I'm still playing and I hope that one day it still could be, you know, become a reality to win a slam, and then I think it's going to be worth even more.

Q.   In Jo's first three service games, missed only one point, and then you almost broke him.   Did you change anything?   Is there any explanation towards that? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, I mean, it could be really coincidence or really just that the situation just turn up like that.
I really don't look at it by those points.   I mean, I'm really trying to get prepared for each game and start well from the first point of the game.   When the game is like Love‑30 or Love‑40, well, it's really difficult with a player like Jo to make a break.
Of course, you're trying, but it's really good to put some pressure from the beginning of the game.   You know, in these kind of matches, it's about really find the right rhythm.   He's a big serving guy, so it's something just about basically get that feel of the serve, try to read his service spots, and it just turn up this way.   Good for me (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT