DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 26, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/S. Stakhovsky
  6‑2, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You looked very confident.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, well, I mean, it was a solid win.   Let's call it this way.   You know, today I was working a little more on my return stats than on my service stats.  
So, you know, also these days it's important, but, I mean, seriously it's the main focus really for next days is to get my percentage of the first serve back and really find a nice and sweet rhythm for my serve.  
Yeah, other than that, I think it's quite solid.   I'm usually not used to play that much through my second serve or playing a lot of rallies, and today I was able to do so.   
Sergiy is a very tough and tricky opponent.   Every single point is different, you know, slices, with   spin, short balls, you know, deep balls.   Really, everything is so varied.   It's nothing what I really like.  
Still I was able to manage it very well, you know, find a good rhythm from the baseline.  
But, you know, just one thing is the serve.  
   
 Q.   Semifinal in Melbourne and the title in Rotterdam.   Now you're in the quarterfinal here.   Do you think it's the best start of the season in your career?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, honestly I wouldn't call it as a start of the season, because I still have a feeling that my last season is not over yet and I'm kind of keep going, because really the time in between, it's so short.  
So I was basically just, you know, kind of smoothly arrived to Australia and start to play back again.  
Yes, I mean, it's a good results which I'm really like, I'm really happy, and somehow I just need to keep on going and really keep my consistence in that really the season is very long, it's not going to be about these two months.   
You know, everyone is going to forget it very fast if you start losing, and I'm in the position that I really need to have a good whole season.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you're playing better now than you were when you made the final here last year?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Honestly, no, so far.   I hope that it's gonna be ‑‑there is still a lot to improve, to do better.   But, no, it's day by day, so whatever it is.   I manage to go through just getting used to the conditions, playing well, and that's it.  
But really, it's really hard to be comparing, especially the things that they are from, you know, one year old.  
   
 Q.   You have been to semifinals in all four Grand Slams.   It shows you can play in all surfaces.   Which one do you think you have the biggest hope to actually win it?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   I really don't mind which one it is.   I mean, I will really take any of them.  
As you said, I have been in all semifinals, one final on the grass.   Probably if someone told me I will make my first Grand Slam final on the grass, I would never believe him and now it's reality.  
No, I'm not really expecting anything from that in the sense of, yes, I'm playing on my favorite surface or I'm not playing on the one that I don't like the most.  
So really, it's just get ready, get best prepared as I can, and have a good slam.   If it clicks in Paris or if it clicks in NewYork, don't matter what.  
   
 Q.   You play Tsonga in the next matchup.   What do you think about that matchup?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, it's a very tough opponent.   He's a really solid, established player from the top 10.   He really likes these very fast conditions.   It's something what really suits to his game and he can bring the best, and all the matches that we have played were very close, always a big battle.  
Yeah, I mean, I'm really looking forward to that.   
   
 Q.   How much of your focus is on converting those semifinal appearances into finals and the finals into wins?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, first of all, you have to get there to that stage of the tournament, and then you really ‑‑well, you will not start to think like, yes, I'm in semifinals, so now I need to do something, you know.   
It's really of keeping the routine going and doing it every day and really not put any more pressure in terms of it's semifinal, it's final, or something like that.  
If you get into that stage of the tournament, just try to focus the things that you have been doing all the time and that's been working.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about ITPL?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think it's a very big and ambitious plan, which I think it's a good idea.   I mean, it's something what can makes our sport even more attractive and bring something extra to the players and basically to all the people and all the fans around the world.  
Really, I mean, I'm looking forward to that.   I will be really glad if I'm going to become the part of it, become the start, and, yeah, I like the new things, I like new ideas.   So why not?   
   
 Q.   Have you signed up for it?   Have you actually signed up for the Premier League?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, I did.   Of course I did when I was approached.   Of course I took the time to think about it and really to put everything on really on the side, like, you know, what's going to be the positive for me, what's going to be the negative, how long it's going to take my time and everything.  
Yeah, I decided that I will commit to that, and, you know, it's been a bit of time, which is, really, it's a huge project.   Yeah, I really hope that this year it's really going to become...  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT