DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 25, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/M. Copil
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   A tight match in some ways.
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, it's been a tight one by the score, I would say, but I think I had a quite many chances even after I made my breaks each set.   And then, you know, especially the last game I should have done something a bit different, especially on the first point when I didn't been so focused on that.
You know, that's it.   You lose one point, and then, you know, the guy serves really well.   I got like four or five aces.   That's it.   But, you know, then later I was able to serve it out and just close out the game.

Q.   How would you write that performance?   5 out of 10?   7?   9? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No, no, no, definitely not (smiling).   This is always tough and very tricky to come up and change the conditions, and today it was not an exception of that. 
I would say maybe by my feeling 4 or 5.   But I would say it's a good sign at least to start, because even if you start the first match and you play really the top game and top tennis, then it's not every time the best time of coming to the tournament really, or basically for myself. 
You know, I really like to improve, keep improving and getting better and better each match, so that's why I have the space there.

Q.   So what you're saying is you don't want to peak too early?   You want to save yourself until later in the week?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, if I get there, I hope so, yes.   But, you know, of course I'm every time trying to win the match.   No matter what I need to do, then I'm just try to win and go through. 
If I need the way I need basically today, that's good, and I have a space to improve for the further stages.   I mean, not further, basically; for the next match.   Next match another tough opponent, and I need to be ready for that.

Q.   When you've got a pretty good streak going, does it put any pressure on you to keep the streak going or does it give you added confidence? 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   It always depends how you face it and how you take that situation.   Always you can make from basically any kind of situation that you can put pressure on yourself, but that's probably not the best idea to do.
So I'm just trying to profit from that, trying to build up on the form, try to bring the confidence as far as I can, and really just go one by one.   That's not really counting the matches.

Q.   I don't want to jinx you, but have you been looking at your service stats of the year so far?   Even this match?   You're doing exceptionally well. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, today probably I would not really agree with you.   I mean, yes, I have seen the stats, bus it's one part.   But I was still, especially today, I was especially looking more for my percentage of the first serve, because always when you come up indoors to outdoors, really, this bright sky and straight sun to my face, it's, you know, it's always very difficult with my high ball toss.
So it's, you know, something what I was really looking forward.   Yes, then the stats after winning my first serve, it's good, which is really some part which I have been quite working on and trying to improve.   So I'm glad that it's working and that I'm able to really keep that level really high.
But, yes, I will need a little more percentage.

Q.   Next week in Hong Kong, how important is it for you to be there?   More so because you are Davis Cup champions. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, I really don't like to look that far ahead, you know.   I know it's only a week to go, but really I'm still here.   I want to play my best tennis here.   Then that's my next plan.
But definitely I'm looking forward to go there, because actually I never been in Hong Kong.   I never played tennis there.
Yeah, I'm really looking forward to see ‑‑I hope it's going to be really nice, nice event, prepare there with, be part of it with the Grand Slam champions.

Q.   I was referring to the ITF World Tennis, your involvement with the World Tennis thing. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Definitely.   That's what I'm saying.   It's really great to be part of it, and, you know, I think that's just great that we can, you know, play different places in the world and just make people to enjoy it, and I really hope it's going to be a great event.

Q.   The court seemed to be playing quite fast.   Does that encourage you to come to the net more often?   Is that a part of your game you have been working on or would like to work on?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, many people, you know, said that and kind of trying to convince me to come up more often to the net and stuff like that.
But really, you know, in one stage of my career I was not kind of really like pushing myself to go there more, but really, if you put something into your head which you are really not that comfortable with, there is something extra, you know.   And then you really need to have a clear mind and just really be focused on that.
Really, I just speak the other way, which I'm trying to play my game.   If the situation is like that, that I really ‑‑it's good to go there or it's really from the situation on court, that, yes, now that's the time that I need to go on the net, yes, I go, and really when you do it like much more with a clear mind, I think for me it works much better.
So I really don't push myself much more through to coming to the net or, you know, just try to practice something more.   I mean, yes, I can play volleys.   I played many times in doubles and everything like that, so it's not a problem of that, but it's just really about the feeling and really just to be convinced that, yes, now that's the point, let's go, let's play it and that's it.   So just naturally. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT