AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/D. Dzumhur
  6‑4, 6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What did you think of his game and the atmosphere out there today?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I think the atmosphere was pretty good.   You know, it's a famous place here for the atmosphere.   So, you know, it's another player, I would say another country which has a huge support.   
It was really nice.   I quite enjoyed it.   
About the player, as I said on the court, I think we might see him here for another couple of years.   It's a young guy.   He's very hungry.   He went through past the quallies, played another two solid match.   I think it was a bit of luck of experience for him today.   
But, you know, I think he's very talented player.   
   
 Q.   How pleased are you with your own form?   Not a set dropped yet.   Are you happy with where your game is?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, so far everything's going well.   I think I went through couple of challenges through those three matches.   But I played three guys, two of them I haven't seen before.   The one I've seen but never played before.   You know, today was, I would say, really the hottest conditions that I ever experienced on court, especially in the first, I would say, two sets, one‑and‑a‑half sets.   
So, yeah, I think it was a good few things that I tried and proved for myself that everything is going well.   I feel good on the court.   That's important for my game.   
   
 Q.   Do you think the roof should have been closed all day today because of the heat?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   Actually I had a very quick conversation with Andreas Egli.   He just make sure the conditions are way better than yesterday.   I didn't even think about it.   
   
 Q.   You didn't think about it?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   What can we say?   
   
 Q.   The shirt you were wearing today, a fashion statement?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, probably you guys are here for the fashion statements.   I'm the one who wear it.   I will not say much about it.   
But, no, I think it's something different, something you cannot see on the others, which I really like.   As I'm a face of a fashion brand, then I need to listen and go whatever they make.   
You know, I think that's what it's all about, the people starts to talk about it, the people are interesting in it.   Of course, you will get some negative feedback as well.   You cannot make it perfect for everyone.   It's the matter of the taste.   
But in the end it creates some action.   That's what I like.   
   
 Q.   It's a little more adventurous, stronger statement than when you first started.   Basically solid colors, nothing too exciting.   This is a bit of a change.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, bit of a change.   I think that's a process of the brand, you know, because they start with me.   Really, it was the basic and first‑ever steps for them into the sport.   Really everything was very simple, very basic.   
I learned, especially with a huge brand like them, everything takes time.   It's not going to happen in a week.   So really you just need to be a bit patient.   All started pretty well from, I would say, US Open.   
And, yeah, I really like the way that they take it, really make it way more different than you can see with the other guys, which they look like all one team.   
   
 Q.   It's going to stay blue and white stripes for the moment for here?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah.   That was their main line, what they want to have here in Australia.   I do have two more outfits which is going to go till Monte‑Carlo.   Then, yeah, there is going to be some other nice changes through the year, so...   
   
 Q.   What about for Wimbledon?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, they are very sad.   Especially, you know, when you tell to the fashion brand that they have to make white, they are like, Oh, okay, what can we do?   It's just for hopefully two weeks.   Then they can go again.   
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy being the one guy from H& M instead of five like Nike guys in the top 10?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Definitely I do.   It's something very unique, very special, especially in this kind of brand, as I said, which is not a main‑sport brand.   It's something else.   It's a fashion company.   
You know, they choose me to be the only one.   Really it's a huge, huge national, worldwide brand.   So, yeah, it feels very special to me.   
   
 Q.   What did you think when you looked at the draw, your half of the draw?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Honestly I haven't seen the draw.   I just go one by one.   I heard that I might play the winner of Anderson and Roger‑Vasselin.   That's all I know for the future.   
Even if I see more, it's not important at all to me because really, I mean, especially here in the first week the opponents was not the only one who you need to fight with.   It was the conditions:   the heat, the wind, everything.   I'm really happy that I kind of survive it, especially today.   
I'm really looking forward for some cooler conditions.   
   
 Q.   When you see Roger and Rafa and Andy and Tsonga are not playing the same day as you, you have an idea.   
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Of course I do.   Of course I do.   You doesn't have to be smart to figure it out that they not going to be in your half.   
You know, it's always about the draw.   Really, if I'm going to have it once pretty good, yes, I take it.   Always the next few times it's going to be the opposite way or other way around, whatever it is.   
Really, I just want to take it how it is, be prepared for every single match, no matter who is there, who is waiting for me.   
   
 Q.   What have you been getting up to on your days off?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I was waking up quite early to have my practice done before all the heat comes.   Then I just run to my room, put the air condition on and just stay there because really there was not much to do.   
I don't think it would be smart, you know, to do anything else than this, if you want to do well, if you want to be ready.   That was, yes, my plans and schedule through the days when I had it off.  
   
 Q.   Any plans for when the weather gets a bit cooler?  
TOMAS BERDYCH:   No.   I think maybe the only slight change will be maybe put more temperature in the room and just stay there.   No, I mean, I'm not here to visit and explore the city, but really to play tennis.   So it's really more about just prepare myself, be ready, and all the energy will be really needed in the other stages of the tournament.   So that's my main focus.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT