AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2014
Tomas Berdych
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/K. De Schepper
  6‑4, 6‑1, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you feel about that?   Seemed to be a straightforward win for you. 
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yeah, it was straightforward win.   Saved some energy.   Play well and solid through all the three sets.
Yeah, didn't drop a serve, which I was especially happy.   Really just making when I make some chance and some opportunity for the break.   Just manage it, and, yeah, win in three sets.

Q.   You have often done very well here first week, and then sort of coming into the second week perhaps not gone as far as you like to get.   I know everyone says they think next game ahead.   Any ideas why perhaps that might be happening?   Do you change anything?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I would say especially this year and in these conditions it's going to be even more about one by one, because really, you know, you can get a match in this really heat conditions, and then, you know, you stay there long, can get really tired.   You really have to just be focused just for that day and really manage it, survive it, try to win, and then try to prepare for another one.
So, you know, especially these conditions are very, very tough.   I mean, of course, the goal is to go the second week, go as far as possible.   But really, I mean, these days it's very difficult.

Q.   About the conditions, obviously there were comments yesterday, people saying that the matches should be stopped when the heat, when it's this hot.   What's your opinion on that?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Well, I mean, I'm always trying to follow some rules, and if there is some rule in place, I really don't know specifically how it is.
But I'm not sure if yesterday we didn't pass that, then I don't know what other day we need to get to actually get that rule.   And then, you know, if it's ‑‑then you can really think like if it makes sense actually to make rules.   Then when the heat like yesterday and even today, it's not what it's supposed to be called, and, you know, maybe close the main courts and just stop the matches. 
Or even, let's say finish the matches and not put another one on.   You know, really, this is probably a question for the people who runs the tournament. 
But really me, personally, I'm just trying to deal with that, trying to be ready, trying to survive it, and try to go as far as I can.

Q.   In terms of conditions that you played in throughout your career, how hot was it out there?   Was that among the hottest you've played?
TOMAS BERDYCH:   Yes.   I would say yes.   It's the hottest, and I would say the only good and small, positive thing is it's not so much humid.   It is really just the heat and hi temperature. 
But today is a little bit more humid because of some cloud, but, yeah, I would say it's one of the toughest today that I had.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT