U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2019
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Give an opening statement, your thoughts on your round today.
AUSTIN ERNST: It was a little up and down.  Didn't drive it very well.  So I gauged it pretty well at the beginning of the round.  It was tough with the wind.  Greens are firm.  Greens are fast.  If you're coming in out of the rough, you're not able to get it close for sure.
But most of my mistakes were really ball striking-wise.  I didn't -- I putted actually pretty well.  I just hit it in some bad spots, and if you hit it in a bad spot around here, you'll have a bad time making par.
Q. How bad was the rain, lightning you saw today?
AUSTIN ERNST: The lightning striking the tree on 18 was crazy.  We were inside.  We could kind of see it out of the corner of our eye.  When we walked back out, you could see the imprint on the tree.  The wind, we thought it might die down for the last -- it was four for me, but it was pretty much the exact same as it was when we came.
Q. Hard to get back in the groove for those final four holes?
AUSTIN ERNST: Not really.  You stay loose out here because it's 90 degrees.  So it's not like you really have to warm up too much.  I left a few putts short.  I don't know if they got slower as kind of the day went on or what exactly happened, but left a couple short there kind of at the end.  But, you know, it's close to being good.  So I'm excited to get out there this weekend and hopefully make a few more birdies and less bogeys.
Q. Looks like you're going to make the cut.  What do you want to tweak going into tomorrow?
AUSTIN ERNST: I think just drive it better.  That way, you can attack the pins that are accessible, and the ones that aren't, you can control a little better and control the distance and not have to worry about carrying a bunker or where the best place to leave it is to get it up and down.  You can attack the course a little bit more whenever it gives you an opportunity to.
Q. Are you stressed at all trying to chase daylight at all?
AUSTIN ERNST: No.  We were first off.  I knew we would finish.  That was the nice thing about being first off.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT