AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2020
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Q. A couple blemishes on the back nine, but ten straight pars to start out.  Take us through the beginning of the round and how important is it to stay that consistent?
 AUSTIN ERNST:   I hit the ball really well all day, really.  Really early hit some good shots so a few of the pars were disappointing.  I just have to stay patient out here, and you just really have to keep the ball in the fairways and then you can be aggressive, especially today, way more crosswinds than what they got yesterday afternoon and you really have to be committed to where you're going to start the ball and trust that the wind is going to move it.  But yeah, you just have to stay so patient and you kind of have to pick your spots where you have a good number and you can be aggressive at person pins.
 Q. The wind and weather is different than the last two days.  What was that like for you strategising for the day ahead of you?
 AUSTIN ERNST:   The wind direction was a little different, too.  Starting the round, early in the round, the holes played a little shorter.  I hit hybrid into 2, I think on Thursday, and today I hit 8-iron.  So that was nice.
 But then the same things happens when you turnaround and you come back, and instead of hitting sand wedge, gap wedge into 13, I was hitting 7-iron into that.  You definitely kind of pick your spots as you go, as well.  You figure out where you can be aggressive off the tee to leave yourself a shorter shot but it's one of those things that you're strategizing as you go, where some weeks, you say, okay, that pin I'm able to get to.  Have to see what the wind is doing on holes that you can take advantage of.
 Q. What do you say when things aren't going as hot after the ten straight pars?  What were you and your brother talking about to come home strong?
 AUSTIN ERNST:   I told him, I was like, I've been playing well.  I just haven't made any putts.  Finally got one to go in on 14, and made another good putt on 15, and then I'm a little upset because I left the putt short right in the heart on 16 and 18.
 But I know what I need to do tomorrow.  I need to be more aggressive with the putter.  You want to say, try to make a few birdies but at the same time you have to do what the course gives you.  You can't be aggressive because that's where it's going to bite you.
 Q. What does it mean to be in contention at this major at the AIG Women's Open, have your brother on the bag and just be playing so well at Royal Troon?
 AUSTIN ERNST:   It's awesome.  Royal Troon is a great test of golf, and it's cool to see how we play it after seeing the guys play it.  It's one that you aspire to play.  It's awesome what AIG have done to get us on these courses.  The R&A has done a great job setting up the golf course.  Even though there haven't been any fans, AIG has been a great sponsor for it.
 I think it's great my game is trending in the right direction that I know where it's going and now it's showing as good as where I was.  Right now, I'm five back, just see if I can shoot a low score and post something.
 Q. Five back here at this golf course does not mean you are out of it.  What's the day going to be like for you as you prepare for tomorrow?  Are you going to kick your feet up and relax, or are you still mind-set, still focussed?
 AUSTIN ERNST:   No.  I'll kick my feet up and relax.  I'll watch Netflix and talk to my family and talk to a few friends.  It's one of those, after you get off the golf course, a long day in the wind, it's nice to give your mind a break.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT