U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 2019
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did it go out there today?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I did not hit it very well, except on No. 7, I holed it from the fairway.  The irons weren't too good.  I had to get up and down a ton on the back nine especially.  I felt like I hit a few more greens on the front.  The back, I hit some bad spots, and I had a few really good saves and then hit it in the left bunker on 11, which is terrible.  Hit it right on 16 and couldn't get it up and down over there.   
But I grinded it out.  Go shoot a low one tomorrow, and just post something as low as you can.   
 Q.  What's the course look like?  The scores are pretty low today.  What does the course feel like out there?  
AUSTIN ERNST: There's less wind.  The par 5s are pretty easy today.  Other than 9, they're playing downwind, so you can get on them.  That's kind of where you need to take advantage, because you've got a few holes where early in the round, you can't go to a lot of those pins.  I think 3, you can't really get it anywhere near that hole so you've got a few where you're just going to have to take a long putt at it.   
 Q.  Seems like there have been people having success with a less aggressive approach, that we've talked to so far today.  Did you have anything similar approach-wise?  Or did you try to attack the way you thought you would this morning?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I didn't have enough control of it to even -- where I was trying to play conservative, I would just hit bad shots, kind of at the end of the day.  You can attack at certain times.  You just have to pick your spots.  You can't attack with much more than a wedge.  The greens were already firm early today, and they'll just continue to firm out.   
So you definitely -- there's nothing wrong with hitting a shot 30, 40 feet, just putting over to it, take your par.  You know you're going to have your opportunities later in the ground where you can attack.   
 Q.  Any different playing a Major on the weekend, as opposed to the first couple rounds during the week?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Not really.  It's all the same.  Typically, they probably put a few more pins out that were more tucked.  If they weren't tucked against an edge, they were tucked against a slope, that kind of thing, but it's not that much different.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT