HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 23, 2019
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was working out there for you?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I hit it good today and then just didn't make any putts.  It was solid.  Feel like I hit a lot of greens and then kind of when I didn't hit a green I made it relatively easy.   
On 3 I thought I could hit it over into the right side of the fairway.  I thought I could get it over the tree and I couldn't, so that one was the only the bad hole today.   
Would've liked to get 18 where I left it in two.  Yeah, you know, got a chance tomorrow.  I think three back depending on and Minjee does.  Yeah, see what happens tomorrow.   
 Q.  Shoot, you are pretty much in contention.  Do you like looking ahead of you on the leaderboard?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I mean, ideally I would be in the lead.  You know, I won from a few back in '14, so I don't mind chasing.  Just one of those things where out here you know you're going to have to have a low round.  The course is gettable.  The greens are good.  You can get to pretty much every par-5.   
You just need to take advantage of those opportunities when you do have good looks.  Today felt like I hit a lot of good putts and for whatever reason just didn't go in.  Speed-wise.  Keep doing the same stuff and see if I can post a low one and see what happens.   
 Q.  You're fresh off quite a while off because of glandular fever.  How are you feeling at the moment?  Can you talk us through the couple months off you had?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, I feel good.  I am a little warm right now.  Yeah, I feel good.  The game feels good.  I've been allege rusty here and there, but kicked it off pretty well so far.   
What was the last part of that question.   
 Q.  Just talk us through the process.  I imagine when you fell sick it was hard to not play in the Asian swing last time around.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, especially coming off Evian, finishing second.  I really wanted to go play Asia.  From doctors and from (indiscernible) telling me what they did about going to do it, you really don't realize how much it takes out of you.   
I didn't do anything for really about a month, and then I played CME at the end of the year but didn't quite feel 100%.  Even in December I still waited a little bit to start practicing.  I really got back to it in January.   
It was nice to have a little break, and then came off fresh.  I really wanted to get going.  Excited to be back out playing.  Thursday was a little different.  Seemed like it had been forever since I played a tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT