HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 22, 2019
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Awesome job today.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Thank you.   
 Q.  Yeah, five birdies on the front, right?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Four.   
 Q.  Four?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah.   
 Q.  My app.  You finished with a birdie on 18?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, birdied 10.   
 Q.  Okay, cool.  Tell me about your day.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Really good with the putter.  I didn't drive it well, which made it a little tough just getting fliers, that kind of thing, out of the rough.  We judged it pretty well.   
Yeah, I mean, solid day.  I think I had ten putts on the front nine.  Just really solid with the putter.  Pretty much when I got a birdie look it seemed like I made to on the front.  Made a birdie on 10, and after that just kind of stalled out a little bit.  Didn't hit it quite as close.   
Almost had eagle on 18.  Had it down below.  Almost made the putt, and then a little easy tap-in birdie.  Yeah, really solid day.   
 Q.  Why do you think today just felt different than yesterday?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I don't know.  Just I read the greens really well today.  My speed was good.  I just had control of it.  I didn't have control of it from really hitting the ball it didn't seem like, but I got it around good enough to where I could get some good looks.  Kind of when I gave myself ten- or 15-footer, I made it.   
 Q.  Yeah, you followed through really well.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, yeah.   
 Q.  And the heat?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yep.   
 Q.  Pretty bad.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah.   
 Q.  Tell me about it.  How is it affecting you and your game and just mentally?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I don't mind it that much.  It's really hot though.  You got to drink a lot water.  I keep a towel with me just to keep myself a little cool.  I sweat a lot, so I just have to like wet my hand before I hit shots and dry it off.   
It's just one of those things.  I grew up in humid weather.  Not quite this humid, but you get used to it.  Better hot than cold.   
 Q.  What are you going to do different for tomorrow?  Are you going to do anything different?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Not really anything different.  Just try to figure out the driver and get it straightened out a little bit.  Hopefully I can hit a few more fairways and get a few more good looks on the greens, and then just keep doing the same stuff.   
I'm clearly playing well, so just kind of keep putting myself in good positions and see if I ou can make a few more birdies.   
 Q.  The beginning of the season, how far out are you looking like in terms of making Solheim Cup team?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Always a question Solheim year.   
 Q.  Always.  
AUSTIN ERNST: I mean, if you play well it takes care of itself.  You get points by playing well, by winning.  If you do that, then it takes -- I'm trying not to really think about it too much.  I'm trying to play as well as I can every week.   
Obviously I really want to make this team, but wanting to make the team doesn't make you any better and putting more pressure on yourself doesn't make it easier to do it.   
Yeah, just keep playing well and all that stuff takes care of itself.   
 Q.  What are some the other 2019 goals you might have?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I want to win.  I haven't won since '14.  I put myself in position quite a few times.   
And then I want to contend in more majors.  Had a good finish to last year.  Other than CME, my last tournament of Evian, so I was hungry to go to Asia and try to get a win last year and then got sick and didn't get to do that.   
Yeah, just keep putting myself in positions and be in contention more have more chances.  I feel like I put myself in a lot good chances these last few years, and now I feel like I've learned enough where now I'll be able to get over the hump.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT