THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2018
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell me about the round.  Finished right in time there.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, it was just really solid.  I hit the ball really well.  Pretty much any time I hit in inside 10 feet I feel like I made the birdie opportunities.   
Made long eagle putt on 13 from about 40 feet.  I just hit the ball well and made it pretty easy, which is kind of what you have to do out here.  You really need to be in control of the ball.   
It was to finally be in control of it out here.   
 Q.  Is putting something you felt like has come along as of late?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, for sure.  It's been way better, way more consistent.  My speed has been a lot better.  I mean, my stats this year are just way better kind of overall, but especially putting.   
Now I just feel like I make a few more and then kind of when I have those testers for par, I just feel like I make them now.   
 Q.  What was the difference playing at Evian today?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I've never hit the ball well here, so...   
You really need to have control of the ball, especially today or this week with how much rough there is.  If you miss the fairways it's not going to be where you can actually place it on the greens, which is how the greens are.   
You just really need to be in control of it just so you can really kind of attack the pins.  You can definitely make birdies out here; you just need to minimize those mistakes.   
 Q.  It seems like looking through your season it's kind of a missed cut and then a Top 5; it's kind of up and down a little bit.  Is that how you feel like its year has gone?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Kind of.  It's been better than I've scored sometimes I feel like.  It's been very close to being really good.  I've come close to winning a couple times.   
I've had a few bad weeks, but that's golf.  So missing the cut in Portland, obviously I love that place.  I knew my game was really close, and then last week I just tightened up my ball striking with my dad.   
What we're working on now is really good, so just feel like I've got a good feel for it.  All week this week I've been hitting the ball really well.   
 Q.  With the hurricane going on back home, is that something that's been on your mind this week?  
AUSTIN ERNST: A little bit.  We're really far away from the coast, but they're still going to get -- still might get some flooding.   
Yet weird how the forecast has changed and how now they are calling for anywhere from -- I think last I heard it was like 6 to 18 inches of rain in Seneca where I'm from.  Yeah, definitely thinking about all my friends and family back home.  I've got a few friends that all live on the coast, so hopefully they've gotten out because it could be really bad down there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT