CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 29, 2018
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This was the site of your one and only LPGA win.  What does it feel like coming back here to Portland?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, it's great.  Good to be back.  I love this golf course.  I've got really good memories here from '14 and back in '13 when I shot 62.   
I just love this golf course.  I love the community.  Love the area.  It's just nice to be back.  It's kind of like coming home seeing everybody and seeing all same volunteers, just kind of the same people around the course.   
So it's a lot fun.   
 Q.  What do you remember about the playoff against I.K. where you beat her on the first extra hole?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I remember everything.  I hit it in on the green, hit a pretty good shot about 30 feet and lipped that putt out.  Went and tapped it in.   
I.K. missed about a ten-footer for par.  I just remember getting to share that moment with Drew, my brother, was just so cool.  And then having Amy run out the green, who is one of my best friends, that was a lot of fun.   
Yeah, I remember that entire day.   
 Q.  Your brother, Drew, was there for your win; he's still on your bag.  Can you tell us a little bit about your relationship with him.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, we have a great relationship.  We get along really well.  Probably better than when we were kids.   
Yeah, it's great having him caddie for me.  He's a good player, and then obviously he knows me better than anybody.  He just knows what to say, when to say it.  Obviously the fact that he played golf helps.  If I have a question, I can still lean on him and trust his advice.   
 Q.  Last week at the CP Women's Open you tied for fourth; great top 10 finish for you.  Rose three spots in the Rolex Rankings.  Gearing up for the end of the season, what are your goals?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I think just keep putting myself in contention.  I've done that a few times this year.  Every time you learn a little bit more, and I feel like I've come a little bit closer to kind of closing that gap and getting that second win.   
I just want to be in contention more and more and just keep having chances to win.  That's what I love doing, so just keep putting myself in position.   
 Q.  What do you expect to accomplish this week and what are your goals?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Just have a good, solid week.  I love this golf course.  I have a lot of good memories around here.  You know, just keep doing what I've done in the past.  It's worked out pretty well in the past.   
You know, just keep playing how I am now.  My game feels really good, so just keep hitting a bunch of greens and hopefully get a few putts to go in.   
 Q.  If you could win any one tournament here on the tour, what would that be?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Oh, the U.S. Open.  I think every American has that goal, has that dream as a little kid.  When you hit putts, you're hitting a putt to win the U.S. Women's Open.   
I wouldn't mind having my second win be here this week so we can get that one next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT