CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 25, 2018
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Overall good day, 2-under for the day, for the round.  How did it go out there?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, it was a little more up and down than the first two days.  I hit the ball really well the first two days, and today I struggled a little bit early ball-striking, just a little bit different wind direction, and didn't have quite as much control.  I made a few putts coming in to kind of right the ship and get a little closer to them.   
 Q.  Did the weather this morning, how cold it was, have any effect on --  
AUSTIN ERNST: Just really how far the ball goes.  It was going so far the first two days with how warm it was and kind of how thin the air is, and just kind of probably trying to gauge it a little bit in the wind was a little tougher with how cold it was, just kind of with both things, just kind of getting the guessing right.   
 Q.  Did that make club selection a little more challenging?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Just a little bit, just because instead of knowing exactly what it's been doing, where it's been going five yards farther than at home, now it's pretty much going what it is at home, maybe a little bit shorter.  But with the wind, you just really need to hit it on the flight you see, and I wasn't quite as good at that today.  But still made a few putts.   
 Q.  You're in great position --  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah.   
 Q.  -- going into the final round.  What are you going to do differently tomorrow?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I mean, keep doing the same stuff.  It's just you get a lot of looks out here, and hopefully you can run a few of them in.  But I'm not going to change.  I have a good game plan for the course.  I'm not going to change anything I'm doing, I'm just going to try to give myself a lot of looks like I did those first few days and make a few more of them.   
 Q.  What's your goal at the end of the week?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I want to win, but obviously if I could have a chance on the back nine tomorrow, I'd just try to put myself into good position and see if I can post a number and give them something to look at.   
 Q.  What's going to give you that momentum to kind of get your mental game in shape for tomorrow?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I mean, I'll just keep doing the same stuff.  I'm always kind of ready to go.  So just having a chance, we're just going to see how many back we are by the end of the day and see how much work I have to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT