CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 30, 2017
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So you won here in 2014.  How does it feel to be back at the site of your first title?
AUSTIN ERNST: It's great.  I've got a lot of good memories here.  Winning in '14 and then shot 62 in '13.  So it's my favorite course that we play.  It's nice coming back here.  All the good memories.
Q. What is it about this course that you like so much?  I don't think you've finish outside the top 10 ever.
AUSTIN ERNST: It's kind of an old-school course; it's tree lined.  Just fits my eye.
And then the greens are always so good.  I know if I'm hitting good putts they'll go in.
Yeah, whatever it is, tee to green just suits my eye.
Q. Have you gotten the chance it play it yet?  Is it exactly how you remembered it?  How is it this year?
AUSTIN ERNST: I haven't played it yet.  I'll play today.  Kind of taking it easy after Solheim.  Kind of conserving energy.
This is one of those places I know all my lines.  Nothing normally changes.  Just basically figuring out kind of the speed of the greens and the firmness of them.
Q. So talking about Solheim.  Have you recovered?
AUSTIN ERNST: Pretty much.  I mean, it was draining, but it was such a fun week.  So many good memories from it, on and off the course.
So definitely something I can use now to kind of draw back on.
Q. What was your favorite memory?
AUSTIN ERNST: Probably chipping in on 15.  That was a pivotal point in that match.  If they would've won that hole we would've only been 1-up.  I chipped in and the crowd went crazy.  Me and Paula went crazy.  It was a lot of fun.
Q. I think you're paired with your captain, Juli Inkster, this week.
AUSTIN ERNST: Yep.
Q. Have you talked about it at all?
AUSTIN ERNST: I saw her in the locker room today and I said, How lucky are you?
Q. Any friendly bets going on?
AUSTIN ERNST: Not yet, but we'll see.
Q. Do you think you have her?
AUSTIN ERNST: This week?
Q. Yeah.
AUSTIN ERNST: I don't know.  We'll see.  She's still got some game, so...
Q. That's what I've heard.  What's your game plan this week?  What would you consider a success at the end of the week?
AUSTIN ERNST: I mean, I'm trying to win.  Obviously there is not a number in mind, but I know you got to keep it in the fairways out here.  You kind of just plod along.  Just hit in in the fairway, hit it on green.  Just want to give myself a lot of looks at birdie.
If I give myself a lot of looks at birdie I know I can make a lot of birdies out here.
Q. Couple Top 10s this season.  Anything that you're working on to improve this season?
AUSTIN ERNST: Mainly just been -- it's matter of getting a few more putts to go in.  Ball striking has been pretty good all year.  It's really just a matter of one or two more putts falling around.
But I'm just trying to give myself a lot of looks at it.  I feel like what I'm working on right now is really good.  It's kind of just a matter of being confident with it and getting a few to fall.
Q. Plans for the rest of the season?  Going to Indy next week?
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, play Indy next week and Evian, and then I'll play I think four out of six in Asia.
Q. Okay.  How do you manage that grind, especially coming from Solheim where some people have the week off?
AUSTIN ERNST: You just have to pace yourself through the week.  I kind of know what works for me.  I don't have to do a ton.  Yesterday I came out here in the afternoon and putted.  It's kind of more conserving energy and kind of knowing what I'm doing in my swing and on the greens.
It's there.  It's just playing golf.  Luckily I have Drew who does a lot of good work, where basically he just says, Hey, here's your line.  Obviously this week I know all that stuff.  Going into next week and Evian, depending on if they made any changes at Evian, it's kind of just learning the course and figuring out what to hit off tees and that kind of thing.
Main thing is just pacing yourself through the week.  You really just want to be on top of it Thursday through Sunday and kind of knowing how to maintain everything early in the week.
Q. What is it maybe off the course that you like about it here in Portland?
AUSTIN ERNST: The food is great.  I have people I have stayed with since my rookie year.  It's a fun week for us with that.
But, I mean, Portland is such a cool city.  The golf course is one of my favorite places, but the city is one of my favorites.
Q. Volunteers are probably the same year after year here.  Do you find you've got more fans here maybe than...
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, well, and just TGF who runs the tournament, I know Tom and Rob and all those guys so well now.  Last night at the Pro-Am party I go say hey to 15, 20 people I know here.
It's not a week where you may not see a lot of familiar faces.  I see a ton of familiar faces this week, which is nice.  It's just nice coming back to a place where you're so comfortable and has kind of embraced me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT