CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 2017
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, I was kind of cruising along and then missed a putt on 10 and had some issues in the bunker on 11.   
Then after that...   
 Q.  You want to sit down before you get into No. 12?  You want a chair?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I needed something.  (Laughter.)  And then Drew told me, he's like, You've been playing well.  Basically it was one bad swing and then the bunkers out here aren't too good with getting your (indiscernible).   
After that, I played really good coming in.  Kind of after 11 I was like, Well if I can just kind of get back to where I was - I think it was 8 at the time - that would be a really good finish even if I can only get a few birdies.   
But kind of just took it one at a time, and it was nice to make that eagle on 17 to get it to 9.  Made a really nice putt on 18.   
 Q.  Yeah, for par.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, to get a little sandy there for redemption.   
 Q.  The eagle on 17, was that just a long putt?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I hit it six feet, made a six-footer.  I hit a 5-wood in there.  Hit it about six feet and made the putt.   
 Q.  And then the quad, you said you hit a bad shot.  Then what?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Then I was right up against the lip trying to figure out how to get it away from the lip.  But if I went sideways, if I went left, the lip was still there.  So I banked it off the lip and it plugged somehow, even banking off with an 8-iron.   
There is way too much sand in 'em.  Then chunked it from there, chunked it again, and then got it on the green and two-putted.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  That's funny.  I've never heard that before.  Chunk, chunk, two-putt.  Tomorrow?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah.   
 Q.  Could be crazy.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, there are a ton of people within probably about three or four.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
AUSTIN ERNST: So obviously depending on what -- I think Sei Young is out there and (indiscernible.)  Kind of depending on what they get it to.   
 Q.  Park just bogeyed; 10 is the lead now.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Okay, yeah.  I mean, it'll be how today was.  Need to make a lot of birdies.  It's kind of anyone's game at this point.  Just make as many as you can and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT