SOLHEIM CUP
August 19, 2017
Austin Ernst
Paula Creamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You all played yesterday pretty well.  Really important to get another point on the board for the Americans.  
PAULA CREAMER: Yeah, I just wanted to give this rookie, I wanted to be with her for her first point.  There's nothing quite like it.   
Yesterday we played really well.  We just went up against a strong team.  We were pretty motivated last night, sitting out in the afternoon yesterday, we have to do what the captain says.  But we were itching to get out here.  And Austin played awesome.  Had some good looks.  We were a good team.   
 Q.  Talk about that first point, the experience first time up for you, talk about -- you don't know what to expect.  How has it been so far?  
AUSTIN ERNST: It's been awesome.  Nobody could explain it.  And I know why now.  Yeah, it's awesome.  There's nothing like playing in front of the crowds and hearing "U.S.A., U.S.A."  It's great.   
 Q.  How big is it to have a veteran like Paula, and not so much a cheerleader, but she really kind of keeps you loose?  I noticed that yesterday and today, and you all really got it together; how important is that?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I think we made a great team.  I knew basically yesterday, if I could just get it on the green, she would make the putts.  That loosened me up a little bit.  Then, if I ever had any nerves or anything, I could just go talk to her about it.  I think having a veteran is huge, being a rookie, just kind of having somebody to lean on that's been there before.   
 Q.  Paula, it's amazing how great players rise to the occasion.  And you do that here in the Solheim Cup.  What is it that kind of gets you going?  
PAULA CREAMER: I think just, obviously, playing for your country.  But when you have a partner, there's just something so different about that.  It's not just about you.   
And you want to do so well for her and you want to do so well for your team.  And it's not about just the individual sport.   
And being out here with -- these crowds are just awesome.  Everywhere you go, you see the red, white and blue, and U.S.A.  There's just nothing better than that.   
 Q.  How sweet does it feel to put another point on the board for Team USA?  
PAULA CREAMER: There's nothing better than getting a point for your team.  And yesterday, Austin and I played pretty well.  We just went against a strong team.  We were definitely motivated to get back out here and get our first point.  The rookie over here, I wanted to be with her when she got her first one.   
 Q.  You described the feeling of playing in your first Solheim Cup.  Better than expected, I'm sure.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, didn't know what to expect.  But, yeah, it's been awesome.  Just pulling off shots in front of this many people and just hearing the cheers.  And I've never gotten so many smiles making a putt.  And I go more crazy than they do they when I make a putt.  It's just so much fun.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) this morning, given that unbelievable performance yesterday in four-ball?  
PAULA CREAMER: Juli did a great job of saying keep it going.  Those afternoon matches were just awesome.  Some great golf being played.  And we want to keep that momentum going.   
And they're a strong team.  But we just stick together and do what we were supposed to do, and go out there.  And we had a pretty good lead going into this morning, we wanted to get out there and get us a point.  But it's not over yet.  It's still Saturday.   
 Q.  Austin, how would you describe the vibe, the spirit in the U.S. dressing room?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I don't know.  Good.  I mean, we're confident.  So we just want to keep it going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT