KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2017
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Thank you.   
 Q.  I think right now you're tied for second.  How does it feel to put together a nice four days?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, it was really solid.  I hit the ball really well this week.  I actually had -- I think I had four 3-putts this week from not terribly difficult spots.  That's really the only thing I kind of could have cleaned up.   
Other than that, my game was really sold.  Today was really a solid round of golf.  Hit a bunch of greens.  Gave myself a lot of the good looks.   
Actually I missed a few putts that just kind of rolled right over the edge today or just lipped out.  Can't complain about 5-under, bogey-free.  Take that pretty much any day.   
 Q.  Where is home for you?  
AUSTIN ERNST: I am from South Carolina.   
 Q.  Okay.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Live in Florida now.   
 Q.  South Carolina are going into the Final Four.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah.  I'm not a South Carolina fan, but that's pretty sweet.   
 Q.  Did you look at the leaderboard at all today?  
AUSTIN ERNST: A little bit.  I saw it on maybe 16.  Saw it on 16.  Saw So Yeon was at 14.  I think was at 12 or something like that.  She was at 14 or 15.   
And then birdie on 16, made birdie on 17, and then I didn't look at it on 18.  It was kind of scrolling through something else while I was looking up at it.  I figured she had either gotten to 14 or 15.  I so you there was a little gap where it was 12.  I figured if I made it I would probably be second.   
 Q.  What's interesting about your whole dialog about that is you're not talking about the leader at all.  
AUSTIN ERNST: I knew where the leader was at.  I knew we could not catch her.   
 Q.  Okay.  
AUSTIN ERNST: She was at 20-under.  I knew at that point you're basically playing for second place unless she does something coming down the stretch.   
Yeah, I think Mirim had a good lead all day.  Looked up on 5 and she was like 17-under; looked up again and she was 18, and then 20 on 18.  You kind of know when you're standing on the green at 14 and you have a putt for 15 you're probably not going to...   
 Q.  Right.  Obviously you have tremendous respect for the way she played.  What are your thoughts about the week she put together?  
AUSTIN ERNST: She played really good golf.  20-under here or whatever she's going to finish at.  Obviously got a few holes left.  That is really good golf around here.  You really need to be able to -- your entire game needs to be solid here.   
Last week was more of a putting contest where we all hit a bunch of greens and a bunch of fairways.  Out here you need to be able to place your ball to have good looks at birdies.   
You can't just mindlessly hit it in the middle of green here.  You really need to place it and have good looks.   
 Q.  Solid finish.  Move up a little bit in the Solheim rankings.  How important is that to you?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, I really want to make Solheim this year.  At the same time, solid golf takes care of it.  I been playing really solid all year.  Just keep doing those things and I'm going be in contention, which is what gets the points at the end of the week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT