BLUE BAY LPGA
October 20, 2016
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You recovered well.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Kind of started off not so great.  Kind of left myself short-sided on 10 and 12.  Didn't hit very good chips, and then I had a nice string of birdies on 13 through 15.  I chipped in on 13 from just short.  Made about a 15-footer, 20-footer on 14 and then made about a 6-footer on 15.   
I hit the ball really well.  I actually probably could have been, probably should have been a few more, more under.  But it was a solid start.   
 Q.  When did you arrive?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yesterday afternoon.   
 Q.  So no practice?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, I played -- let's see, I played six holes yesterday.  I played 10 through 15 and then we kind of road around.  I played the last two years, so the course is pretty much exactly the same as the last two years.  I did not get a lot of practice on it.   
 Q.  But did you think about giving the others a head start, maybe 40 players arrived Sunday or Monday, so they can play some holes and the Pro-Am.  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, they definitely saw more of the course than we did.  But how it played today, it wasn't too hard to kind of pick up on.  It was more just around the greens, how chips were reacting and how putts were kind of rolling out.   
That was the biggest challenge I think, which maybe I make one or two more of those, or chip if I have more time.  But I'll get a little more work today and I'll be ready to go for the next three days.   
 Q.  What has changed, the last few events, have not been very well, not in the top 50.  
AUSTIN ERNST: It really has not been that far off.  It's been a frustrating year all in all, and the last four events have been very frustrating for me.  But I played well, I played a lot better in Korea.  Just had a bad second round and last round, but felt like I kind of figured a few things out last week.   
Really it's just been -- I haven't done really anything that well.  But I hit the ball pretty well today and had a lot of looks at birdie and hopefully I can make more of those the next three days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT