CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 13, 2015
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. All right, first time back on the course since last year besides practice rounds; how was it? 
AUSTIN ERNST: It was good. I drove the ball probably the best I've driven it all year, and I hit some absolutely terrible iron shots, and I really didn't make anything inside of about six feet. So kind of threw a few away, but it's good to be back.

Q. You started off with a pretty strong front nine, struggled a little bit on the back nine. Was there something that changed? 
AUSTIN ERNST: Not really. Just didn't make any of the putts. Even when I hit it, I hit pretty good chips because I hit it in some pretty bad places that really short sided, but I still had it up to five or six feet, and just didn't make any putts for par. I didn't have really any look for birdie after number 12, so that obviously made it a little bit more stress on my short game.

Q. Weather is changing a little bit, sun's finally coming out and afternoon is kicking off about now. Do you think the numbers will hold up or how do you think the afternoon will go? 
AUSTIN ERNST: I think you'll see a few low scores. It will firm up a little bit, but the course is in really good shape and greens are rolling good, so it's basically there for the taking.

Q. Describe what it's like to be back out here and just sum up your performance today?
AUSTIN ERNST: It's nice to be back. I love this place. It's nice to come back to Portland, come back to this golf course. My performance today was not very good, bottom line. Basically just struggled with the irons because I placed it really well on the fairways, and then just didn't make many putts, didn't have many‑‑ since I wasn't hitting it close, I didn't have a lot of short birdie putts, but then I didn't make the par putts today.

Q. Looking forward to tomorrow, what are some things you can improve on? 
AUSTIN ERNST: Just make a few putts and hit the irons a little bit closer and get a few more good looks for birdie. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT