CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 16, 2015
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. 4‑under again today, great round for you. Take us through it a little bit.   
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah, it was up and down for sure. I putted it really well today. I think on 1 I made about a 15‑footer for par. Really it was just whenever I made a mistake, it was really just a bad iron shot most of the day. But yeah, I made, let's see, four birdies in a row on the front. Hit a bad iron shot on 2, made bogey, and then I birdied 4, 5, 6 and 7, and I think all of them I made about anywhere from 10 to 15 feet. So I just really had my speed going all day, missed a short one on 9 for birdie actually from about five feet, and then made‑‑ on 10 made about a 15‑footer for birdie. Just missed one on 11 for birdie. 12, I made another one from about 15 feet, and then 13 I really‑‑ I just hit a bad iron shot there. It kind of got up in the wind, went in the water there and couldn't get it up‑and‑down for bogey.   
And then that kind of made me mad, so I was like, all right, let's get those back, so I birdied‑‑ made about a 10‑footer on 14 for birdie and then made about a 12‑ or 15‑footer on 15 for birdie. Made a good little par save on 16. Blocked one a little bit on 17, I guess it hit the hill and went down in the water and I actually ended up having to scramble for a bogey there. I made about an eight‑footer for bogey, and then scrambled on 18, got it up‑and‑down out of the bunker, made about a 10‑futter for par.  
It was really good putting.  
   
 Q. Putting seemed to save you today?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Yeah.  
   
 Q. What is it with you Sundays in Portland and playing so well?   
AUSTIN ERNST: I don't know. All week I really‑‑ I just see my lines well out here off the tee. I think I just get in good position. This week I didn't hit my irons very well, and that was the difference in basically where Brooke is right now and where I am score‑wise, so I think if I could have hit my irons a little bit better, I could have given myself a few better looks at birdie. But I just love the golf course. The greens always roll really well. I always putt really well out here. I don't know whether I see my lines better or if I just trust it more because they roll so good, but I love the golf course, and it sets up really well for my game.  
   
 Q. There's a good group of you trailing. Obviously Brooke is kind of running away right now. What was it like, what was your mindset out there trying to race up the leaderboard?  
AUSTIN ERNST: Starting the day, I was 10 back of Brooke, and then I was, I think, five back of second. Really I was trying to catch Brooke. I was trying to shoot 62 again and see if maybe she shot even and we'll see what happens. But obviously she's playing really well. I guess she's at 22. Yeah, she's playing really good today, so she's running away.   
But I knew a lot of us would be packed in there, especially I think when I got to about 10, I saw that we were just stacked up, so I knew if I could just make a few more birdies, try to make a run at her, but just try to make as many birdies as I can and get the best finish I can this week.  
   
 Q. It's the last two weeks before the Solheim Cup team. Was that going through your mind on this Sunday finish here?  
AUSTIN ERNST: A little bit. All those points help. Playing well helps. I'm just trying to‑‑ I really want to make that team. Obviously as much as I can do to do that, but I know if I play well, that just kind of‑‑ maybe I'll catch Juli's eye playing well going into it. I feel like my game is turning the right direction. I feel like turning to next week in Prattville, I'm playing really well, putting it really well, which is exciting for me because that's really what's been missing all year. If I can just get it somewhere on the green, I feel like I'm going to make it, so I'm excited for next week. Hopefully I can play well there again and hopefully grab one of those last few spots.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT