BLUE BAY LPGA
October 24, 2014
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Got started early, but just give me some background on the course conditions.   Obviously you were in the rain. 
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah, the course actually held a ton of water, because we got a ton of rain this morning before we played, but you couldn't really tell out there. 
I kept it in play and then could kind of be aggressive because it was a little soft around the greens.   Putted well, and then made it through six and a half holes. 

Q.   More than most?
AUSTIN ERNST:   So we're on 7 green.

Q.   All right.   Everybody here was just hanging out, eating?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah.   I mean this morning‑‑

Q.   That's pretty much standard?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah.   It's pretty standard.   We kind of had to‑‑ since we were that first group, it was, I think, 30 minutes pretty much every time, so you kind of always had to be ready.   But I think we waited around two‑and‑a‑half hours before we actually teed off.   So it was kind of sit, eat, practice a little bit, eat, sit.

Q.   Eat some more.   Luckily there is good food here.   Everyone's like, awe, this is going to be crappy here.   All right.   You played extremely well in Korea.   Final round.   Kept that going obviously into this week?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah.   It's been solid.   And hopefully we can get 54 in, I can kind of finish this round off well tomorrow and get a little closer to the leaders. 

Q.   In terms of course conditions tomorrow, they said it should probably be able to take in a lot more water.   What's your expectation there?
AUSTIN ERNST:   I have no idea what kind of drainage they have here, but it's obviously very good.   I think it's the kind of grass, too.   I think the Paspalum holds it better than anywhere, but I think it rained two inches‑‑ and you can't even tell out there.   The greens were starting to get‑‑ when it was pouring at the end, the greens obviously were getting a little wet, so I think that's why we ultimately had to go in.

Q.   All right.   Cool.   That's all I needed.   Have a great rest of the day and we'll see you tomorrow. 
AUSTIN ERNST:   All right. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT