MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2014
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Getting closer to putting four good rounds together.   I know you aren't pleased with the one yesterday, but you feel like this is a good step forward having two in a week like this?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah, you know, yesterday just a little off ‑‑ kind of off with everything.   Scraped a round better than I would have last year though.
Then I think hopefully right back in it after the round today.   Obviously got to wait and see what the leaders post, but should be within striking distance tomorrow.
That's what I wanted to do going into today.

Q.   Third round is moving day and you moved.   You got four strokes closer to the lead.   What is your mindset now? 
AUSTIN ERNST:   Just stick to the same things I've been doing.   Today I played a really good round of golf.   Gave myself a lot of looks at birdie and made it very easy on myself.
Only missed a couple greens out there, which is what you got to do.   Especially when you've got low scores; you've got to give yourself a lot of looks.   I did a good job of that today.

Q.   Did seeing the 62 out there the first day give you the hope that maybe if I put something really low together, like you did in Portland last year, that you could come from behind and maybe... 
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah, it's out there.   I mean, I know Jay played really well today.   She shot 63.   If you're hitting the ball well, there is a lot of birdie opportunities out there. 
The greens don't have a ton of movement.   So you can be pretty aggressive.   If you're hitting greens you're not having very long putts.

Q.   How does that affect your strategy tomorrow?   Does that make you almost be more aggressive knowing someone could shoot a number that's in that territory to get a win? 
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah, it stays the same.   You know, I'm trying to go out there and shoot a low number every day.   Obviously there are pins you can go after.   Depends on the clubs you got in your hands.
Main thing you got to get in the fairway.   Can't be aggressive if you're not in the fair way.   Just basically set the game plan of hitting a lot of fairways and hitting a lot of greens. 

Q.   What happened on 18?
AUSTIN ERNST:   I hit it to about probably 15 feet above the hole and hit a really good putt.   Thought it might lip in the left edge, but just barely lipped out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT