MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 17, 2014
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, 66 on Thursday is always a good thing.   Describe what you played like out there. 
AUSTIN ERNST:   Just really solid.   Didn't put too much pressure on myself.   Missed a couple fairways coming in.   That's where I made a couple bogeys.   Miss fairways out here you kind of have to chip out. 
But just hit a lot of fairways.   Hit a lot of greens.   If you're hitting greens out here you get a lot of birdie looks were.   Did a good job birdieing a lot of 'em.

Q.   Lot of people said the course played differently.   A little more still and warmer than the first few days of the week?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Tuesday it was really windy.   Didn't get a lot of wind this afternoon.   Just a little bit at the end that just kind of made you think a little bit about how you need to play the shot.
It was a great day for scoring.   I saw Laura posted early 62, so you kind of knew there were a lot of birdies out there.

Q.   62, obviously that's tough to guess, but 5‑under means you're in the hunt going into the weekend.
AUSTIN ERNST:   It's a long week.   I put myself in the position I wanted to be in.   You're going to have to make a lot of birdies this week.   It's very scorable.   If you're hitting the ball well, you can make a lot out there.

Q.   The eagle on 18, just describe what that was. 
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah, I had 78 yards to the hole, which is pretty much just a little bit off of a stock 60‑degree for me.
I hit it absolutely perfect.   Landed it right where I wanted to.   You could tell ‑‑ I think to landed about three yards short and then the crowd just erupted.   Kind of knew it went in, but, yeah, it was awesome.

Q.   A one‑bouncer? 
AUSTIN ERNST:   I couldn't see it.   I think it probably bounced twice and then rolled down.

Q.   We'll see it tonight at 11:00.   Transition from British.   Long week.   Tiring week.   How was the travel coming back?   Did you take a rest day? 
AUSTIN ERNST:   We didn't get in until Monday night at like 6:   30 to Detroit.   Obviously Monday was just a complete wash. 
Tuesday took it easy.   Played nine holes in the afternoon.   Wasn't in the pro‑am so I played an early nine Wednesday morning.   Just practiced a little bit.   Definitely took it easier.   Just trying to recover from last week.

Q.   You think that helped?   You think just being second year learning that don't go out and hit balls for hours? 
AUSTIN ERNST:   Oh, yeah, having seen the golf course was nice.   Kind of already knowing what clubs I hit off the tee and that kind of thing.   Basically just need to go see how was it playing this year. 
Yeah, that definitely helps not having to go out and feel like you've got to play holes before the week even starts.

Q.   It's never fun.   Stacy said earlier the hardest thing here is maybe knowing the course too well.   Second time you've played here?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah.

Q.   Thoughts on just the course setup and just knowing that there are birdies to be had but it can be very, very tricky.   Did you come in with a game plan?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Basically just keep it in the fairway.   You don't need to hit driver on every hole.   You just have to hit it in the fairway to score out here.   If you miss fairways then you're behind trees or the ball sits down in the rough and you don't know how to judge how it's going to come out. 
But just keep it in the fairway.   The greens are relatively small.   If you're hitting the ball well you can get a lot of good looks.

Q.   Midway through the season, assessment of the season?   Any readjusted goals?
AUSTIN ERNST:   I don't think it's been a great year for me.   Been a lot of good rounds in tournaments, but not really having good weeks.   Really just been inconsistent with the putter.   It's kind of been there couple days and then kind of gone. 
Goals are still same.   I still want to win this year.   Just have less tournaments in the beginning of the year.
But it's definitely progressing.   I can see a little bit of improvement in my game.   The putter today, actually hit a lot of good putts.   Didn't make a ton at the beginning just kind of speed‑wise.
Yeah, definitely the putter.   When it's been good, I've had some solid rounds.

Q.   Any changes you made throughout the season?   Putters?   Stroke?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Haven't changed putter really.   Worked on a couple things with the stroke, setup and that kind of thing. 
Ball‑striking, made a few changes.   Just trying to get more consistent.   You look on the all the top players, they're very consistent in greens in regulation and that kind of thing.

Q.   Anything change for tomorrow?
AUSTIN ERNST:   No, keep everything the same:   make a lot of birdies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT