KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 17, 2014
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You hit it in the water?
AUSTIN ERNST:   I did, and then took a drop and then had to just hit out to the fairway and then got to up‑and‑down from about 75 yards.

Q.   Given that, how proud are you of the bogey?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Oh, it was a good bogey, especially where I hit my wedge shot.   Yeah, still had about 20 feet; Suzann was right there.   Kind of got away from her. 
But, yeah, it was a good putt.   Just a bad swing at a bad time.

Q.   Bouncing back from a second round 74, you have to be pleased with that. 
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah, yesterday it was just a little bad putting here and there.   Just didn't putt very well inside five feet.   Basically gave up four shots there.
It was nice to putt a little bit better today.   I got a lot of looks, which I was very happy with today.

Q.   How many holes did you have to finish this morning?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Three.

Q.   How much time did you have between the end and when you tee'd off again?
AUSTIN ERNST:   I finished at 9:00 and then I tee'd off at 12:25.

Q.   What did you do for three and a half hours?
AUSTIN ERNST:   For an hour and a half I came out here and ate lunch and warmed up again.   But for two hours we went by our house and just kind of relaxed, stayed off my feet. 

Q.   How much do you think having made that last putt will help you going into tomorrow?
AUSTIN ERNST:   It's big.   Obviously being one shot closer to the lead, that and then just confidence with making that putt.
Even though it was for bogey, any putt you make, especially that length, is big.

Q.   You have not won on the tour, right?
AUSTIN ERNST:   No.

Q.   Do you feel like you're in striking distance and poised to do this?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah, I do.   I played well this week.   I feel like I should be a little bit closer than I am, but I'm with this striking distance for tomorrow.
If you play a good round of golf out here, you move up the board a good bit.   They had some tougher pins today.   I hit the ball really well today.   I gave myself a lot of looks at birdie, which you got to do out here. 
You got to hit it in the fairway.   You have to hit a lot of greens and give yourself a lot of looks at birdie, because the pins are in kind of tricky places.

Q.   You've had a little experience chasing on Sundays, too. 
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah.

Q.   What changes in your approach, if anything, tomorrow?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Nothing really changes.   Just stick with the game plan.   I can pretty much get to all the par‑5s.   That's where normally if anything changes that's kind of where it would.
Coming down the stretch, I just want to have an opportunity on the back nine.   That's the goal for tomorrow:   Just keep hitting it in the fairway and keep giving myself a lot of looks.
If I hit it like I did today, I'll be very happy.

Q.   Got to help the way you played the back today?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah, I've played it pretty well all week.   I played a very, very good back nine.   Even with 18 in there, I still played a solid nine holes.
I think I hit just about every green ‑‑ except for 18, obviously.   I was just off the green on 13 in the fringe, but I had seven very good looks at birdie today. 

Q.   As well as you did play, was that the biggest shot of your day?
AUSTIN ERNST:   I don't know.   One of better shots I hit was my second shot on 15.   That was a good putt.   I made a few other longer putts today that kind of stand out. 
But, yeah, that was big going into tomorrow.

Q.   Did you hit it in in two on 15? 
AUSTIN ERNST:   I hit it just left of the green and got it up‑and‑down for birdie.

Q.   Kick‑in birdie? 
AUSTIN ERNST:   No, didn't hit a very good chip and hit about an eight‑footer.

Q.   Great second, very iffy third.   Was 18 your only bogey today? 
AUSTIN ERNST:   I bogeyed 8. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT