SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 31, 2013
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What worked for you out there?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Really everything.   I hit it really well, but I made a ton of putts.   The front nine, I made every putt I looked at except for I think two.   No.2 I lipped one out, and 4 I left one short in the heart.   It was just pretty easy on myself.   Greens were fresh.   But yeah, I just made a ton of putts. 
Only hole I really got into trouble with was on 11.   I missed it right.   Just kind of had to punch back out in the fairway.   I made bogey there, and then everything else I think I had a birdie look on just about every hole. 
So really it was just‑‑ I made it pretty easy on myself.

Q.   But realistically it probably could have been lower?
AUSTIN ERNST:   I mean, maybe, yeah.   But I made pretty much‑‑ I maybe had two putts on the back nine that I could have made that were 15 feet that I just rolled over the edge, 14 and 18, and other than that I made pretty much‑‑ got everything I could have out of the round.

Q.   What was it like playing by yourself first off?
AUSTIN ERNST:   It was nice.   It was fast.   I didn't really have time, I guess, to kind of realize what I was doing, too, because you don't really have a lot of time to look at the board or anything like that.   I did glance at it a couple times, but I mean, I shot 29 on the front, and my goal score today was 64.   Obviously shooting 62 I'm more than happy with that.   Now depending on what they do in four hours when they tee off just kind of depends on how many shots I'm out of the lead.   But I think now I'm kind of back in the tournament.   Definitely more so than I was at the start of the day.

Q.   Yeah, it's only 10:00 in the morning.   What do you do the rest of the day now?
AUSTIN ERNST:   I'm going to go watch some college football.   We're going to go meet Brooke and go watch some of the games.

Q.   How nice is it to look up at the leaderboard and have that number posted before anybody even thinks about going out?
AUSTIN ERNST:   I know.   It's nice.   Now the pressure is off.   I just kind of get to wait and see what time I'm playing tomorrow and where I'm at at the end of the day.   Obviously I think I proved scores can go low today.   Some of the pins are accessible but some of them are kind of hard to get to.   Out here you just really have to putt well, and that's what I did today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT