NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2020
Austin Ernst
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Austin, it's been 144 tournaments since your first victory.  Now you've got your second.  How was that wait for you?
AUSTIN ERNST:   It was long, a lot longer than I thought it would be.  Oh, man, it feels good.
I have worked really hard.  I think this break was fantastic for me.  Helped get my confidence back.  I had a rough year last year.  I played so well in 2018, and, man, just feels so good right now.
Q. So what did you work on during the break?  You said you worked hard.  We always know hard work pays off.  What did you do?
AUSTIN ERNST:   Worked really hard putter.  I changed putters actually it would've been Phoenix week, the week before just got a mallet instead of using that blade that I used.  Helped me line it up better, and then I just grinded on my putter and wedges and driving the ball.
I think what's kind of held me back in the past is I won't hit as many fairways and don't make quite as many putts, and today I hit the ball really well really being under the gun all day.
Just I'm proud of all the hard work, and it's nice to see to pay off.
Q. You were playing with Angela Stanford, vice captain of the Solheim Cup.  Did that give you extra motivation today?
AUSTIN ERNST:   I actually didn't realize she was the vice captain when we were playing.  I had a really comfortable pairing.  I really like playing with Jenny and Angela both.  We all three played well.
But, yeah, it was awesome.
Q. ...going into this round after is such a strong finish yesterday.
AUSTIN ERNST:   It was high.  Playing well last week really helped as well.  And then, you know, I mean, I shot 65 two days in a row, and obviously Anna was playing unbelievable golf to have a three-shot lead and get it to 16-under.
I knew I needed you a really low score.  I kind of thought at the beginning of the week that 20-under would win and I think that's what I got to, so guess I was right on that one.
But you knew that out here you needed to attack and you couldn't be afraid and couldn't just kind of middle-the-green it all day.  I didn't officially know where I stood, but I assumed I got the lead pretty early on in the back nine, and I just knew I needed to attack and make a lot of birdies coming in.
Q. Your second shot on the green about 40 feet away.  Was there any thought there to get it up close?  It looked like you went straight for the pin even on that first putt.
AUSTIN ERNST:   Yeah, no.  It was try to make it.  Obviously especially with that pin you've got kind of a backstop and somebody could come and make eagle.
I was trying to hit it as close as possible.  I actually hit it right down there yesterday, so I kind of knew what I needed to do.
And then I really thought I made the putt, but I was glad that it was only about a foot and a half and I could just go tap it in.
Q. Was it the power of the purple today or what was it?
AUSTIN ERNST:   I think so.  There are not a lot of people out here, but I was hoping I could get a, Go Tigers, so maybe I can get one now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT