ATLANTIC 10 CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 15, 2019
Travis Ford
Tramaine Isabell
Jordan Goodwin
Javon Bess
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Saint Louis 64, Dayton 55
COACH ANTHONY GRANT: Just proud of our team, the effort from the get-go and to be honest with you, we've really been playing in spurts as far as our effort is concerned and our aggressiveness.  We've kind of been turning it off and on.
Tonight I thought we had it turned on from the get-go.  Wasn't always pretty, but you know, when we play hard, we always give ourselves a chance.  We weren't playing aggressive and to our identity, then we just give ourselves a chance.
Tonight, I thought we did that from the get-go.  We made plenty of mistakes, but I kept telling our guys in time-outs, that hard work, being aggressive, being active make up for a lot of that.
We never really relented on the effort.  We never relented on how aggressive we were from the get-go, and I thought our 1-3-1, our 13, was really good the second half.
Q. Start with you, Jordan.  Things weren't working well offensively in the first half, but you had eight points all on put-backs.  What was the mentality that was different tonight, rebounding in the first half, as opposed to last night?
JORDAN GOODWIN: Just being aggressive.  Coach told me before the game that last game, made an emphasis on trying to block me out.  And my guys have confidence in me and I have confidence in myself that I can't be boxed out.  Just playing relentless.  That's what I've got to bring for my team.  My team knows I've got to do that for them.
Q. What was the difference offensively in the second half, as opposed to the first half, just a 180-turnaround?
JAVON BESS: We just started moving better and we started cutting and diving and that's what we made an emphasis on the halftime, we get on the highs, or Tramaine driving the ball, just everybody cut, keep cutting, keep moving because they like to watch the ball.  I think that's what we did in the second half.
Q. Do you want elaborate on the offense in the second half, the execution?
TRAMAINE ISABELL: I mean, I think we played inside-out.  I think they went zone.  We hit the short corner.  Got some kick-outs.  I think gentleman Van made some huge baskets.  You know, he's seen a mismatch, had a big man on him, we let him go, and he's pulling up, knock down.  I think we just rose to the occasion.  I think things, the second half, I don't remember the tide turned, but Coach told us to keep pushing, keep pushing, and we ended up getting the win.  So I'm happy with the outcome.
Q. Can you talk about playing so much zone now and how comfortable are you guys are getting with playing that way?
JAVON BESS: We work on everything.  We pride ourselves on defense and defense is not just man-to-man, it's zone, 1-3-1, everything.  We work on that stuff so we confident in it.
Q. Tomorrow will be your third game in three days.  What do you think the benefits are of having two games under your belt, and what do you think some of the disadvantages are with your team playing two intense games in a row?
COACH ANTHONY GRANT: Well, you can't make any excuses.  We don't have time for any of that, really.  We understand it's a quick turnaround tomorrow.  Our team, we've laid it out pretty hard the last two games, and you've got to dig deep, man.  You've got to find it.  You know, you see how hard our guys have played, so we've just got to get them back, get them back to the hotel, get them some rest, and you know, we didn't get back hotel until 11:30 or a little after last night, so we're probably about on that schedule as well.
We've just got to get some rest and prepare in the morning.  We don't have much time.
Q. Travis, with 13 defense again, it seemed to create a lot of energy with the players.  How careful do you have to be with them playing so many minutes and just how many possessions you can even go with doing that?
COACH TRAVIS FORD: Well, we didn't go deep, obviously on the bench but when you're trying to win and move on, you worry about winning that game.  You worry about doing whatever you can to win this game, and we were talking about it over there on the sideline a little bit trying to get -- do we change defenses, do we do some things to try to get some rest to win the game.
Because I thought we went through about a three-minute period in the middle of the second half where we fatigued and we gave them a mini-run.  I called time-out and discussed it with the assistants:  Do we want to change; what do you think about maybe getting some other guys in.
And everybody said, listen, we got to roll with these guys.  We're going to have to roll with these guys.  Let's just figure out this game and worry about the rest later.
13, we played hard.  Playing a zone is harder than playing man-to-man, sometimes, because you're trying to cover so many different spaces.  So I don't -- you know, whether you're playing zone, whether you're playing man, as hard as we play, I don't think it really matters.  You know, I think we left it all out there tonight.  We're just going to have to find it again because we're obviously playing a really good team.
Q. Today, I think seven-eighths of the team scoring just left the podium.  Going up against Davidson, do you have any plans to get the rest of the team more involved scoring-wise?
COACH TRAVIS FORD: Say that again?
Q. The guys on the podium were responsible for I think 56 of the 64 points.  Do you have any plans or ideas --
COACH TRAVIS FORD: I don't care how we score to be honest with you.  We'll take -- whoever can put that ball in the hole, we'll take it.  We don't have a plan on who gets shots.
We know we kind of -- you know, we know different guys have different play that is we run for, things like that.  We know who gets hot, we get back to them.  We don't care who scores, so from that standpoint, no, it can be anybody.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT