THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2010
Jim Remy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The weather situation yesterday, I know you and The PGA of America and all of the officials trying desperately to get on track. What went into the decision-making process to change the format here with the six foursomes and another team session which will feature all 24 players again. 
 JIM REMY: I think the committee has done a wonderful job in reorganizing this and changing the sessions. And I think it really is are to the fans, for the spectators, for all of those people that travelled all over the world for really what is the greatest spectacle in golf. We really want them to see the end and play for 28 points but also have the event come to ending. 

 Q. There's a good chance if there's no delays that we'll be able to get in tomorrow on time on Sunday. What about the charitable contributions that have been made by The Ryder Cup Community Outreach Programme, another 2.6 million going to various charities. 
 JIM REMY: It sure is, the PGA Outreach Programmes are so good from the Ryder Cup, and in the name of each player, a $100,000 goes to the charity of their choice and $50,000 to a college and university programs to help promote golf and grow the game through Play Golf America University Programme. 
 And of course, what better cause than The Ryder Cup Junior Golf Academy, which at the suggestion of the past captains we were able to pull that together. It's going to be kicking off next year, and the players are helping to support that for junior golf and for the future Ryder Cup players. 

 Q. Rory McIlroy part of that Junior Ryder Cup Team. And what has this event meant to Wales? They have really embraced the world of golf, and all of the Americans that are over here. 
 JIM REMY: It really has. Celtic Manor is so beautiful. Sir Terry Matthews has done a wonderful job pulling it together, and the Country of Wales has been very welcoming. Look, this is a big event, perhaps the biggest sporting event they have ever had, and it they have really got behind it and it's fantastic. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT