ADT CHAMPIONSHIP MEDIA DAY
October 15, 2003
Howard Olshansky
Mike Snyder
Annika Sorenstam
Michael Stearns
Donald Trump
Ty Votaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MICHAEL STEARNS:   Thank you, Don.  As Don indicated, back in May of 2001 we came together to put this championship on the schedule down here at West Palm Beach.  And it was, as we were out here on that day it couldn't have been done without the community's involvement.  You have some spectacular people in the room here.  You have Robin and Richard Bernstein.  Who really put a lot of effort into this and made this championship a fantastic place to be, to work on and everything.  And Anita Mitchell and Kimberly Mitchell and Ed, Don Mathis was with us and it's just a great community effort putting this thing together.  We did that in May and we have six months to put together a championship.  And during that time every one was out there busting their butt to get this thing taken care of.  And we came up with 38 sponsors that week.  So that's not bad.  Six months worth of work coming into a community and trying to get based and build a foundation on this.  Obviously we couldn't do those things without help throughout even more.  So in 2002 we had 52 sponsors that came on board.  And again through the tireless effort from the local organizing committee, the VIP host committee that this is able to happen.  And this year we're able to come together and talk about -- and we have -- this year we have over 68 sponsors.  I mean this is just something that just keeps on going.  So every year we're do you think better and better.  We're getting more and more sponsors.  And at this time it gives me great pleasure to announce that ADT has agreed to sign on as a title sponsor from 2004 through 2006.  And what that means is we can even do better.  We can do more and we can make this championship the community event that it was brought or has come here to the Trump International.  And something that it comes to my mind is we have kind of like the movie with George Clooney A Perfect Storm.  I like to consider this the perfect championship.  We have Mike Snyder and ADT who is a fantastic sponsor and understands what this is about and what women and how to use it as a marketing tool and to bring all his guys, entertain them and just and watch the best.  So and TYCO is the number one entity in their area.  And also we align ourselves with the LPGA.  And Ty congratulations on Sports Business Journal Award that was just handed out yesterday, the fact that you guys have received number one ranking in four categories is just phenomenal.  Again, a number one, a number one professional sports organization.  And then we come together at Trump International.  And we have Donald who gives this golf course, it's not a real estate deal, you know, you have a lot of places you can go, you can find real estate, they got to sell it, they got to use it for marketing.  No, you have Donald Trump who opens up his golf course and because he loves the game.  And he understands what it's all about to promote the game of golf and to be part of the best of the best.  So I think that we have the perfect championship here in the ADT Championship and I just want to say thanks for all you coming out and for all the support that we have had in the past and at this time I think I'll turn it over to Mike Snyder, President of ADT security for some further comments. 

MIKE SNYDER:  Well thanks.  I don't know what happened.  He must have looked over my shoulder, because he stole my notes.  So you heard everything that I was going to say just about.  I would like to start with some thanks.  And like the thanks you'll hear from Annika Sorenstam via phone here in a few minutes.  And I would like to thank her in advance for taking time out of her busy day and congratulate her also for her soon to be induction into the Women's Golf Hall of Fame.  The second I would like to thank Donald Trump.  Michael just touched on it.  But this is a guy whose real, got real passion for this game.  This is a course that he developed because of his love for golf about four years ago now.  It's since spawned three more courses across the United  States.  And not just golf courses, these are great golf courses.  The Westchester, New York, now soon to be opened one in Jersey, I guess a year from now and one out on the Pacific Ocean just fabulous courses or will be as they open.  I would like to thank Donald Trump and his membership particularly for opening their doors, their house to us for what will be a great week.  Donald in our three years together soon to be three years together, has been an unbelievably gracious, accommodating host.  Everything we have ever needed, everything we have ever asked, he's gone out of his way to give us.  And so when you're looking for a partner to sponsor or host a sporting event, Donald is really the guy.  And I want to thank him and every single person in the Trump organization for being so accommodating and so hospitable over the years.  I would like to thank and recognize, as Michael said, the Robin and Richard Bernstein for their vision early on, the Palm Beach Sports Commission, the Palm Beach Organizing Committee.  Anita, Kimberly, everybody that's been involved in the creation and the help and volunteer efforts they put into this organization.  And last but not least, LPGA.  Ty and I met three years ago on a green at the first golf course tournament someplace and we had never spoken before.  But you could hear his vision and his passion and his love for this game and particularly the game of the LPGA.  And he's as the Sports Journal does verify, delivered on everything that we spoke about three years ago.  To the extent that we are pleased and proud to announce that we will renew our sponsorship for the next three years.  And longer than that, as long as this great partnership of Trump, LPGA and ADT and IMG, persists.  He holds a special place in our hearts.  The first time ADT has ever sponsored a sporting event.  We're a 130 year old company and had never sponsored one.  So if you talk about a nervous guy, that was me.  And I'm still a little nervous over this whole thing.  But every year it's gotten better and we're looking forward to along future.  And as we use that experience with the LPGA to do a number other sporting events.  So you may or may not know, we have since built on a relationship or our experience in sports marketing to now include sponsorships of the NCAA college football National Championship.  The NASDAQ 100.  We are a presenting sponsor or contributing sponsor at The International for the men's professional golf association event there.  Notre Dame football, arena football and so on.  So sports is a way for us to really speak to our customer base.  Both perspective and current.  And it's all because of the great experience we have had with this ADT Tour championship the last three years.  I'm going to just shift gears for just a second and then I'll be off mercifully quick, hopefully.  One of the things that we liked that resonated with me when we talked to Ty initially is that the LPGA is committed to giving back to the communities in which it serves.  They're very very involved in the communities in which it hosts or plays its tournaments throughout the United  States each and every year.  It's also an integral part of what ADT stands for.  In order for us to accomplish what we need to accomplish as a business, particularly in the business we're in, security systems, we need to give back to the community and be a contributor, not just somebody that uses, uses that community.  On that note I'm pleased to announce that we will also continue our support as it relates to the contributions from this tournament to support the Children's Place at Home Safe.  And I would like to just recognize Howard Olshansky, who is the CEO of the Children's Place and is in the audience here today.  And the Children's Place will be our designated benefactor once again this year.  And it's tremendous work they do taking care of homeless children.  We couldn't be happier to contribute to such a great organization.  We couldn't -- there can't be a better place to host an event.  You guys are going to see it in little bit of.  It was four years ago when they built this place, and they made it more difficult over the years.  I don't know who's idea that was.  But it's a true test of golf.  Lastly, I would like to invite all of you to join us at our third annual security summit in conjunction with the tournament.  It's going to be held Monday, November 21st at Marlago.  We'll have a very exciting panel discussion this year which will focus primarily on homeland security and will feature several nationally prominent guess speakers including Steven Flynn, a world expert as it relates to risk factors and various things internationally.  You're going to find more information about that in your press kit.  And so lastly, I thank you all for coming.  On behalf of ADT, we look forward to seeing each and every one of you out for this tournament in just a few weeks and you can say two things about getting the ticket sales up, we would appreciate that.  But we look forward to seeing you all in about a month.  Thanks.

TY VOTAW:   Not to echo Mike too much, but Don just gave you my entire speech in terms of the year on the LPGA.  It has been a remarkable year.  I always -- I have to give Michael Stearns a little bit of grief.  I never want you to use the words "perfect storm" ever again in relation to a LPGA event.  We always like good weather and we never want any kind of karma about storms or anything like that, especially at a wonderful place like this.  So work on that, will you please, Michael. It's been a wonderful year as Don mentioned in women's golf.  A remarkable year.  Certainly you'll be hearing from Annika and all things I think in terms of how the year got started and the publicity and the promotions and the awareness that took place as a result of Annika's being invited to play the bank of America Colonial.  In the weeks leading up to that event, the press and the media attention was really unprecedented in the LPGA's history.  Nothing in its 53 year history ever came close.  And certainly with that amount of attention there was no small amount of pressure on Annika in performing in a way that would distill or dispel some of the columnists and pundits who were predicting how well she would or would not do over the course of that competition.  I think one of the great things in my time at the LPGA that I've been able to see is how she responded to that pressure and how the entire gallery at Colonial embraced her and how she then gave back to those fans with the warmth and with the personality that was on display the entire week she played great but she also showed the world that just by being in the fray she was testing herself against that level of competition.  It was not about any other political statement or any other social statement, it was about testing herself against that level of competition.  That provided us an enormous platform to say and to preach about the LPGA and what the quality of the play is on the LPGA week in and week out.  After Colonial, the fact that she then won our very next event in Chicago, and then won the McDonald's LPGA championship basically accomplished what she was setting out to do.  And that is to make herself better when she came back to what she calls her home Tour, the LPGA.  And the year that she subsequently had in winning her career grand slam at the Weetabix Women's British Open later in the year confirmed that her decision because was the right one to make in terms of making that appearance at Colonial. We had a great year, as Don mentioned, in other ways, Patricia Meunier Lebouc's great breakout win at the Nabisco.  Her first Major victory, her second victory on the Tour.  The course line that played out as Angela Stanford, Hilary Lunke and Kellie Robbins, the playoff.  And also that week the story of the pipeline being filled by a great group of teenagers.  I think what, 7 or 8 teenagers made the cut over the course of that week.  Proving that over the next five to 10 years the pipeline and the talent level on the LPGA Tour is going to be even stronger than it is today.  And today it's the strongest it's ever been.  Certainly a Solheim Cup this past year, while the cup did not come home, I think the world saw just what the quality of play on the international stage there is in women's golf.  And being played in front of 90,000 spectators over the course of the week in Barseback in Sweden was a wonderful week for women's golf.  And certainly while the USGA team was disappointed, the fact that 22 or 23 of the Solheim Cup team members from both the USGA and European teams played play the LPGA Tour week in and week out it was a win for the quality and the press teeing of the LPGA as well.  And that was a wonderful week.  When you have such a wonderful year, it's wonderful to be able to end it and cap it off with such a quality event as the ADT Championship.  And certainly the facts that the momentum that we have coming into this year's event with our on site attendance being up, our television viewership being up, our web site traffic in double digit percentage increases over last year.  Just to give you an idea about that we used to have about 200,000 people on LPGA.com on a monthly basis now we're up over 450,000 on average every month, people tuning in to LPGA.com.  So attendance, television viewership, web site traffic our fan base is growing and with that it makes us all the more attractive to corporate America and international companies who want to associate themselves with the LPGA.  And we have no finer sponsor than ADT in the LPGA's family of sponsorships.  We couldn't be more appreciative of the support that they have provided us as title sponsor and as the support that Mike Snyder and every one associated with ADT has given us in making this event the quality event and prestigious event that it is.  There are a number of thank yous that I have as well and certainly our very first and most important thank you has to go to ADT for their support.  Certainly the local organizing committee, Robin and Richard, and everything that they have done relative to making this event a more visible part of the local community's social and entertainment scene we very much appreciate the growth in sponsorships on a local basis is something that shows how the community is responding to this event in a very positive way.  Our host, Donald Trump, the Trump organization, Marlago, Vern Lumpke and everybody associated with this facility.  Marlago, our players feel so welcome when they are put up there and stay there for the week.  They're treated like the consummate celebrity athletes that they are and we thank you very much, Vern, for everything that you do to make them feel so welcome.  Obviously you'll be hearing from Donald here in a few minutes, and we thank him for having the vision to invite us to come play this championship at this beautiful golf course, Trump international.  You're known by the company you keep, and with ADT, with the location that we have here at Trump International, this event is considered by our players to be something that they gear their entire year around to come to.  And that's a validation on the efforts that everybody here in this room has made.  I think we have a few minutes for some important people such as Mr.  Trump and Miss Sorenstam calling in.  And I think there's no better way to fill that time than perhaps to have assigning ceremony of our extended agreement with ADT and with IMG.  And there's two pens here but there's three signatures, so I guess I'll share I'll -- well you want to sign it first?  And I'm a recovering lawyer, so. 

HOWARD OLSHANSKY:  We got a couple minutes before our hosts will join us here on the phone.  I'm Howard Olshansky I'm the CEO for the Children's Place and Home Safe.  And I need to start by acknowledging and thanking certainly Mike Snyder, ADT, IMG and LPGA for supporting the Children's Place and Home Safe.  It's wonderful event to have in our community.  Certainly it's a wonderful opportunity for us to give back to our children.  The Children's Place and Home Safe is a multi service organization that provides services to children's families that have been traumatized here in Palm Beach County.  Most significantly we're the largest child provider in the community providing shelter services to children who are removed from the home because of abuse or neglect.  On a given day we operate close to 50 residential shelter beds and operate 90 foster homes that provide care and treatment to children who have been sexually abused, physically abused and neglected.  In addition, we provide a number of supportive services that respond to children who are impacted by AIDS.  We operate Connor's Nursery, which is the first AIDS nursery in the state of Florida back in 1990 and provides medical care for children who are substance addicted babies, premature babies and who don't have the family resources to be able to care for them.  We are pretty much the first stop for children who have been traumatized and have to start the process for beginning to heal.  We serve children birth through 18.  And we have services and facilities throughout the county.  We have a campus in Boca, West Palm Beach and Lake Worth.  And our goal and our mission really is to ensure that we're protecting children.  We're beginning to address the full needs both educationally and socially medically and certainly emotionally.  Our focus is to ensure that we provide protection and permanency.  The best that we can do is to get kids back on the track to ensuring that they have a safe family environment, whether it be return home to their parents, or relatives or move them towards the process of adoption.  We work very closely with other community organizations and we really could not do what we do without the support of the community.  So events like this critically help us to ensure that we're providing the best comprehensive that care that we can to children in our community.  So again thank you and again it's a wonderful opportunity to be able to talk about our mission and thank you for the support from the community.

DONALD TRUMP:  Hello.  Yes.

DONALD TRUMP:  Yes, it is.

DONALD TRUMP:  Well, thank you very much.  It's a great honor to be on the conference call and I hope everything is going well. 

DONALD TRUMP:  Well absolutely.  I just want to thank Ty and all of the people at the LPGA, it's been a great, really a great relationship.  We have had a relationship made in heaven.  We love the players.  Annika and all of them.  It's just been so much fun having it.  The crowds have been spectacular.  And as you said, during the first year where we're totally completed with the clubhouse.  So the clubhouse has gotten every award it can get architecturally, the New York Times loved it.  Everybody loves it.  And some people are saying it's the best clubhouse they have seen in this country.  I like to think that that's true.  We spent a tremendous amount of money and talent and energy on it.  It is now totally completed.  Our members are extremely happy.  Equally as importantly everyone else is too.  I will say this, the television cameras just eat it up.  They love that clubhouse.  So it's going to be a really spectacular week.  I think the course is now in the best shape.  It's the fourth year.  I think the course is in the best shape it's ever been in.  It takes a little while, when a course is brand new, as it was the first couple of years, it takes a little while to mature.  We now have all of the maturity and Andy and his entire team have done an amazing job of bringing out the course to a point that people are saying right now to this moment it's in the best shape that it's ever been in.  So it's just an honor to have the LPGA and Ty and all of the great players and we look forward to doing it many years, many years.  I have to really take my hat off to ADT, because they are a terrific company.  In fact they did all of our security, Michael and Mike, is that true?  They did all of our security at both the clubhouse and at Marlago.  I use them for two reasons.  Number one, I wouldn't have had the courage to use anyone else.  And number two, they're the best.  Okay.  And probably in that order, but I'm not sure.  But they are the best.  They really did a fantastic job at Marlago.  Which was a very complex job, to be honest with you, Mike.  They did an equally fantastic job at the clubhouse.  The clubhouse was a little bit easier because we did it while we're building it, right?  So I just want to thank ADT for having done such a great job on the tournament.  And also with my security needs.  Which is very important.

DONALD TRUMP:  As you know I purchased the 70 acres of land right along the 13th hole and right behind the driving range.  If you look at that land, it's phenomenal.  It's a rectangular piece of land that runs right along the back of the driving range.  If you look at the driving range, it's at the back of the driving range and also along the 13th hole.  We are in the process of getting permitted to do Jim Fazio to do another nine holes.  When we will start that after the permitting process.  It will be a spectacular nine.  It will be comparable, we hope, to the nine that we -- the two nines that we already have.

DONALD TRUMP:  Well thank you very much.  Yes, we're really happy with it and every report is that the shape is really fantastic.  So we look forward to working with ADT and Mike and everybody for many years to come.  Long beyond the three year period that we just extended for.

DONALD TRUMP:  I look forward to it.


Q.  You had talked earlier in the process when you first brought the tournament down here maybe not having a tournament here for a long time.  Just talk about your thoughts.  It seems like you changed a little bit that maybe this tournament is going to be here for a long time.  Your thoughts on the whole process?

DONALD TRUMP:  Actually when you and I first spoke, it was the first year and I don't know if it was going to be successful or not.  And who knew, right?  And I love this -- first of all I've really become a fan of the LPGA.  Now I've always known the LPGA and I've always been a fan of golf, but it's a total professional outfit.  Ty Votaw has done a fantastic job of running it, managing it, and it's complicated stuff.  But what I really love about this tournament is I have the 30 greatest players in the world.  That allows me to keep them at Marlago, to let them live at Marlago for five or six or seven days.  Marlago has lots of bedrooms, 59 of them as a matter of fact so we actually have rooms left over.  And the girls love it and everybody loves it.  And we love having them.  It became a special week.  I love having the concept of 30 as opposed to 200 people.  These are the 30 best players in the world.  So based on that -- and also based on the crowds.  As you know it's one of the most successful LPGA tournaments.  And a lot of people come to see the course and the LPGA and some people come to see just the LPGA.  But a lot of -- the course and the majesty and the success of the course has greatly added I think to the galleries.  So we have had tremendous galleries there.  And we're very happy about that. 

Q.  People do come out to see your course.  Are there any changes?  Have you worked on any holes?  Anything different from a year ago? 

DONALD TRUMP:  Well the biggest change we made last year.  And that was on the 16th hole, where as you know we moved the water in front of the green and we made it from a hole that was a relatively easy hole to what came out to be, I think Ty probably has the statistics there.  I think it went from the easiest hole to the toughest hole with one lick.  It was made very dramatic and it's really -- I think you have 16, 17 and 18 that have to be among the greatest finishing holes of any course in the country.  It was very tough.  It's actually not a long hole.  Yet it turned out to be one of the toughest holes, if not the toughest hole.  I think 18 might have played tougher.  So that said, I think the biggest change that we made is just the grooming of the course is even beyond what it was last year.  And that came with time.  It came with having Andy and all of his staff.  But the grooming of the course, as you can see, is really impeccable. 

Q.  You mentioned last year you were going to take it easy on the players a little bit after the first year.  What is your thoughts this year on how tough you want the course set up?  How you want the course to play? 

DONALD TRUMP:  Well we did take it a lot easier on the second year.  Because the first year had you a lot of people shooting in the 80's and, I don't know, that's tough.  I think the course the way it was set up last year was good.  It was fair.  The one question is, do you want to cut the grass on number 18 and on number 7 and number 8.  Etcetera, etcetera.  Do you want to cut it so the ball rolls a little bit and therefore can roll into the water or do you not want to.  And that's a choice I think that the LPGA is going to make.  Don't forget when I did it, I did it in the beginning of the round not in the middle of the round.  Somebody said I did it in the middle and I said that wouldn't be very fair.  But it does make a huge difference.  Of course the length of the course.  If the course is, it can go out to 7400 yards so obviously they're not playing it 7400 yards, but Ty and his people will set it up so it's an appropriate distance for the women.

DONALD TRUMP:  Yeah, it really is.  Last year it was in great shape.  I hear this year it's just impeccable.  It's really good.

DONALD TRUMP:  I look forward to it.  Very much.  Have a good time, everybody.


Q.  (Inaudible.)

TY VOTAW:  The question has been Annika at Fort Worth and Suzy, etcetera.  The fact that our viewership is up and our sponsorships of our other events are strong and so I think all of it is done is created more credibility in the marketplace for the product.  And for that whenever you have more eyeballs watching your product, that means more companies will find greater value in associating themselves with your product.  And that's certainly what we found here. 

Q.  Ty, about the extension of playing here for three more years.  What's your philosophy do you want to try to find a permanent home for this tournament.  Do you think it's important to move it around just what's your thoughts on that issue? 

TY VOTAW:   Well, when we got such a quality facility such as Trump International, I think the, I think that if it's not broke, why try to fix it.  I think that with this constant or constancy and consistency of a location, I think it provides an opportunity to really build greater and greater momentum in the marketplace for greater success.  And certainly with, from 38 to 52 to 68 sponsors locally, I think we're seeing that continue and to be able to -- or to try to then start from scratch in another location I think would be taking a step backwards for the event.  So we're thrilled about the extension today with ADT and I think we'll have more things to say about how much longer we'll be here during the week of the tournament. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

TY VOTAW:  What we signed today was an extension of ADT sponsorship for three more years.  And we'll have some exciting things, I think, to talk about during the week of the event about our future at this location.  But that's going to happen during the week of the event.  We don't want you to write everything this week.


Q.  Mike Snyder talked about the security that you do.  Mike, do you want to talk about some of the other events, too? 

MIKE SNYDER:   We have quite a few things going on that week.  The women's clinic at the Office Depot Women's Golf Series is going to culminate right here at Trump International with a fantastic outing and clinic and they will be able to come inside and have a little lunch here.  We have obviously on Wednesday the pro-am.  I mentioned earlier about the successes of all the different sponsors that we had brought on.  The pro-am has been full since the end of August.  That just goes along with the story line that this event is becoming more and more successful and embedded into the community.  So we're really pleased with that.  Obviously Thursday starts the championship.  And we're going to be on ESPN from 3 to 5 on Thursday.  We'll be on Friday again 3 to 5 and on ESPN 2 on Saturday from 3:30 to 5:30.  We have a clinic that's going to happen on Saturday afternoon.  RMCC clinic.  That will go from 2 to 4.  On Sunday, obviously the final round of the championship will be on television on ABC network from 1:30 to 3:30.  So that's a little bit of a time change.  We'll have some different tee times on Sunday.   Some cities or some of the countries that we're going to be shown in throughout the world, China, Canada, Mexico, Sweden, Philippines, Korea, that's just to name a few.  I know there's going to be some more added down the road.  Robin mentioned earlier about the economic impact.  A very conservative number for this event, this event will fill 1600 bed nights in the community.  With an impact approximately -- that's approximately 5 to 6 million dollars to the local community.  So I think that while we have come along way, we have some great partners, Robin and I had the we are very fortunate to sit in city hall last night and to understand how the democratic process worked.  And we're real happy to announce that the city has joined us as a sponsor.  Is that Annika?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yes.  Hello? 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well thank you very much.  No, it's been an incredible season in many ways.  A lot of fond memories and great tournaments, etcetera.  So I will always remember 2003. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Yeah, I do.  Yeah.  That's just the good thing, I would guess.  It goes with the tear for re.  So all the attention that I've gotten this year, its been very very nice.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yes, definitely.  My goals the last two years have been to win Majors.  So I think a lot of times in the Majors they define somebody's career.  I've had the chance to win 2 U.S. Opens and then two Kraft Nabisco Championships.  And then this year I played really well in the LPGA McDonald's Championship and then at the British Open which has been one of my favorite tournaments for years and I actually finished second three times, so to be able to win these two tournaments in the same year, same year that was Colonial.  Which was kind of my preparation for Majors.  And then just to go out and win it could not have been any better. 

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   I'll take it.  I'm honored.  And obviously I'm going to be flattered when I'm there.  And one of these days it will sink in.  Again, I compare it to other sports and you always think of Hall of Famers as they're done with their careers and they have kind of moved on.  I feel like I'm still in my prime.  But I will take it.  I've got a chance and it's going to be lovely.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well my expectations are always high.  I have played well down there.  Being the Tour championship, the top 30, the best players on our Tour, playing for a lot of money, on a great golf course it kind of finalizes the season.  It doesn't get any better than that.  I know in the past the course has been in superb shape.  And it's really a true test.  You got to hit the ball well.  It's a target golf course.  The conditions, weather wise, have always been perfect.  And the hospitality, you name it.  It's just wonderful.  It's a great event that we have and to make it our last makes it even better.

DON MATHIS:   Any questions from the press here? 

Q.  A question about the Colonial.  Things seemed to change four there.  And maybe they started before.  But there was a time in your career where people thought you were shy and it wasn't necessarily good for the LPGA and the crowd at Colonial seemed to warm to you and everything the reception totally seemed to change about you.  Could you speak about the evolution of your personality and the way you've come to enjoy the spot light.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  I think the most important of the whole Colonial is that I was being myself.  I was playing a tournament that I wanted to play.  I was challenging myself.  And I think in the end people realized that.  That it was not a publicity stunt.  It was for me.  And when I can be myself and follow my dreams and set my goals, I feel very comfortable.  In the past I have always felt the pressure from maybe LPGA, from people around that I had to be somebody that I wasn't.  People compared me to Nancy Lopez and I'm the next generation and I'm going to carry the flag forward.  I always felt a lot of pressure.  So when I played at Colonial it was a lot of pressure, but I was doing it because I wanted to do it.  I think the reaction to the fans the people in general that they understood what I was doing it for.  I felt more comfortable then and I could be myself.  And it was kind of more natural.  I don't know if I'm making any sense.  But that's kind of the way I looked at it.  People accepted me for the way I am and things I do.  And that's easier for me than trying to pretend to be somebody who I'm not. 

Q.  Congratulations on your last couple years here.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Thank you.

Q.  Two questions.  One is, who is going to be presenting you at the Hall of Fame induction ceremonies?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  On Monday, on the 20th? 

Q.  Right?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Charlie Meacham.

Q.  Okay.  And secondly, you kind of touched on it earlier, but just talk about how kind of awkward or weird it is, most people are getting in the Hall of Fame, they're done.  You're playing like you said your best golf.  Just how do you get in that Hall of Fame induction ceremonies, the next week you're out here trying to win another tournament.  Just tell us about how that is?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Yeah, you're right.  But then now I can, one of my resumes is probably the Hall of Fame.  And it's nice to be able to have that once I'm out there and the fans can see that.  A lot of times you become a Hall of Famer and people can't see that or be a part of it.  So I think it has a positive aspect as well.  It is going to feel a little funny next week when they said the newest member of the Hall of Fame when that was the announcement on the tee and it sounded a little funny.  But that's definitely something that I will get used to.  And to be part of an elite group like that is, it's an honor.  And the way this works and to be a part of it in my case, in Karrie's case, we did it before these 10 years.  So we're just going to enjoy it while we have it. 

Q.  Do you recall when the possibility of the Hall of Fame came to mind, when you thought this might happen or could happen or became a goal?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well it really came late, I must say.  I never thought I could achieve it.  Because it was, when I started playing it was 30 wins and 2 Majors.  I just felt that that was totally out of reach.  And then they changed the point system, turned it into a point system and you got points for Player of the Year and so forth.  And I remember thinking then that I would have a chance to do it.  That's when I really started to play well, when I won 7 one year and then 13 the next.  So that's, it really racked up the last three years. 

Q.  Obviously the top 30 players, the facilities make it great to come down here to the ADT, but what makes this tournament different from other LPGA events?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well you mentioned a few of them, the top 30, you know you got to play well to win there.  The facility.  The hospitality.  ADT's sponsorship.  It just feels like a really exclusive event.  They really take good care of you with courtesy cars, staying at a beautiful place, a tough golf course.  It's kind of a Major feel a little bit.  And when it's the last tournament of the year, when there's a lot of things at stake.  Like Money List, Player of the Year, etcetera, it makes it a really special event. 

Q.  You're in the Hall of Fame.  Why continue to work as hard as you do, go through the killer workouts, sacrifice the things that you sacrifice.  What's left?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   There's a few things left.  Well number one is I love what I do.  It's a big thing to win tournaments.  I like to win a few more Majors, for sure.  I guess the most of all is I feel like I haven't reached my peak yet.  So I'm going to next year go hard again and see if I can achieve some of the more goals I have, some more Majors, and we'll see what happens.


Q.  You had mentioned last year about the whole thing you didn't know how long you were going to keep playing.  I'm just wondering, the way this year played out and your personality warming up to everyone, do you look at things any differently in terms of your future and how much longer you anticipate playing this game professionally?

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:   Well I think my ideas are still the same.  This year really I wouldn't say completed my career or anything like that.  But it really helped me to feel more satisfied and to the point where you know I'm full, I'm satisfied at what I have achieved.  Just because of playing with the men at Colonial, winning two more Majors, etcetera.  So I feel more that it's not that much left for me to do out there.  I'm going to give a hundred percent next year and then we'll see after that.  The thing is I'm so competitive and I feel like I can only be out there if I can give a hundred percent.  It does take a toll on you, all the hard work and all of a sudden your goal is trying to be better and the pressure from other players and so forth.  And that's the hardest part, I think.  Obviously it's fun when you play well.  To wake up in the morning every day and feel like I have to win a tournament, I think that wears on me.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well thank you very much.  I'm really looking forward to the Tour championship and it's a great event and to be defending a championship is really special.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well at least I'm in the same state.

ANNIKA SORENSTAM:  Well I appreciate it very much.  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT