NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 31, 2019
Paddy Fisher
Travis Whillock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








(Northwestern Interview)
Stanford - 17, Northwestern - 7
PADDY FISHER: I think we still have more to do. We didn't win the takeaway battle. We've got to do more on our end to get off the field. There were a few drives there where we were on the field too long and that's on us -- not pressuring the quarterback, not making tackles, not getting the ball back.
So we've got stuff to fix in our room first on the defensive side.
TRAVIS WHILLOCK: Just to echo that, I probably would go with that. We didn't do our job. Just like he said, just us missing tackles, not getting off the field, giving our offense a short field, that's something we need to continue on.
The good news is we can. This is the first week. So really learn from that tape. Getting in the film room. Just one of the things that we know can correct (indiscernible) know to be the best defense possible. Excited to get back to work after that performance.
Q. Paddy, on Monday you said (inaudible) you were worried about the tackles (indiscernible). Was it worse than you thought it would be?
PADDY FISHER: I just thought we could do better. I know we missed a few critical tackles that resulted in explosive plays that resulted in big plays and conversion downs.
I came into the game expecting to cut loose, fly around and have fun. What happens in the game happens in the game. You're going 100 miles an hour. We've got to weather the elements.
But I thought we came in and trusted ourselves and played the best of our ability of what the cards were dealt with us. But still more work to be done. And on the tackling side, I think we can definitely do better. We definitely missed some critical tackles.
Q. The fact that you started so slow last year, 1-3, could that help a situation like this?
TRAVIS WHILLOCK: What do you mean?
Q. Started poor last year, so one loss isn't going to?
TRAVIS WHILLOCK: We don't need to dwell on this. Obviously we definitely need to learn from our mistakes. So if we just go out and continue to execute and get ready for our next opponent -- but it's one game. We're going to come back strong. I'm excited already to get back to work and try not to dwell on it as much as try to learn from it as best we can.
PADDY FISHER: Last year was last year. This is a new year with still a lot of the same guys, but a new offense, new defense and new special teams. Just like Travis said, I'm excited to get back, excited to watch the film and critically analyze it and get back to work. I think that after that performance, the only way we can go up and up from here. But, yeah.
Q. Did Stanford do anything that surprised you at all?
PADDY FISHER: I don't know, what do you think?
TRAVIS WHILLOCK: No, I thought we got what we expected. I thought the coaches did a great job of putting us in situations to make plays. When it comes around to it, we have to make those couple of plays on those conversion downs, making those tackles to get our offense back on the field and they can have more opportunities to go put up some points for us.
Like I said, work on those little key areas, (indiscernible) executions (indiscernible) come back and fly around and continue to have fun with it. Football is a game that's supposed to be fun. Just getting back to that and go out there and cutting it loose and enjoying what we're doing.
Q. Did you get a piece of the field goal?
PADDY FISHER: No. No. I think that was somebody else. But, yeah, Stanford, tip our hat to them. They played a very good ballgame when it was all said and done after 60 minutes. They won, 17-7. They obviously did the right things, made the right adjustments and came out with a W. Have to tip our hat and respect them.
Q. Jordan Thompson was a critical guy on the line for you guys last year. What was it like being on the field without him today?
PADDY FISHER: Jordan was a critical piece, just like you said. And like I said earlier, this is a new team with new defensive linemen, new linebackers, with new safeties in the back end.
I think we're handling that well, coming together and trusting each other and doing what we have to do fundamentally and technique-wise, so that we can put each other in the best opportunity to make plays.
But you know it was great having him on the sideline. He was there to reassure us to just fall back on your basic fundamentals, don't abandon those and weather the storm. Those are some of the things he would always say when he was on the field with us.
Q. To have some penalties at critical moments. Was it uncharacteristic for this program? (Inaudible) or how did that impact you?
PADDY FISHER: I think we just need to play smarter and not let the emotions of the game get a hold of us. We're a disciplined ball team. And you know we're going to get back and watch the tape. And every aspect that we needed to improve on, we're going to improve on for sure.
Q. You guys mentioned not making those plays on critical downs. What's one that you sort of wish (indiscernible) to make that big play?
TRAVIS WHILLOCK: For me in particular, I was coming on a safety blitz. It was second and long, and I missed a tackle and they get it to a manageable third down and they're able to get that third down on the next play. Just little things like that.
If I tackle him and it's third and long, we may give our offense an extra minute and a half or two minutes. That's something that, that's on me. I'll look back and see what I can do. I know I'm a player that can make those plays. Just going back and getting that confidence and going out there doing it the next time. I know I'm really excited to get back because I know I left a lot out there on the field today.
Q. Do you know anything about Trae Williams status?
PADDY FISHER: Not at the moment.
TRAVIS WHILLOCK: Not at the moment.
Q. And you know after the defense (inaudible) was that sort of the mindset? Only got a couple seniors on (inaudible)?
TRAVIS WHILLOCK: Yeah, he's a great leader, but also I think that comes into that next man up, and I think we got some good young players that can step up for us. And so like we said, we don't know his status and hopefully he's all right, and hopefully those younger guys can get in and (indiscernible) to bat.
PADDY FISHER: I'm fully confident whatever the status is with Trey that he'll take care of whatever he needs to take care of and be the leader he is. And like Travis said, next man up, making sure that he's taking care of the guy that's next up. Whoever that is -- knows the game plan and is ready to go and play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT