NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2016
Bo Nickal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We have Penn State's Bo Nickal at 174 entering the room, 36-1 entering the season.  You want to make a brief statement about your match?
BO NICKAL: Pretty slow pace.  Disappointed with how the match went.  Didn't wrestle up to my ability, and I know that.  But I hope to improve moving forward.
Q. Bo, how satisfying is it to avenge you're only loss on the season?
BO NICKAL: Doesn't really matter, it's a wrestling match.  You're wrestling no matter who the opponent is, so I didn't feel any extra -- anything extra from that match.
Q. Can you pinpoint one or two things about him that has been complicated in these two bouts?
BO NICKAL: He's a tough kid, strong kid, pretty athletic.  So -- he's a good wrestler.  I felt like he did a good job keeping his hands low and scrambling when he was on the leg and when I was on his leg.
Q. You said you didn't wrestle to the best of your ability.  Is it because you lost to him earlier this year that maybe you did not?
BO NICKAL: No, no.  I don't think that's what it is.  Everybody has matches where they don't wrestle to the best of their ability, but just tying to stay consistent with my effort and keep improving every match, so that's -- I just look at it as a positive.  I got a lot of room of things to work on and a lot of things to improve.
Q. Bo, you have wrestled in a lot of tournaments, a lot of big crowds.  You've been overseas and competed against people who are the best in their countries.  How does the experience of this NCAA Tournament stack up in your mind and how did those earlier experiences prepare you for this?
BO NICKAL: Earlier experiences definitely prepared me a lot.  Like you said, I've wrestled quite a bit in the last, like, the 15 years or something like that.  It's been an awesome ride.  That's fine.  I'm looking forward to keeping it going for a long time comin' and being in this venue it's great.  I saw a sign that said Madison Square Garden, Most Famous Venue in the World.  Doesn't get much better than competing here.  It's an awesome experience.  Glad to get out there and compete and do what I love and have the people I love, my teammates and my coaches, so really grateful for this opportunity.
Q. You and Jason are freshman here, but you aren't wrestling like freshman.  Is there anything that goes through your mind differently for being freshmen?
BO NICKAL: I don't believe and never have believed that age is a determining factor in whether or not you are ready to win, so you see guys -- it's getting more common now the younger guys are competing with older guys, and I mean, I get to wrestle with Coach Cunningham, Coach Cael, David Taylor, Matt Brown, those guys every day.
I've been doing that ever since I was at Penn State and I've been wrestling against the best guys in the country since I was 15 years old.  So since I started wrestling with the older guys I never really believed that age determines whether or not you're ready to go out there, and I just look -- try to do my best each and every match.  You see guys like Cal Snyder win the world Championship at 19 years old.
I just turned 20 in January, so there is no difference to me to see a guy over in Russia, two-time world champ.  He's the same age as me.  That's what I'm looking to do.  Go out there and keep getting better, and like I said twice before, I don't think able is a determining factor on whether or not you will win.
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Bo.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT