INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 17, 2019
Maria Sakkari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. SAKKARI/K. Mladenovic
5-7,6-3, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Two semifinalists from Greece.  What happened?
MARIA SAKKARI: I don't know.  It's pretty big.  Something that I think it happens for the first time in tennis history.  I'm pretty sure about that because we never had two good players playing at the same time.
Pretty unique, I would say.  It's very nice.  Very proud for both of us.
Q. The third set was pretty incredible.  How good were you feeling?  Seemed like you couldn't miss.
MARIA SAKKARI: Yeah, I mean, I just sat down after I won the second set.  I was like, Now it's your time, now it's time to do what you have to do.  Just went after my shots.  Trusted myself.  I think I did pretty well (smiling).
Q. Is that just a lot of fun when you're in a zone like that?
MARIA SAKKARI: It is.  But you have to be careful because if you lose your focus for a second, like a point or two, things can change, especially with these players.  So you just have to stay focused and keep doing what you're doing.
Q. First set you were in control a couple times, let it slip away a little bit, she stepped up.  It was a great first set to watch.  But what are you telling yourself after you had those opportunities, she takes it 7-5?  What were you able to do and change to win the second and third set?
MARIA SAKKARI: I was so pissed when I lost the first set, lost that volley over the net.  That would have given me Love-40 on her service game.  I think I lost the set because I was thinking the whole time about that point.
I think I did good in the beginning but bad at the end.  I had a bad mentality at the end of the first set.  Then I think I was 1-2 down, Love-40.  I don't know, I said to myself, Just play, just make balls, go for the things that Tom said.
Q. You're back to your iconic bun.  How did the switch come?  Are you aware of the fame which it is getting?  I've seen fans call you 'the bun'.
MARIA SAKKARI: Maybe the ponytail looks good.  I tell you something.  In Rabat I couldn't see the ball.  I prefer to see the ball, look a little bit worse than look better and not see the ball.  I'm not going to win matches, I'm not going to be marketable, so...
Q. It doesn't look bad.
MARIA SAKKARI: I think it doesn't look bad, but I think because I like my hair, and it looks nicer in pictures, but it's okay.  It's fine.  Whatever.
Q. You play Pliskova next.  You had the memorable match and finish in Rome last year.  What do you think about playing her again for the first time since then?
MARIA SAKKARI: Of course, I mean, it was tough for both.  It was not a nice memory I have.  But since then, I think we both forgot about it.  We both moved on.
I'm sure it's going to be a very, very tough match.  She's going to be up for it.  Of course, we both want to be in the final.  I'm just looking forward for the match.
Q. How much is it important for you and Stefanos to have the flag of Greece around the world?
MARIA SAKKARI: It's really nice.  We don't see it that much in sport.  So now I think with the two of us and some other good athletes, it's very nice.
I mean, if I can talk for myself, I feel very proud being Greek, being Spartan, being from this country.  We have been having a tough time for the last 10 years.  I think bringing good results and happiness to people, it's very nice.
Q. Your mother is here.  What did she say after the match?  Is it true that your father lives in Italy?
MARIA SAKKARI: No, my uncle.  The brother of my father lives in Milan.  My mom, she said -- well, I don't remember.  I just asked, What time am I playing tomorrow?  She said congrats, first.  She told me at five, but she was like, It's going to rain tomorrow.  This was our conversation (smiling).
Q. Can you explain the peacock hen that Stefanos talks about, the P hen.
MARIA SAKKARI: It's an inside joke, I can say, between us.  That's it, an inside joke.
Q. You said after Istanbul you and Tom had a long conversation.  It seemed like that kind of reinvigorated things for you.  We see the results since.  Can you give some insight into what was discussed there, what flipped the switch for you?
MARIA SAKKARI: Well, he actually told me that he doesn't really care if I win or lose.  Of course, he prefers me to win.  Because I had ups and downs this year, since we started, he said that I want you to do a specific thing for an amount of time.  We're getting there.  He said that, If you do that, habits will change and things will change in your life and in your career.
You know what, because I chose him as a coach because I trust him, I trust the way he thinks and the way he acts.  I said, If he tells me that, I'm going to try it.  I think we both did a good job just getting this routine, I would say.
Q. Have you washed your bag since Rabat?
MARIA SAKKARI: No, I haven't washed it.  I just took off, I don't know how to call it in a nice way (smiling).  If I show you my bag, you can still see it a little bit.  It's a little bit disgusting not to wash it.
Q. It's lucky.
MARIA SAKKARI: Yeah, but I'm carrying it all the time.
Q. You mentioned the hard times that Greece has had.  Did those ever cause difficulties when you were trying to develop as a tennis player?
MARIA SAKKARI: Yeah, I mean, I'm talking about the Greek tennis players, we never got any money from our federation.  When other countries were having tournaments, money, wildcards, many things we didn't have.
I was very lucky to have the parents that I have so they could support me.  My dad was working day in, day out to support me and my brother and my sister, giving us the best.  Giving me my tennis career, giving my brother his studies, and my sister as well.
I have to say, then I got some good results, some good sponsors, that they're still here with me.  That was actually the support that I got.  I'm very grateful for that.
Q. You've known Stefanos for a long time.  When you were younger, did you ever talk about let's win a tournament together, any dreamy talk about your careers?
MARIA SAKKARI: As long as I remember, no.  We always were joking about playing Hopman Cup together.  I think we achieved that.  We really had fun.
But I don't remember if we had any conversation about winning tournaments together.  It looked pretty far.
Q. With no more Hopman Cup for now, have you talked about Tokyo mixed?
MARIA SAKKARI: Of course.  I think we're also entered as a team.  I saw all the Greek athletes, the list they send us with the Greek athletes, the sports that are participating.  So we are entered.
I mean, okay, I think we have to be very unlucky, either have an injury or something.
Q. It's usually a small draw.
MARIA SAKKARI: I don't know.  I don't really know how it works.
Q. 16 teams.  Just based on ranking.
MARIA SAKKARI: Do they have wildcards?
Q. They do.
MARIA SAKKARI: I hope we don't need one.  I think that we want us in the tournament because Greece, first Olympics, pretty good tennis duo, so...
Q. How much did you watch Eleni Daniilidou?
MARIA SAKKARI: I was pretty young.  I didn't like to watch tennis at the time.  Of course, I admired her.  I still have her autograph.  She told me one day we're going to play Fed Cup together.  It happened.
She has done great things for tennis in Greece, great wins.  I haven't seen her for a while, but she has been a very big part of tennis in Greece.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT