WUHAN OPEN
September 28, 2017
Maria Sakkari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. SAKKARI/A. Cornet
7-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Seven wins here in Wuhan.  How are you feeling and how physical was that match tonight?
MARIA SAKKARI: Is it seven (smiling)?
Q. Three plus four.
MARIA SAKKARI: Well, it's been a tough week for me.  I mean, a good week obviously.  I've been running a lot inside the court.  But it's not time to be tired.  I still have tomorrow's match, and why not more matches to come?
Q. What do you think was the key for you today?
MARIA SAKKARI: Never stop fighting.  Just run, take the opportunities, but mostly fight.
Q. You already played more than 11 hours.  Do you still have the energy to beat a girl like Caroline tomorrow?
MARIA SAKKARI: As I said, it's not time to be tired.  Obviously it's going to be a very, very tough match.  I'm looking forward.
Q. You never played against Caroline, but what do you know about her game?
MARIA SAKKARI: Well, I didn't have time to look at her game.  I obviously saw her playing sometimes.  I know that she's very aggressive player.  It's going to be a very tough match for me.
She has been playing very well, and she had a really good year.  I cannot tell you much.  We will see tomorrow.
Q. It's the first WTA semifinal for you.  Kind of a big tournament to do that at.  What do you think has made the difference?  Obviously at the slams you get those good results, but on the tour level it was a little bit difficult for you for some time.  What do you think is different for you this week?
MARIA SAKKARI: I think since I started working with Thomas, I gained a lot of confidence working with him.  We started working a different way.  He helped me a lot.  Having him outside of the court also gives me a lot of strength when I'm playing.
It was a very good step that we made until now.  I think that's one of the keys that made me win these matches.
Q. Do you feel in the conversations that you've had with Thomas, in talking about your competitiveness, kind of getting up and playing the big matches all the time, instead of getting it up for the slams, but the ITFs are harder, do you feel you've refocused your energy there?
MARIA SAKKARI: Well, as we say, it's always let's say easier to play in these kind of tournaments, but on the other hand it's very, very tough because the opponents are tougher.  Maybe on the ITF tour your motivation level is lower, but it's easier on the other way, on the other hand.
Q. Just in terms of he came down and did an on court coaching timeout, so that's the first time many people have seen him do that, and he sounded very direct.
MARIA SAKKARI: Yes (smiling).
Q. How do you describe his personality working with you?
MARIA SAKKARI: Actually I think that's why so far it's working out, 'cause he's direct.  He's telling me what I want to listen.  But he's telling me the truth, the things that are keys for the match.
It helped me a lot.  It's helping me a lot every day.  That's why I think I'm here now.
Q. What does it feel like to make your first semifinal?
MARIA SAKKARI: Well, I still haven't realized it yet 'cause it's been a long week for me.  But it's a dream that comes true.  I really want to live more moments like the one that I'm living now.
Q. We saw Thomas come into the court today.  How did you encounter with him?  He's such a great Grand Slam champion.
MARIA SAKKARI: Repeat the question, please.
Q. Speaking about your coach, he came into the court.  How did you two encounter, how did you meet up with him, as he's such a Grand Slam champion?
MARIA SAKKARI: How did I start working with him, you mean?
Q. Yes.
MARIA SAKKARI: I was obviously looking for a coach few months ago.  Together with my agent, we sat down and we spoke about Thomas.  Then obviously he spoke with him, then we started talking, we started with three trial weeks.  After US Open we decided that we're going to continue.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT