INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 18, 2019
Maria Sakkari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/M. Sakkari
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Talk through the match.  You started incredibly well, ripping winners from left and right.  How did she reel you back in?
MARIA SAKKARI: I think, yeah, I started really well.  I know my intensity went down.  I think I started feeling a little bit fatigued, heavy legs.  My legs were going everywhere.  I couldn't coordinate my body.  I think I ran out of gas.  That was a little bit the reason of why my level dropped after 4-2.
But, of course, she came up with a very solid game.  I think that made things tough for me.
Q. She wasn't going for a ton of winners.  Did you start to feel the pressure that you had to keep hitting through her?
MARIA SAKKARI: I didn't feel the pressure that I had to make winners, but I felt the pressure that I cannot stay on the court for as long as normally, you know.  If I feel that way, then I feel like I cannot perform well.
Q. What do you take from this week?  Obviously still a great week for you, three, four weeks for you.  What do you take with you from Rome into Paris?
MARIA SAKKARI: I have a lot of confidence on my game.  Of course, I need to rest a little bit before heading to Paris.  I'm just going to keep on playing the same way.  I think it worked out really well.
I think it's a good way of playing, especially on clay.  That's what I'm going to bring with me in Paris.
Q. The last couple years you've been talking about wanting to be more aggressive.  Sometimes when players who are as athletic as you are play on clay, they can rely on the athleticism, it's a safe type of game.  Seems like you unlocked something in terms of the way Maria Sakkari wants to play her game on clay.
MARIA SAKKARI: You always have a backup plan.  That's a good thing.  If you have a good physique, you run well, you can defend well.  If you can develop the offensive game, you have two in one.  When things don't go one way, then you can have a Plan B, as I said.
Sometimes you cannot have both.  It's okay.  It happens.
Q. Simona was saying something similar.  She thought for most of her career her Plan A was defense.  Why she's gotten so good is she's gotten better offensively.  In terms of becoming a better offensive player, what do you think that means?  Bigger shots, flatter, court positioning?
MARIA SAKKARI: Not only flatter shots, but just bringing your position more like inside the court towards the net.  I don't know how I can say.  Just put pressure on the opponent.  Of course, as I said, sometimes you need to step back because clay players like Serena, Pliskova, Kvitova, they hit big, you cannot stay back the whole time.
I think a mix of both is a good combination.  You can win a lot of matches.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT