NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
June 2, 2018
Larry Nance Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  After such a close battle in Game 1, how do you guys feel like you can come away and steal one on the road?  
LARRY NANCE: We feel good.  Obviously that was a heck of a battle between two good teams, but that actually gave us some confidence.  We can hang with them, and we can hang with them in this building.  We plan on coming out tomorrow and proving that again.   
 Q.  Rodney (Hood) didn't play in Game 1 and hasn't really been in the rotation for a little while.  But just how can he impact this series and what has he meant to you as a teammate, and just what kind of a player has he been?  
LARRY NANCE: Hood has been great.  As a teammate, he's been awesome.  Coming over with us in the trade, it's always nice to have a couple guys that you can kind of talk to and know that they're going through the same thing that you are.   
So for me, he's been big-time and just kind of like a teammate-, friendship-type role.  As a player, we all know what type of player he is.  He's been terrific in the past.  We know there's more season to be had, more games to be had this year.  When his time is called, he'll be ready.   
 Q.  Is there any way to pick him up a little bit through conversations?  
LARRY NANCE: We've all gone through it.  I mean, I went through it in the Toronto series.  J.C. (Jordan Clarkson) went through it a little bit.  Guys go through it.  It's something that, obviously, you talk about and you share that like, hey, if you need anything, you want to talk, grab some lunch, whatever it is.  Yeah, you reach out to them and offer some support if need be.  But he's done a great job of staying professional.  Like I said, when his time and number is called, he'll be ready.   
 Q.  What kind of impact does it have when you have him LeBron your team going into the next game after a tough loss?  
LARRY NANCE: It's like the ultimate security blanket.  You know night in and night out he's going to bring it -- and I mean, really bring it.  51 points in Game 1, and just kind of get the feeling that he's just getting started.   
So it's really nice having a player of that caliber on your side.  I know one thing: I wouldn't want to be playing against him.   
 Q.  What can you guys do to fit your transition defense?  It's been a struggle for you all year.  It seems like that was when they got their offense going was in transition?  
LARRY NANCE: Yeah, we've just got to do a better job of sending -- sometimes we sent three, four guys to the offensive glass.  We've got to do a better job of getting back and finding their shooters.  Like you said, they had a couple spurts there where they rattled off about 12 or 14 points really quick, and especially in this building, that can't happen.  The crowd gets jumping, and that is when this team really turns on.  So we've got to stay efficient and keep hitting them on the offensive glass pretty hard, but at the same time stay aware and see if we can catch any leak-outs by their guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT