NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
May 30, 2018
Larry Nance Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know this is your first NBA Finals, but do you think Golden State's a little more vulnerable than they've been in the past?  
LARRY NANCE: I don't know about that.  I just feel like whether we're at home or whether we're here, I just feel like as a team we know we've got a good chance at winning.  What Houston did to them, obviously we're going to take notes and watch all that type of film and see exactly what they did to help get a win in this building.  Vulnerable, I don't know if that's the word.  But hopefully it's something we can use and take advantage of.   
 Q.  Playing with the best player in the world, and after Game 7 against Boston there was a narrative that emerged that it was an amazing accomplishment for LeBron, and is certainly is.  Part of the implication is maybe the supporting cast hasn't been as good as it was in previous years.  Do you guys hear that?  Does it matter?  Does it bother you?  
LARRY NANCE: I mean, you hear it.  You can't turn on "SportsCenter" or ESPN without it.  But at the same time, everybody that's saying that is not playing in the NBA Championship.  So feel free to judge us, make comments on us and do whatever else you'd like.   
But at the end of the day, we have a chance to win a ring.  We've done what it takes to get this far, and we'll continue doing exactly what we're required to and what we need to to hopefully get four wins in this series.   
 Q.  Is part of that the fact that you guys haven't been together that long.  I know it's The Finals, so at this point you probably feel like you've been together for a while.  But does it still take time?  
LARRY NANCE: Yeah, we're definitely still learning more and more about each other's games the more we go on.  It's just, this is how it works.  I was learning things about guys in L.A. when I was there for a while.   
But, yeah, obviously this is The Finals, so we've got to get our act together pretty quick.  There's definitely learning to be had.  We've just got to learn quick.   
 Q.  For all you new guys, though, how do you support each other through this time and transition?  Is that important just for the new guys coming in to kind of form a bond and be supportive of each other?  
LARRY NANCE: Absolutely, and that happened right away.  Obviously, with me and J.C. (Jordan Clarkson) coming together, we already had that and had somebody to talk to.  It's nice to go to a team and have somebody like that.   
At the same time, George Hill has been awesome for us.  Rodney Hood.  All four of us are just so thrilled to be here that we don't really need any more direction between the four of us now.  We're pretty well integrated.   
 Q.  This is the biggest stage.  Will your dad's stomach be in knots because of what's at stake?  
LARRY NANCE: I'm sure it will.  They were in knots game 62 in Cleveland.  That's just how he is.  But, yeah, I'm sure he will.  I think he'll be more nervous than I will.   
 Q.  Do you have to calm him down at all?  
LARRY NANCE: I don't think that's my job at this point.  I'm more worried about out here [on the court] than I am his nerves.   
 Q.  You were joking before Nick Young's return to L.A. that you're going to dunk on him.  Is that the same idea?  
LARRY NANCE: You know what?  Hey, like I said, if he's standing up underneath that rim, I'll give a little extra boost to see if I can catch him.  It would just be a perfect ending.   
Nick is the type of guy that if he scores on you, you're going to hear about it.  It's going to go vice versa for me.  And I'm not a trash talker, so that's a lot.   
 Q.  You could probably jump over him, right?  
LARRY NANCE: I've never tried it.  Might give it a whirl this series.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT