ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2010
Daniel Vancsik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANIEL VANCSIK: I'm putting really well, the greens is really good, and once I hit the ball not really, really well, but around the round, I'm feeling very more confident and the last nine holes I played perfect.  
  
  Q. Does the length off the tee help you?  
 DANIEL VANCSIK: Yeah, I think this course, it's longer and the rough is a little bit tough. You need a little bit of power for this, but no, always in golf, you know putting well is not just enough.  
  
  Q. You stayed out of the rough anyway, I hope?  
 DANIEL VANCSIK: Yeah, today I played really well tee-to-green. I missed the fairway but felt really lucky with the lay up.  
  
  Q. How have you been over the winter period? Have you had any chance to practise?   
 DANIEL VANCSIK: No, I'm married December 19 and stayed with my family for Christmas and New Year's and practise one week before, and just coming from South Africa to have a little bit more feeling for this tournament.   
  
  Q. Congratulations. Life changing, isn't it?   
 DANIEL VANCSIK: Yeah, really changing.  
  
  Q. It has made a whole difference to your approach and mentality, has it?   
 DANIEL VANCSIK: I think so. I'm feeling more -- you have more responsibility and then you practise more consistent, not much, but I'm feeling different now. Also on the course, I think it maybe help me, too.   
  
  Q. Did you want to come back out and play again? I know it's your life and career and you love golf, but sometimes you have a honeymoon and you want it to carry on and on and on?  
 DANIEL VANCSIK: Yes, I would, but I love golf. I am really lucky because my wife also really likes the sport and really supported me and travelled with me.   
  
  Q. That must be so good to have her travelling with you, as well?  
 DANIEL VANCSIK: Yes.  
  
  Q. Good for the relaxation so that you have your mind slightly off golf for the end of the round and you don't beat yourself up about things?  
 DANIEL VANCSIK: That is true, because always in Argentina, I play sometimes when I finish the round, sometimes feeling just a little bit alone, and especially me, I think maybe this year it's going to help me play more consistent.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT