JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 28, 2009
Daniel Vancsik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well, that aside, playing well?  
 DANIEL VANCSIK: Yeah, I'm playing really well today. Tee to green, played perfect, all the time, and I didn't make it. I hit the putter really well, but the green is so wet all the time, the ball is jumping.   
 But I'm happy because on the course I'm playing really well and I'm hitting the ball well.  
  
  Q. Doesn't that point at just how well you're playing, if the greens are poor, and you're still scoring that well?  
 DANIEL VANCSIK: Yeah, I don't know. You never know in this game. Maybe not. But I think I have a really good position. I have confidence. I'm playing well. The putting, don't make it today, but feeling well and I think it's a good position for the weekend.   
  
  Q. Something like that at the last, where the putt does force you out where you thought you were on the way for a birdie, is that something you would be annoyed at or just accept?   
 DANIEL VANCSIK: I couldn't believe it that I missed that one. I hit it well but I don't know. I can't explain that feeling. It happens in golf all the time.   
  
  Q. I guess you had the better of the weather conditions, it was good in the first morning and sunshine and the breeze is up but not too bad.   
 DANIEL VANCSIK: Yeah, I think I had really lucky in the draw. Yesterday was perfect to play and today was just a little bit of breeze but not too much. I think it's good luck.   
  
  Q. How have you been playing since that wonderful victory in Italy?  
 DANIEL VANCSIK: I'm hitting the ball much better now, but in Italy my putter is working well and I'm making every one. Maybe if I have patient and my putting is working well this weekend, I'll have a chance.   
  
  Q. Not only you, but Ricardo Gonzalez was saying after Sweden that maybe it's an Argentinian thing, you play well for one week, we don't see you for a little while and suddenly you're backup again.   
 DANIEL VANCSIK: Yeah, but I'm working with my psychologist to play more consistent because all of the time, we play one week well or maybe three or four weeks in a year.   
 I'm working really hard on my swing and my putt and my short game and especially my mind to play more consistent and try to do all the time the tournament.   
  
  Q. Why are Argentinians like this?  
 DANIEL VANCSIK: Because I like to win, and now I'm feeling, when you won the second tournament, you are feeling much better and you know you can do that all the time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT