PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 20, 2007
Daniel Vancsik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  A nice pressure situation today leaves you well for tomorrow? 
 DANIEL VANCSIK:  The pressure today is a little bit more than the other days because everybody played well today and I played well the first nine holes but didn't make any putts.  And when I was watching the leaderboard, I said, okay, come on, take it easy and tried to make a few birdies to have a chance for tomorrow. 

 Q.  Now, we must ask you, did you pull the second shot at the last or did you aim at that? 
 DANIEL VANCSIK:  No, no, I hit 7-iron a little bit on the right, and if I hit it strong, my ball is a little bit on the left.  So, okay, tried to do, not on the left on the flag, but near flag. 

 Q.  The boys were saying you pulled it and had to pull it because everybody has hit to the right of the pin today. 
 DANIEL VANCSIK:  Yeah, but the problem is -- not a problem, because I have just the right club, the right distance for my 7-iron, and I said, okay, if you miss, you make a bogey or you have a chance or if you make birdie, you have one more shot for second place. 

 Q.  You got off to a slow start but great back nine.  Tell us about your round. 
 DANIEL VANCSIK:  Yeah, I played well all day.  The first nine holes, my putter didn't work too well, and the last nine holes, I could hit a few more shots nearer to the pin and make a few putts. 
 I don't feel really, really well on my swing, but today is a really good score because it's a little bit of pressure, too many players on the leaderboard and I'm happy. 

 Q.  All week the players have been talking about it's a long hitter's course, and you are as long as anyone; does it play into your hands? 
 DANIEL VANCSIK:  Not many my hands, but I like this course because I can hit my driver all the time and I have too many chances for birdie.  I think tomorrow, I will try to stay patient and if my putter is working well, I will have a good chance to win. 

 Q.  Last week you had a chance to win and it got away from you, is this a bit of a vindication from you this week trying to polish it off after last week? 
 DANIEL VANCSIK:  Yeah, the last week I played really well again, just one hole.  And this week, I say, come on, you feel all right and just try to do it this week.  And it's a good challenge for me because the field is different and it's more hard and try to fight with the big guys. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT