PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 19, 2007
Daniel Vancsik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SCOTT CROCKETT:  Very, very well played, you must be very pleased.   
 DANIEL VANCSIK:  Yes, I played very well yesterday and today I played very good today with my driver, and I have too many chances for birdies and the putter is working really well.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT:  Last week you nearly that chance to win, it must feel good to be up there again with another chance.   
 DANIEL VANCSIK:  Last week I played perfect for all the week and this week -- I'm happy, I'm really surprised to be 14-under for two rounds and I'm surprised to have a two-shot lead in this field.   
  
  Q.  What do you tell yourself to get past last week?   
DANIEL VANCSIK:  I say how well you can do it and you've worked for this.  I work and I try to win many tournaments in the year and I try to fight for a tournament win, and the last few weeks I'm really happy, I've played really well.  I played well at the Dunhill with my putter.   
  
  Q.  Having a chance to win last week --   
DANIEL VANCSIK:  It's really difficult because I won't forget the hole No. 5, it's really tough for me.  I think I have a confidence for this tournament and my psychologist tells me too much for this week, try to forget that one.  You can win this week and you can have a chance for this week if you play about, and just forget it, just play.   
  
  Q.  On this course, does the driver give you an opportunity to do what you do best?   
 DANIEL VANCSIK:  Yes, I like this course and it's good for my game because with all the cross bunkers.  I can fly over all the cross bunkers.  And the rough isn't too heavy and I can get to the greens and I have too many opportunities for birdies.   
  
  Q.  On television last week, one of the commentators said that you were using your driver so often, that it was an accident waiting to happen somewhere.  Will you change that strategy or will you continue to use it because it's your best club?   
 DANIEL VANCSIK:  Yes, I think the driver is my best.  I like to play with my driver.  I have confidence for that.  And many times, I lost one ball or whatever, but that is the club that I like to play.   
  
  Q.  (About keys for weekend).   
DANIEL VANCSIK:  Yeah, it's really long driver, but I play a little bit in my mind and I try to put it in the fairway and the strong hitting, that's what I need.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT