FAMOUS IDAHO POTATO BOWL: BYU VS WESTERN MICHIGAN
December 20, 2018
Tim Lester
LeVante Bellamy
Alex Keys
John Keenoy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: First we have an announcement from Western Michigan.   
WESTERN MICHIGAN: Thank you for coming to today's press conference with Western Michigan.  We are excited that today we did sign a two-year extension with head coach, Tim Lester, which will be on top of his five-year contract that he signed back in 2017.   
So this will take Coach Lester with our program through the end of the 2023 season.   
COACH TIM LESTER: Well, I'd like to thank the Famous Idaho Potato Bowl.  We've been here since Monday now, and I know every guy up here will tell you it's been a blast to get to know this city, and the people in it, more importantly.  It has been an unbelievable week, and we've had a great time with our players and with the families and got to go sledding and really see the town.  It's been fun.   
Obviously as far as the extension goes, this is home for me.  This is where I played.  This is the same logo that I played blood sweat and tears in, and it feels really great.  I want to wear it as long as I can, and I love coaching these guys and they are doing all the right things, and I'm proud of their continued growth.   
We have another opportunity tomorrow to continue to grow our program and our brand.  I like the direction we're going, and it's because of these guys that we're continuing to build, so I'm looking forward to the future.   
 Q.  When you're studying BYU for this game, obviously you have to look at a common opponent, and it's Northern Illinois.  You put up 28 points against them.  BYU only put up six.  Do you read anything into that and did you see anything that you could take advantage of, especially offensively?  
COACH TIM LESTER: I mean, I wish it had meant something more.  I don't think it does but -- because every game day is different, you know.   
But it is unique that we're playing a team that, you know, that we have a common opponent and you can watch them against the same players we played against in our last game.   
I really think BYU is similar to Northern as far as I think their defense is special.  It's a great group.  They make you earn everything you get.  They are both giving up 20 or less points a game, which in the modern day of football is amazing.   
Offensively they have got a young quarterback and they are trying to figure out their rhythm on offense, and I think Northern and them are so similar, I mean, it was a 7-6 game.  You have to enjoy college football to see a 7- -- I loved it.  It was an awesome game to watch and it was a defensive-dominated game.   
So it does -- it is a little different and hopefully these guys take a little bit of confidence in what we did against Northern and what we can do, but we've still got to go do it, you know.   
 Q.  What about you, offensively, what they did against BYU, what do you take from that?  
LEVANTE BELLAMY: I just think we have to play our game.  I know everybody's going to do their job on offense and defensively.  It's all about being the executioner.  You know, anybody can talk a good game.  Anybody can put up 28 points a game before the game or after, but the game's tomorrow.  So it's like, nobody cares what you did against Northern Illinois because you've got to do it against BYU.   
 Q.  John, you guys have played a lot of physical teams this year, Eastern Michigan, Central Michigan, Northern Illinois.  You seem to match up pretty well with those type of teams.  
JOHN KEENOY: Yeah, I think Coach Moreland does a good job getting us ready to play every week.  We have a special group with Luke Juriga who has been here awhile, Mike Caliendo, Jaylon Moore, Zach Novoselsky.  I think just the mentality we have in the room is we want to play for each other, five guys into one.   
I think Coach Moreland and Coach Lester put us in great situations every week to match up with physical teams, and having that experience is definitely going to help us in this game because these guys are pretty big up front and pretty physical.   
 Q.  Alex, in the last game against Northern Illinois, you had Coach Esposito leading the defense and there seemed to be a lot of enthusiasm on the field and on the sideline during that game.  Do you see that carrying over here against BYU in this Bowl game?  
ALEX KEYS: Yeah, 100 percent.  Obviously if you see Coach Espo on TV on the sidelines, he's one of those guys that's kind of in your face jumping around, getting everybody going, and I think that it really helps us because once you see him with all the energy, it kind of rubs off on us.  We need off on that and we take it and apply it to the field.   
I think you'll be seeing a lot of it tomorrow.   
 Q.  Tim, how would you describe your freshman quarterback?  I can't remember how to say his name?  
COACH TIM LESTER: Eleby.  Kaleb?   
 Q.  Just the poise he's shown in the three and a half games, I think it is.  
COACH TIM LESTER: Yeah, this will be his fourth start.  About three and a half games.   
Yeah, when we recruited him, he has an unbelievable maturity about him.  That's one thing these guys up here can tell you, even when he came in last January, which is a big part -- him coming in January, he's been here nine months now, ten months.   
He has a way about him, and I remember seeing it the first time when we were in his living room and just talking to his little brother.  The way he handled his little brother, there was a moment where I thought, this could be one of those guys, with his leadership skills, it comes naturally to him and he has a good grasp for the team.   
So we had to take over, we knew he was going to go through his lumps.  The thing that's special about him is his arm.  When he breaks his hands to throw the ball, he throws as good as anyone I've ever seen and anyone I've ever coached.   
Now, we've got to make sure his eyes are in the right place and he's looking in the right areas, depending on coverage and all that other stuff.  But the moment his hands break is when I calm down normally because he is special throwing the ball.   
And you've seen the growth in him.  He had a little streak early on that first game, he didn't know what he was doing, which worked out decently for him.  Second game was his worst game by far.  Third game he played well and fourth game he played even better.   
He's starting to come along, see things.  I think the game is starting to slow down for him -- and I'm calling a better game for him, I can tell you that.  I'm learning what he likes, what he doesn't like, what he can execute right now.  First two games, I didn't call a very good game for him.  The things he's done in practice he hasn't translated to the game yet.   
I think the leadership we have on this team has really helped him feel comfortable the running game and the offensive line we have on this team is what's made him have success as an 18-year-old because it's not easy and I know Kalani is dealing with the same thing.  I'm excited about his future, I can tell you that.   
 Q.  When you're facing BYU's offense, what are some of the things you've looked at as far as keys being able to stop them?  
ALEX KEYS: We compare them to Northern Illinois.  They have an athletic quarterback, some good, solid running backs, some bigger guys on the outside and a pretty experienced offensive line.   
I mean, we just really focussed on just keeping that quarterback contained because he can move pretty well.  As long as we know we're assignment sound and just playing Bronco defense, we're pretty confident.   
 Q.  LeVante and Alex, you guys are back next year, but you've got nine seniors, including the one between you, and your running mates in the backfield, Jamauri Bogan, that are playing in their final game.  Do you have any special thoughts about that and what it would mean to them to go out with a win?  
LEVANTE BELLAMY: I'll start by saying, I thank God every day that I met them both and the rest of these seniors and Leo Ekwoge.  I love those guys.  If you can't see it in my eyes that it means so much to me speaking about them, then I don't know what else to say because I love them.  I'll always love them.  They are like my brothers.  It's sad that they have to go but you know, I think we'll always be friends.  It's really sad.  I ain't going to lie.  It hurt me when you said that, but I'll be okay.   
Like I say, I'm not going to say any words for them.  I'll tell them I love them.  I'll always be here if they ever need me, and just, let's ride.   
ALEX KEYS: Like he said, you know, our class, I feel like specifically, has been super close with Jamauri and those guys, and just through the years, learning lessons from them, just becoming like growing that bond, playing on this team together.  I think it's fitting for them because their freshman year, they were here, so going out with a win hopefully sending them out on a good note would be pretty special.   
 Q.  John, just to piggyback off what Coach was talking about just now, how has this team rallied around a freshman quarterback who up until midway through the season, you weren't sure if Kaleb was going to play very much.  How have you adapted to that and figured it out?  
JOHN KEENOY: I think Kaleb has a sense of swagger about him.  Just see how he acts on a daily basis.  I think he's really been a sponge, especially the last four to five weeks, even before Jon went down.  He's really been able to learn quickly and adapt.  You rarely see him make the same mistake twice.   
He's fun to play with and like Coach said, he's got special arm talent.  Sometimes in practice, he makes some throws that makes you go, wow, this kid is going to be really good.  He's a great kid, great leader.  He'll be special here some day, and he's a great kid.   
 Q.  What do you think about Coach getting a two-year extension?  
JOHN KEENOY: Well, this is the first I heard about it but we're athletes, you know.  We all love Coach Lester and excited -- next year is my last year, but just grateful to spend the rest of my career under Coach Lester, so congrats.   
ALEX KEYS: I think it's a big win for Western Michigan to sign an extension and keep him here.  It's where he belongs.  It's his home and we're happy to have him.   
LEVANTE BELLAMY: It just all smiles from Beverly.  As long as he's here, I'm happy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT