ROLEX SHANGHAI MASTERS
October 10, 2019
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. FOGNINI/K. Khachanov
6-3, 7-5
Q. Andy Murray had one or two things to say about you the other night. What did you make of his comments?
FABIO FOGNINI: No comment. Is already past, no? I mean, I was paying with Khachanov today, so you should know that.
What I have to say? I have to say something?
Q. I thought you might want to defend yourself.
FABIO FOGNINI: I don't like to defend myself. Past is the past. I know him since when we are 14. And that's it.
They are kind of thing, for me, they stay on court and that's it. I have nothing to say.
Q. Were you upset to be told to be shut up by a fellow professional?
FABIO FOGNINI: I don't upset that. I mean, I'm not. He's have his character. I have mine. And that's it.
Q. Do you think you'll try and make peace with him at some point?
FABIO FOGNINI: Peace? I told you, I mean, we know each other really well. Inside the court, we are almost the same because most of the time I'm complaining and he's complaining. But that's part of our job. So I have nothing to say.
Q. Did you talk with him after the match?
FABIO FOGNINI: Yeah, we talk normally, yeah. We will change opinion about the match.
Q. Talk a little bit about today's match.
FABIO FOGNINI: Oh, finally. Thank you.
I'm happy. Happy because I was losing to him last week. I was playing really good also. But I did some mistake at the beginning of the second set, and after he was serving really good and he was pushing the ball really hard. Also today. But I think today I was manage everything better than the last week, so I'm really happy about my performance.
Q. Is one of the motivating factors for you at this point of the season trying to get to London to qualify?
FABIO FOGNINI: It's a dream. Of course is still there. But is the only thing that I'm happy because I find another time my game. I find another time my shot. And I was stopping after New York. In New York I was feeling really bad and I lost first round.
But I'm not thinking about it mostly. I think if I play good, I still have chance. If not, I go home and enjoy family. They are most important thing of my life.
Q. I saw you laughing a lot during the second set as you walked to the net and you had a conversation with the umpire. What was it that was so funny?
FABIO FOGNINI: I think you look like Italian journalist.
You know, I just say to her that I'm happy. I don't know what to say. If you want to tell me something, I can tell you nothing more than that. I always laughing, I always probably complaining, yes, but that's part of my job.
I going to make my job best as I can, and if it's not going in the perfect way, I'm not happy. I think also you did the same. Maybe we have two different character, but in two different ways.
Q. (Question about facing Medvedev.)
FABIO FOGNINI: I think it's the worst player that I can play at the moment, because, well, he change completely in the summer. He was playing -- of course he was great also before, but he make unbelievable change during the U.S. swing, and he's dangerous. He's really dangerous.
I think we play each other sometimes. Now is completely different. Of course he have a lot of -- I mean, I don't know if you call energy like he's really comfortable inside the court. But I'm here, here to try to complicate him, try to take my chance, have the chance. If not, I fly home.
Q. Do you think you play better when you have a confrontation? Because I remember, like, Davis Cup Naples five years ago when the fans shouted at you, seemed like you played better after that.
FABIO FOGNINI: I am sometimes I play well and sometimes no. But, you know, that's our sport. Every day you wake up and you try to think on your next opponent, to try to how to play, try to make it your best shot, try to win that point. But, you know, every day are different, for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT