ROLEX MONTE-CARLO MASTERS
April 21, 2019
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. FOGNINI/D. Lajovic
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. May you tell us how you feel in your body?  Because during the week we saw you with some problems in the arm, ankle, et cetera.  And how do you feel in your head right now?
FABIO FOGNINI: My body is not so.  I have to be honest.  I'm tired, and now, I don't know, I feel pain on my legs.  Actually, I think I have to wait minimum two days before going there, take a decision in Barcelona.  Anyways, I go there, of course, because I play tournament there.  The draw is already out.
I'm tired.  I mean, it's normal.  End of the tournament.  Winning my first 1000, so mentally now I'm tired but really, really happy.
Q. Congratulations, Fabio.
FABIO FOGNINI: Thank you.
Q. You have your first Masters 1000 title.  You will be No. 12 tomorrow, best ranking.
FABIO FOGNINI: (Speaking in Italian.)
Q. Is this the moment that there will be a new era of Fabio Fognini?
FABIO FOGNINI: No (smiling).  I mean, I'm happy because I just won a tournament.  The consequence is best ranking, whatever we can call it.  But just feel happy because I won a big tournament that was always my goal in my career.
I mean, I think everybody, when you're growing up and you start and you decide to play tennis, you are dreaming to win a big tournament.  We are talking about Masters Series and the next one it's a Grand Slam.  So is the second in the line level.
Nothing to say.  It's time to enjoy with the family and friends tonight, for sure.
Q. In your opinion, why now?  Why at 31, not 25?  Why today?
FABIO FOGNINI: Because (smiling).  I don't know.  I mean, tough to say.  I mean, I was telling all during all week that was really tough beginning of the year for me, actually because I played really good last year, and I feel at one point of the year that I was really close for the top 10.  Once was close to US Open, but I always play really bad there.
And the second chance that I had was in China that I was playing really good.  I was lose the final with three match points with Tomic.  Then the week after I was playing really good.  I had semifinal.  I had to pull out against Delpo.  And...and...
Now I'm here with the trophy, and I feel happy.
Q. Do you remember one specific point from your first round against Rublev when he...
FABIO FOGNINI: I don't remember.
Q. He has 5-1 in second set?
FABIO FOGNINI: Yeah.
Q. Do you remember one point?
FABIO FOGNINI: Yeah, I remember.
Q. Which one?
FABIO FOGNINI: The only ace that I made during the whole week (laughter).
Q. You seem happy in life, happy now.  Does happiness make victories?
FABIO FOGNINI: Yeah.  I have everything in my life.  That's true.  I feel happy because -- of course happy because when you do your work and you do it great and win, in that case, we are talking about winning a big title, I have to be happy.
In my life, I have everything.  Healthy, I have baby, I have wife that it's, they are with me all the time, so nothing to ask (smiling).  More than that.  Maybe a second one, but we have time (smiling).
Q. Congrats.  What made you stronger than all your opponents here in Monte-Carlo?  You won against Zverev, Nadal, and now Lajovic.  What made you stronger than them?
FABIO FOGNINI: Well, we can talk about ever match.  It was different, for sure.  First match I was really lucky.  Second one, also.
And then I start play great.  I think I play really good with Sascha.  Was really tough against Borna, because we played last and the weather was colder than normal.
And yesterday was, I think, if we talking about tennis, was really difficult to play, because was really windy, was difficult to find a solution.  But, you know, in that case you have to stay there, try to do your best.  And in the semifinal I think I played my best tennis from the beginning to the end, because with Rafa, everybody know that you have to play really good in the beginning until the end.
And today, today was the final.  Most important thing was the cup.  Then we can talk of course I did something well, something wrong, but now it's time to decide what I do.  And tomorrow wake up, and I can start thinking about the match, what I did well, what I need to improve, and let's see if I have a chance to improve my game another time in next week in Barcelona.
Q. You say it's very special to play here in Monaco.
FABIO FOGNINI: Yeah.
Q. Are you more ambitious when you are here than in other tournaments, or no, not especially?
FABIO FOGNINI: I mean, yes, I feel really great now, because I was telling you that this is the tournament, home tournament, because I was born in Sanremo, and I was practicing here when I was young.  I know really well this tennis club.
You know, for me it's special, of course, because parents and friends, I don't know how many tickets they get during the week, but I think also they feel, friends and family are happy now, because I have my name on this tournament that it's something that when I was really young I was dreaming for it.
Q. Do you think during this final your experience against Dusan played a key factor?
FABIO FOGNINI: Yes, I think so, maybe.  I was starting break down.  Then I won 6-3.  Then break again.  I was, I don't know, if a bit unlucky or he was playing two shots like crazy.  Because I think I was 1-0, 30-0, and he make one passing along line when I was to the net, and the second one was I think 30-All, backhand along line like crazy.
So I think experience work on these kind of conditions, especially because play normal tennis was really difficult yesterday and today because of the weather.  But is not important anymore.
Q. Maybe it's tough to say, but are you thinking about Roland Garros now?
FABIO FOGNINI: I'm thinking about Monte-Carlo at the moment, because I would like to enjoy this trophy tonight with my family and friends.  And then tomorrow is another week.  It's my mom's birthday, so I would like to enjoy it, both of them.
And, no.  If I be honest, no.  I mean, the favorite is still Rafa, because I'm not the only one that says this one, because he won, I don't know how many times, and every week that we play on this surface he's still the favorite.
So I just thinking about next tournament, next match that I would like to play, and we will see if I'm in really good shape.  You have to be lucky also in the draw.  So a lot of things.  But it's not my problem right now, believe me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT