ROLEX MONTE-CARLO MASTERS
April 20, 2019
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. FOGNINI/R. Nadal
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you tell us how you felt today on court with the win?  How was it basically this match for you?
FABIO FOGNINI: Well, with Rafa, it's always difficult.  You know, I was telling him yesterday that I was knowing that I have the game to play against him.  Sometimes I won few matches.  One crazy one in US Open and two times on clay.  So I was knowing that I have nothing to lose, because, of course, especially when you go with him on clay, I mean, it's always really tough.
But I think the beginning was a little bit strange, because I was starting break up, then break again, then 2-1 for him, break again.  I have this discussion with the chair umpire that I think he made bad decision, bad call.  He gave me warning for nothing (smiling).
And after that, I say, Okay, I mean, I'm here, 3-1.  Start to breathe.  I know that it's difficult sometimes for me.  And after that I was playing really good.  I made everything really good.  You know, just happy the way I was playing.
Q. You played Rafa many times before.  Did you feel something wrong with him?
FABIO FOGNINI: I don't know.  That's not the question that I have to answer.  You should ask him.  I just say that I played incredible match.
Of course was really tough to play, because was, I think, I don't know, was cold, was windy.  It was really tough to play, but we have that condition.  I mean, if we can talk, we can talk about the condition, we can talk that he was playing bad, I would talk that whatever you want, but I don't care.
Q. It was difficult in the beginning of the tournament against Rublev?  It's you?  It's always like that?
FABIO FOGNINI: It's always, no, but...(smiling).
It's me, probably it's me, yeah.  It's me.  You know, of course, if I have to say something at the beginning of the tournament, I would say that I was really lucky.  But, you know, after Gilles retired and, you know, I have another opportunity to play great match with Sascha, and now I'm in the final.  I'm in the final.
Of course if you tell me at the beginning of the week, I will see you on Sunday, I would laugh in your face.  I was 6-4, 4-1 down and break point for 5-1, and I make ace on the line (smiling).
But that's incredible sport.  So I was lucky.  Now I'm in the final.  And of course I go for the title tomorrow.
Q. You said you feel at home here.  You feel more at home than Rome because you're only 45 minutes away, you said?
FABIO FOGNINI: Yeah.
Q. Can you describe the feeling you have on this court?  How much will the public with lots of Italians help you tomorrow?
FABIO FOGNINI: Tomorrow, for sure.  I mean, today playing against Rafa, even if you play in Italy, it's really tough (smiling).
But, you know, is true, is true, because I'm living really close by, and it's a big opportunity to them to come here and try to watch me play.  So I don't know tomorrow how many they are coming, but that's not my problem.  It's his problem.
I hope that they are coming, a lot of people.  Somebody are not happy, of course, because they buy the ticket because 99.9% was Rafa on the final, but here I am.  So I know it's going to be really, really tough.  Not only for me, but also for him.  It's a surprise final, because of course both of us, I mean, we was not favorite on the game today.
He played really good and really solid during the whole week, because I saw him play against Dominic.  I saw him playing the first match and he beat Goffin.  And even if Medvedev was really tight, he was 5-1 down in the first set, and he was really good.
I mean, I think it's going to be really tough.  He have nothing to lose.  I have nothing to lose.  We start 50/50.  Even if the ranking I'm higher than him, I know that I have to run a lot tomorrow.
Q. After beating Rafa, is it difficult to face a final against...
FABIO FOGNINI: Is true.  I mean, not only him in the final, because of course tomorrow it's me or him.  But all the time that we played, Rafa, and I was beat him, it was not a lot of time, it's really tough to play next game, because beating him, it's, especially mentally, it's so tough.
But, you know, it's 6:30.  I think I would like to recover really well, eating well, play with Federico a little bit, and then go and sleep.
Q. How are you physically after all of these matches?
FABIO FOGNINI: I would like to be like this every week, but I know that it's impossible (smiling).
But, you know, I'm okay.  Yesterday was the worst day because was really humid.  I played really late.  My elbow was bad in all week.  Today was windy, not cold like yesterday.
Nothing to say.  That's the most important thing, recover well and then tomorrow, when I wake up, I start thinking about the match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT