ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2018
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. CILIC/F. Fognini
6-4, 6-1, 3-6, 6-7, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. Congrats on a great run this Roland Garros, and we all know you're a tennis artist.
FABIO FOGNINI: Sorry?
Q. I'll start over again.  You had a great run.
FABIO FOGNINI: That's what I understand.
Q. Okay.  We all know you're a great tennis artist, but what is tennis artistry for you?  Can you define that?  Tennis art?
FABIO FOGNINI: Well, I can't.  Sorry.
Q. If you look at the female players --
FABIO FOGNINI: That's another sport.
Q. It's not a sport?
FABIO FOGNINI: It's another sport, yes.
Q. It's another sport.  So there can't be any art there?
FABIO FOGNINI: Next question.
THE MODERATOR: We're going to ask a question about the match.
Q. How do you feel physically?  Because you called the doctor at the second set.  Can you tell us anything about it?
FABIO FOGNINI: Well, for sure I'm tired.  We play for hours.  But I play with everything.
So I'm just sad at the moment, for sure, because I was two set down.  I was losing the second set without any excuse.  I mean, pain start again so, so, so bad.
So, at the moment, it's painful also because I lost the match, but, you know, I think I'm happy about my performance.  I'm happy about how I'm feeling.  I'm happy because I think this one, it's just statistics, but I can improve even more my tennis and also my ranking.
Q. Could you be a little bit more precise about your right leg?
FABIO FOGNINI: No.  It's always the same story.  So I can't tell you right now, because it's really long.  If you want, there is Italian media here, so you can ask later.
Q. It was a great run, not only for you but many Italians.  How well do you know each other?  Do you train with each other, and what do you attribute that to, that there are so many Italians?
FABIO FOGNINI: We know each other well, of course, yeah, because we play Davis together.  I mean, not the young one that are coming, Cecchinato only playing once and Berrettini the last one.  So we have a good future.  I think they could even improve more the ranking.
And I just say that always the same story.  Cecchinato is playing really great, so we have another great atmosphere and tomorrow probably is going to play on the center court.  So it's really good for him because, of course, it's quarterfinal of big event.  So now he has to improve with others to face.
And Matteo is a bit different.  He have more power.  He could play better than the others he face, I think, because he has a big serve and forehand.
But, you know, now it's too early to say where they're going to be on the ranking, so they have to work a lot.  And then, maybe in a few years, we can talk about the ranking or the result of the career.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT