ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2018
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
F. FOGNINI/K. Edmund   
6-3, 4-6, 3-6, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  What do you think the difference was today and how key do you think your experience in those big matches was?  
FABIO FOGNINI: Well, I think it's tough to say, but supposing it was pretty tough match, because Kyle start the year really well, so he's improve a lot his game.  So he have really big first serve and first shot of forehand.   
Yeah, probably the experience.  But, you know, when you have two sets and you have to play the fifth one, anything can happen.  You know, was really tough the beginning, I had won 15-40 in a really good comeback.   
Yeah, probably the experience and also the last game I play good.  I play everything on the other court, and he miss few balls.   
I'm happy, because was really tough match, we are almost the same level even of rankings.  So was nice.  Nice atmosphere.   
 Q.  That's the first time in 40 years that there are two Italians in the fourth round.  I suppose that's good for the Italian tennis, no?  
FABIO FOGNINI: I think so.  What do you think (smiling)?  Finally, finally we are here.   
 Q.  (Off microphone.)  
FABIO FOGNINI: The reason is because, I mean, I don't know, we play good and we won matches, so that's the only reason that I can answer right now.   
 Q.  Marco Cecchinato we don't know as well as we know you.  
FABIO FOGNINI: He won against a really good player, especially yesterday, he won four sets.  In fact, to be honest, I didn't suppose that he won fourth set like that.  So really impressive of his performance, and, you know, I think he improve a lot in the last two months.  He won first ATP, play really good matches against really good player.   
So I think right now easily top 50 or even more on clay.  And now he's got for sure -- he have, in my opinion, he have to change it, he need to start play good on the other surface that if he would like to make the next step he's going probably -- I don't know his ranking now, 70, and after here he's going better.   
He have to improve to play on the other surface.  He's always -- I mean, he never play good on the other surface.  So I think, and my suggestion is now to be focused to improve on hard court, because I think he can play really good also on hard court, on indoor, and grass doesn't matter, is only one tournament.   
Well, you know, I'm happy.  I'm happy.  I say that two days ago that more Italian -- he's 26, 27.  Berrettini is 22 so is really young and improve a lot in the last year.  So Italian school now is start to work better, so I'm the old one.  Seppi is the old one.   
And I'm really happy that more new players are coming.   
 Q.  I'm preparing an article about you, about your personality, and I want to know, most of the time when the media is talking about you is to point your bad temper on the court.  I want to know, who is the real Fognini in your daily life?  
FABIO FOGNINI: I not explain to you.  I'm going to lose 30 minutes.  Sorry.  Is tough question, I mean...   
 Q.  Yeah, I know.  
FABIO FOGNINI: When you play -- I mean, when I play, of course it's my work, so I would like to make my job, my work, 100%.  So I'm frustrating a little bit because sometimes I play bad, and of course I lose points, I lose matches.  So it's my work and I want to play doing my work 100%.  So I'm like that.   
Outside, not a lot of these people know me really well, so is long, is long, long (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT