THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 7, 2017
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/F. Fognini
6-2, 4-6, 6-1, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tough match.  Looked as though you were getting close to leveling it there?
FABIO FOGNINI: Yeah.  He won.  That's the sport.  But it's okay.  Right now I don't feel really happy, but I'm really, really happy about my performance, my tennis, because most of the time when I was playing on this line it was better than him.
But when I went 5-2 up in the fourth he was playing really good, and I try to do something more, going on the net, do something me on my side to do the point, and I don't know.  But it's normal.  He's one of the best defenders in the world.
Nothing to say, nothing to say.  Right now of course I'm not happy, but remember he's No. 1 in the world.  Most of the time I was playing better than him.  That's the sport.
Q. How did you find the atmosphere?
FABIO FOGNINI: I mean, it's nice.  Even, I mean, the crowd I think was happy for the match.  At the end, when I was finished, everybody was saying was happy.  So was a really good atmosphere.
Q. What happened with the point penalty?
FABIO FOGNINI: That's a good question, because we can talk about here all the night.  But the referee is French.  So Italy, French, we always fighting (smiling).  And they never won against us.
So is strange, because I can stay here all the night.  The first time was directly because I threw the racquet on the court, but I think first day or second day I do the same on other court, and he just call me a warning for nothing.  In the second he was arguing with me.
I mean, I will pay the fine but for sure I will say something not really good.  Not at the chair umpire but to the referee.
Q. What did the umpire say to you about why...
FABIO FOGNINI: He didn't say nothing.  That's a good question.  You have to ask him, because the beginning, the first one, it's really close.
Q. But you don't know why you got the send one?
FABIO FOGNINI: No, I know about the second one.  I was really angry with me, but if I was doing the second one I was doing not the first one.
Q. What did you do for the second?
FABIO FOGNINI: I was angry with me and nothing else.
Q. I think it was described as an obscene gesture.  What you did the second time was described as an obscene gesture.
FABIO FOGNINI: No, I just say was really angry with me because I was, I think, Love-30, and then 30-All, and he was serving wide.  I think I returned really well and I miss a backhand or something like was not to miss this point.  Was really tough.  Was 30-All.  But, you know, I will talk to him.
Q. And your injury?  What was your injury?
FABIO FOGNINI: No, no, no, it's not injury.  I think the courts this year are really, really bad and last few years.  When he was serving to my forehand, I went like this, but just for prevention I was putting the tape because I was starting here in Wimbledon with some pain on my heel.  On the tendon, also.  So I prefer to put the tape.  And that's it.
Q. But you felt like the court was a lot worse than in previous years?
FABIO FOGNINI: No, was really bad, the court.  But they do the best that they can.  Is not their fault.  I think this year was really sunny days, so the grass is not really good like last years.
Q. Hard to move?
FABIO FOGNINI: I move well normally, but, you know, I don't know what to say.
Q. The second penalty point...
FABIO FOGNINI: I don't want to talk about that anymore.  So change your question.
Q. Can I just clarify one thing, though?  Do you accept that one and you're not happy about the first one or you don't accept?
FABIO FOGNINI: I just tell you.  I tell you before.  That's finished.  For me it's finished.  You don't understand, it's not my fault.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT