MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 29, 2017
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
F. FOGNINI/K. Nishikori   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  In the past, you've expressed an admiration or appreciation of Roger Federer's game.  How would you like and what would it mean to you to meet him in the final here?  
FABIO FOGNINI: It's not bad what you say; I would like for sure.  You know, at the moment I'm just happy.  Of course it's a big, big tournament for me at the moment; feeling really good on court and other times, so this is the best thing that we can have this week.   
Happy about my performance.  Of course the result, it's positive.  It's like a dream maybe.  I play next match Rafa or Sock, so going to be really, really tough match.   
Try to be focus on my game, try to do my best, and then if it's dreaming coming true, I'm here.   
 Q.  One of the so-called experts upstairs said that you look like a guy who could possibly win a Masters or even a major.  Would you say that guy is delusional or pretty smart?  
FABIO FOGNINI: I don't understand your question.  Sorry.  (Through translation.)   
Who told you that?   
 Q.  One of the experts up there was saying that in the press, the way you been playing this week.  
FABIO FOGNINI: I mean, that's good to heard, but at the same time, I know that I have to work really hard.  Listen, that kind of thing, I mean, you always appreciate.  It's nice to listen.   
 Q.  There was a sense from Kei when he was talking he was a little bit not 100% physically.  
FABIO FOGNINI: I don't care.   
 Q.  No, but...  
FABIO FOGNINI: Don't be like Italian press, please.   
 Q.  Did you feel this a little bit?  
FABIO FOGNINI: No, for sure, for sure.  You know, I was excited to do my game since the beginning, but I was knowing that he was -- saw in the last match against Delbonis he called the physio for treat I think his knee.   
You know, today was feeling during the middle the first set was missing a lot of ball with his forehand.  I think he have a little bit pain on his wrist.  I think everybody have pain on the wrist because the condition here in Miami are completely different than Indian Wells.   
So that's the sport.   
 Q.  And another one was I noticed on the TV that when you were winning points that Christian Vieri was jumping around like he was a goal.  Is he a friend of yours?  What's the story there.  I know he lives in Miami.  
FABIO FOGNINI: Yeah, we know each other really well.  I made the pre-season here in Key Biscayne because Franco is living here.  You know, we know each other well.  We went dinner few times.  We chatting every day.   
So I mean, he's a champion of the football, he was a champion of the football, so he always try to give me some tips.  You have to understand that it's different, tennis than football.  It's okay.   
But I'm happy for sure because it's a really good friend.  He know a lot of sport.   
 Q.  You mentioned you would have Rafa or Sock next.  You've played each of them here before.  What challenges do each present in the next round?  
FABIO FOGNINI: Doesn't matter.  I mean, Rafa, everybody know Rafa.  I can describe him like -- I can't tell you.  Everybody know him.   
Jack, he's in really good shape.  I think he's coming with a really good start of the year.  He won two tournament and made semifinal last week, so he play really solid at the moment.   
I think it's going to be good match.  You know, we will see.  I will saw the match on TV because I'm relaxing and go to dinner, and doesn't matter who I'm playing.   
 Q.  In the future with the news you're becoming a father, is that going to make you slow down your career or does that motivate you to play more?  
FABIO FOGNINI: I think it's a good motivation for sure.  Flavia is home.  Today is 60 days I away, so at the same time it's really difficult.   
I was like this to leaving from I think Sao Paulo home because I was not sure to play Indian Wells.  I ask her, listen, I have this question for you.  What are you going to do?  At the same time I start to feel another time well on court competing better and better, but you have the priority now.   
You can decide or tell me if you're feeling good, you are happy, you stay home and I going to play.  If not, of course I coming home.  That's the big -- I mean, it's not big problem, but it's the next problem that we have to talk after here, because it's going to be really important.   
I think it's one and a half months left, so we are really -- I mean, I have no time.  We have to decide what is the best solution to me after Miami, what we going to do if she feeling good or not.   
I mean, she going to move to Barcelona after -- during Monte-Carlo.  We will see.  I mean, I would like to ask her after Miami if she's feeling good.  For sure calendar -- I mean, I play every week on clay.  That's the big thing.  The other, I have to decide when is coming, I mean, I'm leaving for sure, I go home, and I have also Davis Cup.   
It's a lot of tournaments, so I have to make a really good plan and we will see.   
 Q.  I'm going to ask you about red clay versus hard courts.  If I'm not mistaken, all four of your victories have come on red clay.  I want to see what you feel about purple hard courts.  
FABIO FOGNINI: I feel good.  I always tell you that I really love play on this surface.  I think '14 I play fourth round here, if I remember well; I play fourth round Indian Wells; I play fourth round in Australian Open.   
In '15 I play fourth round in US Open beating Rafa in the third round.   
So I always feeling good.  Of course this one is the best result of my career at the moment.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT