CHINA OPEN
October 10, 2015
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. You couldn't manage the win today. How do you sum up your performance?
FABIO FOGNINI: Well, not bad. I mean, was I think good tennis, even the weather was really bad today. Of course, I disappointed because I lose. 
But this is sport. I think I play good tennis. I think the first set was better going on the tiebreak, but I was a bit unlucky. Of course, I was doing everything well on the last game, and I missed two balls that was easy balls. 
I was losing the match for one break on the first and one break on the second, even if I was breakpoint on the 5‑3 on the last game. 
But, you know, Rafa today was serving better than the last day. Sometime he was lucky with his forehand. Sometime of course he play really good. 
But I have to accept these kind of matches, that I know I can beat him anytime at the moment. So it's really good for me that I know I can play with him normally great match. Happy about this tournament and looking forward to Shanghai now. 

Q. You throw your racquet to the linesman. What was happening? 
FABIO FOGNINI: No, that was not voluntary, for sure, otherwise was really bad. 
I was finish the forehand and I was doing like this, but was going directly to him. I apologize. But I think it's not important. 
It's important that I feel confidence another time on court. Of course, not happy because I lost today, but happy about my game. 

Q. Do you think you play better when Nadal is on the other side?
FABIO FOGNINI: I don't know. Probably. I don't know. That's normal. It's one of the best player in the world. So I know that I have to risk with him, especially because he run every ball. 
Sometimes he wait my mistake. That's the first thing. And the second thing, I say we always play good match against him. Even if I lost today, I think I play great tennis. 
I just say that he was serving better in the last few matches that we play. I was playing not better ‑ how you say ‑ I was not in control about my forehand in a crucial point. I was feeling bad with my backhand, especially when I have the chance to pushing the ball in and try to do something. 
Today I think was not the key, but was really important. But, you know, even if I was break up, was really, really at the beginning of the match. But if I have to say something, I was not really feeling good with my backhand today. 

Q. Do you think you're developing a bit of a rivalry with Nadal? I think you've played him five times this year. There was some sort of argument in Hamburg. Do you think there's an extra edge when you play Rafa?
FABIO FOGNINI: What happened in Hamburg is past, for sure. But I have nothing to say with him. I have all respect with him outside and inside the court. I was telling another time, the history was not against him, but against his team, especially the uncle. 
But is something that is really far away. If I have to do something, I do it in the moment. If I do it wrong, I say, Sorry. If I'm right, I'm right, and that's it. 
This is not the question I have to answer you. I prefer talking about tennis. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT