U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2015
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
F. LOPEZ/F. Fognini   
6-3, 7-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How tough was the match?  
FABIO FOGNINI: It was tough, for sure.  Even if I lost three set, I think the first two set I had my chance.  Especially at the beginning of the match on 15-40.   
When I lost the serve, he broke my serve like really stupid game.  I missed two forehand.  Of course, I have to be honest, with this kind of player you have to be more solid.   
I think especially today my forehand was not working really well, when it was helping me during the whole week.   
But, you know, I had my chance for sure, especially first and second set.  But, you know, was different match than the last three match that I play.   He was the only player that he play like this.   
Yeah, I mean, I was feeling the ball not really bad, but after two set, especially at the beginning, also the third one when I broke another time, I went to the net twice and missed two points, everything was going the bad way.   
But another time I went 3-1 down, Love-30, and he is one of the best servers in the circuit.  So he was really, how you can say, really solid on that game also because he was serving really well, especially on advantage.   
I have to accept that.  It's big point that he have, it's the service.  But in general I'm happy.  Of course, I'm not happy because I lost, but I'm happy about my game.   
 Q.  Was there much of a letdown after such an emotional high of the last match?  
FABIO FOGNINI: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, if I have to tell you something, for sure today I was much tired than yesterday.  Yesterday I was feeling good.  I would say, Okay, let's try.   
But tonight and this morning I wake up really, really not bad, but bad sensation.  I was feeling my shoulder, my knee.  Everything almost.  But I think is normal.   
I'm happy to play the fourth round.  I have to be happy, of course, because I won three good matches.  Hopefully I going to repeat this one on the future.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT