ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2015
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  F. FOGNINI/T. Ito6-3, 6-2, 6-2THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.Q. Were you happy with your match?  You seemed very calm today.FABIO FOGNINI: I am (smiling).  So why are you surprised?Q. Yeah.FABIO FOGNINI: Why?Q. I'm used to seeing you more excited.FABIO FOGNINI: I'm happy, yes, because for sure I won the first match.  First match is always difficult, especially here. Everybody, I mean, we have tension because it's a big tournament.  But happy for sure about my performance.  Three set to Love in first match is never easy, so happy to play again and go into the second round.Q. I would like to know, when you are one of those players behind the absolute top 8, top 10, what is your mindset when you are coming to a Grand Slam tournament?  Everybody is trying to win a tournament like this.  How do you think when there is a great top 4, what is your mind about trying to win a Grand Slam tournament?FABIO FOGNINI: It's a big thing, for sure.  But, you know, try to win against them, it's already long.  I played my best result, for sure, I think Grand Slam here in 2011, I think. Have now the possibility to play in the quarter against Novak.  So for sure it's something that I will remember. But at the same time, I mean, it's difficult to answer, because Federer, Nadal, Djokovic, and I think in this time Andy, are a little bit on the top that they are the one.  Ferrer can be dangerous on clay.  For me it's something at the moment I have to think on the second match that for sure I'm happy to be here, happy the way I played today, happy the way I feeling another time here. On clay I'm happy for how I played, especially, because after Monte-Carlo was feeling better and better.  I won good match on clay with Rafa again in Barcelona, with Dimitrov a good match, with Tomas in Rome.  Win against them, it's something different, something special for sure.Q. Some players says this year the condition are slow, with slow balls.  Do you think that is good for you?FABIO FOGNINI: I mean, if it's slow, yeah.  I think it's good, for sure.  The ball I think, also the ball after two, three games are really big. This condition, we have to play under these conditions, so it's nothing say about balls are always the same and cold.  I think, today was a little bit slower than the normal, because was raining a little bit in the morning, but nothing else.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT