WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2014
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. ANDERSON/F. Fognini
  4/6, 6/4, 2/6, 6/2, 6/1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Two sets to one up.   You were in a good position.   What happened there?   
FABIO FOGNINI:   I lost the match.   
   
 Q.   Why?   What happened?   What went wrong?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   I think if we talking about tennis today, I say that I'm really happy about my performance.  
Last two matches I play bad.   Today was a really tough opponent.   Of course I'm not happy, but I'm happy the way I play.   
I say to my coach that, Okay, now a little bit angry because of course when you lose you're like that, but I'm happy because I start at the beginning.   I had the chance on the fourth, if I remember.   On 15‑30 serve three aces, and then I play a bad‑‑ I was unlucky I think on the break on the 3‑2, I think.   I mean, it was lucky.  
Then I think this game is ‑‑ I lose a little bit my control of my game, because until there was okay.   Was feeling great.   Was a battle like normal.   
I think I was play good.   So performance about today, one more step up from the beginning and when we start the tournament.   
   
 Q.   There is a feeling among some people that with two seeded players you should have been on a better court than 17.   
FABIO FOGNINI:   I think so, yeah, but doesn't matter.   They make the schedule and doesn't matter.   
   
 Q.   There was a feeling you were maybe being punished for the previous round that you were put on that court.   Do you think that plays a part in it?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   I mean, it's strange, because ‑‑ if you tell me this, yes, it's strange, because in first round with a qually I play on court 18, and today I am 16 and he is 20 and we play on Court 17.  
But I really don't care.   
   
 Q.   You basically ran to serve when you were 5‑Love down in the fifth.   Can you tell me what was going on?   You were very quick to go and serve at 5‑Love down in the fifth.   What was going through your mind at that point?   
FABIO FOGNINI:   Maybe I can play one more game I'm in the shower.   
   
 Q.   How would you sum up the time here overall?   Obviously you've had this fine and people are saying maybe with the quality of both of you today you should have been on potentially a show court.   How would you view your experience overall?   
FABIO FOGNINI:   I mean, you talking about the first?   I have to answer about the first one or...  
   
 Q.   I mean, obviously the fine has been confirmed.   
FABIO FOGNINI:   If it's confirm, I play.   
   
 Q.   Fair enough.   Overall your experience at Wimbledon?   
FABIO FOGNINI:   It's tough to say, because when you play normally on this court, it's really difficult.   Of course the top seed have always‑‑ I don't know if it's priority or if it's normal that they play normal on big court if they have a chance to repeat the point.  
But it's like that.   If the question is about before I suppose to play on better court I say yes for sure.   It's not my fault.   The organization make the decision and that's it.  
   
 Q.   Would playing on a bigger court have helped in any way?   Would you be able to feed off a bigger crowd?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   I don't know if the crowd or not.   I say maybe if you are better court of course you have challenge and you can have review points that you're not, how you say, agree about the decision of the chair, maybe the chair umpire or the linesmen.   
We play on 17, and that's it.  
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy Wimbledon?   Do you enjoy this tournament?   
FABIO FOGNINI:   Yeah, I really enjoy.   I mean, this year, yes, because I play third round.   Also the years before I always come here with a lot of memory.   I like it here because I'm really fast, so I can run really well.   So I really love.  
The only things I don't like is the rule.   
   
 Q.   The rules?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   In what respect?   Which rules?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   Your rules, Wimbledon's rules.   White color.   Maybe if you see today I crash the racquets in my knee because maybe the court is really soft.   I can damage a lot.  
That's it.   
   
 Q.   Doesn't sound like you've had a happy time here.   
FABIO FOGNINI:   It's true.   
   
 Q.   You haven't had a happy time?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   It's true.   But if we talking about tennis, I say that I really enjoy because the other stuff I say no.  
   
 Q.   Are you repentant about this?   Do you think you would do it differently next time, or are you you?   
FABIO FOGNINI:   I always be the same.   Sorry guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT