MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 14, 2014
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. FOGNINI/J. Sousa
  5‑7, 7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Can you describe the rivalry between Rafa and Novak right now, what that has meant to tennis and how you would characterize it?
FABIO FOGNINI:   From Rafa to? 

Q.   Novak, what that's meant to tennis overall. 
FABIO FOGNINI:   I mean, you ask me about me and Rafa, me and Nole, or in general? 

Q.   In general. 
FABIO FOGNINI:   Well, I don't know how to answer you.   I'm serious. 
I mean, they are two great player, for sure.   They top in the world.   They won everything.   It's good for the tennis.   But if you ask me another question maybe in general I can tell you something more.   Like this, no.   Sorry. 

Q.   In the third set at 2‑All, it seemed that you came more to the net, played more solid.   Did you feel more confident at that point that you're going to close it out?
FABIO FOGNINI:   No.   I think was really difficult match.   First match is always difficult, especially when have a lot of confident, you play good on clay.   I play good on clay last week. 
I don't know what happened to me.   I was 5‑3 in the first set, then I was 7‑5, 2‑0, then 5‑2. 
If you want to talk about my tennis, I'm not happy today.   But, you know, on the other hand, I was I think a bit lucky.   But happy to be in the second round again because this victory, it's really important for me. 

Q.   Last year you made the semifinals here.   Do you feel more pressure because of that?
FABIO FOGNINI:   No.   I mean, I feel good.   Right now everybody in Italy, they talking that I have to be top 10.   It's not my problem.   I'm okay at the moment.   I feel really good.   I'm in a good way.   I'm really confident. 
Of course, I have four big tournaments to play, another one like Munich, a lot of points during this time.   I just thinking about my game every week.   If I have the chance or not, depends because too many things can happen. 
I'm ready, but you never know. 

Q.   Were you nervous?   Only two points from losing the match.   Did you start to feel nervous?
FABIO FOGNINI:   No.   I was nervous because, of course, I didn't close the first set.   When I went 5‑4 with serve, I was completely, I don't know, without energy, without power on my legs.   I went 7‑5, 2‑0 in 10 minutes.   I was asking, What happened to me? 
It's normal if you have tension because you're really close to close the first set.   But at the same times I have no idea what happened.   Other hand, I say I was a bit lucky. 
But, you know, when you have the chance to do it, you have to take it.   I was good on that, too, I think. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT