AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2014
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/F. Fognini
  6‑3, 6‑0, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to be playing a friend, especially when the friend is Novak Djokovic?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   It's never easy play against him.   He won four time here.   
I think I played first and third set not really bad as the score is.   But, you know, he's No. 2 in the world.   Probably 1 here at the moment.   And nothing.   
I play good tournament.   I lost fourth round here, first time in my life.   And nothing.   I wish him good luck.   
   
 Q.   You were making a lot of jokes and things on the court.   Did you decide if you're going to lose, you might as well have fun with it?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   No.   It's never easy.   I told you.   I was play at the beginning, was good match.   I think I play good.   On the baseline, no problem.   
But with him it's really difficult because his ball is coming really fast.   His angle, he play along line backhand unbelievable.   He's serving better than me.   
For that he is No. 2 in the world.   He try to come again No.1.   
   
 Q.   You showed some football tricks today.   Are you crazy about football like other Italians?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   I am a football player (laughter).   No, I'm joking.   
I love to play, yes.   I love to play.   To watching also special.   
   
 Q.   Any favorite teams?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   Yeah.   I'm for Inter and Genoa.   
   
 Q.   Do you go to the national team matches?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   No.   I've never been.   I have no time also because I travel all the week.   I have never time.   I mean, when I have time, I love to watch football, yes.   But national team, no, never.   
   
 Q.   It's very hard to play against Novak.   It's been a great tournament for you.   Do you feel good about it, despite today, where your game is at?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   I mean, when you lose, you're never happy.   I mean, especially me.   But, you know, I told you two minutes ago I play against him, it's always difficult.   
But I have to say the good things.   Play first time here fourth round.   I won one match here in all my five, six year.   If you see this thing, I'm happy.   But at the same time, no.   Okay, I play against him, but I'm supposed to play better today.   But I have no chance.   
   
 Q.   You and Novak have known each other for a long time.   What was he like when you first met him and how is he different now?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   He is No. 2 and I am No.15.   That's the difference.   What I have to answer you?   I mean, he's one of the best player in the world.   He won so many tournament.   He won every tournament.   So maybe this is the different.   
   
 Q.   His personality, what was he like as a boy?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   We know each other very well because he was training and practicing in Italia long time.   He live in Monte‑Carlo, I live in San Remo, so we are half an hour ‑‑ I live 30 minutes from there.   So sometimes we practice together, we saw each other.   
But, you know, when I have time.   When he's playing, normally he play till the second week of a Grand Slam so it's never easy to see each other.   
   
 Q.   What have you got coming up next, your next tournament?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   Me?   I go in Davis Cup in Argentina.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT