MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 15, 2009
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. FOGNINI/M. Cilic
  6-2, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Obviously a very easy win today on paper. Did you expect a harder match?
 FABIO FOGNINI: I was playing really good match. I think was not really -- he was playing not really good match. But, I mean, I play. I just try to enjoy this victory and we will see how I go against Andy. 

 Q. You play Andy tomorrow. Last time you played was in Montréal, yeah?
 FABIO FOGNINI: Yeah, we know each other very well. We was playing so many times junior. He was better during in junior. You know, every match is different. 
 I play him one time in Montréal. He was coming with wrist injury. There was playing unbelievable matches. He was not 100%. But tomorrow I think is different match. I try to do my best and we will see. 

 Q. Having beaten Berdych and now Cilic, is this like one of your best runs of two results in a row?
 FABIO FOGNINI: Yeah, this is for sure, because my ranking is not really good. I'm 108 this week. But I was play good also in the quallies. So I have to enjoy that and keep forward. 

 Q. You say you know Andy well from junior days. Are you surprised that he's got to 4 in the world?
 FABIO FOGNINI: No. Andy, he is one of the best in the world, you know. He's won a really good tournament. He won Miami. He beat so many times Federer, Nadal and Djokovic. So I respect him. But I have to do my best tomorrow and we will see what happen on the court. 

 Q. How old were you when you first played Andy?
 FABIO FOGNINI: I think the first time we play was Livorno, under 14. I don't remember exactly because maybe was him or Djokovic. I don't remember. 

 Q. Doesn't matter. 
 FABIO FOGNINI: I lost in the semifinal. Of course, that I remember. 

 Q. When you played him in juniors, were you thinking he would be a big star in tennis?
 FABIO FOGNINI: You know, Andy have talent. So he play unbelievable on grass court. He play unbelievable in every surface. So he was really good also in junior. Was one of the best with me and Mascha. We know each other very well. I think the mentally [sic] of Italy is different than the other country because maybe is play good to me now, but I try to work every day and we will see what is my best. 

 Q. Were you friends at juniors with Murray?
 FABIO FOGNINI: No, he was a friend. I tell you before, we know each other very well. Me, Novak and also Zverev, he was playing like we are '87. Del Potro was playing with us, '88. So we know very well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT