MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2013
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  F. FOGNINI/T. Berdych  
6‑4, 6‑2  
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday Tomas lost all three breakpoints he faced.   Today you broke him four times.   Did you sense he was nervous on his serve, something weak on his serve today?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   I mean, no really.   You know, it's always difficult when Tomas serves.   He make a lot of ace.   
But my coach was thinking to play more on the baseline, like also on the second serve, because he have a good kick, especially wide on advantage.   
I think I doing great.   This is one of my first goal of today.   I return really good.   I mean, I push the ball and I try to make long rally because he's really tall and he's moving so‑and‑so.   
I think this was the goal of today.   
   
 Q.   Could you tell us the impact of your coach, Jose Perlas, because this guy doesn't seem to be really funny.   You are a funny guy.   How do you mix together?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   You know him?   
   
 Q.   Not really well.   So tell me.   
FABIO FOGNINI:   Also everybody know me outside the court.   I looking like I'm not funny outside the court.   
I just tell you, if you know him, he's really funny.   It's really comfortable, so...   
For the moment, the relationship is work.   If you want to know him, tell me, and we arrange.   
   
 Q.   What did he bring to your game?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   For the moment I feel really good on the court.   I just play really well these three matches.   Is my first time to quarterfinal here in Monte‑Carlo.   With the Italian people, I think they're happy.   I'm Italian, so I feel home here.   
I have another opportunity to play a great match I think on center court tomorrow with full stadium.   I'm just happy for that.   We will see tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   If it's Gasquet, the last two times you played him, he kind of destroyed you.   It was hard court.   What do you see on clay?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   I mean, both player are really good, Gasquet and Cilic.   Gasquet now this year again is top 10.   For sure I have nothing to say.   Is one of the best player in the world.   
Also Cilic, we play against him in Davis Cup.   In important point 2‑1, he beat Seppi three sets to love.   
I don't know.   I just have to say I'm just looking forward on my game because if I stay like that on the court, maybe some way can open.   
   
 Q.   Do you like the way Gasquet plays, his style?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   I like my style.   I mean, he have a lot of talent, for sure.   He play maybe when he was 16 or less, I don't remember, he have maybe the best backhand in the tour.   
We're talking about Cilic or Gasquet, they have to play already.   Doesn't matter.   I just want to enjoy this match.   Rest, recovery well, and tomorrow is another day.   
   
 Q.   The support from the crowd, is it really a big bonus here?  
FABIO FOGNINI:   Yeah, of course.   Tomorrow maybe some more Italian are coming, so that good for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT