NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 22, 2014
Nick Leddy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We were talking about the loss, obviously the way it played out.   It was very unlike you guys.   At the end of the day is it just a loss and you erase it or is there a concern how it ended last night?   
NICK LEDDY:   I think we had to look at the game a little bit.   The first couple periods we were the way we wanted to play.   The third obviously really wasn't.   
I think we have to sit down and look at it a little bit.   But you have to let it go.   We're going into a pretty hostile building and obviously a very good team.   
   
 Q.   You have had success there before.   Does that help at all?   
NICK LEDDY:   I think with playoffs it's a totally different breed.   The crowd is going to be a little more amped up.   I guess the playing styles are always a little more intense.   
It should be a good game.   
   
 Q.   You get Andrew Shaw back.   How much of a jolt is that going to be for you guys?   
NICK LEDDY:   That will be awesome.   Definitely miss having him in the lineup.   His presence is always felt when he's playing.   
   
 Q.   Do you remember when your last breakaway goal was?  
NICK LEDDY:   No.   I don't think I even had a breakaway goal.   I remember I had a breakaway a couple years ago, but I didn't score.   So that was nice to help contribute.   
   
 Q.   Channeling your inner Kane on that one?  
NICK LEDDY:   I guess so.   I guess I was trying to one‑up him in a way.   I don't think anyone could really do that.   
   
 Q.   Did you know going into it what you wanted to do with that shot?  
NICK LEDDY:   Not really.   I knew Quick is a very athletic goalie, he's good taking away the bottom of the net.   I was thinking just to try something.   It worked out.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever seen a loss like that from this team?   Are you surprised?   
NICK LEDDY:   I think it was probably a little bit of a shock to us all.   But that's how playoffs are.   You have to play the full 60 minutes to get a win.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT