U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2020
Spencer Tibbits
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. You had the honor of hitting the first ball; how was it being an Oregon State kid and having the chance to hit the first ball in the state amateur in Oregon?
SPENCER TIBBITS:   It's pretty cool.  I've gotten to play here quite a bit over the years, so playing the U.S. Amateur here, being the first tee shot is pretty cool.  It was a neat experience.
Q. You've played here a bunch of times; do you feel like coming in you had a little bit of an advantage maybe knowing the winds, knowing kind of the turf, knowing the conditions?
SPENCER TIBBITS:   Maybe a little bit.  But even when I come out here, it's just as hard for me.  I mean, it's howling and the grass a little bit here you're hitting off fescue, and putting with the wind is really hard.  Yeah, I've had some practice on it, but still, when I come out here it's just as challenging it seems as the first time I've done it.
Q. How many times have you played out here?
SPENCER TIBBITS:   I've probably played -- probably overall maybe 15-ish times, 15, 20 times around all the courses.
Q. All in competition?
SPENCER TIBBITS:   No, not necessarily.  I've played Old MacDonald once, played a tournament on Trails once before, and the last couple years we've had college tournaments at Pacific Dunes and Bandon Dunes.
Q. Do you feel like you got a little bit of a break?  You got out there this morning when it's not as windy and it's projected to be really blowing this afternoon.
SPENCER TIBBITS:   I got a huge break.  When I was off at 7:00 a.m., I was like, thank you so much.  I didn't take advantage of the first like 10 holes.  There was a little wind, but not nearly as bad as what some of the other guys are going to have to deal with later in the day.  I just made a bogey and a bunch of pars, and then kind of towards the end I knew it was getting windy, so I was like, just hold on, and somehow managed to hit some really good shots and make some birdies coming in.
Q. I think your dad said you played better when it got windier.
SPENCER TIBBITS:   Yeah, I think I just beared down a little bit more and knew that each shot was a little bit more meaningful.
Q. When it gets like that, do you find mentally you focus a little harder?
SPENCER TIBBITS:   I do.  I also feel like I'm a little freer because I know if it goes wayward, it's really hard to begin with, so you've got to be kind to yourself when all that's -- it's going to be really hard to get these shots off, so if it doesn't go your way, it's going to be okay.  Everyone is going to deal with it.
Q. What were your birdies on the back?
SPENCER TIBBITS:   I birdied the par-5, 13, and then almost aced 15, hit it to about six inches.
Q. What club?
SPENCER TIBBITS:   6-iron from 158, just punched one.  It looked like it just barely grazed the hole, and then I managed to birdie 18, as well.
Q. Did you reach it in two?
SPENCER TIBBITS:   No, I kind of ballooned one in the right fairway and hit another ballooner kind of short left and I hit a nice pitch out to about seven, eight feet but straight downhill and really had trouble reading it because of all the wind, so I picked the line and it happened to go in.
Q. How far was the putt you said?
SPENCER TIBBITS:   Probably eight feet, yeah.
Q. Obviously a great start with a 70.  Going into tomorrow, any type of game plan for Trails?  It's a little different type of course.
SPENCER TIBBITS:   Yeah, I've played Trails in some pretty high winds, so I know it's going to be really hard.  I know that.  Bogeys are almost inevitable at this point.  Just as long as I can limit those to bogeys and nothing worse and just try to make as many pars as I can, that's basically what I'm going to try to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT