CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 28, 2016
Roderick Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RODERICK JOHNSON: He's no amateur.  He knows what it takes, and going to the bowl game.  I haven't seen nothing change as far as his attitude or work ethic.  It's always been high, high motor, high motor kind of guy.  Always trying to get better, make everybody better around him.
Q. Obviously the past two years things have taken off for him and the whole D-line.  From your perspective, what are they better at now?
RODERICK JOHNSON: I think they're really better in their technique, I mean, they're having fun with it most of all, but they're out there flying around and getting after it and having fun.
Q. Some of the guys were saying he's very good at coaching individual guys.  Have you noticed guys figuring out their style a little bit against you?
RODERICK JOHNSON: I have seen him pull guys to that side and help him tweak their things, and then they go and be victorious, and that shows that he knows what he's talking about because he watches so much film and he knows what fits for the guys, so he's pretty good at what he does.
Q. Does playing in Miami give you guys a certain comfort level, been here before, not too far from home?
RODERICK JOHNSON: Yeah, of course.  And then we have a lot of fans in South Florida, great fans, awesome fans, and just to be here in Florida, just to play, again, is pretty good for us.
Q. Has that shown up this week, feeling comfortable in knowing your way around here and that type of thing?
RODERICK JOHNSON: Yes, sir, it is.
Q. Anything specific come to mind in that regard?
RODERICK JOHNSON: No, nothing real specific, just being in Florida is pretty good for us.
Q. What have you seen in terms of Michigan's defensive line?  It looks like they have a unique situation because they've got so many guys.  For you specifically.
RODERICK JOHNSON: Just how big and physical they are.  I mean, not only do they got physical players, but they've got a lot of seniors and leadership and experience on their defense, how physical they play and how big they stand out on film is pretty big for us.
Q. Who have you faced that's been -- Wormley maybe or Taco?
RODERICK JOHNSON: Wormley mostly.
Q. He's a unique guy being that big that can move like that, right?
RODERICK JOHNSON: I mean, I seen on film how pretty big and thick he is.  And the way -- he's very athletic and he knows how to hold the point.  He's got to have my work cut out for me.
Q. Who's on Taco on the other side?  Have you seen something unique from him?  It seems like his game has kind of changed?
RODERICK JOHNSON: Both the ends, Taco, he's pretty fast with the ball.  He's got a good first step and things like that.  He's also good with his hands and good in space.  The D-ends, they're pretty good and talented, and I can't wait to play against them.
Q. Freddie is a pretty serious guy.  Is he always the same kind of guy he is when we talk to him in interviews or does he loosen up a little bit?
RODERICK JOHNSON: He loosens up.  He's a jokester.  There's a face behind that face he got on there.  I'll tell you that.
Q. What does he hide that maybe we don't see, that people don't know about him as the unsung guy who's helped this offense a lot?
RODERICK JOHNSON: He's not only just -- he kind of brings the juice to practice.  He does his job.  He stays under the radar, and then when it's time to take the pads off, he knows how to make you laugh.
Q. Does he kind of get an honorary offensive lineman role being a guy who blocks all the time?
RODERICK JOHNSON: Of course not.  The offensive line doesn't open up holes, but Freddie does just as much work as we do, and sometimes he scores a touchdown, so he's the man with the plan.
Q. Going back to the Michigan D-line, whenever anyone talks about the Michigan defense that's the first thing they point to.  In the last three days of practice, how do you feel about going up against them right now?
RODERICK JOHNSON: I feel pretty good.  I think we had a very good bowl prep practice and things like that.  We finished the week just fine tuning things and making less mistakes.  That's always our goal, making less mistakes than we have, but I like ourselves going into the game.
Q. You're going against a coach who's pretty much become the face of the Michigan football program, brought the team a lot of success.  What was your first thought when you hear the name Jim Harbaugh?
RODERICK JOHNSON: Very great coach, very well-experienced and things like that.  I mean, not only just playing against Michigan is going to be fun, but to get to play against Coach Harbaugh, that's going to be a great experience for myself, just to know the background and experience he has is going to be pretty big for them.  But it's going to be like an honor just to go across and shake his hand, as well.
Q. What kind of personality does he have, and is it good for college football?
RODERICK JOHNSON: I think it'll be pretty good.  You can see the success that Michigan has, that Coach Harbaugh knows what he's doing with his team and he's fine tuning them and making them greater football players, and things have been working out for them.
Q. Do you follow him on Twitter?
RODERICK JOHNSON: I don't follow him on Twitter.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT