THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 27, 2020
Wyndham Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 2-under par 68, nice start. Can we get some comments on your round?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, I really played good all day, and I just had two bad swings that cost me about three shots, but other than that, I hit it good and stayed patient and made some birdies on my back side.
Q. Where were the bad swings?
WYNDHAM CLARK: So it was funny, it happened on 15 at the start of the Bear Trap. I was even par going into that hole, and really didn't even hit that bad of a shot, just came up barely short in the water and made a double. And then next hole, wind didn't catch it, made bogey on 16, and I felt like I had really only hit maybe one bad shot in six holes and I was 3-over. Then I birdied 18 and got some momentum, and then eagled 3, which really helped, and birdied 4. Yeah, I had a good back side.
Q. Take us through No. 3 if you can.
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, I hit driver, I was in the left rough, had 225 to the pin, hit a 7-iron. It came out of the rough, ran up to about 15 feet and then made the putt.
Q. Talk a little bit about really trending well with your last three starts, T34, T18, T17. Just talk a little bit about your confidence level right now.
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, it's definitely growing a lot. I've played a lot of good golf, and those finishes really are -- don't really show how good I've played because I was leading some of those or I was in second in some of them. You know, I'm continuing to grow in my game, and I hope that I continue to play well and start taking it to the weekend.
Q. T7 here last year, just talk a little bit about this tournament, this golf course, how it suits your game.
WYNDHAM CLARK: It's funny, it really doesn't suit my game. I just played a lot here growing up. Tons of junior events, so I've seen the course a lot. It's very tough, and if you're off your game at all, it's very penal. It's funny, I don't really feel like it suits my game, but for some reason I score out here.
Q. 3-over in the early going, able to shoot a couple under when it was all said and done. How would you describe it out there today?
WYNDHAM CLARK: It was very challenging. I'm very happy with my round, and when I made my birdie putt on 7, even though 8 and 9 were birdie holes, I was like, I just want to get in because I know 2-under is a good score, and some guys might go shoot better in the afternoon if this wind is going to die down, but I'm happy with my round.
Q. When you know it's going to be difficult, how do you approach it?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Well, you just have to know it's going to be tough, and if you make a mistake, you just kind of want to minimize that. Unfortunately we made a double, and we didn't really try and limit those this week and obviously this year, but if you get in trouble you've just got to make a bogey, and then if you get downwind and have a good number, you can make birdies.
Q. Great chance to win here a year ago. When you return this go-around, how much confidence do you have?
WYNDHAM CLARK: You know, it's funny, if I get myself in that position again, I think I'll do a lot better. My game is so much better than it was this time last year. I feel like I'm better off the tee, better iron player, and if I would have had that last year, I think I would have pulled it out. So if I get myself in that position, I like my chances.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT