WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2020
Wyndham Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Chugging along at even par and great birdies at 17 and 18. Two strong holes to finish. Your thoughts on how you played today.
WYNDHAM CLARK: It was kind of a rough start. I was all over the place, didn't feel great with my swing, but then I kind of hit two good shots on 8 and 9 that led to the back side, and then I really started hitting some awesome shots. I had a lot of birdie looks on 10, 11, 12, and coming in the last kind of three, four holes, I had birdie looks and finally got some to fall on the last two.
Q. 61 yesterday. How many texts, messages did you get from family and friends, and how good was last night? And then take me to the course today. Did you get here, Okay, I shot 61, what was I feeling like? What is that like?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, so yesterday I think I had over 220-some text messages and can't even respond to all them, so I didn't really look at them too much. I responded to kind of close people. And then coming into today I felt like if I, if my game felt like it was yesterday, I could do the same thing. Granted it didn't feel that way, but I knew I was in a good spot. And when I looked up and I was in second or T-1, and although it's a let down from yesterday, I would have taken it after 36 holes being tied for the lead or right there at the lead. So I'm pleased with how I played and looking forward to the weekend.
Q. What's the key now on the weekend for you? Anything in particular you're going to work on before your tee time tomorrow?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, I need to go, I was a little under, as I said, so I need to get my swing a little more on plane right now, and then I'll just continue to hits some putts. But really my game's there. I just got to tune it up and tomorrow I just got to go out there and feel free and play good.
Q. Nice way to wrap up the round there. If we can get some comments on that and your day as a whole.
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, it's nice to finish off with two birdies. I felt like I played really good the last 10, 11 holes and I just wasn't making any putts and it feels great to make those two at the end. It makes sleeping tonight a little better and I'm really excited for the weekend.
Q. Chasing that first victory, how have you kept the nerves out here, and especially with what's to come this weekend out here?
WYNDHAM CLARK: I've been in this position a few times. It's never easy, but it's fun. It's a fun week for me. I have a lot of friends here, I live here, so it's a home event. But at the same time I feel really confident about my game and I'm looking forward to the weekend.
Q. It's a pretty good day for PXG. Billy told us if he wins Bob Parsons has to get a PXG tattoo. Any sort of side bet with Bob there?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Well, he has to get one, too, maybe with my name on it or something. But, yeah, no, it's a good day for PXG. Bob's loving it and I'm very fortunate to be part of their, one of their troops and looking forward to playing with Billy tomorrow.
Q. Slightly different question, but looking ahead to the environment on 16 tomorrow, what do you think it would be like to be one of the people holding the quiet please sign on that hole on Saturday?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Irrelevant. I mean, I don't know. It's kind of -- it's funny, because it's golf and you have that. But, I mean, no one even looks at that. It's kind of a formality. But it's pretty funny.
Q. What's the most bizarre thing you've seen out on 16?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Today actually there was a guy -- we were on, we just came through 16, we were on 17, and a guy was wearing a wedding dress. So there was a dude, two dudes wearing, one wedding dress and one a tuxedo and they were having some fun.
Q. Was one of them Dennis Rodman?
WYNDHAM CLARK: No, no, it was not.
Q. I know there's still a lot of guys, the second wave still to go out, but the fact that you're back on top of the leaderboard, is that where you expected to finish your day that way?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, I mean going into it I wanted to extend my lead, unfortunately I didn't have my best today, but, yeah, I mean, every day I feel like I can go out there and if I play good I can beat anyone out there. And today it wasn't my best, but tomorrow hopefully I have it.
Q. Do you feed off the environment of the crowd in this tournament at all?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, it's really fun. I mean, we joke about it, the front nine is still electric, there's still great fans and a great feel, but when you start getting to 15, I mean you just kind of get amped up. And you could see it in our group's play, we all started making birdies at the end and you just feed off that energy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT