THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 2, 2019
Wyndham Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You got off to such a great start today.  It had to be fun.  That shot you hit at 6 today, it looked a little easier for me knowing that you just had to hit a little low field goal and it'll chase up on the green, but wow.  
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, there was a decent amount of gap.  It was probably 15 feet wide, so it wasn't too tough.  But the toughest part was controlling the height and then the distance.  The fact that I got it to within, whatever it was, 15 feet was a pretty incredible shot.  John and I were joking, if I was a ball player, I'd make the putt, and I went ahead and made the putt, so it was nice.   
 Q.  Were you trying to get a 6-iron down or a 5-iron up?  That's kind of the lie that I thought it was.  
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, we went with the 6-iron because we thought the 5, if it came out a little hot, it would really run.  So John was like, hey, I really feel the 6-iron, and I was with him on that, and it worked out.   
 Q.  Best swing of the day I think was at No. 7.  It never left the flagstick.  What club was that from 229?  
WYNDHAM CLARK: It was a 7.  So yeah, that was definitely the best swing.  It felt really good.  It was all over the pin the whole time, and I took advantage of it.   
 Q.  On the back nine it looked like your swing got a little short and got a little wayward.  Were you feeling it a little bit or just maybe tired?  What was going on?  
WYNDHAM CLARK: No, I mean, maybe a little bit.  That's something I definitely struggle with.  But I was in the moment.  But I felt like I managed where I hit the ball, which I was proud of.  I put it in good spots, and as long as I just keep giving myself chances to make putts on the green, I think I can.   
 Q.  That's the thing, the bad shots have to be in bad spots.  The shot you made at 17 was not good, but you got to play from there.  
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, it was a really bad shot.  But like John and I said, you have to be left of that pin.  So as long as I wasn't like in the grandstands I was going to have somewhat of a shot, and I hit a really bad shot.  But I had green to work with, so as long as I hit my spot, I was going to have a chance to make par.   
 Q.  You put together a 67 in your third round.  What were you able to take advantage of?  
WYNDHAM CLARK: You know, early on the greens were in great shape, and I felt like if you could hit the fairways, the pins weren't too, too tough, so if I just got it somewhere around the hole, I felt good with my putter, and that's what I was able to do.   
 Q.  Not the amount of wind we've seen in years past.  The first seven holes you had five birdies.  How much momentum did that give you even when you had a couple bogeys in the second half?  
WYNDHAM CLARK: Well, it was a dream start.  Obviously you dream about that, and to pull it off was great, and just having that cushion makes you feel a little bit relaxed playing to the tough holes on the back side.  I made some errant shots and swings, but I knew if I just got it in play and got it on the green, I was going to have a chance to make par.   
 Q.  Last week in Puerto Rico, top 10 finish.  Anything that's carried over this week?  
WYNDHAM CLARK: Last week I felt really good on the greens, so that's definitely something that's carried over, and I drove the ball great last week, and it's been pretty good this week.  Today was a little off, but those two things really helped me last week, and I hope they'll help me tomorrow.   
 Q.  You're getting used to the PGA TOUR; what kinds of things have you learned about yourself that maybe will be advantageous tomorrow playing in perhaps the final round?  
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, you know, just being in the moment I think you learn a lot, and being out here more and more, I've gotten more and more comfortable.  It's just a matter of time until I feel like I can play through, and I'll have a chance tomorrow.   
 Q.  You mentioned the dream start, five birdies in your first seven holes.  Just get some comments on that start and your round overall.  
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, so first hole, I hit a great wedge in there, and making that birdie on the first hole kind of just was a nice relief and a good jump start.  Nice up-and-down on 3, and so 2-under through the first three holes just kind of sets you up.  And then I started hitting some really great shots and making some putts and started feeling it a little bit, and that's kind of fun, especially on a Saturday on the PGA TOUR to feel it.  I just had a lot of momentum going into the back nine, and obviously I didn't play great on the back, but I managed what I had, and it turned out to be a great round.   
 Q.  Up until No. 15, you had 122 consecutive holes without a three-putt.  Your strokes gained putting is insane.  You made a mile of putts today.  What do you work on that makes your putting so good?  
WYNDHAM CLARK: Well, I wouldn't consider -- I mean, 15 is a three-putt, but I was chipping it, so I was borderline -- so yes, it is a three-putt.  I've always been a pretty good putter.  I do a lot of stuff on my short putts to make sure I start on line, and then a lot of lag putts.  Out here, sometimes with the greens, the condition that they are, it's hard to hit it close, and so you have a lot of 15- to 30-footers, and having good speed with those really helps.   
 Q.  At one point in your career you did contemplate quitting the game.  Is it moments like this that make you glad you didn't?  
WYNDHAM CLARK: Yeah, that was back in college, and I was going through a tough time, but yeah, it's definitely fun to come full circle and be where I'm at now.  I'm definitely really blessed and fortunate to be here.   
 Q.  There's an exciting few months coming up.  What does this look like for you going forward?  
WYNDHAM CLARK: You know, for me it's just fun being in contention.  I love the moment.  I love playing in front of fans, and I love to win.  So I want to be there on Sundays, and the fact that I am is great, and looking forward, it's just going to help me build momentum.   
 Q.  How much momentum are you riding from last week?  
WYNDHAM CLARK: Well, it's my best finish on TOUR.  Obviously I didn't have a great Sunday, but I rallied on the back nine, and I think because I did that on the back nine, it kind of gave me momentum going into this week as opposed to having it be a negative coming in because I was in contention.  So I definitely build on that.  I feel like each week I build more and more on what I'm working on with my coaches and my caddie, and it's been a good week so far.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the front nine you've had the first three rounds?  Other than the bogey at 9, I think you're 11-under so far.  
WYNDHAM CLARK: I just feel -- you know, I feel comfortable off the tee on most of the shots, and I feel like there's just a few key holes that you really have to focus on and make sure you're in play, and just manage -- it's just a par hole, so don't get too aggressive.  And then the ones that -- the ones like the first four holes, if you get it in play off the tee, then I think they're birdie holes, and I've taken advantage of that.   
 Q.  What are you going to do tonight to mentally prepare yourself to go out there and win this thing tomorrow?  
WYNDHAM CLARK: Well, what I do every night.  I always play cards with my caddie, so we'll play some cards.  I'll just relax, and then I'll do some stuff -- talk to my coach, do some stuff at night, but do the same thing I do every night.   
 Q.  When was the last tournament you won?  
WYNDHAM CLARK: Last tournament I won would be second stage of Q-school.  My first try I won that, and then after that was probably Pac-12s.   
 Q.  When was that?  
WYNDHAM CLARK: Q-school was Bear Creek in California.  That was 2017 maybe.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT