SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2017
Wyndham Clark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Front nine a nice eagle, and then the back nine five birdies in a row.  What did it take to get some of your best game out of you today?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Well, I started out great and kind of got into a little bit of a lull.  John, my caddie said, Hey let's play some good golf.
Made a great par on 10, which was huge for my momentum because I just made two bogeys.  Then I just hit good shots and made some good putts, and next thing you know I made five birdies in a row.
I feel like my game has been here for a while.  It's nice to finally play well out here on tour.
Q. Not sure if you got an opportunity coming down the stretch to look at a scoreboard, but to put yourself in the position you did with that birdie on the final hole, how does it feel?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Feels good.  I mean, I was just trying to hit good shots.  I wasn't really looking at the scoreboard.  I obviously knew it was somewhat close.
John and I were just trying to keep it light out there and do the best I could.  Happened to make birdie on the last.
Q. Especially for players new to the PGA TOUR, it's not easy to follow up a low round.  How do you keep the pedal to the metal in tomorrow's rounds?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Well, I mean, you just can't think about it.  I got to go out there and do what I did today, which was stick to my process, hit good shots, and focus on what I can control and not what I can't control.  And that's my score and the outcome and not what other people do..
So, yeah, just going to go out there and really focus on my game plan.  If I play well, great.
Q. How do you keep a level head out there?  What have you learned about yourself over these past few PGA starts?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Well you definitely can't lose your cool out here on tour.  There are a lot more people watching.  That in itself I think makes you mature a lot quicker.
With that said, I just learned it's a long process.  I'm fortunate enough just to be in this situation.  I look at it in that case.
So I feel like I've just grown a lot from the caddies that have helped, and then other players have given my positive affirmation.
Q. Is there an added pressure, the fact that you remain a sponsor's exemption, like you don't really have status and you're trying to build it, or are you not really worried about that?
WYNDHAM CLARK: You know, my first few starts there definitely was.  I felt pressure to play well and try to earn my status that way.
But honestly, this event is really to get me ready for Q-School, which is next week.  I'm using it as just a great testing ground and practice tournament to get ready for Q-School.  I view it that way.
If I happen to play great, that's awesome momentum leading into Q-School.
Q. Who are some of the veteran guys whose brains you picked?
WYNDHAM CLARK: Scott Piercy and Ryan Moore.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT