ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 11, 2018
Dane van Niekerk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Couple of rained out practices.  How has your preparation been considering you haven't had any?  
DANE VAN NIEKERK: Yeah, obviously not ideal, but nobody can play weatherman and predict the weather.  It looked like it was going to rain; we accepted that fact.  We hoped we could squeeze one in yesterday; it wasn't to be.   
We're going to try and make the most of it.  We had some brilliant preparation for the World Cup.  We had a month here, so we can't complain about preparation.   
At the end of the day at the World Cup you just need to sharpen up your skills.  It's not something you come here and teach yourself some skills.  The skills should be there.  It's just fine tuning them today.   
 Q.  Are you happy with South Africa's process throughout the warmup matches?  
DANE VAN NIEKERK: Yeah, I don't know if you can call it progression.  Yeah, like I said the batting is a big downer at the moment for us.  Having said that, we have a very strong batting lineup.  It's just getting us all to click together at one point, and hopefully we can, yeah, do really well.   
 Q.  I know you must be watching a bit of what's going on so far.  West Indies did well; India did well; Australia.  So once you get out there you know the pitches will be.  
DANE VAN NIEKERK: Oh, yeah, looks like an awesome pitch.  The way Harmanpreet struck the ball, hopefully one of our batters can mimic that.  It looked really good.  It looked like it was slower throughout the day, so obviously we'll keep that in mind.   
But St. Lucia, (indiscernible) and finding out about St. Lucia's ground, it looks like a very good batting wicket.  We're going to have to bowl really well on a wicket like that, so we're going to have to have our bowling plan spot on.   
 Q.  Have you been paying much attention to the games in Guyana?  Obviously some big scores being made.  Are you confident you can do the same here in St. Lucia?  
DANE VAN NIEKERK: Oh, yeah.  I mean, I've watched some of the CPL games, and I think they chased a mammoth score here, so we think we can do that.  At the end of the day, as a batting unit we need to step up.  We have been speaking in depth about obviously what we want to achieve as a batting unit.   
I think our bowling unit has been brilliant so far, and I can't fault the bowling.  It's just getting the batting unit to play all together.  But I think we can do, that we have the firepower you have power within our batting lineup to put in a performance like there was in Guyana.   
 Q.  Are you going to do any training today for reduced overs match or wet ball training?  I heard England talking about training with wet balls to get used to the conditions.  Thinking of doing the same?  
DANE VAN NIEKERK: Yeah, I guess so.  Look, I think we just want to have a bat at the moment.  We didn't have the opportunity to train at all.  For us just to get bat on ball is probably the best thing for us now.   
We'll obviously - weather and time permitting - go into the specifics.  For the batters to get ball on ball is the best thing at the moment for us.   
 Q.  England and Sri Lanka were rained off yesterday.  Does that make a difference to your approach to the group now?  
DANE VAN NIEKERK: Not at all.  At the end of the day every team comes here and wants to top the ladder.  That's by winning all your games.  That's what we're coming out here to do.  We have to win all the games to top the ladder.   
We're not going to think about the weather.  That's an unpredictable thing.  Hopefully we can put a good performance in to get the first couple points.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT