WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL D: SAN JUAN
March 9, 2009
Moises Alou
Stan Javier
Odalis Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MOISES ALOU: Unfortunately, things in baseball take a lot of people by surprise and more so yesterday's defeat. But we cannot lose our hope. The team is solid and it is a team of good contact. Unfortunately, this is a short event and the players are not yet in their best shape, but the fans don't understand that.   
 I feel extremely proud to represent my tri-color flag and more so when my father is the manager and we have the best players in the world.   
  
 STANLEY JAVIER: Well, look, if we would have won yesterday, maybe we would have thought differently today in the positions, but there is a regulation that you can't change someone if they're not injured. In other words, we cannot change a player if they don't have a problem or a greater cause. But we cannot think on the future, we have to think day-to-day. It's a mistake to try to go too far.   
  
  Q. Talking about all of the players, even the ones who visit, they have been wonderful, right?   
 STANLEY JAVIER: Very well. And I congratulate Pedro for the work, strength, and dedication that he has had, not only Pedro, rather all of the players who are here. And thank God the pitching, as I said, was a strong part and he proved it yesterday.   
  
  Q. As experienced of players that you have, when a team loses and gets to play again, as we say for the rematch, how do you feel?   
 STANLEY JAVIER: Well, that, yes, we as players are very sentimental. I believe that if you saw some player yesterday after the game we are very emotional. And that is a motivation for us. That guarantees you that we are going to win.   
 Panama is also motivated, but they are more motivated than we are, because if they beat Dominican Republic, it would be a power that they beat. In other words, that I hope that the players are motivated, either today, either tomorrow, or all their lives, because this game is too short. And I recommend all players that are playing this game to remember that time goes quickly. And to enjoy it and to always stay motivated because God has given them that blessing.   
  
  Q. Finally, to the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic and the United States, what do you tell them?   
 STANLEY JAVIER: Hey, we are in a difficult situation and that's where you see the personality of the athlete, the temper. That's when you see their courage, the whole person.   
 When you do well in life, you'll prove all of these things. But when you do bad, that's when all of these things are proven. So this is a test that the Dominican Republic player who has been a brave player and not only that I expect it's not only these players, for just these two or three games, rather for their career. And everything that they have done for their country.  
  
 ODALIS PEREZ: I know who I am and what I can give.   
  
  Q. Have you changed agents?   
 ODALIS PEREZ: I have not changed yet, but we have to make a few decisions. I believe by my example I'll change him right now, but it would be a little bit irresponsible on my part because I met with them already in October. As attorneys, I think that they're the ones who have to fight for you. They know what is convenient for you and what is not. I don't know, maybe the contract was managed badly, but at the same time you have to think that this is the team with better opportunity and they tried to do it, but unfortunately that was not the best.   
  
  Q. Right now do you think that the way you are is best?   
 ODALIS PEREZ: I'm fine. Right now what I'm doing out there is fine also. At age 31 I still have a lot to give and I think that there are teams that are valuing me.   
  
  Q. Like which?   
 ODALIS PEREZ: There are a few. There are a few. I cannot give you details.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT