CHRYSLER CHAMPIONSHIP
October 28, 2004
Jonathan Kaye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JONATHAN KAYE:  Great finish, man.  Doesn't get any better than that for me.  I hit a good shot there on 17, a perfect 3-iron for me if I just kept it down.  Fortunately it was one of the ones I hit the way I really wanted to today, and it ended up just perfect.

I finished off with a nice birdie on the last hole.
Q.  How much does it mean to you to get back and have a chance at getting into the Tour Championship?
JONATHAN KAYE:  It would be nice.  It's not the end of the world if you don't make it.  Obviously I'm here to try to do that, and I'd love to be there.
Q.  Are you surprised to see Vijay or do you expect to see -- (inaudible).
JONATHAN KAYE:  He's No. 1, you know.  I just try to hang with him.
Q.  Your finish, just talk about what that does as far as putting the exclamation mark on a round and your attitude obviously?
JONATHAN KAYE:  Obviously I hit a pitch shot on 17 and it could have easily not gone in.  I wouldn't have been disappointed either because I hit a good shot, and 18 I couldn't have played any better, so it was a nice way to finish and hopefully I'll keep a little momentum going into tomorrow.
Q.  What did you hit into 18?
JONATHAN KAYE:  A wedge, a little wedge.
Q.  What was it, about four or five feet?
JONATHAN KAYE:  About three.
Q.  What did you do on 16?
JONATHAN KAYE:  I made par there.  I just hit it in the left rough, hit an 8-iron pin high and just burned the edge for birdie.
Q.  Do you know how many holes-in-one you have in competition or even in your life?
JONATHAN KAYE:  Yeah, I've got 14 in my life, I think five or six in competition.
Q.  You started out real hot and then had a hard time getting momentum going.  Kind of take us through the year.
JONATHAN KAYE:  I got off to a good start.  At Match Play I had a back injury that held me back for the good part of three or four months, and as soon as that kind of started feeling better I hurt my hand.  It was one thing after another.  I'm just happy to be healthy and feel comfortable out here playing.
Q.  Tell us about the back and the hand.  How did you do it?
JONATHAN KAYE:  I don't know.  You know, probably overuse.  I don't know how I hurt my back.  It happened in the first match at the Match Play and probably on the 4th or 5th hole because after that I folded like a cheap suit.  I couldn't hit the ball.  I could barely walk.  It's just nice to be healthy and not in pain when you're out playing.
Q.  And the wrist deal happened what tournament or when?
JONATHAN KAYE:  I think I did that practicing, over-practicing, trying to get ready for The International.
Q.  Which one was it?
JONATHAN KAYE:  Right.
Q.  What about the golf course?  How is it playing?
JONATHAN KAYE:  I haven't played here since the Mixed Team.  They made a few changes.  For a long golf course it kind of takes the driver out of your hand if you want to play it smart, and they've got all the areas where you've got to hit your driver so narrow and well-bunkered that we kind of took a different approach and tried to keep it back and made it play a little longer.

It's hard to play out of this rough with these greens.  You really need to be in the fairway to score.  I made a bunch of really good par putts.  You know, I'd hit the green and run it by eight feet, make it coming back.  I had three or four of those.  Those are what kind of kept the round going.  Then the 1 popped up to kind of spur me on at the end.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT