FBR OPEN
January 29, 2004
Jonathan Kaye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JONATHAN KAYE: I played pretty solid.  I only had one bogey on the last hole.  It was kind of a bad swing, 9-iron  in the middle of the fairway.  Other than that, I played pretty solid, made a few putts, and didn't make any big mistakes.

I bogeyed 18, birdied 17, two-putted from middle of the green, I guess.


Q.  Did you hit driver?

JONATHAN KAYE:  I did.  16, I hit an 8-iron to about ten feet, made birdie.

15, three-putted for par.

14, made a 15-footer for birdie, hit a 7-iron in. 

13, knocked it on in two with a 3-iron and two-putted.

12, two-putt for par.

11, hit a 7-iron to ten feet, made it for birdie.

10, two-putt for par. 

I birdied No. 3, made about a 15-footer for birdie on 3.

And I made another birdie on 6 from about 14.


Q.  Can I ask you what you hit on 15?

JONATHAN KAYE:  2-iron.

I like to play here.  It is my home, but unfortunately, we don't get to see the course in this kind of condition except for this week so I don't really feel like I have any advantage.


Q.  There are some pretty good scores up there.  Are the conditions receptive to good scoring?

JONATHAN KAYE:  Definitely.  The fairways are starting to run a little bit.  The greens are still soft so you can fire at the pins.  They're rolling perfect, so if you put a good stroke on it, it's going to go in.


Q.  How much do those changes at 14 and 15 change the way you played the holes?

JONATHAN KAYE:  It didn't change the way I played it, because I hit driver on both of them anyway.  You've got to hit a little better on 14.  They had the tees up a little bit today.  I could see if you didn't hit a good ball there, it could play a lot different. 

15 definitely plays a lot longer.  I think it's not as exciting as it used to be.  A lot more guys are more apprehensive to go for the green in two from 235 plus.  It's kind of a small target. 

The changes are good.  16 is nice.  9 is nice.  I don't have any problems with the changes.


Q.  What did you have left for your second shot at 16?

JONATHAN KAYE:  260-something to the pin, 235 to the front or something.


Q.  Would you always make that play from 260?

JONATHAN KAYE:  No, I just thought the wind was going with me and I only had to hit it about 225 to get it over the water, so I figured that would be my one good shot and I'd go for it.


Q.  Are most guys going for it as the weekend goes on?

JONATHAN KAYE:  Potentially, unless the fairways firm up.  You know, that back tee, when you hit a good drive from there, you land into an upslope, so it's hard to get a lot of roll.  If you really poke one out there, I think the longer hitters will be going for it, for sure.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT