DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2003
Jonathan Kaye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Thank you for joining us, Jonathan Kaye after an 8-under 63.  Jonathan, fantastic back nine there.   Talk about the finish.

JONATHAN KAYE: Where do you want me to start?  (Laughs).  I felt pretty good with my swing.  I hit a lot of fairways.  I only had one bogey on the 8th hole.  Just hit a bad -- one bad swing and I putted really well.  I mean, everything kind of clicked for me today, so hopefully it will stay that way. 

MODERATOR: Best round of the year which is nice to have.  And you are in contention heading into the final round.  Again you picked up your first victory earlier this year.  Talk about your thoughts for tomorrow.

JONATHAN KAYE: Well, you know, it's just another round of golf.  I know it sounds a little cliche, but we're out there just trying to play the best you can and not really concerning yourself about what others are doing and hopefully you are in the hunt there for the last few holes and make some birdies and bring it home. 

MODERATOR: We'll go ahead and take some questions.


Q.   How much sleep did you get last night?

JONATHAN KAYE: Five, six hours, maybe, but between my Colorado Buffalos were on TV and they had a little lightning delay, so I had to watch that and that kept me up and then as soon as I was ready to go to bed the party started outside my room.  It was a little distracting, but I got some winks.


Q.   Where are you staying?

JONATHAN KAYE: I don't really want to tell you that. 


Q.   You like this course or it kind of grows on you as the week goes on?

JONATHAN KAYE: I do.  I like the course a lot.  To me, it reminds me a lot of Sugarloaf, to me.  It's got generous driving areas but when you do hit it in the rough it penal.  There's three or four holes that are particularly tight and you just got step up and hit a good shot there otherwise you are going to have problems. 


Q.   The wind seemed to be swirling around quite a bit today.  Did that cause you any problem? 

JONATHAN KAYE: It was swirling a lot but it wasn't blowing really hard, so I think if it was blowing harder and swirling it would have played a little more havoc with the players, but it was relatively tame.

My caddie had a good wind chart.  So he always knows when the wind is blowing when I don't.


Q.   Been on a hot streak for a couple of weeks -- (inaudible)?

JONATHAN KAYE: I have been playing pretty well most of the year.  Lately I have been playing a little better.  Hopefully that will continue and I don't really know why.  Maybe it is because I have just played so many in a row that I am just beat up and my mind is fried and I am just playing golf; I am not really thinking that much. 


Q.   How long?

JONATHAN KAYE: I have been out on the road since the week before the British so I guess eight weeks out.  That's a long time.  I had a week off but I had to go enjoy my membership privileges at Westchester for a few rounds and I may have took a week off went up there for a few days; saw some friends then headed to the International early.  But it's nice to sleep in your own bed, so I look forward to that after this week. 


Q.   What do you mean by that, membership privileges after you won at Buick?

JONATHAN KAYE: They gave me a membership at Westchester.  So I had to go play.  Yeah, every champion gets a year membership so I have some relatives up there that support me and they come out every year and dredged through the mud out there so I figured it would be a nice thing to do to take them out and play that course.


Q.   What tournament was that?

JONATHAN KAYE: What is before the International? 


Q.   Hartford.

JONATHAN KAYE: No, right after Hartford.  Whatever is in between Hartford and  --


Q.   Buick?

JONATHAN KAYE: Yeah, I skipped Flint.


Q.   How many rounds did you play in Westchester?

JONATHAN KAYE: I was there for three days.  We played Winged Foot, Glen Arbor and Westchester.


Q.   You challenged several times in the pack; finally got over the hump. Was there anything in particular leading up to that that  --

JONATHAN KAYE: I always felt that I could win.  I'd had a lot of close calls but sometimes out here, sometimes you are best isn't just quite good enough because somebody else's is just a little bit better.  I got a few good breaks as most people who win tournaments do and I capitalized on them.  The good bounces went my way that week and my game is pretty solid right now and I am just looking forward to challenging tomorrow.


Q.   Have your bronzed your 2-iron yet (inaudible)?

JONATHAN KAYE: That's kind of a club that comes and goes (2-iron) in my bag depending on the course.  This week I don't need it here, so it's not making an appearance.  But I haven't bronzed it yet, no.

MODERATOR:  Let us go through your card.  Birdie on No. 2 first.

JONATHAN KAYE: 2 was a par 5, I hit it in two and 2-putted from about 30 feet. 

I birdied No. 4, made about a 15-footer for birdie there.

Birdied No. 7.  One foot putt.  Hit a lob wedge in there a foot and bogeyed 8.  Then had about an 8-footer on 10, four-footer on 11, a three-footer on 12; missed two short ones on 13 and 14.  Had a two-footer on 15.  About a 4-footer on 16 for birdie; and then missed a makeable putt on 17.  18 was a 2-putt from, I don't know  -- as far as you can have on that green.  (Laughs).  The bogey was just one bad swing, I was actually in pretty good shape.  I just hit a poor  -- two bad swings, bad shot and bad chip and a bad putt and tapped in for the bogey and that was it.


Q.   Have you ever been on a stretch this long where you played this well?

JONATHAN KAYE:  This seems to be a good time of year for me historically throughout my career.  The summer months it's so hot back home that there's no reason to go there, so I tend to stay out and play a lot in the summer. 


Q.   Playing next week?

JONATHAN KAYE: No.

I will make a few more appearances (the rest of the year) but I think my schedule is winding down. 


Q.   Have you ever played THE TOUR Championship before?

JONATHAN KAYE: No, I haven't.


Q.   Where are you now?

JONATHAN KAYE: I think I am 14th, so, yeah, I look forward to having an opportunity to play there if I can get in. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you, Jonathan. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT