THE INTERNATIONAL
August 7, 2003
Jonathan Kaye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vON THRON:  Thank you, Jonathan, for joining us for a few minutes.  You started out with a eagle on the first hole.  Was a great way to start, five quick points.  You actually played very well throughout the day.  Talk about your round today and we'll go from there.

JONATHAN KAYE: Well, I had the eagle on 1 and then bogey on 2.  Birdie on 3, made about a 15-footer.  Parred 4.  Birdied 5, made about 6-footer there.

6, made a par.  Par on 7.  Par on 8.  Made a par on 9.  Chipped in for birdie on 11. 

JOAN vON THRON:  How far?

JONATHAN KAYE: Less, 25, 30 feet: 

Birdied 15.  About 15-footer there.  And kind of squandered a few on the par 5s on the back.  Had a 5-iron in my hand into 14 and made par and hit a bad drive on 17, made par. 

JOAN vON THRON:  Questions. 


Q.   Tell us what your clubs were on the eagle.

JONATHAN KAYE: I hit a driver and 5-iron first hole.  Two feet. 


Q.   How far did you have  --

JONATHAN KAYE: 230, I think.  Unadjusted. 


Q.   How are you getting along with the unadjusted  to the adjusted?

JONATHAN KAYE:  We are doing all right.  We got a nice little formula working, so seems to be working right now and we'll stick with it until it falters. 


Q.   Who came up with it?

JONATHAN KAYE: My caddie and I kind of did, kind of figured it out.  I can't tell you.  I can't tell you my formula.  (Laughter).  You have a number that you get off the sprinkler heads and then what it's actually playing would be the adjusted number or what we'd like to call at sea level, of what we are used to playing at. 


Q.   What would it mean to you to have success here being from Denver?

JONATHAN KAYE: It would be awesome.  I grew up here and went to school here. I have a lot of friends here and I'd love to play well in front of them. 


Q.   How about after your win, you went to the British, didn't play so well and then you played one more tournament  ---

JONATHAN KAYE: Hartford. 


Q.   Has it been tough after the win to try to get adjusted, getting more attention and  --

JONATHAN KAYE: Not particularly.  I planned on taking a couple of weeks off after I  -- well, I didn't know I was going to win, but I was taking a couple of weeks off after Westchester.  I got in the British so I went over and played that.  Then played Hartford and then took last week off.  So I still played a lot of events this year.  I am sure I will play plenty more.  So I feel pretty comfortable. 


Q.   Did you come back to play the Skin game at City Park this year?

JONATHAN KAYE: Actually I had a chance to, but I couldn't make it out.  I had some family obligations on Saturday.


Q.   Is that a favorite of yours?  Reminisce about that a little bit, how it developed your game?

JONATHAN KAYE: I grew up there out there at City Park.  That's where I learned how to play and all the guys out there, you know, gave their two cents to me over the years.  I am sure they enjoyed watching my year and I like to do well for them.  They pretty much taught me the game.  I grew up there gambling out there with them.  My dad would drive me off with five bucks  at the beginning of the day, 7 in the morning and leave me there until 9 at night.  When he'd pick me up sometimes I'd have 300; sometimes 500, sometimes I'd have zero.  But it was a good way to learn and really get your competitive juices flowing. 


Q.   What is your favorite course coming back home to Denver; is it City Park?

JONATHAN KAYE: Yeah.  That's my home.  I like a lot of the golf courses around here.   There's a lot of beautiful courses, but that's where all my friends are and you can always get a good game there.


Q.   If you figure you can putt on the first three holes there you can putt pretty much anywhere?

JONATHAN KAYE: You have been there.  That-a-boy. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

JONATHAN KAYE: I think the most I ever lost out there was 50 bucks.


Q.   You have been hitting the ball higher.  Do you think that is the reason why you are scoring better?

JONATHAN KAYE: I really didn't hit the ball that high today but the ball itself that I am using has a higher launching so it just gets up a little quicker -- yeah, little height is nice being able to hit it high up into those uphill holes, getting a little stop-it, you know, next to those front pins is tough.


Q.   Gallery was friends and family?

JONATHAN KAYE: Everybody in my gallery was there to watch Freddie.  Some of them are my friends.


Q.   Ticket obligations?

JONATHAN KAYE: I got 44.


Q.   The record?

JONATHAN KAYE: For here, yeah, in Phoenix it goes a little higher. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

JONATHAN KAYE: Basically I think the win has kind of put me at ease, kind of reassured myself that I have won out here and that I can compete on a week-to-week basis.  It's just an affirmation, I guess. 


Q.   I know you are self-taught.  Did you have any instruction at all today?  Did you go to anybody?

JONATHAN KAYE: Yeah, I have worked with some people for short periods of time over my career and right now I don't.  I got a lesson from Mike Schlager (phonetic). He's here in Colorado.  He was the last person that gave me a lesson last year before Reno, and I haven't had one since, but people look at my swing and give me their opinion.  My wife knows it pretty well and she can pretty much tell me what I am doing wrong.  So I am going to have to go to the swing doctor. 


Q.   How old were you when you were playing in City Park?

JONATHAN KAYE: I was hanging out there when I was 12.  At 13 they dropped me off at Park Hill but it was so boring over there, they didn't have any bunkers, so I switched over to City Park.


Q.   You were how old?

JONATHAN KAYE: I played there all the way through college.  I still go out there and play, but unfortunately I don't have the time to get out there and play like I'd like to with them, but I will try and make some time for them.


Q.   When you go out there do you only take $5?

JONATHAN KAYE: I don't take any. I always let it roll there.


Q.   The fact that you are self-taught and you don't obsess about your game like some guys do, do you think that makes other guys jealous who are always trying to find a little bit of an edge?

JONATHAN KAYE: I don't know.  I feel jealous because they practice harder, so  -- I know my swing and I know what my tendencies are, so I just work off that.  Try to keep it simple, you know. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

JONATHAN KAYE: I've definitely been hitting it better, but I haven't better understanding of my game now than I did then.  I am a little bit more acclimated to playing out here and I know the courses, so there's -- definitely time teaches you a lot out here. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT