CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
June 28, 2001
Jonathan Kaye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JONATHAN KAYE:   Got off to a pretty nice start.  I birdied 10 from about eight feet and I hit it about six inches on 11 and about three feet on 12, so I had three in a row to start.  Left it hanging on the lip on 13.  Lipped out on 14.  Birdied 15.  I drove it pin-high.  Chipped it up about six feet and made it. 16, I hit it a foot.  17, I hit it about four feet and made it.  Got up-and-down for par on 18.  Then kind of started struggling on the front.  Two pars in a row, you know.  (Laughter.) Then a nice bogey on the third hole from the fairway bunker.  Another par and then I made about a 30-footer on 5 for birdie.  Missed about a 3-footer for birdie on 6.  Then made about a 20-footer on 7 and a 6-footer on 9. 


Q.  Have you shot lower than this? 

JONATHAN KAYE:   I have, actually.  10-under in competition a couple times. 

Q.  On the regular tour? 

JONATHAN KAYE:   Last year Sunday in Vegas, 62.  I think the same year?  The Bob Hope.  64, 83, 62 were my rounds there. 

Q.  Where was that? 

JONATHAN KAYE:   Nothing.  (Laughter.)

Q.  Talk about battling the weather on a day like today? 

JONATHAN KAYE:   The weather? The weather I thought was beautiful.  You know we started off and it was almost like indoor golf for about the first  -- the front nine and then the breeze started picking up a little on the back and then it got a little tougher.  My front nine was the back nine for me  -- or the front nine was my back nine, and the wind definitely kicked up on 4  -- 3, 4 and 5, 6, it was blowing pretty good and then it laid down again.

Q.  The heat, though?

JONATHAN KAYE:   Heat was not much of a factor for me.  I'm from Arizona, so I'm pretty used to the heat. 

Q.  Did you feel something like this coming on? 

JONATHAN KAYE:   Actually, I didn't think I was going to play today.  I pulled out of the Pro-Am.  I had a pinched nerve in my neck.  I played last week, the last  -- well, Sunday and Monday in Westchester, and every shot hurt.  So I was just trying to, you know, swing easy and go pain-free, which I did, thanks to the help of the guys in the fitness trailer. 

Q.  Do you think this kind of course suits your game?  Is this the kind of course you excel on? 

JONATHAN KAYE:   Yeah, I like this course.  It sets up good off the tee.  You've got to drive it in the fairway and the greens are perfect.  The rough is pretty penal.  I was in the first cut a couple of times.  I was lucky enough to stay out of the rough.

Q.  Are you disappointed it has taken you as long as it has to establish yourself?  Did you figure you would be doing better than you are at some point? 

JONATHAN KAYE:   I don't really even think about that, to be honest with you.  It's just a game. 

Q.  You shot 62 today? 

JONATHAN KAYE:   Yeah. 

Q.  Do you know if that's the course record? 

JONATHAN KAYE:   No, it's not. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT