THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 2, 2005
Jonathan Kaye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Jonathan, for joining us for a minute here in the media center, great round, 5 under 67 and capped it off with a 27 footer on 18.  Why don't you just talk about your round a little bit.
JONATHAN KAYE:  Well, it didn't start off that great.  I hit it way left on 1 and I ended up making a great par there, good up and down, and then I holed it from the bunker on 2, kind of was a rough start, but steadied the ship after a three putt on 4 and played pretty solid the rest of the way.
Q.  I heard you say "Come on, wind," as you were walking off.
JONATHAN KAYE:  It's the devil in me.
Q.  Nick O'Hern was in here earlier.  He said that the course has to played the way it did earlier today with the fast fairways for him to play well.  Are you in the same situation where you need the conditions to be this way versus if it rains tonight or rains tomorrow, you're going to be put at a disadvantage or not?
JONATHAN KAYE:  I don't think so.  You know, I didn't reach any of the par 5s in two anyway.  I hit it out there long enough, so I'm not worried about wet conditions.  I'm kind of used to it.  It seems like that's all we played in this year.
Q.  Talk about the bunker shot on 2.  You said you holed it.  How far?
JONATHAN KAYE:  I don't know, I was in the front right bunker, so maybe 15 yards, 20 yards maybe, something in that range.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Can we go through the rest of your round?  You made bogey on 4.
JONATHAN KAYE:  Three putted 4, missed about a three footer there.  5, I birdied, made about a four footer for birdie there.

6, made about a 27 footer again.

7, par.

8, par.

10, made about a 27 footer.  Really, I did.  27 was my number today.

And I birdied 14, about a 30 footer.

And 14, I hit it in the front bunker in two and hit it up there about two feet, made that for birdie.

Then 18, birdied, 27 footer.
Q.  What did you do on 13?
JONATHAN KAYE:  13, wow, that was quite an adventure.  I pulled my drive, it hit the trees, nobody knew where it went, but one of the caddies playing 12 saw my ball come down, and it was in the hazard but playable.  So I chipped it out and then hit a 2 iron on the front edge and two putted for a bogey.
Q.  How do you know these are all 27 feet?  Are they a perfect nine paces?
JONATHAN KAYE:  I mean, I'm somewhat guessing because she told me I made a 27 footer on the last hole, and that was about how long the other ones were.  There you go, ShotLink.
Q.  How does this stack up    sounds like a wild round up and down.  How does it stack up for you?
JONATHAN KAYE:  It wasn't that up and down.  I had two bogeys.
Q.  But in terms of long putts?
JONATHAN KAYE:  I did make some putts.  It was a good putting day.  I won't deny that.  It's been a long time coming, though.

My stenographer helped me earlier this week.
Q.  You said a caddie saw it.  Do you know whose caddie it was that saw your ball?
JONATHAN KAYE:  It was Calcavecchia's caddie, Mr. Wood.
Q.  How much was the wind    Sean O'Hair said it came up for him on about 11.  How much was it a factor in
JONATHAN KAYE:  I said the same thing.  He was a group in front of me.  It happened    it seemed like the wind kicked up around 10 for us.  So the back nine was a little bit gusty, a few holes downwind and then you turn and come back home, and they were all into the wind, so that made it a little more difficult.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT