AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2009
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. GONZÁLEZ/L. Hewitt
  5-7, 6-2, 6-2, 3-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Fernando.   
  
  Q. A five-setter like that to start the Open, what are your thoughts? Did you need it?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Normally not. I mean, the most important thing is to win and get to the next round.   
 But I knew it was going to be tough against Lleyton. He's a great player, a great competitor. This was the first official match of the year. So I'm happy the way that I did it, and a little bit tired. But it's fine now.   
  
  Q. How was your preparation to this tournament? How do you feel about this leg injury?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I took a longer vacation, then I have like seven weeks of preparation at home. I get here eight, nine days in advance. Played Kooyong. I was feeling a little bit cramping at the end of the fourth set. It was a little bit hot. I mean, I didn't want to show, you know.   
 But after was like the fifth set, so that's why I called the trainer. He massage me a little bit and I feel a little bit better.   
  
  Q. Nothing to worry about?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: No. Just cramping. Today was really hot. I mean, in the beginning, the court was unbelievable. But fortunately I won the match.   
  
  Q. What do you think brought on that cramping? Is it training or the conditions today?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Well, maybe the conditions, maybe I haven't played an official match since three months ago. First match of the year against Lleyton on a big court with the crowd against me. It's not easy.   
 But fortunately I passed this and I have the chance to keep continuing in the tournament.   
  
  Q. What about the crowd? Did you find that hard out there?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: No, it's normal. I mean, it was like Davis Cup. I love to play Davis Cup anyway. But it's normal. I mean, he's a local hero. I mean, I was really prepared to go to the court.   
  
  Q. You've had some tough fights with him and a bit of history. Is it as sweet a win to be able to beat Lleyton on his home court?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: No, I mean, we have really good, tough battles with Lleyton in the past. We know each other since 10, 15 years ago. We always play long match. Of course, we always want to win. I'm really happy to continue in this kind of event.   
  
  Q. Do you believe he can get back into the top 10?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Is good for the tennis he's coming back. You have to ask him because if he's mentally prepared to do it, I think he can do it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT