XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 15, 2008
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  F. GONZALEZ/J. Blake  
6-4, 5-7, 11-9  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you please talk us through the incident that James was very upset about where he claimed that the ball had touched your racquet.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Well, he complained again with umpire, right?   
  
  Q. That's right.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I don't know. I mean, nobody ask me anything. We was on the court like two hours and a half. I was really tired. I didn't feel anything. I mean, I saw the ball coming to my body, and I think he was a little bit pissed in the second set because I hit on his body, and maybe he tried to do the same. I just tried to move from the ball, and I didn't feel anything, you know.   
 I mean, it's just one point, 0-0. I was serving, I don't know, 9-10, I don't remember.  
  
  Q. He said things along the lines of this incident had partially wrecked his Olympic experience; he would expect, if that had been him, you expect him to say, It hit me. It became quite controversial. If you're playing a player, you hit a shot, you think the player is hit or you think it touches him or his clothing, do you expect him to raise his hand and say?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I mean, there is an umpire. It was 0-0, 8-9, I don't remember, after two hours and a half. Almost I didn't feel my forehand. It's my best shot. And I didn't feel anything.   
 If I'm hundred percent sure about it, I mean, I will give it. But I'm not sure, you know. I'm just moving, that's all.   
  
  Q. How do you feel then about his strong words about the spirit of sportsmanship here being violated by the incident?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I mean, it's the third question about the same thing. I just give the answer.   
 I mean, I didn't feel anything. I wasn't hundred percent sure. What else?   
  
  Q. You're now going to get an Olympic singles medal to go with the doubles medal.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Yeah.   
  
  Q. So do you think there's any difference between the two? Did you see Nicolas Massu's single medal? Did it look any different from the doubles medal?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I also get the bronze medal in singles in Athens. This first singles final. I'm happy because the worst thing that can happen is I'm going to have all the medals.   
  
  Q. I'm asking if there's a difference for you between the doubles and the singles?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: In here, I mean, in the Olympics, I mean, you're playing for your country. Every medal counts like equal, you know. It's the same if you win in singles or doubles.   
  
  Q. I've seen a couple of people crying for joy in the stands. They said they were from Chile. They said it's such a big joy for them. What do you think about it?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I'm really happy. I was really, really excited on the court after the match because I knew that a lot of people was watching the match, because today in Chile is holiday. Everyone went to have party and wait for the match, you know.   
 They follow us a lot. I remember from Athens, they was really, really excited about that. So it's coming like a nice memory for me. I was really, really happy.   
  
  Q. You've done well at the Olympics, but there have been questions about tennis players as to how much they care with the Olympics when there are four Grand Slam tournaments. For instance, Andy decided the US Open was more important than the Olympics. How much does this tournament matter to you? How much do you think it matters to players on the tour in general?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Well, maybe they care more about the slams because they got more points in that.   
 But for me, I'm playing for my country. That's the first thing of all. You're coming to represent your country, try to get a medal going back home. So that's really, really huge in my country. So that's why it's really important for me.   
  
  Q. What was going through your mind when you faced the three match points? What were your thoughts?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Well, I was like completely loose, you know. Three match points, really tired. I didn't have enough hours to rest last night. I sleep at 5 in the morning, wake up at 10. So I was really tired.   
 That's was my last shot, you know. And I think I play good tennis in that moment.   
  
  Q. I'm not going to ask you about the point in dispute again, but are you disappointed that James chose to call into question your integrity?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I mean, when you lose a match like this, I mean, I understand what you can say. But, I mean, I'm enjoying this moment and I'm really worried to play the final. That's my mind.   
  
  Q. Would it make your feeling a little bit special because you have already become one of the few players who play really well in both Olympic Games? Are you going to feel a little bit special?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Yeah, I like the Olympics. I play really good tennis. Also in Beijing, last year I won the tournament here. Now I have five matches. So it's a special tournament for me, a special place. I'm really happy. I'm looking forward for the final.   
  
  Q. The point earlier in the match where you struck the ball and it hit him, appeared that you apologized straightaway, but he didn't seem to accept your apology, did that sort of disappoint you a little bit? What was your take on that incident?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I mean, there is some things that can happen on court. I know really well James. He's a really gentleman guy outside the court. But sometimes on court, I mean, things can happen. And I didn't have another choice, you know. I was nervous. I didn't feel my forehand, so I went to the middle. Unfortunately I hit him. It wasn't on purpose. I mean, I just want to win the point.   
 I say I'm sorry. He didn't accept that. On the change, I say, I'm sorry, you were too close to the net, and it's part of the game. And he laugh. I don't know what he think about it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT