AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2008
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Did you have any physical problems out there?  It looked like you were serving very sporadic, 150 and 200, then back to 150. 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  It was tough to play.  I got here like 15 days ago, and after three, four days it started to bother my shoulder because the ball was too heavy, and today I was really tired. 
 In last two days I was with stomach upset, so I couldn't take it anymore.  It was really hard to me.  I mean, serve, especially hard the way that he was returning. 
 I was really disappointed when you're in the court and he's serving 200 kilometers and then you serve 160.  It's a big difference. 

 Q.  Did you ever think about not playing? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  No, no.  No, no, I was -- I mean, I wasn't my 100 percent, but I was able to play.  I was fighting a lot.  I think I did a really good match in the first three sets. 

 Q.  Can you remember that you were so defensive in any match lately? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, because it was -- I wasn't feeling good on the court.  I was serving and the ball was coming to the line really hard and I have to put the ball back in play.  And when he was serving he was serving really good, so he wasn't easy to play. 

 Q.  Did it surprise you at all the way he played?  Do you think he just could sustain this level almost the whole match? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, I mean, it was a long match, you know.  When the match is long, I think I was the favorite.  And when I won the second set I think that I can get the control of the match. 
 And after I have an early break.  The first game I missed like two or three forehands and he took the control again.  And then I broke him back, and then he broke me like three times in a row. 

 Q.  He said that he thought that perhaps because he played indoors it might have helped him a lot on his serve.  Do you think that made part of the difference as well? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, it's part of the game.  You cannot do anything about the weather, so -- but anyway, he played a really good match.  I wasn't feeling like I want, but I was able to fight. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT