TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 16, 2007
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  You never beat Davydenko.  What is the reason?  We noticed you smashed your racquet more than once.  Were you not satisfied with yourself?  We also noticed that you were not excited even when you had good shots.  Why?  Your first match against Roger Federer wore you out, so the fatigue made you lose the second and third?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  For me always is tough to play against Davydenko.  He play really fast and both sides are really good, have really good return.   
 But today I give my best, and I think wasn't enough.  We play really long first set and I have my chances, but he was playing better in the important games.   
 What was the second question?   
  
  Q.  You smashed your racquet several times.  When you hit good balls, you were not very excited.  Why?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I smashed my racquet, I was a little bit disappointed with myself after losing that set.  I was running a lot.  I was playing good tennis, but it wasn't feeling like I want.  That was the reason.   
 I mean, I was really excited because I still having chances to go to the semis, but it was really tough.  I didn't feel like on the first day.  But now, I mean, it was also really important match for me today.   
  
  Q.  Your defeat sent Roger directly into the semis.  How do you feel about that?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I mean, when I came here I was looking forward for the tournament.  I mean, it doesn't matter -- I mean, your goal is to pass the group, so I was really excited in the beginning.   
 But now I'm not happy, but I feel good with myself because today I was feeling much better and I give everything that I have.   
  
  Q.  Your win over Federer seemed to take a lot out of you.  It seems like you're not able to play that well in the next two matches.  Let us suppose that if you are Roddick now, would you save your energy for the semifinal or to beat Federer?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Every time when I go to the court I give my hundred percent.  Sometimes you don't have your hundred.  But normally I try to give all that I have, like today.  I mean, I think I play okay match.  I can play better, but today that was all that I have.   
 Of course, when you have a chance to play a tournament, this kind of tournament, every time you gonna give all that you have.   
  
  Q.  All the Masters in China, they expressed they would participate in the Beijing Olympics.  Will you go to the Beijing Olympics?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, I will.  I have really good memory from the last Olympics, so I will be in Beijing for sure.   
  
  Q.  Tell us a little bit about your schedule after the Masters Cup.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I go on holidays now, I don't know, three weeks, one month.  Depends.  I have to check with my coach and with my trainer.  But I need time for recover myself - physically, mentally - start really fresh next year.   
 I'm going to start in Australian Open.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT