TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 14, 2007
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  During the match today, you looked painful.  Did you hurt yourself during the match against Federer?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Of course, at this level always you feel pain.  But, no, today I was really, really tired.  I mean, with my body, I feel really like heavy.  It was really hard to me to move to one side to another.   
 I need like maybe one or two more step to stop and go the other way.  Of course I feel something, but nothing serious - hopefully.   
  
  Q.  During today's match, it was very quick.  Both matches were very quick.  What do you think about Roger and Andy?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  About Roger today?   
  
  Q.  Yes, Roger today, and Andy.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I didn't see Roger's match today.  I mean, just a few points.   
 Roddick was playing -- I mean, he likes to play very quick.  He likes to have short points.  He was making a lot of free points with his serve.  And on my game, he was trying to surprise me.   
 So he make a really good job because I didn't really feel good in the beginning.  And after it was too late.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you returned Roger's serve better than Andy or it was just because you were tired?  Was it just a question of focus?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Of course I'm tired.  The other day was the first match and we play a really long match with Roger.  But Andy have a really good serve.  I mean, he's much faster.   
 But, I mean, I was trying to put the ball in play and try to play because I feel that I have more chances to win every point if we play every one against Andy.   
 But today, I mean, it wasn't a really good day for me.  And Andy plays really good.  I mean, he have an early break and then he get a lot of confidence winning the match.   
  
  Q.  You slipped several times in the first set.  Did you get any injuries because of that?  Is it just because you're tired or was it just an accident?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Both.  But I think it's an accident.  Of course I have a little bit heavy legs, but it's part of the game.  You know, sometimes you play a tough match and the next day you're playing again and today I have a day off, but I don't.   
 But I feel a little bit heavy with my body.  I mean, if you fell, it's an accident.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT