TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 12, 2007
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  In the past you were the first one to lose 10 matches in a row against Roger Federer.  Now today you're the first to overcome such an embarrassing record to him.  What's the big difference right now?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, I was talking with my coach in the locker, and nobody beat me 11 times in a row, so...  (Smiling).   
 In the beginning, of course, he was the favorite, with the numbers, with all his career, you know.  And I have really a lot of motivation.  I was really exciting when I went to the court.   
 I think he plays, I don't know, like the first five games he plays like a real No. 1, more than No. 1.  I was feeling really bad on the court.   
 But after he went down a little bit and my level went up.  So I think the key of the match was my serve and don't be scared to go for my shots.  That was really important.   
  
  Q.  We've been waiting for you for a long time.  You chatted with your coaches and friends or did you do anything else?  If Roddick beats you, he is able to qualify.  He said that Roger Federer is hard to overcome.  How do you view that?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  How do you mean "overcome"?   
  
  Q.  You were cheering with your coaches and your friends in the locker room.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  What keeps you so long?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  What is what keeps you so long?   
  
  Q.  We've been waiting for you.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I was working.  I'm sorry for the delay.  I was working.  Have to eat a little bit.  I have to recover because this is only the first match.  I'm really sorry.   
 I didn't understand the first question.   
  
  Q.  Roddick said Federer is very hard to defeat.  How do you view that?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, I mean, I play really good.  I mean, I play like three unbelievable points to broke him in 5-All in the third.  He's really tough player because he's very complete.  You never know what he's going to do in the next point, so that makes him be a really, really good player.   
 Now that I beat him, the group is very close because I still have two matches really hard to play, and nobody know what is going to happen.   
  
  Q.  Roger said some of the shots you played today were amazing.  Do you think you've ever played a better match than you did tonight?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I think my best match of ever was in the Australian Open against Tommy Haas in the semifinals.  I did like three unforced errors in three sets.  But today I play really good.  I mean, the last two games was in the top of my level I think because I did two forehand winners like regular shots, I did winners, and then I closed the point really well at the net.   
 And then I did three first serves, so it was really good, and really good for my confidence, too.   
  
  Q.  What did it feel when the audience shouted, Viva Chile in the stadium?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, for me it's really big because China is the farthest point of my country, so I have to fly like 27 hours flying to get here.  Also there is a few Chileans, I mean many.  No matter where I play there are always some fans cheering for me so that's really important for me.  They give me a really big support and a lot of motivation, too.   
  
  Q.  People always say you have the most powerful forehand in the world.  You had nine winners from your backhand side tonight.  Roger said your backhand is killing him tonight.  What are your comments about your backhand?  In the last moment of the match you had three match points and you had a double-fault.  How nervous were you at that moment?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, I think he say that I kill him with my backhand because he didn't expect that.  He expect I'm going to do that with my forehand.  Today I was hitting really good my backhand.  I know I surprise him a lot with down the line, try to keep the cross one.   
 But always my best shot is the forehand.  I improve a lot my backhand, but I think he didn't expect that I can do that.   
  
  Q.  And the double-faults.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, I was a little bit nervous, of course.  But it was servicing quick because I did like three serves.  You know, I didn't want to miss that second serve, but also have two more chances to go.  But after the double-fault it was a little bit more nervous, so...   
  
  Q.  Tell us a little bit about the tiebreak.  Are you surprised or was it beyond your expectation because it was an easy win?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, I mean, I only broke his serve at the end.  So we went to the tiebreak.  I think that point that he smashed into the middle and I get it was really important because I get 3-0 with two serves.  I get 5-0 in two minutes.   
 I think that was the key of the tiebreak because 2-1 with one mini break is not enough, but two mini breaks is a lot.  I mean, is a very big difference.   
  
  Q.  Can you elaborate on the smash.  Why did you stay in the middle?  You said one of the keys of the match for you was to keep going for your shots.  Was there a special reason today why you were able to keep going for your shots?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, in that smash I stay in the middle because he always go somewhere, try to guess where he's going to hit the ball.  But now, I mean, I stay like that's it.  I mean, I be like -- I mean, you need some kind of lot of lucky to get that because it was really hard and I did a perfect lob after that, so it was a little bit of lucky, too.   
  
  Q.  Why did you go for your shots?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I mean, the court, you can go for your shots here.  There's no wind, no sun because it's indoor.  And the ball -- the court's a little bit fast, but it's not that fast.  So you can do.   
 I feel really good here.  So that's why I went for my shots.  Today it worked.   
  
  Q.  There aren't that many people in the world that know what it's like to beat Roger Federer.  Could you talk a little bit about that.  When I spoke to you earlier in the week you said the Australian Open final was one of your highlights of the year.  Is this now your highlight of the year?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, I mean, this is the most important tournament of the year.  To start beating the No. 1 is really big for me.  But I have a few matches left so I want to keep focused and try to qualify for the semifinal.   
  
  Q.  What does it feel like to beat Roger Federer?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, it feels good.  After 10 times, it's my turn now (smiling).   
  
  Q.  It was the eighth loss in 2007 for Roger Federer.  Do you think now the No. 1 player is no longer the one who hardly will lose a match to anyone like he did the past three years?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I mean, I think today he is No. 1 by far because tennis, the ranking is made with 18 tournaments, not with one.  He already finished No. 1 for three, four years in a row.  And happens, I mean, you have to lose.  He's human.  Sometimes the opponents can make a few good shots and he can lose a match.   
 I mean, I didn't beat him 6-2, 6-2.  I beat him I have to work like two hours and run a lot, be a little bit lucky, went for my shot and did it.  That's why I beat him.   
  
  Q.  We saw that your South American fans were very enthusiastic.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  The Chileans.   
  
  Q.  Oh.  Chile fans were very enthusiastic.  The Swiss fans were rather calm and quiet.  Do you think that is also one of the advantages to you against Federer?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Well, I love to be with my crowd because we are South American and we scream a lot about what you want.  I mean, the people from Switzerland are like more quiet.  Is some kind of, I don't know, how the people are in each country.   
 But the Chileans become really well for me because in the tough moments they are cheering for you and you feel really far away from your house and they still here.   
  
  Q.  What makes the difference today with the previous matches?  Is it because of the mental power or your serve or backhand?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  No, it's happens, you know.  I think last -- well, last two matches with Roger was tight.  We play in Australia.  He won in straight sets, but also have my chances in the first set.   
 But today I tried to went for my shots a little bit more because the court was a little bit faster, and this time of the year get a little bit tired.  So I'm happy because I recovered that energy that makes me play really well.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT