WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2007
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You were very close to winning that match today.  What happened?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, it was really tough conditions today.  I never felt one game comfortable on the court because it was like the wrong wind, you know?  I know IT is same thing for both players, but for my game, I couldn't, like, loosen up, you know?  I was really tight, and when I was serving for the match, I didn't want to play the point because it was like tough conditions, and I knew that he was no pressure on that time of the match.  I'm really disappointed with this match today.   
  
  Q.  You two played each other at Queen's not long ago and you won that match?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, I won with the match point.  I know it's going to be a tough match.  Janko plays really good on grass and he was serving really big at the end of the match.   
  
  Q.  What do you think the difference is between when you last played him and today?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I didn't play my best today, but I kept fighting until the end.  It was really close, one match point, serve for the match, and that's enough opportunities to win the match.   
  
  Q.  Tipsarevic is sort of rising very fast on the tour.  Do you think this is a bit of a breakthrough for him?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  He's a good player.  If you're good, you're good; you're going to win everywhere, or anywhere.  It's time.  The only thing that you need is time.  He really played a good match today.   
  
  Q.  I thought your serve was one of the best things that makes you win, basically.  I thought you were going to rely on that serve quite a lot because most of your serves got you points.  What happened?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  It was tough.  I had an early break.  I mean, I give away the first set.  And then I served for the match.   
 But the rest of the match I think I served really good.  But unfortunately you need to close that kind of -- I mean, in that moment I didn't close the match on the 5-3 and then I had a match point and I missed.  I missed an easy ball.  I mean, that's -- you cannot do that kind of errors here.   
  
  Q.  Can I ask you what strings you use?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  What strings?  For grass I use kind of synthetic and gut, half and half.   
  
  Q.  Synthetic in the mains and guts in the cross?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  What type of synthetic?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Babolat.   
  
  Q.  Why?  What do you look for in that combination?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Because here on grass, the ball is heavy, heavier than the other places.  The ball is getting bigger and the ball absorbs the humidity of the court, and when the ball bounces, it's coming like with more weight.   
  
  Q.  Do you use a different combination on other surfaces?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Just synthetic on the rest.   
  
  Q.  So you only use gut for grass?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yes.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT