INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 12, 2007
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Congratulations.  I think you played a perfect match.  What do you think? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I played a really good match.  I mean, it was really tough to finish last night, but the condition was really good for me today. 
 I mean, last night I feel that the court very slow, and that change.  Give me a lot of confidence because I can serve better. 
 I can go into the net more, and I think I won most of the points when I go in.  So that was really important. 

 Q.  Did you expect more from Volandri after what he had done in the past three days, or it was just you overwhelmed him? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I think that, I mean, I try to make him play inside the court and try to go in a lot because he's a clay court player.  He's very fast and he likes to maybe play long points. 
 When we play long point he was playing like one minute inside the court, so he have to do something.  I mean, otherwise if we stay back maybe we can still play and the match is really tough. 
 But I was feel really good today with my serve, and every time that I have a chance I go to the net and I won most of the points. 

 Q.  Why his serve didn't work very well?  Because he wasn't putting much first ball, much strong serves. 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  It was like one of the strong point of my game.  I try to force his serve.  Try to make --  put a lot of pressure when he was serving. 
 I was serving good, so maybe that's really good advantage for me today.  I mean, I was winning points with my serve and he couldn't.  I attack his serve, so maybe that's why he start to play not so good at the end of the match. 

 Q.  To play a final in a Masters Series for someone who has already played a final in a Slam it's normal or still exciting? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I mean, it's still exciting because after Australia, I play my best tennis in Australia, and then two months maybe I didn't play at all really good. 
 After I a lot first round in Monte-Carlo and first round in Estoril it's tough.  I came here and start to win matches and now I'm in the finals, so I'm very excited to see what's going on tomorrow. 

 Q.  (In Italian) If tomorrow it's Nadal that you're going to play against, have you already thought about your tactics?  Are you confident? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I'm confident.  I have nothing to lose and he's the man of the record.  I'm not the man of the record.  But, I mean, he's a great player.  You know, I have to try my best. 
 I been playing really good in the last two matches and the conditions are much better for me in here.  But anyway, I mean, he's a good player.  He been playing many finals and he's going to be a tough guy to beat. 

 Q.  You beat him in Australia and also somewhere else, or not? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, but long -- last year I lost to him in quarters. 

 Q.  Yeah.  What's the, let's say the strategy you're thinking of? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I mean, I can't tell you because you will tell him later.  But he's a tough player.  I mean, he play -- he's good athlete, and, you know, it's going to be a fun match for the fans. 

 Q.  He has almost won the first set.  But let's think that Davydenko wins.  What would you say about Davydenko in your previous matches against him? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I think I never beat Davydenko.  I lost to him once here, but four years, three years ago.  I don't know.  He's a tough player, too.  He's in semis; he will be in final tomorrow. 
 So I know that I have to fight a lot, be very long court, and other thing, have fun, and try my best. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT