AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2007
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Can you play any better than that? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I don't really know because I never play three matches in a row at this level.  I've been playing really good, feeling the ball, defending, serving really well and, of course, hitting my forehand all around the court. 

 Q.  What has been your secret?  Is it your new coach? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Well, in tennis there is no secrets, I think.  Of course, with my new coach I've been working a lot, working trying to stay calm in the important moments, and on some other things on my game that I've been improving a lot in the last months. 

 Q.  What aspect of your game tonight was most satisfying? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  My forehand.  My forehand.  I mean, I think I won a lot of points with my forehand.  My return was really well, pretty good.  I think that my forehand was the key of the match of today. 

 Q.  Your forehand has always been your strongest shot obviously.  Have you done a lot more work on the rest of your game to sort of bring that up? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, my forehand of course is my best shot, is my weapon that normally I won the matches or I lost the matches.  But I've been working a lot on my slice, trying to leave the ball really low so I can come after with my shot. 

 Q.  Did you notice during the match that he had a leg injury? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I saw that he called the trainer in the third set, but I saw that he was moving.  I mean, he's a great fighter, he runs a lot.  I don't really know. 

 Q.  It's an hour since the match.  Have you given any thought ahead to Friday, to meeting Tommy? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I saw the match today.  It was really tough for them.  Tommy is a great player.  I know it's going to be a tough match. 
 We play few times maybe.  I don't remember now.  But we have maybe very similar game, you know:  one-hand backhand, baseline players, try to go in.  Makes a lot of different things in the game. 

 Q.  This is the first time for you into a Grand Slam semifinal.  In terms of your career, how important is that looking back and to the future? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I mean, really important because the slams are the most important tournaments.  I lost three times before in the quarters always like.  But today maybe I'm playing the best tennis of my career at this time.  I've been doing it in three straight matches. 
 I hope to continue because I feel really, really good at the court.  I feel that I can make many good things. 

 Q.  How differently are you approaching the big points now rather than just winding up and unleashing a forehand whenever you can? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  If I have the chance, I go for it with my forehand.  I mean, it doesn't matter if I miss a forehand on an important point. 
 But now I'm trying to find the right opportunity and stay a little bit calm, because maybe my game is like, you know, hitting, can get a bit crazy sometimes.  But now I stay a little bit calm on that moment. 

 Q.  What has helped you to do that, help to change the mentality a little bit? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I improve other things in my game.  Years.  I mean, I been on tour years.  I'm working with my new coach, too. 

 Q.  When you lost games previously, was there any one aspect of your game which opponents kind of capitalized on? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  When? 

 Q.  In the past. 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  If there is a point? 

 Q.  Any aspect of your game which opponents were targeting. 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah.  I mean, my backhand.  I'm more fit now.  I feel that I can play longer.  I can run a lot.  I can run and go for the next point. 
 I want to still improving, because I know that I can still doing much better the thing that I'm doing now.  So I'm going to keep working. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT