AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2007
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  You've reached your first Australian Open quarterfinal.  Would it be safe to say you're probably playing the best tennis of your career?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Maybe.  Maybe last match against Hewitt I play really good tennis.  I mean, I feel very light on my shots.  Today also I have a really good match against James.   
 Maybe can be the best tennis of my life, but I know that I can still improve in some things.   
  
  Q.  What are those things you can improve in?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  My return of serve.  I mean, that's give me a lot -- I mean, I can play much better when I make a lot of returns in.   
  
  Q.  Are you confident in making your first Grand Slam semifinal?  Can you get over the next hurdle?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I am thinking.  That's the next step.  It's only one match away.  I'm ready.  I know that I have a really tough match on the next round, too.  But I trust in my game the way that I'm playing.  I hope to continue many more matches like this.   
  
  Q.  What did Larry bring you in the few months technically and mentally?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I mean, in technique, trying to play with more first serve.  My slice is much better.  My volley, my return.   
 And mentally, I'm like little bit more relaxed on court, maybe enjoying more the match no matter what happen during the match.   
  
  Q.  You seemed a bit tight at the end of the last two matches against Lleyton and James.  Have you started thinking about what was at stake?  What has been happening at the end of your matches?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  No, I mean, I just try to go and win every point.  When you think too much, you don't play really good.  I try to be focused in every point, try to win the next one, try to speculate what he's going to do, what you have to do.   
  
  Q.  What was going through your head when James broke back at 5-4?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  It was tough moment because in the game before, had two match points.  One stay like in the top of the net, and it was over.  I feel it.  Then I was serving for the match against the wind.  I know James was with nothing to lose.  That was really tough moment.   
  
  Q.  Did you do anything to get back on track?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I didn't get back because I didn't go away.  Maybe I didn't play my best tennis in that game, but I stay in the match.  I didn't come.  I just stay, see what happen.   
  
  Q.  Were you worried at all that you had given James an opening that he might take advantage of?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Absolutely.  When you have the match in your hand, you feel that it's going little bit, is tough.  But is happens to everybody.  So today it was an exception.  But the most important thing that after I went to the tiebreak and I play good tennis.   
  
  Q.  James came in with a lot of confidence into this game.  What was your strategy to break down his game?  Did you have a particular strategy?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  We know each other really good with James.  We play many times.  I know that he have really good shots.  He serve good, have a good forehand.  He runs a lot.  He's a good athlete.   
 But I know, I mean, with my forehand, when I play high, try to open the court and go in, that maybe is my best tennis.  That was maybe the key.   
  
  Q.  Journalists give more importance to stats than players normally.  Everybody knows Blake had never won a five set match.  Did you know that?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  No.   
  
  Q.  That doesn't help your confidence if you lose the third thinking he will lose in the fifth?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  No, I didn't know that.  But even if I knew before the match, I mean, no matter.  The stats you always trying to breaking or improving.   
 I didn't know about that.   
  
  Q.  When you're going out there today, considering how well you were playing, do you feel like nobody can beat you?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I feel that I can beat anyone, not nobody can beat me.  Maybe it's a small difference.  But today I knew that I have a tough match against James.  I mean, he won last week.  He did final in the Masters.  He's win a lot of straight matches.  It's tough to play against a guy that is winning and winning.   
  
  Q.  What are your thoughts on your prospective quarterfinal opponents?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I have a tough match.  I play with Rafael last year.  With Andy, I lost to him in the US Open last time.  But now we're in quarterfinals.  You have more matches winning.  You have more confidence.  They have really tough match tonight.  They're going to play very long.  I hope that they can run a lot.   
  
  Q.  Can you say what you have to do against those two players?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  With Murray I lost last time because I did too many mistakes.  I tried to make too much sometimes.  I think the play very similar with a difference.  Rafael is more power, and Andy have more touch.  Maybe he feel better the ball.   
 But try to make my game and maybe don't try to play too good, you know.  That's a big error that sometimes I make.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT