WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 19, 2006
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Fernando, did you feel that you did yourself justice today?  Did you feel that you played as well as you could have done?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  No, no, I feel that it wasn't a good day.  He broke me in the first game, so that's very important in these kind of matches.  Especially if you play against Andy, that maybe sometimes you cannot break him in all the match, and if you give a break, is a huge advance.   
 So I didn't feel really good today in the court.  I feel little bit heavy and I couldn't move as well that I was doing, doing last week and this week.   
 But, anyway, Andy was serving really good and he didn't let me do anything.   
  
  Q.  Why did you feel heavy?  Was it the climate?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  No, little bit tired.  I mean, little bit.  But, anyway, I mean, when Andy serve, we didn't play many points.  He was serving huge.  He was winning two or three points just with the serve.  He puts you a lot of pressure.  When you have to go and serve, you cannot make a mistake because sometimes he can play a little bit more relaxed when he serving that good that he was doing.   
  
  Q.  How do you think his return game was?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  My what?   
  
  Q.  His return game.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, it was okay.  I mean, he's a good player.  He's one of the best or maybe the best server in the circuit.   
 And if you are serving that way, I mean, is easy to play the other game, you know?   
  
  Q.  Could you have done anything different?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  The beginning.  Maybe I didn't have enough today, but the beginning was really important.  I mean, early break, it's kill you with Andy.   
  
  Q.  Was it nerves?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  A little bit.  I mean, normally, you get nervous in the beginning of the match and you try to play some long points to get into the match.   
 Today was really, really different.   
  
  Q.  He said he's really trying to expand his game beyond the serve, working on his net game, return game.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, he was returning better.  But, I mean, he do everything with the serve.  I mean, when we play the baseline point, I feel that I can win most of the points.   
 But after, when the match -- maybe in the second set he was playing better and better because, you know, if you know that you gonna win your serve, you can play.  I mean, you can make other things.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT