ROGERS MASTERS
August 12, 2006
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Although you lost, that was a very good performance in the second and third sets.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I think that I play really good match.  I mean, I did maybe one or two mistakes, normal mistakes, in one game in the final set.  But is tough to go into the court and lose the first set in 20 minutes.  I feel really bad after that.  I mean, until 3-2 in the second set, I feel that I was feeling really not so good at the court.   
 But after that I feel that I was dominating my games, you know, when I was serving.  I was dominating and I was feeling better and better on court.   
  
  Q.  Why didn't you feel so good to start with?  Were you a bit tense?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  No, because he was playing unbelievable.  He did like a few shots unreal.  I mean, he break me in the first game and then everything went like uphill, you know.  He was playing really good.  I was trying to fight a little bit and let's see what happen.   
  
  Q.  Then you got to the stage where you had a point to lead 3-1 in the final set.  You were actually quite close to getting on top, weren't you?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah.  I feel, I mean, the match was even at that time.  But I have one breakpoint, and I lost my chance.  At this level, you have a few opportunities, and that's it.   
  
  Q.  You've lost quite a bit of weight.  You're playing with a more varied game.  Do you feel this is a new stage of your career with new possibilities?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Absolutely.  I mean, I feel maybe three or four months ago, I was playing good tennis, but no more than that.  Today I feel that I can -- I have more weapons.  I don't have to take much risk that I used to do it.  I can go into the net.  I can run.  I can play five hours if I can.  That's very exciting for me.  I mean, I have a lot of motivation.  I think it's going to be a good summer for me.   
  
  Q.  Your serve is very good.  Today didn't work very well, the first serve.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Maybe in the beginning.  But I feel that I was serving okay.  I mean, last year I used to go for it in every point.  But now I'm learning to play with my serve, maybe put more first in, use my groundstroke to win the point, not to try like find two or three points for my game with my serve.   
  
  Q.  Did you hook up with Larry during the Davis Cup tie?  Is that where it started, in Palm Springs?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  No, we start --   
  
  Q.  Is that where you made the contact with him?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  No, a little bit later.  Do it after Monte-Carlo, I talk to him.  We start working one week before the French Open.  But, you know, we didn't have enough time.  The week before a Slam, to play, you cannot work too much.   
 But during the LA tournament and then I went one week to San Diego, we been working a lot, really good job.   
  
  Q.  Is it frustrating, you make your second Masters Series semifinal, play Federer.  Wimbledon, Federer.  Is it frustrating to play Federer each time you make a good tournament?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  No, that's a draw.  It's disappointing, but it's a great opportunity to beat him.  For me was much better if I play another guy on semifinal and maybe find him at the end of the tournament.   
 But what can I do?  I can't do anything.  Just wait for a better luck.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of the result last night, Rios and McEnroe?  Were you interested in the result of that match?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  You know, Rios can be playing here.  He's 30 years old.  There is many players that they are over 30 years.  It's a big advance.  McEnroe is like 46, 48.   
  
  Q.  47.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  47 against 30.  I mean, it's like if I play juniors, you know, same thing.  If I went to the juniors, I play, there is no competition.   
  
  Q.  Do you ever play with Marcelo when you're home?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  No.  Practice, you mean?   
  
  Q.  Yes.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  No.  We did a few times just.   
  
  Q.  But he could still be maybe No. 35, 40 in the world if he played?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, if he practiced, he can be in the Davis Cup team for sure.  He's unbelievable player.  He retired.  He play until 25, I don't know.  He retire in 2004, but he didn't play for one year before.  He had unbelievable results.  I don't understand why he don't play any more.  If he's play on seniors, I think he wants to play, but he don't want to play on the main tour.   
  
  Q.  It's not always easy to understand Marcelo.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  (Smiling).   
  
  Q.  When you're out there in such a big match against the No. 1 player in the world, do you feel like you're playing for Chile as well as Fernando?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Always.  When I play Davis Cup, it's I my favorite tournament because I saw everyone is expecting in my country.  Normally in most of the tournament when I'm playing, I feel there is many Chileans supporting you.  That's really big.  If you go to Melbourne and you have many Chileans, you come here, there is some more.  Everywhere.  That's really motivating for me.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT