ROGERS MASTERS
August 10, 2006
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Can you talk a little bit about Larry Stefanki and how your game has changed since you've had him?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, when I broke up with my ex- coach, I call him.  He said, What do you want to do?  I said, I want to improve some parts of my games.  I know that I can still improving.  The toughest thing was my net game, you know.  My net game, my return, my backhand.   
 We've been working two or three months together.  So it's been a few changes, but make me feel much better on court, you know.   
  
  Q.  For example, in a match like you had today, is it something that's made a difference for you?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, because when I serve 4-3 in the tiebreak, I go in in the two points that I serve.  Normally maybe one before.  But now, I mean, I try to go forward.  I know that I'm going to lose some points, but I have to still try and try.  That's going to make you improve my game.   
  
  Q.  What goes through your mind in a match like that that goes back and forth, changes, then you do get into the tiebreak?  What's going through your mind?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, it tough to play against Ivan.  I think is the biggest serve in the circuit, one of the biggest.  So you put you a lot of pressure when you serve because you don't have to let him break you.   
 In the first game of the second set, I have one breakpoint.  He broke me.  I broke him back.  Tiebreak.  That's it.   
 Final set I have like, I don't know, five breakpoints, including a few match points on that breakpoint.  I couldn't make it.  Then tiebreak again.  You never know what's going to happen in the breaker in the final set after three hours playing.   
 But I feel good on the court.  I'm moving pretty good.  My game is improving, so...   
  
  Q.  There was a lot of challenge today.  Was it difficult to stay concentrated during the whole game?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I'm really unlucky with the challenge.  I mean, the first 10 that I did few weeks, I lost like eight or nine.  Today, I don't know, I did a challenge, there was no space, the ball was out.  I don't know what's going on.  Then same thing with Ivan, deuce.   
 But I think it's good, even for me.  I've been unlucky with the challenge, but it's more fair for the players most of the time because sometimes the linesmen make some mistakes.  They're human.  They have to make mistakes, and you can't do anything.  Now you are allowed to ask.  You have some opportunities to do it.   
  
  Q.  So it's easier to move forward?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Yeah, it good for the game.  It's good for the people.  It's good for the players.  It's good for the umpires, for everyone.   
  
  Q.  Can you tell me about that shot you made from between your legs?  Do you practice that?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I did one in LA two weeks ago.  I won the point.  It was a little bit different.   
 I don't practice it.  But when I have a chance, I just do it.  I like.  When I practice, try to make some trick shots, you know, when I'm practicing.  Tennis is my job, but it's a game for me.  I try to enjoy.   
 But today I was a little bit lucky.  Maybe you can do it 10 times, it's going to be one or two, especially in that moment.  It was important moment.  I was in the net.  He pass me through.  I say, That's it, I'm going to go for it.   
  
  Q.  You've been around the top 20 for quite a while, but you still haven't had that sort of big breakthrough to the very top, big run in a Grand Slam.  Do you feel now, looking at the US Open, that you're ready to make that next step?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I'm ready.  I feel ready.  In the French Open, I was feeling that I was in the best moment.  I was 8, my highest ranking.  I was feeling really good on court.  I was playing good on clay.  I was unlucky.  I play against Djokovic, young player, nothing to lose.  I lost in five sets.   
 But I feel ready.  I mean, my game is improving.  I'm playing day to day good tennis.  Normally maybe one year ago, two years ago I play unbelievable one day, the next day maybe I can miss a few things and I can lose the match, that's it.  Now I feel that day to day I can still play in this way.   
  
  Q.  What do you think about the US Open Series?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  It's good.  I mean, for the people, for the players have an extra motivation maybe playing the hard court tournaments, preparing the US Open.  But, anyway, this is very important tournaments for me and the rest of the players.  It's nice.  They can still make it for maybe other tournaments.  It's going to be really, really nice for the people, crowd, for us.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT