TMS - MONTE-CARLO
April 22, 2006
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  You tried your best, and what happened?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, it's tough to play against Roger.  He's playing unbelievable tennis.  He break me in the beginning, so I couldn't do anything in that set.  And when he is up in the score, he playing better and better.   
  Q.  You did come back in the second.  Did you think you might be able to get into the match?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, I was 2-1 with a breakpoint, I think.  But it's tough.  I mean, because it's tough to play with too much pressure because you know that is one chance or two, at least, I mean.  And I miss a return.   
 But he played really good today.  I couldn't do anything more.   
  Q.  What is it about his game, if you had to pick a couple of things that make it so difficult to play him, what is it?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I mean, when you play against him, you always feel that he's with the control of everything, and he have a really good defense.  When you leave one ball not so deep, he come in and finish the point.   
  Q.  Do you have the feeling he is playing better this year than last year on clay or not?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Last -- I mean, every day is different in tennis.  I can't say if he's playing better, I don't know.  Last year he won many tournaments.   
  Q.  Compared to the match you had with him last year, because you had a tough match here.   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, it was different, the match of last year.  Maybe it's different if we play tomorrow (smiling).   
 But he's playing, I mean -- his forehand run a lot on the clay.  I mean, he have a really good acceleration.  And you always can see it or feel it when you're playing against him.  I mean, the ball come really, really quick and really high.   
  Q.  If you had to pick for tomorrow, what do you think?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  It's tough.  I mean, Nadal have a chance if the match is really long.  He play very long today, he runs a lot.  I don't know how he is for tomorrow, but is gonna be interesting match tomorrow.   
  Q.  Who do you prefer to play on clay, Roger or Rafael?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I play against Rafael like two years ago.  I haven't played with him since that time, so...   
 But if I have to pick, I prefer to play with Rafael.   
  Q.  Are you still happy with the tournament?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, it was a good week.  I wasn't playing too good in the beginning and I won few close matches against Moya and Lopez, and that give me my tennis back.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT