TMS - MONTE-CARLO
April 21, 2006
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  What turned it around in the first set?  Did Ljubicic's injury have anything to do with it?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  It was a really strange match.  I mean, he took early break.  He was 4-1 and close to be 5-1.  After, he served for the first set.  I played good that game, and after he have a problem in his feet.   
 I don't know.  I took that chance, and I feel really good at the court.  I mean, much better in the second set.   
  Q.  So last year you were 11th in the world, but this year you started slowly.  You are now 21, so maybe you are not satisfied by the start of the season?  What do you feel?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  No, not really satisfied, especially how I finish last year.   
 I been having a problem in my shoulder in the beginning of the season, and I wasn't playing too good.  Finally, this week, I find my game and I feel much better on the court day by day.   
  Q.  Your record against Roger isn't great.   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  (Smiling).   
  Q.  What are you going to do about it?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I mean, the history, you have to change it, and I hope to do it tomorrow.  I mean, I have nothing to lose.  He's the best player in the world now and sometimes you have to lose.  So let's see if tomorrow is one of the day.   
  Q.  Last year it was a close game, I remember.   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah.  Yeah, I mean, was really close, but I lose the match anyway.   
 But he's playing good.  I mean, he's a really good player, but I have the power in my shot to try to attack him tomorrow and don't let him play like he want.   
  Q.  Roger says he's playing even better than he was last year.   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Him?   
  Q.  Yes, on clay.  Is there an approach you have in mind, do you have an idea in mind how to beat him?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, I try my best always, but he's a good player.  And we play already five times.  Last year we played three times.   
 But tomorrow is another day, and every day is different in tennis.   
  Q.  Is there a weakness in his game?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Is tough to find it.  I don't think he really have some weak part of the game, but I don't know.  I mean, I'm playing better day by day, I mean.  So I have to try my best, and I will do it tomorrow.   
  Q.  Is clay your best surface, or you like to play on all surfaces?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Last year I have more better results on hard courts, on grass.  I don't know.  This year, maybe it's clay.   
 But it doesn't make too much difference for me.  I mean, I can adapt really well.  I played Davis Cup two weeks ago on grass, so I get here like six days before the tournament and that was enough.  So I can play anywhere.   
  Q.  Your win in Davis Cup was good for confidence, I suppose?   
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, really.  The match was really important because the beginning of the season, how I tell you right before, it wasn't too good, I was with an injury, I didn't play good.  And I went to the Davis Cup.  That is a tournament that I like to play for my country.  It was on grass and I was losing that match really, really easy, and I come back from two sets to Love down and I won, I don't know, like 10-8 in the fifth.  That was really, really important for my confidence.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT