DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINALS
April 7, 2006
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  You're down two sets, things are looking very bad.  You looked very dispirited.  I even thought, Does this guy think it's over?  How did you pull yourself together?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I mean, I was really bad.  I serve for the first set, and I saw that James wasn't playing too good in the beginning of the match.  I took a break.  But my serve didn't work too good today.  I mean, I have my shoulder came like tired when I play long matches.   
 But, I mean, the key of the match was still fighting.  This is Davis Cup, you represent your country, you can give anything.  You have to fight until the end because I know that the people in my country, they expecting that it doesn't matter what happens, the thing is try to give your best until the end of the match.   
  Q.  James said he was a little bit surprised with how comfortable you were on the surface.  He knows you were a quarterfinalist at Wimbledon, but still he felt your level was a bit higher than he would have expected.  Did you surprise yourself on the surface?  Did your extra time in Miami training on the surface help?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Not really much because I play really good last year.  I lost to Federer.  I mean, I did quarterfinals in Wimbledon.  But the grass in Wimbledon is different.  I mean, this grass, I don't want to say, but it's really bad.  I mean, really low bounces.  You cannot play.  I mean, sometimes the ball was coming with no power, and the bounce was really bad, you hit I don't know where.  Sometimes you don't hit it with the strings.   
 But after that, I mean, any way, I was feeling really good.  I mean, I was running good.  My slice was working.  I mean, it wasn't my best, but the balls goes in, and that was really important for me.   
  Q.  I imagine you weren't hoping to lead off with a five-setter.  How tough will it be to come to the doubles tomorrow?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  It's going to be tough.  I mean, I play more than four hours, now I have to play the next two days.  I mean, I think the best thing is we'll have to wait what happen with Nicolas now, and we're going to have a team decision tonight.   
  Q.  Are you saying there's a possibility you won't be available for the doubles?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Absolutely.  I mean, I tell you, this is Davis Cup.  I mean, when we represent our country, we play much better.  I know that the people is very exciting, they come, many Chileans.  I feel like we was playing at the local.  It was really unbelievable and amazing to play with this crowd in here.   
  Q.  You're saying that you will be available for the doubles?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  If I will, I don't know.  I hope so.  I mean, the best thing is that we have to wait what happen now.  I mean, I'm hearing that it's getting better (laughter).   
  Q.  How are your legs doing now?  Are you cramping?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  After the match, I take rest like 20 minutes.  I was putting ice, I was with massage because I was cramping on my left leg during the fifth set.  But now I feel okay.  I mean, I just finish my match.  We have to see what happen tonight and tomorrow.   
  Q.  James is known to be one of the best sports on the circuit.  He did say today the complaining went to a whole new level.  Can you comment on that?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  What did he say?   
  Q.  That the complaining on court went to a whole new level.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I don't understand.   
  Q.  He said the complaining from your captain went to a whole new level.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  There is -- I mean, when you play away home and there's no mark on the court, sometimes you feel that.  I mean, there was one point it was 7-All, deuce, I did return and the ball was clearly in, the umpire call out.  Sometimes you are very nervous, and sometimes maybe you can see as well that the umpire can do it.   
 But, I mean, what happen if he didn't say anything in that point?  The umpire going to say that "I'm right, I'm doing a good job," and he didn't in that time of the set.   
  Q.  How important was it with all the Chilean fans?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  This is my favorite tournament.  I'm in the middle of my career.  I'm very -- I get very satisfied when I play Davis Cup, especially at home.  You have 10,000 people, 5,000 people, whatever.  The stadium's going to be full.  I mean, you cannot imagine what is that feel.  It's really amazing for me.   
  Q.  You had four aces in the last game.  Have you ever completed a match anything like that?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Special how I was serving.  I was fighting, running, try to put the ball in.  But I was very bit nervous.  I'm knowing that part of the court, the ball doesn't bounce.  I mean, the court have a little - I don't know how do you call.  You have to go and see that.  Leave the ball, and the ball is not going to bounce.  That's why I did four aces maybe.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT