TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 18, 2005
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English or Chinese, please. 


Q.  You seemed to be in control of the match for the first half, and then everything changed.  What happened? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, I was dominating during the first two sets.  I was serving really good.  I was feeling the ball unbelievable, and I was hitting every shot how I want.  But I think the biggest error wasn't the -- it wasn't an error, because I played a bad game when I served for the match.  I only put one first serve in, and then I lost that game.  I mean, that was very important for me.  And in the following game, I mean, I had three match points.  But you never know when the other guy is serving.  I mean, it's a little bit of bad luck and a little bit that I didn't play good in that game. 

Q.  Were you aware at the end of the third set that Gaston was communicating with his coach at a very important time of the match, whether that upset you or whether you had any thoughts about that?

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Not really much because I try to make my own job.  It doesn't matter what the other guy's doing.  For me, I try to make my best, try to make my tennis, and I don't care what the other guy is doing. 

Q.  In the game you served for the match, what happened?  It was concentration?  Did the concentration go out or you got too tight?

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I mean, I tried to go for it.  I tried to go like all the other games.  But I didn't put -- I mean, I put the first serve in just once.  The base of my game was good serve and good forehand.  So that maybe was the important game. 

Q.  If you could have those two points again from 5-All, 30-All, in the third set, what would you do differently?

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Ooh.  No, I don't think that I can do different.  I mean, I have a good decision.  I mean, I was really decide to go for it.  And this time didn't work, but next time will. 

Q.  This year we have so many players pull out of the tournament.  A committee organizer said it's Mercedes-Benz car and 65% of the auto parts are not original ones.  You came here as a reserve player.  Are you offended by this comment or not? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I mean, the tournament pays to have the big stars.  But they was unlucky that many of that players was injured.  I mean, I have the opportunity to come.  For me is an honor to be here and to play. 

Q.  Are you satisfied with this Shanghai trip? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, with the tournament really satisfied.  But I'm not really satisfied about today and about the flight back.  It's too far away (smiling). 

Q.  You were the substitute for Andre Agassi.  If you have a chance to play against Davydenko, do you have confidence to win? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, I mean, I have a lot of confidence that I can beat any player.  If I have one more match, it will be perfect for me.  But I was an alternate and I have to play what I have only. 

Q.  Some said Gaudio may be the easier opponent for Federer, but you are not.  How do you feel about that?

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I think maybe I'll have better shots than Gaudio, but he run better.  I mean, we are different players, so maybe for Federer is better to play with Gaudio than me. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT