TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 16, 2005
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English or Chinese, please. 


Q.  You must be very happy with yourself, coming in at late notice and having such a great start?

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, I mean, four or five days ago I was in holidays at home and I was really having real fun.  But they called me from the ATP and they asked me if I want to come like a second alternate.  I knew that I have little chances to play.  But anyway, I mean, it's my dream to play in Masters Cup.  I get here, and I was really surprised when Agassi retired because it was the second day of the tournament, and he give me the chance to play more than one match.  So it's really good for me. 

Q.  What were you exactly doing when you got the call from here? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I was waking up from the big party of the day before (smiling).  But, I mean, they gave me like two hours to decide, and I have to make a trip like 30-hour flight, and it was very tough decision.  Because I did it three years ago and I didn't play.  I did the same trip and it was really -- I mean, it was very, very long.  But this year was different because I knew that some player was with some injuries, and I know that I have more chances than the other year to play. 

Q.  So how long did it take you to take the decision, two hours or less than that? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Excuse me? 

Q.  How long did it take you to take the decision?

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  To decide?  I mean, no, less than two hours.  It was a tough decision because I was in holidays and didn't play for ten days and I have to make a long trip to see if I can play, you know.  It's really tough decision.  Now I play and I won a match, and you know that it's the best decision.  But you never know. 

Q.  First, congratulations on your victory.  You came here as a substitute, but now you have a chance to go into the semi.  How do you think about that, that big - how you say? - chance? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, you never know what's gonna happen in your life because five days ago I was in holidays, two days ago I didn't know if I can play, and today maybe I have a chance to go to the semifinals.  So that's really, really strange for me because many, many good news in the last few days. 

Q.  Would you like to say something, comment about this new stadium? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I mean, it's a great stadium.  I mean, I saw when Roger Federer come for the inauguration.  I saw in some magazine and I said, "Oh, I have a chance to play there."  I was playing the last tournaments in Europe.  And it's really -- I mean, it's one of the best stadium in the world; maybe it's the best one they say.  It's really, really nice. 

Q.  Now that we've interrupted your holidays, will this change your schedule for practice and tournament play before the Australian Open next year?  Will you go back to having a longer holiday? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I don't think so, because I'm gonna have a holiday twice, you know.  Maybe it's gonna be shorter, but it's gonna be twice because I already had a week and now I'm gonna have a week playing again.  And let's see, I mean.  But I don't think so.  I have enough time.  Maybe I can take a week off during the year.  That's going to be much better. 

Q.  If Safin, Marat Safin, and Roddick can play here, do you think you can defeat them?  I mean, because the surface is very quick. 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, I mean, I know that maybe they have more chances to win if I play with them in this surface.  But anyway, I mean, I beat Andy few times.  I lost to Marat five in the fifth set in Davis Cup this year in the same surface; maybe it was little bit faster.  But I don't know.  In tennis you never know what's gonna happen. 

Q.  What about Roddick? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I mean, I think I have chances.  I mean, maybe he have more chances than me.  But anyway, I mean, you never know with tennis. 

Q.  Just one detail.  Where were you exactly when you got the call?  Which city?

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  At home.  My dad come to me because I have all my telephone off, you know.  My cell phone, it was not working.  My dad come to me. 

Q.  Outside your fans were shouting something.  What does it mean?

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  "Chi-Chi-Chi-Le-Le-Le."  It's C-h-i, L-e.  "Chile."  That's how do you spell Chile.  That's our, I mean... They do it always.  I mean, it was very exciting and very surprised to see many fans.  I mean, we are in China.  We're in other part of the world.  You have to travel like 30 hours to get here.  And to see many, many fans, it's really, really nice for me. 

Q.  The last few days some players have complained about the surface.  Someone said it's too fast, and someone said it's perfect.  What do you think about the surface? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I mean, I think that the bounce is a little bit low.  It's little bit fast.  But, I mean, if you are a professional, you have to play where you have to play, you know.  But maybe it's little bit low bounces.  That's the worst things.  But, I mean, you can play good tennis here. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT