ATP MASTERS SERIES- MADRID
October 20, 2004
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in Spanish for Fernando. 


Q.  You haven't been lucky in these Masters Series.  Can you talk about your problems with your stomach. 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Well, it wasn't that long.  It was only three weeks I trained hard.  This could be a reason.  But besides, I was weaker than usual.  I had fever Sunday, and that weakens you for long matches.  I was tired, not feeling well in the beginning. 

Q.  In the singles this morning, you started finally to stabilize your game.  What happened when you were 4-3 with a serve in your favor and the match went to the European? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Well, I didn't get any first serves in, and that's important.  I was very tired, too, so I tried to force short points because long ones would not help me.  Those are matches that are really close and sometimes go to one and sometimes to another. 

Q.  Despite you're not physically fit, you're recovering from an infection, we saw you playing well, involved in your game.  How do you feel mentally towards the year?

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  The year is about to end.  But, yeah, I was tired.  It was a week I didn't go to any tournament because I wasn't feeling well.  To feel well is very important for us.

Q.  This morning we asked Safin his impressions about the Davis Cup.  He said they were going to get the fastest court they could. 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Of course they are.  It's going to be a very, very tough match.  We have a great team, it's going to be entertaining for people. 

Q.  It's a pity you're not meeting him on the court. 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yes, it's a pity I'm not continuing in the tournament.

Q.  The match with Koubek was defined because of your errors? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  It was a match of two points actually where anything could happen, and that happened today. 

Q.  We talked to your coach.  He says Koubek's service and return was very important.  Do you think he used it? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Well, he's not known because of his good serve, but he has a great backhand.

Q.  Doubles, what are your impressions about the first set?  Massu couldn't continue playing?

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Yeah, he was not feeling well.  He was a bit tired; his leg started hurting.  I think it was better not to continue playing towards the next tournament. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT