US OPEN
September 7, 2004
Nicolas Massu
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What do you think the reason Latin American players, Chile, Argentina, are very good players, get good results in big tournaments? 
 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ: I mean, one of the most important reason is I think it's our personality. We try to fight from the beginning till the end. Maybe that's one of the big reason for our success.  
 
Q. You are very good player in clay court. Do you think, compare with the hard court and clay court. 
 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ: I think I can play on every court. Sometimes I like more hard court and sometimes more clay. But also this year I won a few matches on grass, and that's new for me. So, I mean, doesn't make too much difference about any court.  
 
Q. I know you're coached by Horacio de la Pena. What advantage is it to you to be coached by a guy who has recently played on the tour? 
 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ: I mean, it's very important if you have a coach, he used to play, he is a good coach, have good results on both sides. So he knows what do you think, what do you feel in the important moments. Because there is some coaches that they have never played and they doesn't know what do you think in that moment. So maybe that's a good, very good reason to have a good coach like that.  
 
Q. Nicolas, as far as your coach, what do you think from having a guy who was a former player? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: I am not anymore with the guy Gabriel Markus. I have a new coach, Patricio Rodriguez. I start with him like a few months ago, the week before Wimbledon.  
 
Q. Was he also a former player? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: Yeah.  
 
Q. Have you ever had coaches that were not former ATP coaches? 
 
 NICOLAS MASSU: It's better the coach play tennis before. Because Fernando say, I think the same as Fernando, same. Same reason.  
 
Q. Why do you think there are so many Latin American players who become coaches very early? Like these guys are both in their 30s. Why do you think they make the transition from being a player to a coach so quickly? 
 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ: I'm not the right person to answer that, but, I mean, they feel very deep the tennis, you know. They don't like to stay away from the tour, I think - I think, I mean, is my opinion. But you have to ask them.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT