US OPEN
August 30, 2004
Nicolas Massu
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








FERNANDO GONZALEZ: Of course. We gonna try to keep going, so this is a good chance to keep it. 

NICOLAS MASSU: I think because normally when you play like for your country it's different. Normally when you play in the ATP, you be more focused in the singles, and you don't have time to practice the doubles. And the last three or four weeks before the Olympics, we practiced like a lot of doubles match. We play very good. Just we get confidence in the last weeks, and we play very good in the Olympics against the Bryans, in the semis against Ljubicic and Ancic we play very good. 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ: I don't remember that moment because I was really tired. But you have to try to fight until the end. It was only one point away to lose the match, but anyway you have to try and keep going until the end. So maybe we get a little bit lucky in that set. 

NICOLAS MASSU: Yeah, I see some videos the last days from Chile. The people get a little bit crazy because they are very happy. They are the first two gold medals in the history of Chile. Tennis now maybe gonna be the most important sport in the country. There are a lot of kids now trying to play tennis. 

NICOLAS MASSU: Normally when you go to a tournament, you think to won the tournament. But you never know if you lost in the second round, the semis. But it's unbelievable to win two gold medals. Some time you do, I don't know, it's a dream. 

NICOLAS MASSU: I played good last year. I make finals in Madrid, faster than the Olympic Games. I play always -- well, I born in clay, but in the last four or five years I improve a lot in hard court. When I play with Fish, I try to do my tennis and I play very good, 6-4 in the fifth. 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ: He's a good player. He start to have the good results since this year. He start like 400. He's almost in the Top 100 now. So he can maybe much more in tennis, and I think he will do it. He's 100 in the world, he have the game to improve more. 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ: Yeah, he's a good player. 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ: I don't know. You never know (smiling). 

NICOLAS MASSU: I think a lot of things, but in the middle of the match I start to be unbelievable tired. I cannot move my feet. And I think that when I was like -- when I lost that third set, I start to think that maybe I'm never gonna be again here, playing a final of the Olympic Games. "I have to do my best for one more hour or two more hours," and then I, I don't know, I start to feel better. I don't know. I think a lot of things, but I cannot remember very good. Just to be focus and try to not think that I'm so tired. 

NICOLAS MASSU: Before the doubles or the singles? 

NICOLAS MASSU: Yeah, you never think about this in the court. After the match I know that the country with the two gold medals, they are gonna be like, I told you before, grace in Chile because they're first two gold medals in the history. 

NICOLAS MASSU: I don't understand. 

NICOLAS MASSU: Yes, it's very important moment in my life. I think one of the best. I carry the flag in 2000. I was very happy. And that moment, when I was up in the podium, I think one of my best days in my life. A lot of work behind this and to win the gold medal, with Fernando also. 

NICOLAS MASSU: I don't know. Gonna be maybe different, so much different. Because normally we play Davis Cup, and maybe two or three days the people are happy and then forget about Davis Cup. This is different. Gonna be in the history of the sports in Chile. Gonna be after here there. We have a lot of things to do. Gonna play actually with Fernando also Davis Cup. Tennis now, I tell you before, the best sport in Chile. 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ: It was different, the two days. Because the first day we just win the match, and then we get the medals and all the rest. It was very -- it feels really -- I never feel like that. Was really, really unbelievable moment, and the next day also, I mean... But the first day was, to get the gold medal, it was really -- I mean, I can't tell you more. 

NICOLAS MASSU: Because I think they are thinking about the singles. You cannot play singles and doubles in all the tournament. 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ: About our country? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ: We have everything. We have all the weathers that you can find, we have the mountains one hour away, and we have the sea to the other side. So you can find anything in one place. So that's the best -- it's the best country for me in the world. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT