OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 21, 2004
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  There are really no words or adjectives to describe it.  What are your first feelings after this event? 

NICOLAS MASSU:  Well, we're completely just spent.  I mean, after a week with so many matches, it's really a dream come true, as Fernando said.  What's important is the medal.  It's the first time.  That was the first gold.  The opportunity to get that medal is what is most important.  I mean, to play in the Olympics is absolutely fantastic.  It's completely different from anything else.  All the different sporting disciplines are present, all the world is watching, so many people.  To play such a marathon match, four hours, and we won.  Either side could have won really. 

Q.  Did you feel at any time during the match that you could have lost it or you were losing it?  Were you afraid at any time? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  What did you ask me? 

Q.  The match became difficult after the first set.  Were you afraid you were going to lose the medal? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Well, at the beginning we were very tired.  I'm still tired, in fact.  It was difficult to move.  Tried to inject some more energy into our movements.  Four matches, one after the other...  In a match like this with so many match points, it's very difficult, very grueling. 

Q.  Is this the most important day in your life?  What will this mean for Chile, not for the sport, but the country as a whole? 

NICOLAS MASSU:  Well, to be here and to compete for the medal and get the gold is unbelievable.  Of course, it's the happiest day of my life as an athlete.  To play tennis all week, to win a medal, to enter into the history of our country and to play tomorrow, I think it's a dream for anyone.  For an athlete, it's already an honor to be here, to compete in the Olympics, for your country.  But to actually win the medal, we were lucky enough to do it.  Three medals Chile will win.  It's just amazing.  Of course, it's the happiest day of my life.

Q.  What would you like to say to the President of Chile? 

NICOLAS MASSU:  Well, I'm so happy to give this joy to Chile.  We really believe we can do great things in Chile.  It's a country that has everything to be happy and to be successful.  The Chilean athletes really put a lot of heart into it, as we did today.  I'm sure if we continue, we'll continue to have good results, not only in tennis. 

Q.  (Not translated.) 

NICOLAS MASSU:  Of course, the more support we get, the better we get.  Especially for young athletes.  We're already mature.  As athletes need support, there are some athletes who come to the Olympics who study, who work, who need support to be able to devote and dedicate themselves to the Olympics. 

Q.  Fernando, you played first the singles, then the doubles.  It must have been quite a challenge. 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Well, in one day a tremendous amount of emotions, a very emotional day.  Yesterday I lost a game that now I'm starting to forget.  But it was very painful.  It was extremely painful yesterday.  I was very sad last night.  At the beginning of today I was quite sad.  Luckily, just a few minutes before I entered the court to play the singles match, I forgot everything.  My family, my friends, all the fans who were with me, the fact that I felt the support, I think I really -- it was very emotional.  To win the medal was great, despite having a match point against me.  Then to play with Nicolas in doubles, well, I think it will help me to grow as an individual, as a person, as a tennis player.  I just feel different now.  I feel that I really was able to pull myself out of this terrible hole that I found myself in. 

Q.  What is the role Horacio de la Pena played? 

NICOLAS MASSU:  I think he's been an excellent coach.  I think on the court, he's someone who really knows what he's doing.  Fernando can tell you more.  I think he knows him better. 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  He's here.  I think you'll be able to ask him.  Horacio, we began working with him in a difficult moment, difficult times.  Personally speaking, it was a difficult time when we started.  We've had ups and downs with him together.  But we've continued working together, and that's what's important.  What's important is the support not when you're winning, because everybody is ready to back you up, but what's important is to feel that you've got the support, someone who will help you no matter what happens.  This is what is important.  After I won the game, I was very emotional.  I told him, "Thank you," not necessarily because of the game, but because I felt he was a member of the family, because my family in Chile is far.  But he's like my family here and is extremely important. 

Q.  In the court, you must have been wondering what was happening in Chile.  What do you think about the euphoria that has completely taken over the country?  This has been the most important moment for the country. 

NICOLAS MASSU:  I don't know.  I haven't been in Chile in three months, but I can imagine the country must be enthralled, full of joy.  As I said, I think Chile really needs this, needs some happiness.  Some people are having difficulties, having trouble.  I think this is something that is very important.  Maybe we don't really think about it.  I mean, we're athletes; we win, we lose, we play one week after the other, but we're really giving happiness to the people - not only to our family members and friends, but to all those people who are celebrating.  I really understood this when last year we were at the World Championship.  We became world champions.  I can imagine this must be tremendous this year. 

Q.  How are you going to be able to play tomorrow after this? 

NICOLAS MASSU:  Of course, it will be difficult.  It's 3:30 in the morning.  I have to go through doping controls, get a massage to sleep a little bit.  It will be difficult after all the adrenaline rush.  It will be difficult, complicated tomorrow.  But I think I'm confident.  Maybe Fish will be there expecting me not to be as strong as I might have been.  But whatever happens, no one's going to take this medal from me.  If I win, of course, I'm going to play as well as possible.  Other countries have other athletic disciplines - sprinters, swimmers - but this is our main sport.  I'm going to fight.  It's going to be difficult. 

Q.  What do you think Marcelo Rios thinks?

NICOLAS MASSU:  I think he must be happy.  It's been some time since he's retired. Of course, it's been some time since he retired.  Marcelo Rios, I mean, is someone -- of course, it is important.  Of course, he must be very happy.  When he was No. 1, we were all very happy.  Well, now he must be very happy seeing what's happening to us. 

Q.  Niko, Fernando, was it very special to win this medal together, to play in doubles?  It's one thing when you play individually, but the fact you played together on the court, was this special? 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I think it's a very beautiful moment, indeed.  I think we've known each other since eight or nine years old.  We've grown up together.  We've gone through the same sort of phases in our development as tennis players starting from the age of eight.  All these years, to play together on the court is for me anyway extremely, extremely important. 

Q.  Chile provides 20 million pesos for a gold medal winner. 

NICOLAS MASSU:  It doesn't matter.  It's the gold medal that counts and not the money. 

Q.  (Not translated.) 

FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I think what the press says is that everyone has been trampled a little bit, everyone has been criticized.  That is the role of the press.  I think journalists certainly have an important role in changing the mentality in our country.  I mean, we're athletes first and foremost.  Everything that's extraneous is not really important.  It would be good if journalists wouldn't always focus on other things, other issues. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT