SHANGHAI ATP MASTERS 1000
October 12, 2009
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. GONZÁLEZ/M. Zverev
  5-7, 7-6, 2-2 Ret. 

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. When did you start to notice that he was injured? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Well, it was really like weird match, because I was 7-5, 4-2, and then lost a set. I was thinking too much, and then he fell in the first game of the third set. After I saw that, he cannot hit the backhand, but he still serving, he still coming in, so it was really -- I was nervous, because I feel the match almost in my hand in the second set, and then it was turned over, and unfortunately he couldn't finish the match.

 Q. What happened in that tiebreaker? Just seemed like -- I don't know if he stepped it up or you went away. 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: A little bit of everything. I mean, I don't feel my best now, but, I mean, I'm glad that I'm keep winning, you know. I'm try my best, but sometimes, you know, you don't find the way that you really want to be.

 Q. Why do you think that is? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I don't know. Maybe I'm tired? I don't know. Maybe. Travel all over the world through the whole year.

 Q. When he started playing again after the treatment and he was playing -- he was serving and he was hitting forehands and you were trying to hit his backhand, it becomes a little difficult to play a player who is injured who can play. What is going through your mind?
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: It's tough. When you know the other guy is cramping, you feel that he's going to, I mean, take his chances in every single point, every single ball, and I was trying to make him play on the backhand. 
 If you're 100%, I mean, you have to try, but it's tough. I mean, it's not an easy position. 

 Q. Were you almost relieved that he stopped? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I mean, you want to go through, but you -- like normally you like to win the match. But after that, I mean, I was feeling the match more on my side than his side. He was many troubled to hold the serve and I was holding easy, but that is part of the tennis. 

 Q. You said you were tired after the season and that you are not doing so well. But you're still in contention for the spot in the Masters. So how do you rate your chances to go to the Masters?
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I give my best. Every time I go to the court, I give all that I have. I mean, sometimes it's enough; sometimes it's not. But I hope that next round I can play better, I can feel better on the court, and, I mean, I'm try my best.

 Q. Is it important for you to go?
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Of course, yeah. I start this year without -- not too much expectation, because I was really tired the end of last year. I mean, I was playing too much in the past years, and if I go to the tournament, I go 100% physically and mentally. 
 I don't care if I'm playing good tennis, bad tennis; I want to try to be fresh. And that's why it surprise me. I mean, I had really good year, and it's really important to finish, I mean, in a really good level.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT