U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2009
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. GONZÁLEZ/J. Tsonga
  3-6, 6-3, 7-6, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Describe your feelings about the way you played tonight, the match.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I didn't have a great performance, because I was one set, 2-Love down. I didn't know his game too good, so he surprised me a lot with his second serve especially.   
 I know he have a big serve, I didn't realize how big was his second serve. He bounce it really high. It was a little bit uncomfortable when I was returning.   
 But third set was really important, no breaks, but I play really good tiebreak.   
  
  Q. Big match ahead, obviously.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Ahead? Next match?   
  
  Q. Next match.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Yeah, it's going to be tough. I mean, in this time of the event, I mean, you're going to play, every time it's going to be a tougher match, especially Rafa is playing against Monfils, two great players.   
 Rafa have much more experience in this kind of tournaments, but I have a lot of confidence. I mean, I have to be worrying about myself only. Try to make my best tennis, and that's it.  
  
  Q. Your confidence, I mean, right now this is obviously the kind of match that I think you can build your confidence on.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Absolutely, yeah. I'm really confident on this. First match of this tournament I didn't feel like I really want it, but, I mean, I was many hours on court, I mean, playing a lot of important points, winning most of them. So that's give you a lot of confidence.  
  
  Q. What did you mean you didn't really want it?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: First match, I didn't serve like I want. First match, I mean, I didn't play five-sets match since Wimbledon. I have a bit of trouble with my knee. You know, I didn't feel like I really want it.   
 Today I feel much better, and yesterday -- I mean, the past match I play really good tennis again. Hopefully I can continue this week.  
  
  Q. You obviously worked with Larry for a good while, and then he finally got an opportunity to work with an American player. How would you say your game has gone since Larry has not been your coach?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I mean, every time that I am working with a new coach -- I didn't have many coaches in my career. I improve a little bit more, because when I -- with a coach, I mean, I trust him, and the coach trust me. That's really important. I mean, just small details.   
 I improve really much my backhand with Martin, and try to be myself on the court. I mean, that's really important. I mean, if you want to have a long career, I mean, you have to be yourself. Some days you're going to play not so good, but most of the time you're going to enjoy it and you're gonna keep playing and playing and playing.  
  
  Q. So that gives you a strength on the court when you're being yourself? Is that what you're saying?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Yeah. I mean, Martin has got a lot of confidence. I mean, Martin start to play his best tennis at my age, what's means he's old for tennis. You know, he live five minutes away from my house and we work every day.   
 Some days we work half an hour; some days we practice hour and a half. But we try to maximize the time that we are on the court. I mean, if I want to hit 30 minutes, I mean, I'm going to give all that I have that day. That's really important at this time of my career.  
  
  Q. Could you briefly talk about your possible two next opponents and what you would have to do against each of them?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Well, against Rafa I play many times. I don't have to describe him. I mean, you know him really well. I mean, he has a lot of experience, even if he's younger than me.   
 But against Monfils I played twice, I think, last year. I wasn't in good shape on that time, but he's a great athlete. I mean, I have to work hard if I want to beat him.  
  
  Q. Specifically against Rafa, what do you try to do to break down his great game?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I mean, first thing that I have to try is play my tennis. If I don't play my tennis, I mean, I have no chance. So try to play my tennis and try to play the best that I can, you know, and don't think too much about what he's going to do.   
  
  Q. What is the one thing you like most about New York or the US Open?  
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Well, the US Open is Grand Slam. I don't have to talk about the tournament. It's a Grand Slam. For me, the Grand Slams are, I mean, what you always dream to play.   
 New York -- I like New York. There is a lot of energy in town. A little bit of stress sometimes, but there's a lot of energy. I mean, I like that.   
  
  Q. Do you draw your energy from the crowd? Because even though it was a tough match, you kept entertaining the crowd very well.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Yeah, a lot of emotions in really short time. You know, sometimes you feel like super hero, and sometimes you feel like -- I don't have to say what you feel on court.   
 But I understand that the people come to watch -- I mean, to have fun. I mean, if I can do something, I mean, my opponent doesn't really care, I can do it, you know.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT