U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2009
Fernando Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. GONZÁLEZ/T. Berdych
  7-5, 6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. Seemed like you hit very big serves every time you needed to. How important was that to your win?
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Very important. The first breakpoint of the match I did it. The second I did it again. I was serving really huge. That gives me a lot of confidence when I have to go forward. I think he didn't broke my serve. I won many free points.
 It was tough conditions to play. I was playing on the small court, then you go to the bigger court, is tough. You lose the dimensions in the beginning. 
 It was a little bit windy, but I think I'm happy the way that I played today. 

 Q. What was the biggest difference between the last couple times you played? Was it the serve? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I think it was the serve. And today we play five sets. It's a longer match. You don't have too much pressure in the beginning of the match. 
 If you lose the serve, you lose one set, then you have to go again. When you play five sets, I think it's better. 

 Q. When you got your first set, hit a backhand, you were almost in the crowd. 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: I was a little bit lucky. I tried, and it was. But I was a little bit lucky, because I was really far away from the court and have only maybe half minute to do it and I did it. 

 Q. When you played Nicolas in the first round, you were returning on the baseline. Today it seemed you were returning farther away. Was that part of the strategy when you played Tomas?
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Yeah, because Tomas is serving better than Niko. I tried to mix a little bit. When you return the same place, if the other guy is serving good, is easier. If you start to make him think a little bit, is better for my strategy. 

 Q. Next round you might play against Tsonga. What can you say about him and his game?
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: He's a good player. He's been having really good results in the past two years. I think he's very aggressive. He serve really big. He have strong shots. We have to see who can makes more winners.

 Q. There's a chance you might face Nadal in the quarterfinals. How do you feel about that?
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: It's only a chance, because I have really tough match the next round. I don't want to think about that yet. Hopefully I can think in two more days. 
 But I have to be really focused for the next round. 

 Q. How tightly knit are the Spanish majority of players? 
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ: Yeah, we're really close. We speak the same language. We speak a lot in the locker rooms. We travel all around the world, spending many times in the locker room, sometimes practicing. 
 But, I mean, when you go to the court, it's a different history. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT