AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 12, 2021
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  M. RAONIC/M. Fucsovics
 7-6, 5-7, 6-2, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Can you talk us through your match tonight and how you were feeling on the court?
 MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, overall it's positive.  There is some difficulties, I'm very sorry for Marton that he got hurt.  I hope it's nothing serious and that it's something that can pass quickly.
 Overall I have to be happy to be into the fourth round, have an opportunity to get into the later stages of this tournament.  And, you know, it's going to get harder and harder from here on out.  I'm going to have to try to find a way to be better and better.
 Q. This is a lighthearted question.  Sunday is Valentine's Day.  Of course the holiday of love.  What do you see as the importance of "love" in the sport of tennis?
 MILOS RAONIC:   Not losing to love.
 Q. How about in a broader, maybe more abstract way?
 MILOS RAONIC:   You know, I think right now tennis is maybe a great opportunity that after almost, we are going on a year of hardship all around the world, it's been more than a year here in Australia with the fires at first.  I hope that the love for the sport that we as players have, the fans have had and been able to enjoy to this point, and I know that we are all grateful and appreciative to have had them with us, supporting.
 And, you know, we love playing in front of a crowd and we love being able to play tennis all around the world, and we're thankful for the authorities, the governments, and the organizations for letting us have that opportunity.
 Q. I have noticed you have been reading the book "Barbarians at the Gate" during the quarantine.  Is that part of your routine during a Grand Slam just to refresh your mind for reading?
 MILOS RAONIC:   No, I try to read all throughout the year.  You know, I will spend some time watching shows and this kind of thing, but I also try to stay in some nonfiction categories.  I find it as a learning opportunity, and I try to get a better understanding of things I'd like to participate in after tennis.
 Q. You're through to the round of 16 in Melbourne for the eighth time now and you'll be attempting to reach your sixth quarterfinal here.  Could you reflect on what it is about this event that brings out the best in your game consistently year after year?
 MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, I think for me, A, it's the conditions here, especially when it's warmer.  The balls are a bit more lively and quicker through the courts.
 I think for me a big part of it is also the timing, when this tournament falls beginning of the year.  Obviously I have had struggles with injuries through later parts of the season, but this is, we get to work our way into the Australian Open for many weeks as part of the off-season without any immediate pressure of rushing to the next tournament, really able to focus on things.  I think I'm able to come here healthier, fitter and fresher.  I think that works well alongside with the conditions.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT