AEGON CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2016
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. MURRAY/M. Raonic   
6-7, 6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Was that one that got away from you?  
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, I'd definitely say so.  Normally I'm pretty confident in a situation up a set and a break.  There was two very close challenges there, maybe could make a difference or not, but I thought he played well.   
He stepped up after that.  Came up with an incredible return on that first break point chance he had.  Then he stepped it up and played well and he got going, yeah.   
 Q.  A great week to you.  Must give you a lot of confidence.  
MILOS RAONIC: Oh, definitely.  I think I'm doing a lot of things much better than I have ever done on this surface, that's for sure.  I think I'm getting other things going, as well.  I think I'm constantly improving.  I have improved each match this week.  I have played better and better.   
I'm going to have some time now really for first to recover myself and get myself fresh and ready to go and then also look to improve on other aspects where I think I can do better.   
 Q.  You have played him before but not on grass.  Was it different?  
MILOS RAONIC: No, I think we're generally both trying to have pretty clear objectives on what we want to do.  He's trying to make me play as many balls on my serve.  I'm trying to get ahead and probably not play as many balls on my serve.   
It's pretty clear that regardless of the service what one of us is trying to do in our objectives.   
 Q.  You also said you fancied a rematch - slightly joking - in a couple weeks' time?  
MILOS RAONIC: I wasn't joking.  No, I would like to be there on a Sunday at Wimbledon.  That would normally mean something significant.  If it's against Andy, I think it's a great thing.   
I will worry about myself only.  Let him take care of his own stuff.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  You haven't had much time to reflect on it, but if that were to be the case, how quickly do you process what you could have done differently?  
MILOS RAONIC: Oh, there's a lot more I have to process.  There's six matches if I was to give myself that scenario.   
I can learn from today quite quickly.  I think even right now I could tell you what the clear points that made the difference were.  Yeah, I would just try to approach them differently and try to be maybe a little more sharp in some specific scenarios.   
But I think overall I did things pretty well.  I started to hesitate a little bit there where I think getting even more and more matches, keep coming in more and more, I will be able to do them throughout more matches with more and more conviction.   
 Q.  When you were 3-Love up, did you expect him to come back at you like that?  
MILOS RAONIC: Well, no -- yeah, definitely expected it.  I think that 15-Love point I missed just by a little bit of forehand wide, I think also later I had a game point where I missed again by a few millimeters wide.  You know, I was expecting that.   
And then obviously things sort of get going.  And he did a good job getting things going.  I started to hesitate a little bit.  And these top guys are quite dangerous when they start feeling comfortable.  Like I always said, it's about making them feel as uncomfortable as possible.  I did that for quite a bit of time at the start and then I let him get into the match a little bit too much.   
 Q.  What are your plans next week before Wimbledon?  
MILOS RAONIC: Practicing.   
 Q.  When?  
MILOS RAONIC: I don't know when I'll start.  I guess that's a discussion between myself and my team.  Probably not too many -- probably in a day I'll start right away.   
I want to keep spending time on grass.  Obviously it's going to be very different at Wimbledon where you start, considering here because the court now is pretty worn out and it's a little bit easier to move on a Sunday here than it's going to be on the first day on those fresh grass courts.   
All these things are going to go into consideration, but I feel like I'm doing things well and I can keep improving.   
 Q.  Is John going to hang around or is he going back?  
MILOS RAONIC: No, no, he's going to stick around.  He and I agreed that he would help me all the way through this and try to make the most and make a good push in the coming weeks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT