ROLAND GARROS
May 23, 2016
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. RAONIC/J. Tipsarevic
6-3, 6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tough conditions; tight third set.  I guess you're happy to be through after all the weather issues and everything.
MILOS RAONIC: For sure, especially with how the forecast started out today.  It was going to be a long day, and I was happy I was quite efficient on court.  I was able to move on and really give myself something to prepare for in the next match and to be better.
Q. Update us on your health.  How are you feeling?  You had a few spots this year that have been tricky.
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, I'm in good shape.  I feel physically strong and I have no nagging issues to start the tournament, which is nice.
Q. He is a very tricky opponent because he was a great player then had few injuries.  Did you feel at the end of the third set he was starting to step up and it could a bit turn around or...
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, I felt like I should have played better to close out the match when I had the opportunities.  Even after I got broken back I sort of just got a little bit too defensive.
But I knew he was going to do a lot of good things.  You know, you don't forget to play tennis.  And he works very hard and he's very happy to be pain-free and right now from what I understand and what he told me after the match.
The main thing I was going to try to exploit if it did get to that difficult position like it did was that sort of lack of rhythm of matches and that kind of stuff.
It was important for me to be mentally strong in those moments, and I was able to sort of the get through that situation today and I'm happy with that.
Q. These are questions from fans, Roland Garros.com.  They're curious about your love for basketball and NBA.  Are you more Steph Curry or LeBron James?
MILOS RAONIC: Um, I think Steph Curry because he's changing basketball more at the moment.
Q. So has nothing to do with LeBron playing the Raptors right now?
MILOS RAONIC: No.  I didn't make that decision in the last 30 seconds.  (Smiling.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT