ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2016
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. RAONIC/A. Martin   
7-6, 6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the physical issue you had on the court with your hip?  
MILOS RAONIC: At one point it sort of felt like I had trouble bringing my hip back around when I would sprint forward when my left leg was behind me.   
And then it sort of went the other way.  I think the muscles around it to protect sort of seized up.  The trainer was able to sort of assure me that from what he could tell there was nothing serious there and that I'll have tests done on it now, and take it from there.   
 Q.  What's your first thought when something happens to you in the hip area?  Because this has certainly been a busy area for you in your career.  
MILOS RAONIC: It was my opposite hip, so I didn't really think too much of it.  I just tried to fight through.  I tried to sort of manage the situation as much as I could.  I'm happy with the fact that I was able to continue through with somewhat efficiency.   
 Q.  How did it actually feel during the final games of the match?  
MILOS RAONIC: It felt sort of better and better.  The more I was there, it sort of started relaxing on me a little bit.  I'm sure I'll probably feel it a little bit more now when my body cools down.   
But I feel pretty optimistic about it.  It doesn't feel like a pain that's sort of -- it feels like just everything got tight around it to protect it rather than anything else.   
 Q.  You were up two sets to love when it happened.  Does it play in your mind at all?  Because you were playing well.  Then you made a couple of unforced errors after that timeout.  
MILOS RAONIC: It does in a way, yes and no.  I felt it towards the middle of the second set, and I was just sort of seeing how it goes.  When I asked for the timeout, it just got really painful at that one point.   
That's why I asked for the timeout, to have it overlooked and have it sort of observed as much as it can be, considering the limited resources you have there.   
But I tried to focus on what I could.  I wish I served better today.  That obviously would have made my life a lot easier.  I was quite efficient on the return games.  I dealt with what I had and I fought as hard as I could, and I was able to move on.   
 Q.  What were the second set of pills that you took?  Was it just extra reinforcement?  Then a ball kid brought you some more.  What were those?  
MILOS RAONIC: Ibuprofen.   
 Q.  Both times?  
MILOS RAONIC: Paracetamol, which is I think Tylenol.  One is pain and the other one is inflammation.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT