MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 31, 2016
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. KYRGIOS/M. Raonic
6-4, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tough match for you.  For such a good year you've had so far, to lose this way - and you didn't play poorly it didn't seem like; but he seemed to be playing super well.  Agree with that?
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, thought he played well.  He came up with big shots in the important moments, and that's pretty much what it came down to, a few of those critical moments.
He played with more life and energy in those moments, yeah.
Q. (No microphone.)
MILOS RAONIC: Probably the one that hit the net early in the first set, I think that was probably the only one I had a true chance at.
The other ones he was always finishing within two shots, so he played well.
Q. At Indian Wells you had the leg injury which was a large factor in your performance in the final.  Coming into Miami, did you feel 100% physically or anything lingering?
MILOS RAONIC: No, coming in, first matches, had a bit of issues, but by now I felt good physically.  I felt like I didn't have any lingering pain and I was happy that disappeared.
Q. Were you surprised at his level and his ability to sustain it?
MILOS RAONIC: No.  You know he's very dangerous.  He's done well in big tournaments already.  He's played I believe two quarters at Grand Slams.  You know he has the ability to play that level.  He's beaten some top guys.
I don't think there was anything shocking about that.
Q. When you get broke first game of the match, does it effect him more, giving him momentum, as opposed to hurting you, falling behind early like that?
MILOS RAONIC: I think it gives him a little bit more belief and rhythm.  I did have my chances.  I don't know if it was the next return game or the return game after that that I didn't make the most of, but that's what it came down to.
I think we had a similar amount of break chances.  Maybe he had one more than I did.  He made it count more than I did.
At the end of the match, he played a better tiebreak than I did.  It was not the two right mistakes to make there at the end of the match into the net.
I think I made three I would say pretty unforced into the net.
Q. I know it's difficult to ask you to talk about your opponents, but among the other young guys kind of in your age group or younger, where do you rate him in terms of his potential?
MILOS RAONIC: I think he has a big, big amount of talent.  It's about putting it together for him.  He probably has one the bigger I would say up sides in his group.  There is probably Zverev up there with him.  It's about putting it together and making it count week after week.
Q. Playing a guy who shows so much emotion and a lot of noise, a lot of -- he's into it with the crowd, his box.  You play a lot more reserved.  What's it like playing a guy that is sort of the polar opposite of you?
MILOS RAONIC: Honestly, I don't notice.  When the point is over, I don't really look to see what's going on on the other side.  Maybe you hear something, but I don't really necessarily pay too much attention to it or notice most of it, unless it's something on the more extreme end.  That's about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT