BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 20, 2016
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/M. Raonic
6-2, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What was the physical issue for you today?
MILOS RAONIC: I'm not sure.  I have to see the medical staff here and discuss with my own.  I just hope it has nothing to do with the previous issue I had.
Q. You felt it right from the start?
MILOS RAONIC: No, after a few games.
Q. Does it feel like the other issue?  Does it feel like the adductor again?
MILOS RAONIC: Feels similar, but not as bad.  I don't think I let it get as bad.
Q. How frustrated are you it happened in the final?
MILOS RAONIC: I don't know if it happened again.  It could be frustrating; could not be.  Maybe it's just sort of a mental way of my body protecting.
I have to do the right investigation.  Just sort of see what it is and then I can judge it from there.
Q. How did it affect your movement or your effort in the match?
MILOS RAONIC: I don't think it affected my effort.  I thought he played much better than I did.  I struggled again, just like last time, to start the match well, and then he's the best player in the world at this moment and a good step ahead of everybody.
He took the most advantage of that.
Q. Do you think playing him as often as you have now with somewhat disappointing results, do you think you need a different strategy against him, or do you think you just need to work harder on your game?
MILOS RAONIC: I need to work harder.  I need to execute better.  My way that I go about things, I think I'm on the right track.  I think it's about putting the things, putting the things together, being effective, which today I wasn't able to do.
I think I have it within me, but obviously I need to reach a lot deeper to find that execution.
Q. How weird does it feel to see someone returning that way when you're serving the way you are?
MILOS RAONIC: I don't know.  I mean, you expect it.  You know what Novak can bring, and you know that he's the best returner probably of all time.
Not only is he good when the ball is close to him, he's even very good when it's far away from him, making you play and neutralizing the point very well in that situation.
So it's not weird, by any means.  I think it's just -- you know, I wish I could have been better in that situation.
Q. What do you take away from these few days here in Indian Wells?
MILOS RAONIC: There is a lot of positives to take away.  Right now it's very disappointing, but at the end of the day, until two weeks ago I didn't do any side-to-side movement and I didn't play any points and all these kind of things.
To be here playing in one of the 12 most important tournaments in our year in the final is great progress forward.  I look to sort of keep that going forward and, you know, trying to be healthy and trying to get better every day.
Q. What's your status for Miami?  Day to day?  To be discussed?
MILOS RAONIC: I need more information.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT