AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2016
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. RAONIC/T. Robredo   
7-6, 7-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Every day different opponent.  You didn't seem quite as sharp.  Was that because of Robredo maybe playing differently?  
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, to some extent definitely I felt maybe I let down a little bit after I missed all those breakpoints in the first set.  If I maybe connected a little bit better with the forehand, especially that first return game, it can be quite demoting to him, help loosen me up.   
I felt I was playing a little bit sort of forcing it a bit too much.  I was trying to sort of lug the ball around more than playing a little bit more smoothly like I had in my previous matches.   
 Q.  Was a little bit of that the fact that you had beaten him so easily the last two times?  
MILOS RAONIC: No, I don't think it has anything to do with it.  I think that's why I wanted too start better because it can sort of enforce that.  But I think it's more so just it was a different day, different kind of match.   
I don't think I played as clean as I would have liked or continued.  But at the end of the day, the most important thing is I got the win.   
 Q.  Could you explain a little bit the work with Carlos.  
MILOS RAONIC: It's been quite brief.  We spent a few days together at the IPTL.  We're starting to get to know each other, sort of discuss what he thought and believed I could do better to sort of reach my goals.   
Over the past week since it's been close to a Grand Slam, we haven't been able to necessarily add too many things other than really just the enforcement of when to make which kind of decisions.  Maybe a little bit better shot selection and a little bit more from a psychologically side than from a physical side on how to deal with things a little bit better in certain situations.   
He was obviously very involved with the whole thing throughout Brisbane.  A lot of contact.  So he was learning at that point how we went about the process.  And then I was also able, through over messages, to get an understanding of how he thought maybe to react differently to a few different situations.   
But I think there's a lot we can add to my game.  I think you just have to give it time.   
 Q.  Many people see you here as a dark horse.  Do you think this could be your first slam final?  You're playing with so much confidence.  
MILOS RAONIC: I think it's too far to say.  I feel like I'm playing well.  I feel like I can put forth that tennis.  But Saturday I have a big challenge ahead of me.  I hope I can get through that one and just go one by one.   
The first week the most important thing always is to sort of find a way to win.  Hopefully if I'm alive and around, I can play better and better each match.  Hopefully that can take me far.   
 Q.  Injury-wise have you solved every pain you had in 2015 and you are completely pain-free?  
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah.  The body's in very good shape.   
 Q.  You had some points you won on your second serve.  He had a lot of trouble getting it back.  What's going through your mind when you're hitting a second serve to a guy like him on an important point?  
MILOS RAONIC: He's a rhythm player at the end of the day.  The longer you play, the longer the point, these kind of things, he sort of gets in a groove.  It's about moving the second serve around the box a little bit more.   
He's always struggled with my serve.  I don't know how many times we've played now, but I don't believe he's broken me maybe more than twice in six matches or something like that.   
I felt like I know how I need to go about things in my service games against him.   
 Q.  Were you impressed by how hard he battled today?  
MILOS RAONIC: I'm impressed by how hard he does it every time.  He didn't surprise me by any means.  It's what you expect.  I think he's probably one of the guys that has probably the most saved match points in matches and that kind of stuff.   
He saved one in the last match.  I think he had that quarterfinal appearance in Roland Garros three times in a row coming back from two sets to love down.   
He's always been and had that repertoire.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your next opponent, Viktor Troicki?  
MILOS RAONIC: It's going to be difficult.  He won last week.  I watched a bit of that.  So he's feeling well.  He battled through also a difficult match on the first day, saving match points, I believe.   
Then he had a good win today.  Pretty clean from what I saw or what I could watch while I was doing my own thing.  I know how he plays.  I played him in Beijing not so long ago.  I think if I can put my game together a little bit cleaner and more efficient than I did today, be a little bit more proficient at the net, sort of dictate a bit better, I'll be able to give myself some opportunities.   
 Q.  Brought up the mouthguard at the last press conference.  Is there any difficulty using it?  
MILOS RAONIC: Other than I play with it too much.  I fiddle around with it too much.   
 Q.  Very profound question:  who is your favorite athlete who uses a mouthpiece?  I've got an answer for you.  Basketball player.  
MILOS RAONIC: No, I'd probably say I like Mike Tyson.  I'm guessing boxers have mouthpieces, no?   
 Q.  How about a non-boxer?  
MILOS RAONIC: Do you want me to answer what you want to hear or what the actual answer is?   
 Q.  Active player.  
MILOS RAONIC: Active player?  George St. Pierre.  I don't know if you consider him active.   
 Q.  No.  
MILOS RAONIC: It's a new year.  I'm not ready for 52 more weeks of this.   
 Q.  Can I give you my answer?  
MILOS RAONIC: Yes.   
 Q.  Steph Curry.  
MILOS RAONIC: But every basketball player plays with a mouthpiece.  It's a contact sport.   
 Q.  Point taken.  
MILOS RAONIC: Hockey players, too?  Football players?   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT