U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2015
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. LOPEZ/M. Raonic
6-2, 7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. On the frustration meter from zero to a hundred, how frustrated are you?
MILOS RAONIC: 85.
Q. That's all?
MILOS RAONIC: I'm sure there's a lot of worse things that could be going on.
Q. How tough was it to be under-manned or whatever?
MILOS RAONIC: It's not enjoyable.  It's not fun.  Just try to make the most of some situations and deal with it as much as you can.
Obviously what I had in my capacity wasn't enough today.
Q. Was it risky to play with this kind of injury?
MILOS RAONIC: No.  It's the exact same risk of, I'd say, getting in a car.  Everything can happen.  I wasn't too nervous about that.
I'm sure many would have told me when they saw how I was moving that there's no point in doing it, but it's just not the way I work or I process things.
Q. How was it in comparison to other days, and how much worse did it get as you played today?
MILOS RAONIC: I guess it started 20% worse, and probably ended up around 60% worse than other days.
Q. Until the second set tiebreak, did you think you had a decent shot to maybe pulling it out?
MILOS RAONIC: A lot of things had to go my way.  I don't know if I had a decent shot.  I was going to stay there and see what I can make of it.
Q. Do you know already that you're going to stop playing for a while, do an exam, or...
MILOS RAONIC: Until I'm told otherwise, my plan is to be competing in St. Petersburg in whatever it is, two and a half weeks, and go from there.
Hopefully I can play a lot more tennis this fall.  Indoors has always been good for me.  Asia's always been good for me.  I'd like to make something out of that.
Q. Looking back from the time you had the surgery till now, I guess it's easy to say, but some choices would have been different when you played?
MILOS RAONIC: I guess the only thing I would have done is the first moment, if I knew that my foot wasn't going to make the progress or I had been waiting around all that time before I decided to have the surgery, I would have had it probably first day.  Maybe buy myself some time throughout the summer and so forth.
Other than that, I did everything to the best that I could with as much information as I had.
Q. When is the earliest you could have had the surgery?
MILOS RAONIC: It would have been the extreme, but the first day I had pain.
Q. Was that two or three years ago?
MILOS RAONIC: Seven.
Q. Seven years ago?
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah.  You know, I don't think I even considered that.  But when I said that, I more so meant the first time I felt pain this time around in, whenever it was, April.
Q. Now that you're getting used to life on the tour, are you surprised at the toll it takes on the body?
MILOS RAONIC: No, because I think sort of the work you put in is the work you get out.  I've definitely been putting in the work.  It hasn't turned out for me as far as a health standpoint the last few months.
My tennis is in okay shape as long as I can get my body behind it.  I was able to win two pretty good matches, considering some sort of setback.  But I got to just try to get to 100%, and hopefully I can play a lot more matches where it's just my tennis is the only thing I'm worrying about.
Q. You win two matches at Wimbledon not in very good shape.  Same thing here.  Does that kind of show you that you're there, and if you were healthy you would be doing much, much better?
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, I guess there's that sort of silver lining in the whole thing.  Even when I'm not playing well, at least I have enough, at least at this point, understanding and experience of how to deal with situations so that I can sort of scrap my way through and always give myself some kind of chance to win, which is definitely different from where I was a year ago, and definitely when I started out consistently on tour in 2011.
A lot of things have changed.  I'm not too worried about my tennis at this moment.  I'm worried more so about the other things.
Q. Sometimes it's tough to stop when you want to train.  Do you think maybe sometimes you have overworked your body?
MILOS RAONIC: I guess I'll always have more peace in overworking than not doing enough.  So I guess that's my way of keeping a calm mind.
Q. Are you going to keep an eye on the rest of the tournament?
MILOS RAONIC: If it's convenient, yeah.  I'm not going to put in my calendar that I have to watch between 11:00 and 11:00 at night.
Q. Eugenie might take that personally.
MILOS RAONIC: (Smiling.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT