COUPE ROGERS
August 11, 2015
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







I. KARLOVIC/M. Raonic
  7‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. You went pretty much toe‑to‑toe with him during the whole match. What happened during both tiebreaks?
MILOS RAONIC: Well, I think he was doing a better job in general. Actually, I know I didn't have a single breakpoint. He was playing a little bit better than I was. You sort of saw that difference in the tiebreaks. He got ahead. 
I gave away a few too many free points. 

Q. Do you think this had anything to do with you not playing much tennis lately and him playing about three times as many matches as you've had over the last few months?
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, I think it's a factor. Obviously right now I'm just trying to get in as many matches as I can, sort of get that competitive comfort back. I don't think there's any competitivity [sic] missing. I think it's that sort of ease that things are going to work out after you have when you play a few matches. 

Q. How disappointing is it for you to lose this match, here especially?
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, it's very disappointing. I wish I could have done better today, given myself an opportunity to do better in the next round, just give myself a chance to progress. 
You know, it is what it is. Take them as they come. Try to sort of carry it through. A poor week this week doesn't mean it's a poor week next week. So just try to turn that around. 

Q. I know it's no fun to lose, but you couldn't have had the highest of expectations because of how Wimbledon ended, how much time you've had to prepare for this tournament. How would you say in terms of how you played compared to how you might play because of the limitations?
MILOS RAONIC: I think it's a tough comparison. I think I managed well. I think I competed well in the sense of the important moments, especially on my service games. That I have to be happy with. 
But there's also a lot of things that are displeasing. At this point I think it's really just about sort of giving myself the chance to compete at 100% in every match. 

Q. How about, say, where you were a week ago and where you'll be a week from now in terms of how much you're improving, getting healthy, getting your timing back?
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, right now I think the main thing is getting healthy. There's very few things I wouldn't give up for health right now. I think I just got to really focus on that so it doesn't hamper with my training or my matches.

Q. How close are you?
MILOS RAONIC: That's a different rating every single day. 

Q. Was the foot a concern today?
MILOS RAONIC: No, it was not. The foot has been good. It hasn't been an issue or any concern. 

Q. If it's not the foot, what is it?
MILOS RAONIC: It's been just sort of my back. I think maybe subconsciously still protecting my foot. So, therefore, compensating, just finding issues sort of different places different times of the day (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT