WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2015
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. KYRGIOS/M. Raonic
  5‑7, 7‑5, 7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You played magnificent for the almost two sets.   How do you explain what happened after that?
MILOS RAONIC:   No, I think he came up big in important moments.   He served really well, held except for the end of the first set.   I felt after that he just got a bit on top of me and played better throughout the rest of the match.

Q.   You were taking your chances a lot going to the net in this match.   Was it to rush him, take time away from him?
MILOS RAONIC:   It was to sort of take it in my control.   It's what I would do pretty much against anybody, sort of push that issue. 
Obviously you'd rather push it on his backhand than his forehand.

Q.   There were obviously physical issues.   Things there before you started the match or did it happen as the match went on?
MILOS RAONIC:   Well, I'm just dealing with a lot of things.   I still have some discomfort in my feet, so compensations and stuff like this just make any pain pretty much come up.
The more I got through the match the more difficult it was.
But all things said, that weren't going to stop me from trying.

Q.   Was it just the feet?   You seemed to be wincing when you were reaching.   I wondered if there was something else... 
MILOS RAONIC:   No, the feet led to everything else.   The feet are, I'd say, the instigator. 

Q.   How do you take that loss?   Maybe you were not 100% ready, he's going to come back, was it frustrating because you thought you could still go through this one?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, I think so.   It's disappointing.   I wanted this tournament to last longer, but it is what it is. 
I have the next challenge is ahead of me.   Just try to make the most of those opportunities.   I'm dealing with what I'm dealing with.   I can't make it disappear.   I can't make any magic out of it.   I'm just facing it head on.

Q.   It's normal pain?   You have been told it was going to hurt for some time?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, it is.   It's stuff I have been expecting.   Maybe I had hoped it was quite a bit better by now, but it's a situation I'm in.   You know, I wanted to be back, I wanted to play before Queen's, and play Queen's and all this kind of stuff.
I understood sort of what it came with, and I honestly hoped I'd be in better shape and in better condition, but I'm just trying to push myself every day.

Q.   You had the green light from the doctor to play those tournaments or you said I want to play... 
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, everything, every kind of discomfort I'm feeling is sort of a process of the recovery.   It's not necessarily the same issue in my right foot that I had before.

Q.   The velocity on your serve dropped quite a bit towards the end of your match.   Was that another thing you were dealing with or it just happened?
MILOS RAONIC:   Oh, it wasn't even there at the beginning of the match.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
MILOS RAONIC:   It wasn't there.   It's just things I was dealing with from the start of the day from even the previous match, and I tried make the most of it.   That's it.   I had what I had, and I put it all out there.

Q.   Do you think it will affect Davis Cup?
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   I think now it's just about cleaning myself up as much as I can and getting myself back out there.

Q.   Are you sure you're going to play Davis Cup on clay or do you think maybe it could be dangerous or... 
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   I have no reason to believe anything is at risk because of that.   Right now I just gotta sort of see where I'm at, go have a checkup, make sure things are on the right process, which I was supposed to do after four weeks which I wasn't able to do because I came here.   That's a little bit delayed.
So just sort of have that checkup and take it from there.

Q.   What were you thinking about some of the things that were going on on the other side of the net, talking to the crowd and gesticulating?
MILOS RAONIC:   Honestly didn't see any of it.

Q.   Did you see the racquet go into the crowd when he smacked it?
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   I heard he got warned.   That's it. 

Q.   Does it make a difference to you when there is that kind of atmosphere?   I mean, you're just playing your game and that's it?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah.   I had too many of my own things to be concerned about.   That was a distraction enough on its own.
I had it in my mind what I needed to do, and considering everything, I was just trying to sort of dig that out of myself as much as I could, and unfortunately I wasn't able to do it enough.

Q.   Obviously there is the element of you in this level, but were you surprised how he was able to sort of raise his level and serve so well at the end or was some of that maybe you not returning too well and... 
MILOS RAONIC:   I thought he played well.   I think he's been, from what I have seen, which I haven't seen much because we've played so few times, he's played pretty well so far this week.
It's tough to judge in a lot of aspects.   There is a lot of factors, but you could see he was calm, and he stepped up when he needed to.
My objective and my goal was to put him in those uncomfortable positions and then see where we are.

Q.   You were tuning him for the first set and a half.   Obviously he looked very frustrated, kept looking at it every time you hit that shot?
MILOS RAONIC:   What's the question? 

Q.   The question is had you planned to do that or just improvised it at the time because he was cheating over to the backhand side?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, I think honestly a lot of what was happening today, I was trying to execute some specific things.   A lot of it was instinctual because of the things I was dealing with, and a lot of it was stuff happening. 
I was trying to be very much in the moment, but in some situations it was tough, so fortunately for me, my instinct were pretty good.

Q.   In hindsight, do you think you might have been better not to play Queen's and, say, playing Nottingham a week later or something like that?
MILOS RAONIC:   No, because Queen's gave me a lot of answers for what I needed to sort of do in that week in between.
If I finished Nottingham the same shape I finished Queen's on Friday and had to play Monday, I wouldn't have been feeling that great. 

Q.   How much of a goal is Davis Cup for you for the Canadian team this year?
MILOS RAONIC:   It's a big goal.   I think it's a great opportunity for us.   I think guys are playing well.   I think Vasek is having a great week here.   Daniel is playing better and better.
I'm sort of finding myself and time for me is just a bonus, really, for my body at this moment.
I think we are all in a great situation, and not just the next upcoming tie, but the whole year is a great opportunity, a great thing.

Q.   You missed the French Open, going back on clay court, is it a chance, not to redeem yourself, but play on the clay?   You didn't play during Roland Garros, but you get it in Davis Cup?
MILOS RAONIC:   Of course, but I doubt the courts in Belgium are going to be at quick as Roland Garros tends to be.

Q.   It's going to be slower. 
MILOS RAONIC:   Exactly.

Q.   Is there an advantage for you?
MILOS RAONIC:   Of course, I have a lot of time, and I can figure my things out.   My serve is still going to go through the court at 130‑plus‑miles an hour.   The court will slow it down a bit, but it's not going to slow it down to 60 miles an hour, bounce.   And the more time I have to construct the point and find my forehand is a bonus for me. 
I did well this year even despite injury when it was quite slow in Monaco.   And honestly I found more comfort over the last few years the slower the courts the better for me.

Q.   Would the hip be the No. 1 place that was bothering you related to the foot?
MILOS RAONIC:   There wasn't a place it wasn't.   It's sort of goes, stagmented.   First, ankle; then the hip, and then the back.   Then when those things aren't working, you just put too much pressure on your shoulder, and then your shoulder hurts.

Q.   It's all on the same side?
MILOS RAONIC:   It's all over. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT