MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
March 25, 2015
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Good week last week in Indian Wells.   How different do you think this tournament will be in terms of conditions?
MILOS RAONIC:   It could be quite different.   I think it all depends on the heat during the days of play. 
Today was a very humid day.   It's still quite bouncy, but just ‑‑there is a big difference between the balls when they are new and when they have been in play for five to nine games.   That's where the biggest difference is. 

Q.   Playing back‑to‑back Masters events like Indian Wells/Miami, traveling across the country, how different is that compared to playing a Grand Slam, which is two weeks long?   This is shorter tournaments but two different venues and two different surfaces, sort of. 
MILOS RAONIC:   Well, I think the hardest thing between these two weeks and maintaining a certain level.   Because, you got to do it across four weeks, maybe three‑and‑a‑half weeks if you start in Indian Wells and want to finish on the last day in Miami.   I think that's the most difficult part.
I think if you play back‑to‑back Masters that's sort of in a way easier, because we are used to playing a lot of back‑to‑back matches, playing the tournament in seven or eight days rather than playing it across ten days. 
So I think that's a big difference between those two.   But at the same time, they are very accommodating, both venues. 
Here obviously the venue is not as big as Indian Wells and maybe you can't get as much time on the actual match courts as you can in Indian Wells on the main site.
But I'd say players are pretty comfortable at both events when it comes to most things.

Q.   If you compare your match with Nadal in Montreal two years ago and the last one last year here in Miami and a week ago in Indian Wells, what difference in Nadal's game and your game do you find?
MILOS RAONIC:   Well, I think obviously in Montreal, that's when he was playing his best on hard courts.   He won Montreal.   I believe he went on to win Cincinnati. 
That's when he was having his comeback season from a bit of time off, and he was playing really well. 
So at that time it was tough.   It was also a very inexperienced situation for me.   It was tough to play that match, but I tried to make the most of it. 
Last year I think I improved tremendously during those two periods of time.   I think I gave myself a much better chance, and I think it sort of continued in that trend where I'm improving and giving myself better opportunities, and that was the difference in Indian Wells. 
Plus having faced that situation many times.

Q.   Can you talk about your biggest weapon, your serve?   When did you realize you were a big server?   Ljubicic's words give you more confidence with that weapon?
MILOS RAONIC:   Well, even from a young age my serve was always my biggest weapon.   I used to spend a lot of time on it.   There wasn't always somebody to practice with in Canada, so you take a basket of balls and you go out and you serve. 
I didn't know that was going to be what would carry me through.   I have always seen it as the most important shot in tennis as a way to start the point ahead. 
But Ivan has been great.   He's helped me in ways.   I think I improved my first‑serve percentage this year, and that's helped me in other ways.
But I have always served well.   I have just always sort of‑‑ when things aren't going well with my serve, I always look to myself for the answers of what I need to do to make it better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT