AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 17, 2015
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. RAONIC/R. Gasquet
  6‑4, 6‑7, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Easy third set in contrast to the first two.   What made the difference?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I think he sort of let up a little bit.   He gave me a few free points right at that first game that I was returning.  
I wanted to make a conscious effort to be a bit more aggressive.   I felt I was too passive during the tiebreak, and things started going my way from then on.  
   
 Q.   How comfortable do you feel coming back?   Grass is a tricky surface.   Even though you have been playing consistently, do you feel safe and stable?   Does the foot feel different?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, the foot isn't an issue.   I still have some sort of discomfort in there, which is normal.   Following up always with the doctor sort of on what the progress is and so forth.   All normal kind of pains but nothing that is a growing concern, let's say.   
I'm happy with the way I'm competing mostly.   I obviously need to get in better shape and keep working on the movement in the grass.  
But I think there is no way to sort of do that than try to put yourself on court as much as you can.  
   
 Q.   Did it take time to get that confidence back, going for wide balls and stretch yourself completely?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, because sort of the adrenaline from competition sort of takes over.   You want to do whatever you can to win.  
I think it takes a few moments to sort of take that hesitation away that something might go wrong, but after you've sort of forced a few important points to actually go that far where you forget it out of just how quickly you need to react, it sort of passes by quickly.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of discomfort, how frequent is it?  
MILOS RAONIC:   It always depends.   Some days it's a little bit better than others, and sometimes I feel it on court.   Sometimes I feel it when I'm walking barefoot at home.   
It's very inconsistent.   It is sort of an issue that I had with the nerves, so it's really hard to predict.  
   
 Q.   Is that on your mind when you're playing?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, because I have grown confident in understanding that it's normal.   It's something that is just going to take time to pass.   I was given a four‑ to six‑week sort of guideline that it will take to sort of get those discomforts behind me.  
Right now I'm at I believe just under four weeks.   I'm happy with the way things are going.   Once you're playing, you just get very focused in on what you need to do, and you forget other things pretty quick.  
   
 Q.   Considering you have been out for some time, how do you assess your couple of matches this week on grass?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Far beyond what I would have liked really coming here.   Obviously my serve helps me always, but most of the matches have been won with a lot of time I have been putting on the mental side of my game, in the time off, a lot of attention to this and that's pretty much that's carrying me through.  
I know that's going to be the most important thing if I want to proceed and do bigger things at bigger events.   So to sort of be making that progress and sort of getting closer to making that a strength of mine is a great sign.  
   
 Q.   I guess when you arrive here you want to get a good couple of wins under your belt.   Now that you have done that, do you now start to think possibly I might be in line for the title, or is that a bit too...   
MILOS RAONIC:   No, I'm far from that.   My singular thought really is what do I need to do for the next few days to feel better with my tennis, with my body and everything?   Because these kind of matches are taking a toll on me.   
I haven't put many matches in on court.   I'm just recovering and doing what I need to do to give myself the best chance, not only to win the next match but also to be playing better and making the positive progress that I have been.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your discomfort related to your injury.   
MILOS RAONIC:   Well, I just try to stay on top of it as much as I can.   It's very unpredictable, so pretty much every other day I'm in constant contact with the doctor that did the procedure.   I'm in constant care of the physio that I travel with.   
So I have the tools around me and I'm using them as much as I can to take care of the issue.   Some things are out of my control, and I understand that and I accept it and I try to make the most of it.  
   
 Q.   What was the name of the problem?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Morton's neuroma.  
   
 Q.   Do you need any adaptation to the shoe or anything?   
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   It was really just sort of dealing with the inflammation of the nerve, and then I changed my orthotic.   That was the only thing, just the kind of support I was getting from my orthotics from below, just to be a bit more stiff.   Not always the most comfortable thing, but it's what my foot needed.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT