BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2015
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. RAONIC/A. Dolgopolov
  7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   He can be a really tricky opponent.   I guess you're glad you played that well today and beat him in two sets. 
MILOS RAONIC:   I'm happy with the way I dealt with the situations.   Big difference from last year was he neutralized my serve really well.   There was a big focus on let's get that right first, and then the rest of the game will follow.
I was really aware of that, to try to make a difference to try and stay on top of him.

Q.   How do you like the conditions here?   Many players say it's pretty tough to play this year with this kind of ball and the general conditions. 
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, it's difficult conditions obviously.   It's very different from a lot of other events.
But when you sort of get your teeth into the tournament, play a few matches, it just gets easier and easier.   I think it allows for some great tennis because there is a lot of playability on this court and takes a minute to get used to.

Q.   What do you think about the balls?
MILOS RAONIC:   The balls feel solid.   I have never had an issue with tennis balls.   Everybody is playing with the exact same balls.   You've got to figure it out.

Q.   Some of the players were saying these feel harder and little more like cement; bounce a little higher.   Do you ever notice that?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, I have, but for me, it's such an extreme coming from where we were at with Davis Cup, I think really having a fair judgment point on that specific issue is tough. 
I'm coming from two very different extremes.   Where it wasn't bouncing, here it's bouncing quite a bit.   That could be just because of where we played on the surface at Davis Cup or because it's bouncing really high here.   I can't really make that judgment.

Q.   Either using your marbles or I am.   We know what the odds are of that.   On the last serve you seemed to bounce the ball nine times.   Something going on here?
MILOS RAONIC:   It worked. 

Q.   No other comment on that?
PLAYER NAME:   I don't know.   I didn't think about that.

Q.   Has that happened very often?
MILOS RAONIC:   I think I bounced and then I stopped, and then I bounced probably an even number.   I don't think it was a straight nine.   I don't know.   Who knows.   Maybe I forgot how to count and I need to spend time with my niece and nephew practicing again.

Q.   During the match, did you think at all of 12 months ago?
MILOS RAONIC:   Not during the match.   Definitely a big emphasis from what I wanted to do different from last year, but during the match I came out there with my game plan.   I tried to simplify it as much as could.   I tried to have a good attitude.   I was able to do so.   There was no lingering thoughts.

Q.   You seemed to outlast him in a fair number of rallies.   Were you trying to stay in a lot of them to see if he would be the first one to crack?
MILOS RAONIC:   I just know it's difficult, really, especially first matches here.   For me, I'm still finding my range on things.   I tried to, especially the first few matches, play very simple, play high percentage tennis. 
And then as the tournament goes on, like everybody else, you're just going to keep getting better and better.   That's when you start letting go a bit more and maybe go for shots that are a little bit more risky and are more comfort plays.

Q.   Can you talk about the next opponent, Robredo or Dimitrov?   Obviously different in styles. 
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, two players I have played a few times each.   Against Tommy I have a pretty good record.   What I will say against both players is I've got to take care of my game.   I've got to figure that out.   I have to put that in place first, organize that, and then it comes to making the small adjustments.
But the most important thing, for me at least, is myself first, and then I will try to put everything else in order.

Q.   Would it be more exciting if it's Dimitrov because of the same generation?
MILOS RAONIC:   Well, maybe for the viewers, but I'm just going out there trying to find a way to win a match.

Q.   The little meditation routine when you sit down at the side, what's that all about and where did it come from?
MILOS RAONIC:   I have been taking piano lessons, so I just practice on court.

Q.   Is that a serious answer?
MILOS RAONIC:   I don't know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT