BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2015
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. RAONIC/S. Bolelli
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   In the past you used to win quite a few points serve and volley using kick serve from the advantage side.   You don't seem to be doing that anymore.   Is there a reason why?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   It's something that we have been working on to incorporate it here, but today I just, as well as I got the numbers on my serve, I felt I could serve better.   
So I was really just trying to, especially being the first match of the tournament, conditions being so different from Davis Cup, just really trying to hone in on getting my serve, getting my returns, and trying to find that short ball.  
   
 Q.   Given the change in conditions and everything else and your history, recent history with Bolelli, this was theoretically a dangerous match for you.   Did you do anything different from last year?   Why was it relatively routine, given the challenges?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah.   I think I had a different approach.   Marseilles was tough for me in the sense of just really going after it, so this time around I think there was a little bit more, let's say, revenge on the mind in that just not wanting to have that sour story again.   
It just drove me.   I think I was a little bit more emotionally positive about it and so forth.   I really tried to‑‑ not only with my tennis, I really tried to impose myself, as well with my presence.  
   
 Q.   What are the differences between Vancouver and here?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Much higher bounce, much slower, the sun, the heat.   Pretty much every single difference that you can have on hard courts.   It's like two polar opposites here.   Yes.   
   
 Q.   Dolgopolov next round.   Same situation as last match?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, it will be an interesting match.   Something I look forward to that challenge.   I've got to hopefully play better than I did today, but I will work a way towards that and give myself my best possible opportunity.  
   
 Q.   When you were saying you were working to impose yourself in the match, what do you actually mean by that?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I feel like sometimes I can just sort of get a little bit too monotone with myself.   And today, especially being the first round, not so much on my opponent, on myself, trying to get positive energy out of myself, trying to get myself really going, because I knew the conditions were going to be tough.   
I knew the match wasn't going to be ideal or pretty in any way.   I was trying to sort of get out of myself as best of a level as I could through positive energy rather than just expecting things to happen.  
   
 Q.   Talk about that monotone.   Is that sort of just being flat?   Do you ever get even a little bored?   Does your concentration wane?   Talk about that.   
MILOS RAONIC:   I think I get in sort of my own bubble.   It's a good thing when things are going well, you know.   Nothing disturbs me and I get in my own bubble and I just go about my, let's say, routine of business.  
It's good because I'm able to close out everything around, but sometimes when things aren't going well I can just sort of let myself stay in that too much rather than sort of trying to force out through a positive attitude a better level for myself.  
   
 Q.   What's your typical self‑talk when you want to shake yourself out of that and get going?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Just being more aware of the little things.   Because sometimes I can be very demanding on myself and expect a lot on myself.   Even when I do things well, I won't be self‑rewarding about it through self‑talk.   
So I just try to impose that on myself just to sort of make it aware.   Sort of sometimes you can't cheat your mind mentally so you have to do it with your body and with your actions.   That way I can sort of get ahead and be more positive and be more energetic.  
   
 Q.   Do you congratulate yourself?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah.   It's being aware of the positive things, not just sort of sometimes taking them for granted.  
   
 Q.   How often have guys played against you the way Dolgopolov did last year?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Not often.   I think what he did especially well was handle my serve.   I was serving well through that tournament, and he just made that part difficult for me.  
But it's a very different time around.   I think I have a much better understanding.   I have a lot more tennis in me from the start of this year.   I still have a lot more comfort, and it's not really my first tournament coming back from a while out where I'm sort of second‑guessing decisions.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT