AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2015
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  M. RAONIC/D. Young6-4, 7-6, 6-3An interview with:MILOS RAONICTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Was that what you were expecting?MILOS RAONIC: No, not what I was expecting.  Sort of what I was hoping for.  I served well and got better and better as the match went on.  So I was happy with that.  I was much more aggressive than I was in the first round.  That was a step forward.Q. Talk about the conditions out there.MILOS RAONIC: It's just like any other time you play a night match.  Especially today the temperature dropped pretty quickly.  It was a little bit slower, a little bit heavier.  But nothing really different from playing day and night at any other event.Q. Has your attitude about coming into this early-round matches evolved in the last couple of years?MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, well, I think I just have a better understanding.  I think a big part of that is maturity towards getting it the right type of value.  Understanding that even if I don't play well my first rounds, most important thing is getting through, giving myself that opportunity to play better after.  I think also I have a much better understanding when things aren't going the way I'd like how to sort of turn them around, what I need to focus on.  A lot of those things give me, I guess, a sense of peace, even if things aren't going as planned.  I just sort of try to carry on from there.Q. Do you like the opportunity in Grand Slams of the five sets, if you do have issues, that you have the time to correct them?MILOS RAONIC: I think especially if somebody is playing really well, sort of trying to keep a constant.  Say to them, If you're going to beat me, I'm going to try to force you to keep this up for three sets.  That's a definite bonus of the three-out-of-five program.  I think it can also be a little bit mentally draining on opponents.  Gives them a little bit more time to think, sort of maybe knock them out of the way they're playing.Q. You said one of the things you want to concentrate on now is the first shot, serving, returning.  Can you talk about why that is, what difference you feel it's making to the way your matches go.MILOS RAONIC: The big thing for me is for me, where I'm going to make progress, win matches, is winning those one- to three-, four-shot rallies.  Whatever I do serving, returning, just try to find that mid-court ball that I can take a forehand on and either play aggressive with it or try to find a way to the net.  Doesn't necessarily even have to be a forehand.  Obviously ideally I'd like to work my way to get a forehand shot out of it.  If I can do that, then we're playing on my terms, and that's obviously what I can thrive on.Q. Talk about your next match.MILOS RAONIC: Against Becker.  Played him twice.  Most recently I believe was Miami of last year.  He plays very compact.  He likes to use pace.  I got to just really focus on myself.  I know the way he likes to play.  He did a great job today, making a two-sets-to-Love comeback in very tough conditions.  I just got to really keep everything really internal and make sure I do things right, then make the adjustments throughout the match as needed.Q. What did Don Young do in your previous two matches that he didn't do tonight?MILOS RAONIC: Especially the last time I played him.  I think this one today was a bit similar to the time in Washington.  Obviously it being a semifinal, I think he was playing better.  You sort of work your way into the event.  So was I.  But compared to Basel, I feel like I'm just sharper on different things, on movement, on efficiency, serving better, being more focused.  It's the beginning of the year.  I've put in a lot of good work, I believe.  I'm just very sort of by the book in the things I want to do.  I'm just trying to follow that through.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT