AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2015
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  M. RAONIC/I. Marchenko7-6, 7-6, 6-3An interview with:MILOS RAONICTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. What kind of serve would you hit to that announcer who challenged your manhood on the court?MILOS RAONIC: I might go full out.  I'd go full out.Q. What can you say about today?MILOS RAONIC: It was what I needed it to be, especially with how well I served, I probably should have stepped up and taken a few more risks on the return games.  I felt at some points I got a little monotone with my game and I sort of stooped into a not-so-effective game plan especially on the return side.  Other than that, it was what I needed it to be for a first round.Q. When you clocked that forehand return in the first-set tiebreaker, is there much forethought there or is it more reaction?MILOS RAONIC: No, that's what I go for.  I wasn't necessarily, I would say, going for the line.  But it was (indiscernible) it up on his forehand side, because it was the first time in the match that I went back on a second-serve return.  So it was definitely to put some pressure on him and also make him look at a different trajectory.Q. You've played on Rod Laver and Hisense.  What's the biggest difference between the two of them?  Atmosphere seems different.MILOS RAONIC: It's hard to really pinpoint one thing because both times when I've played on Hisense, compared to the times I've played on Laver, playing in Laver was against Lleyton and Roger, so that will bring up an atmosphere right away.  Today the atmosphere was fun in Hisense.  Also both times in Rod Laver was night matches.  I think it's hard to really judge it straight on.  There's too many dependables on factors.Q. This happens to lots of players, but you played at an extremely high level against Roger in Brisbane.  Do you sort of know you're not going to get to that level that quickly at a tournament like this, first match?MILOS RAONIC: Doesn't matter how I finish Brisbane.  This tournament, every tournament, doesn't matter where, the previous one has nothing to do with it.  I always start at zero.  I have to find my way into it.  That's something I've learned to accept that necessarily I wasn't the best at before, especially the first few years on the tour.  But it's just about getting through and giving myself an opportunity to play better in the next match.Q. Do you know Donald Young at all?  You're at opposite extremes in terms of the fact that you didn't do a whole lot in the juniors, and he was just the opposite.MILOS RAONIC: Well, I've played him a few times, so I know him in that sense.  I know Donald because I'm a year younger than him.  He was sort of the poster boy of the way everybody sort of wanted their junior career to go.  I knew him from that sense.  I remember, I think it was Junior Davis Cup at the time, Key Biscayne, I was playing under-14, I would go over to watch him play against Bester and Polansky.  I definitely followed because there were a lot of tags and labels on him.  I definitely was aware of sort of what happened, then what he sort of went through.  There's always been a big spotlight on him.Q. At that stage did you have any sense you were going to be a late-bloomer?MILOS RAONIC: I was hoping I would be or else I'd be in trouble (smiling).Q. Did people tell you?MILOS RAONIC: There were certain instances.  The coach I always worked with believed in me a lot.  I necessarily didn't always see it that way.  But my goals, my ambitions have more developed pretty much every year I go through.  It changes.  I believe a lot more in myself and I see I can do a lot more - definitely a lot more than I imagined when I first went pro.  Things have developed and they've developed for the better, and so have my goals and ambitions.Q. We have to create a little dissension in the Canadian camp.  Miss Bouchard said last night she thought you were a little too obsessed with your hair.MILOS RAONIC: Next question, really.Q. Do you have any comment on her hair?MILOS RAONIC: I'm not going to get into this (smiling).  Thank you.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT