BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 11, 2015
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/M. Raonic
  6‑4, 6‑7, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Quite an amazing night all round.   
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, it was.   It was a great tennis match.   Stayed out there, competed, gave it my all.   I gave myself a chance after being down a set and a break.  
I think it just shows the development I've been able to make over the last little while.   You put me in that same situation few months and weeks ago and I think I could be out of that stadium pretty quickly.   
   
 Q.   Looked a lot more comfortable in the second set.   Was it nerves or working your way in or that's the way you wanted to play it?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Well, I didn't want to get down a set and a break, but I competed.   That's all I could ask of myself.   When things didn't go well, try to find a solution any way possible and just fight.  
That's what I've gotten constantly better at throughout my short career.  
   
 Q.   If you had one regret, would that be maybe your first serve percentage?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, I wish I could have served better in general; just didn't serve that well.   
But I performed really well in other aspects.   I gave myself, especially in the beginning of the third set, quite a few break chances.   He played well on all of them.   I didn't have a second serve once.   
So not really too much else I can ask for myself.   Give and take few situations there is really‑‑ I couldn't asked for a better way to go into the Australian Open.  
   
 Q.   Even though you didn't win it, what was it like to be a part of occasion, a milestone for your opponent?  
MILOS RAONIC:   It's great.   It's great to see because you know how much he's done for tennis.   He turned pro I saw today I think it was like ten years before me.   As much as I've seen him play the last four years, I have probably seen him as much on TV before that.  
It's great to see everything he's done for tennis.   The fans he's brought, the media attention he's brought.   If he is if not one of the most popular athletes now in the world, he's definitely the most popular tennis player of all‑time.  
   
 Q.   Was there a feeling in 2013 when things weren't going so well that he was in a terminal decline, and has he surprised people in the locker room by the way he's come back?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   I think the way he's come back and just all aspects that Roger does from the sets twins he has, everything he does is unbelievable.  
   
 Q.   Your performance tonight, does that make you excited for the season ahead?   
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah.   I gave myself an opportunity to be in a final here against one of the best players in the world and gave myself a pretty good opportunity to win.  
I didn't cross that line, but I can't really ask more of myself other than obviously trying to get a win today.   The progress I've been making, especially over the last six weeks from physically as a tennis player, technically, and just the way I go about things even mentally, I'm happy with that.  
I feel like I'm just going to get better over the next eight or nine days.  
   
 Q.   Is this the best you've felt to start the year ever?   
MILOS RAONIC:   Yes.   I think just because I feel like I've made a big mental step forward; 2012 I believe I started the year winning Chennai.   That was a great feeling, but I didn't feel like I was producing the same level.   I didn't feel like going into Australia with the same‑ the Australian Open ‑ with the same confidence and belief that I can really make something big happen there.   
   
 Q.   Meant to you ask you earlier in the week, is that a compression sock you wear on your arm?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Compression sleeve, yes.  
   
 Q.   To support the muscles?   
MILOS RAONIC:   It started after I got hurt here last year.   I didn't play for many weeks.   I started playing in Indian Wells.   And just because I wasn't able to play for a while my arm was sore, so I was using a cream on my arm for massaging and stuff.  
I had a bad rash come Miami time, so I had the option od I had to play with long sleeves, and being a basketball fan I saw that they play with compressions sleeves.   I thought it was a better way to cover up.  
Since then it stuck around.   Some of my team believe that it helps on the compression on the muscles.   For me it's just a habit.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned about being capable of something big at the Australian Open.   How big?   Are you genuine contender for those titles now?   
MILOS RAONIC:   I can put myself in the position to be.   There is a lot of tennis to be played.   There are a lot of things I need to do.   But I feel like I have the confidence, and I believe I have that ability within myself.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT