BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 5, 2015
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Talk about what you did in the off‑season to prepare for 2015. 
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, I had a really good off‑season.   I focused a lot on general improvement.   I think I got fitter, stronger, faster.
Then I just really focused on what I needed to do, what changes I needed to make.   We spent a lot of time focusing especially on the first shots, make sure I return better, and that serve better in this year.

Q.   You're part of the this young gun generation.   Do you think someone from that generation, yourself, Kei, Grigor, are ready to break the dominance of Roger, Rafa, Novak this year?
MILOS RAONIC:   I guess it always depends on what you consider that.   But I think there is definitely somebody in this group ‑‑ and I believe in myself highly ‑‑ that can definitely step up and win one of the big four tournaments. 
I look forward to those challenges, especially at the big events. 

Q.   Ankle trouble after the Australian Open.   How are you feeling physically coming into the start of the summer?
MILOS RAONIC:   I'm eager.   I'm very eager.   I spent a lot of weeks training and building up to this.   I feel like I'm in great shape.   The thing I love most about the tennis is individual competition, so I sort of want to get going in that aspect.
I'm looking forward to getting playing and sort of writing up a different storyline than I had here last year.   So it's a good opportunity. 

Q.   In terms of getting past the top guys, what do you think you need to do specifically? 
MILOS RAONIC:   I think I got to keep improving every day.   I think if you ask, that answer will never really change.
But specifically I just got to tighten up in specific moments.   Sometimes I feel like I got to play a little bit better when it comes down to clutch moments, especially later in sets.   A lot of times I've sort of been able to get myself in that position, and only really one time against Roger in Paris was I able to make the most of it.
But I keep putting myself in that position.   I think having a chance to look back over a longer period of time, having a chance to improve, I can deal better with those moments.

Q.   About taking risks perhaps?
MILOS RAONIC:   No, I think it's about believing in yourself and doing what you know best.   I think you got to get those doubts and that hesitance out.   I don't think it's about taking a risk and doing something that's not within your wheelhouse. 

Q.   Your off‑season training, where was that done?
MILOS RAONIC:   I spent about four weeks doing it in Monte‑Carlo. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT