BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 8, 2015
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. RAONIC/M. Kukushkin
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   In your world, is that a good serving day or an exceptional serving day or what?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, I served well.   This off‑season‑‑ we finished last year and we definitely thought I could do a lot better with my serve, so we spent a lot of time this off is not and I'm happy that it's going well.  
   
 Q.   Have you played doubles with Bernard much in the past?   
MILOS RAONIC:   Only one tournament that I can recall.   We lost in the semifinals of the Monte‑Carlo Masters.   
Other than that, I don't believe so.   Maybe we have, but no other good results, that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   Practice with him here again?   
MILOS RAONIC:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Can I ask you for an evaluation of where he is?   Obviously there is all the scrutiny on his progress over the years.   Can you tell me how you see him doing at the moment?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, he's doing well.   Practiced here with him.   I spent some time talking with him.   He's definitely taken I guess a lot of insight to change his habits.   
It hasn't necessarily been easy for him I'm sure in that aspect, but he's doing well.   He's on the right track.   I watched a bit of both of his matches here so far, and he's been playing well.   He's in a good head space, and I think he's interested in I guess the right type of thing.   I guess that's obviously very good for him.   
   
 Q.   I know your opponent hasn't been decided yet, but could be Sam Groth.   If it is, another big server.   You only played him I think once before.   
MILOS RAONIC:   I don't know if I played him.   Maybe I have, but I can't remember.   
   
 Q.   Thoughts on him?   He's improved himself like Bernard and really stepped up this year.   
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, I didn't watch any of his match against‑‑ actually, I did play him.   I played him in Washington, yes.  
   
 Q.   Yes.   Was it Washington?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yes.   I didn't see him play against Lleyton, but to definitely put up that scoreline he did against Lleyton you have to play incredibly well, and more importantly compete very well.  
I will definitely take the time to watch today and see sort of what he may be doing different.   Obviously the job is always ‑‑ or the goal is always for me to take care of my serve and try to create some opportunities on return and see where it goes from there.  
   
 Q.   Next question:   Your own game, only the first tournament of the year.   How do you feel?   
MILOS RAONIC:   Ask me in a few weeks, really.   No, I feel good.   (Smiling.)   I've put a lot of work in technically and on a lot of things, so I feel better as tennis player.   I feel much stronger and fitter.   
Also spent a lot of time sort of discussing and consulting with my team about the mental side, what I need to do to make the next step forward, especially in the big events.  
So trying to incorporate that and see where it takes me.  
   
 Q.   Can you tell in the first couple games of the season where you game is?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, I can tell you when I finish the pre‑season.   My team can tell and you everything.   This is the best pre‑season we've had I think improvement‑wise, especially on the physical side of things.  
   
 Q.   You've been included in the group of players who are on the verge or cusp of a breakthrough.   Is that going to happen this season in the majors for you?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I hope so.   That's the biggest goal I've set for myself, is to do much better in specifically one major.   I've been in a semifinal now, but I think I can do much better.  
   
 Q.   Playing out on one of the outside show courts today there was music.   Is that an unusual experience around the world's circuit or quite commonplace now with pop music playing loudly?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, fortunately for me it's become less and less of a usual experience.   I've been doing well, so fortunately I get play on the bigger show courts.  
But it is what it is.   You sort of make the most of it.   You're not the only guy dealing with it; so is your opponent.   You try to focus on what you have control over.   You can't control the kind of music they play or the song they're playing.  
You just got to go out there and try to hit a good serve.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT