BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 9, 2014
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/M. Raonic
  6‑1, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   You had your good chances in the second set.   Do you think it could have gone to a third, or Roger is more experienced than you?
MILOS RAONIC:   Obviously it can come down just to one play, and we might be playing a third set.   But it's obviously disappointing, very disappointing actually, the way I finished that second set off. 

Q.   It's your first time here.   Did it take you a set to get going?
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   It took me more a set to find my way into the match because of playing Roger, not because of being here for the first time. 

Q.   You play Andy next.   You have a good record against him.   How do you think this court will play out for the match between you?
MILOS RAONIC:   Well, it's a completely different match.   Things are going to be quite different than the first match. 
We both, after today, have more so of an idea what we need to do different for the next round.   It's going to be about who necessarily adjusts better, who can play better come Tuesday night. 

Q.   I wondered how intimidating it felt to be playing in such a huge arena and with a lot of support on Roger's side?   Did that have an impact on you or could you blank that out?
MILOS RAONIC:   No, it wasn't any kind of an issue.   Every time you play Roger, the crowd's on his side, even if he's playing a local favorite.   It's hard for people to cheer against Roger. 
I've played him a few times.   I've played home favorites on big courts also a few times, and in Davis Cup, many different situations.   So it wasn't any type of an issue. 

Q.   Did it feel different walking out on court tonight mentally?   Did it feel like just another match? 
MILOS RAONIC:   It is a bit different.   I think more so from the aspect that it's been a while since I've been able to get my ranking up.   It's been a while where you start every tournament not knowing how things are going to start out just because of always the difficulty of a different atmosphere, different everything in the first round.   You have to play against one of the best players of all time in that situation. 
I think that was the biggest difference, trying to demand a high level right from the get‑go.   But other than that, it really didn't feel too different than other situations I've been in. 

Q.   The set point and the breakpoints, which one was the most disappointing or frustrating for you?
MILOS RAONIC:   I don't remember which game I had it.   I had two in one game.   The second one of those two, when I shanked that forehand wide.   I don't think it was really a difficult forehand.   I just should have stayed down through it a little bit more. 

Q.   Is it strange losing a match, knowing you're going to have to get over it right away and prepare for the next one?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, it is.   I get pretty angry when I lose, so... 
I'm going to have to learn how to slap myself out of it. 

Q.   This is just after the match, but it's poppy time.   I wonder if you usually wear one and how you learned about what it means and its significance?   Also, have you noticed the ones here are a little bit different.
MILOS RAONIC:   The ones here are quite a bit different.   They look like they have two divides in them, whereas the ones I grew up wearing and having Memorial Day in Canada.   I remember always everyone on this day in Canada, obviously it's a different date, but would be put together in the gymnasium, and either we'd be spoken to about it or we'd watch video regarding it, have that moment of silence. 
I have a very good understanding of what it exactly means back home in Canada.   I'm not sure if the storyline is a bit different or if it's the same here.   But I definitely know what it represents. 

Q.   Obviously this tournament is a lot different from Wimbledon.   How does it feel for you specifically being here in London, sort of the wintertime, in a city that usually you're here in the summer?   How do the two events compare to each other?
MILOS RAONIC:   It's very different in the sense that I think the biggest difference is here you're really looking to cap the year off on a high note, to push, and only against the best players in the world.   Whereas in Wimbledon, come that time of year, you could be having a poor year up to that point.   It's a good way that you could turn it around.   It's still relatively early in the season.   One big result there can change a lot for the following few months. 
So I think that's probably the biggest difference. 

Q.   You mentioned a moment ago the crowd often supports Roger.   How do you expect the French crowd to react to him in the Davis Cup final coming up?   Do you think it's fair when players are criticized for not suiting up for their country in Davis Cup?
MILOS RAONIC:   For the first question, I think people are going to be very patriotic up in the north of France, and I think the thing that's unique about Roger is people will support the home players when they face Roger.   But Roger is very tough to cheer against.   Whereas quite a few other players, people will try to sort of get on top of them, get down on them.   I have not seen a situation where people have tried to do that ‑ at least since I've been on tour ‑ to Roger. 
When it comes to Davis Cup, I think it all just always depends on the situation.   I think there's definitely two sides to it.   You have to sort of hear it out because it can make a big difference in a person personally, but also for a team. 

Q.   You just played him in Paris.   Did you sense he adjusted in some way to what you did?   Was it a matter of his level being higher, or your level being lower this time?
MILOS RAONIC:   He was a lot more consistent on his return games.   In Paris, okay, I'd get free points when I hit aces, but today the big difference was when he would get his racquet on the ball, he would make me play all the time.   He was giving me some shots in Paris in that sense, some quicker points. 
I believe he played better today.   I believe I started off not playing nearly as well, but I think I sort of found that Paris level that I had against him come the second set.   I think that's why I was able to create some opportunities for myself. 

Q.   A lot of work went into getting into this event.   Apart from what happened in the match today, has it been what you expected?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, it is.   At the end of the day, it's just a tournament with a different format.   Yes, there's a few more perks.   You get treated a bit better and so forth than you would necessarily at other events. 
But the fundamentals of the event are no different than anywhere else.   You just are trying to be as efficient and as proficient as possible in finding a way to prepare for your matches so you can play your best level when needed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT