BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 11, 2014
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/M. Raonic
  6‑3, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Are you good in mathematics?   Do you know you still can qualify?   Do you know what you need to do in order to qualify?  
MILOS RAONIC:   There's a slim possibility.   I have to win the next match in straight sets.   I'm not going to start counting games now.   
   
 Q.   Your first‑serve percentage against Roger was low.   Today was about 50%.   Something you can put your finger on why playing indoors?   Is it the pressure of facing Roger and Andy back‑to‑back?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   To be frank, my first‑serve percentage at this moment, at least today, shouldn't have been above 40%.   I started hitting serves 115 miles an hour to get it past 50%.   
Whatever the reason is, I have 24 hours to solve it, and I'm going to need to if I want to have any hope.   There's no way around that.   It's something I got to do.   
   
 Q.   Overall what do you think has been not working for you at this tournament?   
MILOS RAONIC:   Haven't served well.   I've been too passive on the court.   I've been trying to beat the two guys playing their tennis, and that's not going to work for me.   
   
 Q.   You played him in Indian Wells when he was still sort of struggling a bit to come back from the back problem.   How do you feel his level is now?  
MILOS RAONIC:   He's playing well.   He's playing with a lot of confidence.   He's definitely playing better than Indian Wells.   
But there's a lot of factors to it.   It's really hard to judge on that.   But definitely his level has improved.   
   
 Q.   You said you played the two matches with the tactics of your opponents.   How do you think you need to play your next match if it's to reflect your game?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I have to be more aggressive.   I have to go for more rather than just play relatively down the middle.   
I'm getting short balls, but I'm developing them if I go hard down the middle.   I'm not stretching my opponents most of the time.   I don't know exactly what the stats are, but I'm sure I have a terrible minus record unforced errors to winners at this moment.   That's not how I'm going to give myself a possibility to win.   
   
 Q.   In the last game you hit a couple really fantastic shots and a couple real clunkers.   That must be frustrating for you.   Do you have any explanation or is it that you're going for it?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I had to go for it.   There was no time to lose.   I had my back up against the wall.   I had to sort of put all my cards down and go and play.   
There was too much up and down.   It was poor of me to lose that 1‑All, my serve, being 40‑Love up.   After that point I started going for it.   I created a few Love‑30 possibilities doing that.   I just didn't make the most of them.   
   
 Q.   You have already played with Kei four times this season.   What do you need to do to beat him, particularly on this surface?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I'm going to have to serve well, as always.   That's the key thing for me.   But I'm just going to have to be aggressive.   I'm going to have to make Kei play on my terms.   It's something I haven't been able to do so far these last two matches.   
   
 Q.   For yourself, along with Kei and Marin, this is a whole new experience, playing the season‑ending championship.   I think Kei is the only one who scored one win.   How much does that have a bearing on the way you've approached this or the way you're playing?  
MILOS RAONIC:   You go out there and you treat every match like it's a single elimination tournament.   There's no other way to do it.   If you go out there hoping that, okay, you can lose a match and maybe still get through, things can only go poorly from there on.   
So obviously I think if I can put myself in this situation again, I hope I can do better.   But I don't think that's been nearly as much of an issue as the way I've executed my game and the way I've stepped up to play.   
   
 Q.   Intrinsically the speed of the court would be the same.   How does the huge area around the court play with the speed?   At the French Open, people say that center court plays slower because the area around the court is so big.   Is that a factor?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I think it's a visual factor.   I don't think it really makes a difference on numbers.   When you sort of have more of a space to work with, you never feel like you're sort of pressed up against the court and so forth.   Just visual and optic space, you feel like there is more space, you feel there is more time.   
In Paris you feel you can go further back if need be, buy yourself time that way.   Whereas if you're playing on Court 7 or any other court in Paris, you feel like you have to sort of stay up closer.   Obviously the further back you are, naturally you have more time 'cause the ball's got to travel a longer distance.   
   
 Q.   With regard to Andy Murray, you said it was more about Murray adjusting to you as opposed to you adjusting to him.   What is the case nowadays?  
MILOS RAONIC:   If I want to have the possibilities to win, that's what I have to make the case.   Today was rotating in.   I had to adjust to him.   I thought he played well.   But I didn't do my job too well today.   
   
 Q.   Talking about the serve, is the serve the problem?   Is that affecting your ground game or is it maybe vice versa?  
MILOS RAONIC:   The serve sort of affects everything else.   Serving, holding more comfortably.   I lost my serve six times in three sets out of four sets I've played.   It creates a higher pressure on my opponents when I serve well and also takes some off my back and allows me to swing more freely on return games.   
Serve's first, and a lot can follow with that.   
   
 Q.   What exactly could you do in your own head during that match to make the serve better?   What can you do with your coaches tomorrow to try to get it better for the next match?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Just go back to basics, focus on rhythm, focus on maybe the balance of my body, the toss, make sure the basics are in place, just go through repetition doing the right thing.   
It's just as simple as that, but it takes time to get it right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT