U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2014
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  K. NISHIKORI/M. Raonic4-6, 7-6, 6-7, 7-5, 6-4THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Can you explain to us how you felt the match went and your thoughts right now.MILOS RAONIC: Well, I thought in general it was a good match if you sort of step away from it and you look at the whole thing. I wish I could have been let's say more efficient in many aspects, like my serve and other things.  Especially in the beginning of the match I was just not figuring it out.  I was losing my serve way too many times.  This whole tournament, actually. But I kept fighting, and that's all I can ask.  I fought through that third set. Then I felt like he sort of just got a little bit over me and I was just sort of the whole time playing to just stay alive.Q. Considering the lateness of the match, the length of it, have you ever been in anything like that before?MILOS RAONIC: No.  It was fun how many people stuck around.  I think the only thing that was a little bit awkward is you play first so you have to wake up at 5:00 a.m. to play first on whichever day it was, Saturday, and then the next day you're here till 4:00 a.m. It's a little bit weird, that aspect of scheduling.  But other than that, the atmosphere and all those other factors was a lot of fun.Q. Does it matter at all to you that you're going down in the record books tonight as one of the latest finishing matches at the US Open?MILOS RAONIC: Not the slightest bit.Q. Can you walk us through in that third set those two consecutive service games, eight break points, you held, just the mental strength that that required?MILOS RAONIC: Yeah.  I go up to the line and I focus on sort of simplifying things, what I needed to do, and I served well I believe on all of those.  Maybe not one.  I had to come up with a backhand down the line. Sort of at that point you're going through things and it was a lot of adrenaline going through the match.  You just sort of deal with things as they come and you try to sort of slow yourself down at times.  I was able to do well in that aspect and also got myself back in that tiebreak and give myself an opportunity.Q. The last few games, can you describe the exhaustion.MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, it was quite tiring.  It was a combination of fatigue, pain in some ways, and just not feeling like I would expect or hope to feel that late in a match.Q. Now that the Grand Slam season is over for you, how do you feel about how you performed in the majors?MILOS RAONIC: I got to play pretty much three slams, I would say, and I think it's much better than I have ever done before. One goal we set out was to make at least semifinals of a slam this year when we sat down at the beginning of December and talked. So I got that aspect.  So those things are very positive.  But then at the same time, when you're in that position, there's not really that much satisfaction from it.Q. You mentioned feeling pain at the end.  What kind of pain?  Physical or emotional or both?MILOS RAONIC: No.  Just stuff I sort of been dealing with a little bit and you're sort of compensating over.  You sort of find parts where you're not normally sore are getting sore.  In that kind of aspect. Nothing really drastic.Q. What shots made it difficult that Kei played today?  How do you rate his performance?MILOS RAONIC: I think in general just his foot speed was the most probably difficult part.  He was taking the ball very early, controlling the center of the court.  He was keeping himself in a lot of situations where someone might be out of position. He was getting himself in good position and giving himself good opportunity to swing at the ball properly.Q. Did you feel any pressure?MILOS RAONIC: No.  It's a factor of it.  He does return well.  I believe I could have served much better.Q. What's next for you?MILOS RAONIC: When the time comes, I will go to Halifax.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT