BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 29, 2014
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. RAONIC/J. Sock
  3‑6, 7‑5, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It's been quite a tough couple of weeks for you recently.   How big is this win, on this court?   Is it important to get the groove back?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, it's very important in the sense of just getting‑‑ especially getting my teeth into this tournament, giving myself another chance.   I know I'm going to have to play better.   
Fortunately I felt like I was playing better and better at the end of the match especially.  
   
 Q.   Are you feeling frustrated?   Frustrating past two weeks?  
MILOS RAONIC:   It was just because of the timing of everything.   Now everything is okay, so just trying to make the most of the situation.  
   
 Q.   Are you still hoping to go to London?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   Just a funny question:   You made a break of eight minutes approximately.   Why it was so long?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Whoever the escort was that took me, took me into a bathroom that had no seats on the toilet.   So I didn't want to squat, so I kept saying, Let's go to another one, and we ended up going to the locker room.  
   
 Q.   Now the public blow [sic] you.   
MILOS RAONIC:   Why?   
   
 Q.   When you came up on the court?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I was taken to a bad bathroom.   That's all I worried about.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel in the tiebreak that you were maybe serving for your season, given the fact that the London race is the way it is?  
MILOS RAONIC:   That thought didn't really cross my mind.   But, yes, that obviously is a factor.   I felt like‑‑ I felt like I did a good job in that tiebreak.   Got ahead that one point and then just really took care of my service points.  
   
 Q.   You have beaten Jack five times this year, I think, which is more than probably anybody else.   What do you see in his game that works for you?   They're tight matches where you've been able to get the better every time.   
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, my serve helps me out of a lot of tiebreaks against him.   I think he's playing much better now than he was at the start of the year.   He just keeps progressing throughout the year and it's going well for him.   
   
 Q.   Specifically what's getting better for him?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I think he's understanding more and more how to play.   He has a very potent forehand, big serve, but he just uses it more and more advantageously for himself.   
   
 Q.   If your season had to stop here and you're not going to London, unfortunately, how would you assess it, your 2014?  
MILOS RAONIC:   A lot of good things, but it's hard to sort of answer that.   I think it's ‑‑I would have to sit down and see how I actually feel in that situation.   
And thankfully, so far, I don't have to sit down with those thoughts.  
   
 Q.   Talking specifically about London, are you following the calculations if you qualify or not qualify, or is it not in your mind whatsoever?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I know what I need to do, but it's too dependent on other guys, so I'm just very much focused on myself.   It's not like if I do well I have a safe spot.   There are a lot of sort of dependencies.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT