ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2014
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. JANKOVIC/K. Nara
      7‑5, 6‑0

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   It was a pretty convincing finish to that match.   How are you feeling so far in this tournament?
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   I'm feeling pretty good.   I think I'm getting a little bit better with each match.   And, you know, happy to get through this round.
    My opponent, she's always tough to play against.   We have been playing the last three Grand Slams against each other.   So hopefully she can play someone else from now on.
    So far, so good.   So hopefully I can, you know, continue and get better.

Q.   The first set was quite a close match.   All of a sudden the second set everything goes easy for your side.   What do you think makes that difference?
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   In the first set I think I was playing quite, you know, too short.   You know, I wasn't doing enough, you know, especially when she was serving.
    I think the conditions were quite slow, and it was ‑‑the ball was not going through.   My balls were going really, really short, so she took advantage of that.   I did not break her, you know, until, you know, that game at 5‑All. 
    I think that was the difference.   Then a little bit I started playing a little more aggressively in the second set and it made a difference. 
    But overall, I think, you know, she gets so many balls back.   She doesn't give you many free points, so you have to work your way through.   Especially in slow conditions like this, it's not easy.
    Happy with my win.

Q.   Always you seem very difficult and uneasy against her.   What you don't like, most of all?
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   (Smiling.)   Like I said, she doesn't give me any free points.   She's a very solid player, a fighter.   She fights for every point.   She plays so well. 
    I have to earn every point that I, you know, that I win.   You know, she never gives you anything easy.
    So I think that's her biggest ‑‑and she's so fast.   I think she's one of the fastest players on the tour.
    Like I said, I have been playing her the last three Grand Slams, and the person she lost to in the last three Grand Slams was me.   You know, hopefully in Wimbledon we don't play against each other.   I hope not.
    I wish her lots of luck.   It's unfortunate, really, the draw. 

Q.   I know you were really proud in Indian Wells of your French Open dress, which you showed us there. 
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah.   You guys like it? 

Q.   Yeah. 
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, I think it's a very unique dress.   It's very classy.   It's, you know, all these stripes.
    I think it's very French.   You know, I love it.   You know, I have the red shoes that give a little nice contrast to it.   It's a little bit different to what I used to wear, and I think it's nice to show it off here at the French Open where, you know, fashion is quite a big thing. 
    I love it.   I enjoy playing in it.

Q.   What are some of your other, the ones you have seen around the tournament, your favorite and least favorites?
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   Mine is my favorite.

Q.   Obviously yours is your favorite, but of the other players you've seen, what have you liked or not liked?
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   I haven't seen much.   I have been playing quite a lot. 
    I seen maybe Serena's dress.   I think, you know, the symmetrical kind of cut and lines and the color was quite cool. 
    I don't know.   Maybe Maria's is quite nice and beautiful. 
    I haven't seen, you know, many players.   So I cannot tell you much.   You know, wait a little bit until I kind of pay attention more.

Q.   I know obviously you have seen that Serena and Li Na have lost and the top two seeds are out.   How does that change ‑‑does it get you more excited for this tournament?
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   There is still lots of great players in the draw and every match gets tougher as the rounds get ‑‑as we progress through the rounds, through the tournament.
    I have to focus on my game, on my tennis, and just focus one match at a time and not really look too far who lost, who is still in.
    It's all up to my game, you know, how well I play. 
    So that's basically my main focus. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT