BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2014
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. DOLGOPOLOV/M. Raonic
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Did you just run into the wrong guy today, or how do you assess it?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, I thought he did a lot of things well.   The only thing ‑‑ I thought I did a lot of things well as well.   I really was pushing myself, because I was hoping that if I forced myself to stay strong with an attitude that the game would come.
I just wish I could have served better.   But other than that, he did the right things at the right times right away from the start of the match.   He was a factor of why I didn't serve as well as I would have liked as well.

Q.   Because of his return game?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah.   First serve of the match, 141; returns deep.   30‑All in the first game, 145 into the body; returns it even harder than I served it on him.
He made me think more than most people can on my service games.

Q.   What do you think about that crazy fifth game in the second set?   It was such a roller coaster.   Somehow managed to find a way to pull that out.   Felt like the match was turning in your direction. 
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, there is those critical games that are important.
The two double faults, I don't really think I did anything wrong on them.   I wasn't going for too much.   I was playing them the right way.
The first one I think I made more of a mistake than the second one.   I sort of didn't go through it the way I would have liked.   Second one I actually hit properly and just missed.
And he was a big factor on it, too.   He was doing a lot of things.   When I went back and checked out the stats sheet I thought I did much worse on my second serve points won than I thought I did.
So I felt even though maybe I felt like maybe he was winning 60, 65% of my second serve points, then I think he was winning just below 50 or 51.   I can't remember which way it was.
Just the way he was sort of stepping up, even though maybe it wasn't the most effective, it made me think a little bit more, and hence those errors.   It was good also‑‑ I'm down Love‑40 and I get myself out of that game.   It was sort of give and take there.

Q.   What's your takeaway from the tournament?   It's still a very good result, and especially since you hadn't played in such a long period of time.   You overall, do you have a good takeaway from it?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, I think coming here, if anybody sort of offered me a signed piece of paper to say, Would you like to be in the quarterfinals this week, especially with what I have been struggling with, how much more I would have liked to have prepared for the event, I would have signed that sheet right away.   I think that says enough.

Q.   It seems like most games you come out in that first game and it's usually around 140 right away almost to set a tone.   Do you have like a plan A and Plan B for your serve where you come out like that and someone is getting it back and you go to more variety in the way of serving?   Do you have a specific way you decide to serve before you come out?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, well, the thing about the serve most of the time is there is no other factor.   I'm holding the ball, I'm serving when I want to serve.   Yes, there is a 25 second rule now or whatever it may be.   I'm stepping up, I'm tossing the ball, I'm tossing it where it I want, tossing how I want and taking my time.
I don't think ‑‑ my solution is go for the lines, get the free points.   I don't think I did that as well today as I would have liked, but I think it's normal.   I think the one thing I did do well is I sort of managed to compensate with the right way, the right attitude, sort of mixing it up, coming in a little bit more maybe on shots I wouldn't normally come in, but at least making him look at something different.
And for me Plan A, B, C, D on the serve is try to get an ace.

Q.   You mentioned that serving 145, 141 you expected not such strong returns from him.   He commented when he was in here that he thought he got to you by returning the opening serves like that, getting those 145s back.   Was it as big a factor as he thinks it was?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yes.   But I don't think it has anything to do with just the opening serves.   He did it after in the match.   If I get up a break and he's not doing that anymore, then it's a whole different story in that second set.
But if he did it throughout, he did it throughout the whole match, and there is nothing really outside of that that I can really say that, yes, it's ‑‑ I think it helps more him that he starts off that way. 
I think it's harder to sort of find your rhythm through it and sort of I get on top of things and I relax a little bit more.
But the thing he did is he kept returning that way throughout the entire match, and that's where it made the difference.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT