SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 27, 2014
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/M. Raonic
  4‑6, 6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You got a set this time, so that's a start, right?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Tell us in your own words how you saw it.   
MILOS RAONIC:   It's unfortunate, the outcome.   I would have obviously wanted to do much better.  
I feel like this time around I handled myself much better, especially considering the conditions.   I went out there sort of knowing it would be hard to play well and it would be hard for things to go smoothly.  
So a lot of things we have been working on I managed to incorporate, and I feel like I'm much further ahead.   I dealt with the situation much better than I would have a few weeks ago or few months ago.  
   
 Q.   By the conditions, you're talking about the wind?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah.   My main focus was just to focus on the attitude, coming with the right mindset and hope the game follows.  
   
 Q.   You were 3‑All in the third set.   He had everything going after that.   What came to your mind after that point that was so decisive in the game?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I think he just, from 3‑2, he sort of let loose a little bit more on the forehand and he caught me a few times, just put pressure on me.  
I gave myself an opportunity to win the game that I lost on my serve.   I didn't manage to sort of solidify on that, and if anybody's going to take advantage of that, it's probably him.  
   
 Q.   After winning the first set and going down 4‑Love in the second, what was the situation there?   Did you have a little bit of a letdown at the same time he boosted his level?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah.   I think he just had the right approach after that first set.   We were both struggling quite a bit.   He let go a little bit more.   He's been in that situation much more than I have.  
He dealt with it from a mental and strategical side better than I did.  
   
 Q.   Quarters both here and Indian Wells.   Are you happy with that?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah.   If you asked me that, considering where I was, whatever it was, 20 days ago or whatever, I would have said that would be very good considering where I felt like I was.  
   
 Q.   Where did you feel like you were?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Oh, I just felt like I went into Indian Wells ‑‑I can't say unprepared, but not as prepared as I would like to be, considering the conditions.   I think I did all the work I could do, but I was limited.  
Then I think I just got better and better.   I think I played much better this week than I did last week, and a lot of the things that we are working on are going well, and a lot could be ‑‑everything could be very different.   If I lose that first round in Indian Wells, I was very close, my serve got me through and we could be in a very different situation now.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel to be so close to be the first Canadian to beat the No. 1 tennis player in history since 1992?   What did you learn for the next tournament to come?  
MILOS RAONIC:   So close isn't good enough (smiling).   There is a lot of things I could say about "almost" in my life.  
But there is a lot of things, just how to deal with the situation, what the importance for my focus are throughout these matches, especially matches like this where you know you've just got to hope to get things right.   
I'm very proud with how I dealt with the conditions, and I'm just not necessarily the most ecstatic about the result.  
   
 Q.   Can you say anything about the things you're working on that you are working on without giving away any state secrets?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I can tell you as much as they are telling us about that plane (smiling).   
I'm just working on everything, trying to dictate and take control and not lose the court, stay close to the baseline.   
That's what my focus is.   I know that's what I need to do to have a chance to beat the top guys in important moments like this and even in bigger moments.  
   
 Q.   Is it disappointing now that you seem to be getting in better shape you're going to play on a surface that doesn't suit your game as much as hard courts?  
MILOS RAONIC:   If you ask me when I would like to miss the most, like due to an injury, obviously it's not the indoor hard courts before this.  
Is it disappointing?   No.   I think I can do much better than I have, and it's good to have two coaches behind me that believe that I can actually play really well on clay courts and that are very eager and excited to start on the clay and start to get better.  
   
 Q.   Does it change something on how you're going to prepare for the clay court season, the fact that you're much further ahead than you think you would be at this stage?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah.   I'm still going to do the same amount of work.   The question just really was how much will my health allow me to do?   
So I don't think it really changes anything.   Wins or losses, I would have done the same amount of work.   Obviously if I lose here earlier I have more time on clay before the first event.  
So right now the focus is going to be on clearing my mind for a few days and resting up and then getting ready.  
   
 Q.   You're back in the top 10 this week with your result.   Is London a realistic goal for you this year, do you think?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   What's your schedule like heading up to the French Open the next few weeks?   What are you planning on?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Just tournament‑wise?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
MILOS RAONIC:   Monte‑Carlo, Estoril, Madrid, Rome.   I don't know if I have signed up for anything else.  
   
 Q.   So as many matches on clay as possible?  
MILOS RAONIC:   It's not as many matches.   I was originally going to play three.   I missed three tournaments.   I added one more.   
So the goal we set out, if you look at the top guys this make London, they play about 70 matches.   That means you have to win quite a bit, and the goal for this is get 70 matches in.   Obviously it would be beautiful to have 70 wins, but get 70 matches.   So I've got to get matches.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT