BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 10, 2014
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. RAONIC/A. Falla
  6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Do you sense when a guy gets antsy about holding serve against you?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah.   I think it's a factor quite often in a lot of my matches.   I do put more pressure on my opponent's service games.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel it today?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah.   I was returning much better, and that was a big factor, but also I was taking care of my serve, which was the most important part.  
   
 Q.   How did you feel physically?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I felt good.   I felt sore yesterday just because of the lack of movement I have been able to do in training.  
Today I felt good out there.  
   
 Q.   Is it hard to know when that groove is going to come back after a long absence?   Do you feel it in the practice court first or suddenly it starts to come?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I think there is two factors to it.   There is stuff that ‑‑ you can't really get in a match and not be in shape and sort of fake that aspect, but there is stuff you can't sort of fabricate in practice that you can only get through matches.   
So you need a good balance of both, and you need to spend time on the court and in the gym practicing, as well as you need to be able to sort of fight through matches and get the rhythm that way, as well.  
   
 Q.   Did you like that final point of the first set?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, it was a good point (smiling).   
   
 Q.   How excited are you at the prospect of your next opponent?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, it's a good opportunity.   I have got to go out there and play well.   That's the main thing I've got to focus on.   And just really take care of my serve, as usual, and try to sort of make the most of the situations as they occur.  
   
 Q.   Andy hasn't been playing that well here, by his standards.   Down a break, got broken a lot today, and dropped sets first two rounds.   Do you notice those kind of things?   Do they make you go into that matchup any differently when you know a guy has been struggling early in earlier rounds?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I think you obviously do your homework.   You sort of see how guys are progressing throughout the year, and you understand just because of how they have been playing, at what stages they might have difficulties, and maybe it gives you a bit more insight in specific and tough moments.  
But he's in his situation where he didn't play for a big chunk of time and I'm in mine, so I've just got to‑‑ just as if I'm playing anybody, I have to really buckle down and focus on myself and make sure I do my things well, and then change a few things that I may need to facing him.  
   
 Q.   What's Gulbis like as a doubles partner?  
MILOS RAONIC:   He's a lot of fun (smiling).   
There is a lot of fun things.  
   
 Q.   Nothing shareable, I imagine.   
MILOS RAONIC:   No, it's all clean stuff, but it just ‑‑the best part is it's very unpredictable.   So you hear things like ‑‑ it's basic things, but you just get blown away from this aspect.  
   
 Q.   He hasn't poked you in the back with his outstretched arms when he's going for a forehand?  
MILOS RAONIC:   The reach is too high, so probably not.  
   
 Q.   When you signed up for the doubles, did you expect to be playing three Grand Slam singles champions in the first two rounds?   Were you hoping for that, or why did you sign up for the doubles given the lack of match play?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Well, the plan ‑‑for me, every single time I come here is to sign up for doubles, because there is a good period of time before the next event in case you don't do well.   
And also with the bye in the singles it gives you an opportunity, which I always do request and hope that it gets filled, that I can get on a match court and play before my first singles match.  
Just been going out there and playing, focusing on sort of finding rhythm in different situations and sort of getting better at things.  
It's been a lot of fun to play with Ernests.   We're enjoying it out there, and that's very important for me, especially after the long match I had two days ago.   When you enjoy yourself that much, it makes the whole aspect of it a lot more fun, and it's very competitive at the same time.  
   
 Q.   I think it's Tokyo, Barcelona, and US Open with Andy.   Putting all those matches together, what sort of are your impressions of the rivalry?  
MILOS RAONIC:   The one thing that stands out is he beat me at the most important one out of them all, and he did that quite handily.   Obviously he went on to win his first Grand Slam, so I know what he's very capable of and I know what I'm capable of.  
I'm not really giving too much thought to those past encounters.   Only thing I look at is what I need to do.   I don't think those results will have any factors in what will happen two days from now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT