U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2013
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. RAONIC/F. Lopez
      6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   The first set you went to a tiebreaker, but after that you seemed to have the match pretty well in control.   Were you surprised that he sort of backed off after that first set?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   I think that I sort of just found my own a little bit.   I was really struggling with getting anywhere on his service games.   And then the only one I really had a chance on was at 5‑6.  
    After that I created a lot of opportunities.   Even in the tiebreaker I won a few points on his service games.   I think I lost most of my service points.  
    I was getting a little bit of confidence, and then just sort of calming down a little bit.   I wasn't feeling as nervous about the whole situation.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised?   Normally a left hander has a good advantage in the ad court.   He seemed to double fault a lot there today.   
    MILOS RAONIC:   No, I think he was using it well.   He was pulling me wide.   He would serve and volley, especially in the third, behind that.  
    But he was using it well.   He's got one of the better, if not I think probably the best, left‑handed serve on tour.  
   
 Q.   How do you grade the performance today?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   It was good.   I felt really like I was struggling just in the beginning just to sort of figure things out, but then after I started doing things well I wasn't making too many unforced errors.   I was coming forward.   I was a little bit sloppy at the net at times.   I wasn't taking care of the opportunities I had there.   
    But I think after that I sort of started cleaning things up from the baseline.   I thought I was pretty sound and served pretty well, and then the return was getting better and better throughout the match.  
   
 Q.   Did you figure him out more as you went along?   
    MILOS RAONIC:   I sort of just figured out ‑‑I was getting my racquet on the ball a lot in the first set.   I just wasn't able to control the return.  
    So I was sort of figuring out what I needed to do when I had the ball on my racquet.   Just sort of focused on a few key points technically that I needed to do in those situations, and then it started getting better and better.  
   
 Q.   Did you have enough suntan lotion on today?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   I didn't have any on, so I will probably pay for that tonight.  
   
 Q.   Possibly Gasquet in the next round or Tursunov.   What do you think about that?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   I think two players I think in both situations I'm going to have to focus a lot on myself, try to sort of never really get into a rhythm.   I thought I did that today pretty well.   Always when I had a short ball I would go for it, even on the backhand side.  
    I just sort of never let them get into a rhythm.   One obviously plays much more aggressive than the other guy, but both dangerous and both very capable.  
   
 Q.   How is your confidence level, given the quarter that you're in?   
    MILOS RAONIC:   I don't know.   I only know who I play the next match.   
   
 Q.   How are you feeling?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   I feel good.   I feel like I'm playing well.   I feel like if I do, if I continue playing the way I am, I will have a lot of opportunities to give myself in each set to win a match.  
   
 Q.   We're here in NewYork, kind of helter‑skelter, loud, noisy.   Well, it's America, and America and Canada sort of have the friendly rivalry.   Just talk about how it affects your career being a Canadian player?   Do you think it would be different if you were an American?   The pluses and minuses of the fact that your parents moved to Canada and you're playing obviously as a Canadian.   
    MILOS RAONIC:   There is not really too many differences.   I think obviously the one advantage growing up maybe you have more wildcard opportunities into more events as an American.  
    Sort of the relief definitely is there is obviously a lot more pressure on Americans.   I'm sort of doing a lot of stuff into unchartered territories so people are very supportive of it; whereas I feel it's a little bit unfair to the American players, is everybody is expecting Pete and Agassi to be there on the top.   
    Just everybody is always asking why isn't their player doing this, this, this, as an American.   I think that's the one big difference.  
   
 Q.   So are you saying it's more relaxed just to be a Canadian, just a little bit under the radar screen compared to what Americans would be?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   I think the attention is the same.   I think just the ‑‑I don't know how to say it.   One is a little bit more negative because they are expecting a lot more; whereas in Canada it's a lot more positive I would find in the situation where I am right now.   
   
 Q.   Your comfort level at the US Open compared to any of the other Grand Slams, how would it be?   
    MILOS RAONIC:   This one is probably ‑‑well, I think it's between this one and Australia, but this one ‑‑ I think also one thing is I also have a lot of friends here and that kind of stuff.   Just outside the slam I have a little bit more comfort.  
    Playing‑wise, I feel very comfortable here, as I do in Australia.   And I think also one thing that adds on is it's much closer to Canada, so a lot of Canadians come down and support.   That helps.  
   
 Q.   Obviously Davis Cup is two weeks from today.   Is it anywhere in the back of your mind or are you 100% US Open?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   US Open is all I'm focused on right now, and hopefully I face that whole Davis Cup thing as late as possible when I'm out of the tournament.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the heat today and the conditions.   
    MILOS RAONIC:   It was humid.   It slowed things down quite a bit.  
    I think the humidity was much worse than the heat.   I think I went through five or six shirts, so the heat was much worse.   Humidity was much worse than the heat.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT