COUPE ROGERS
August 11, 2013
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/M. Raonic
  6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about your match and your tournament?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, the tournament overall is a great thing.   A lot of situations that I'm very happy with the way I dealt with and a lot of learning experiences through it all as a big picture.   A lot of sort of stepping stones that I needed to do in my career happened this week, so that's great.   
The match, obviously I'm a little disappointed with myself.   Would have hoped to deal with that situation a little bit better.   I think I asked a little bit too much of myself and didn't stay within myself from the beginning of the match, sort of only saw the solution a little bit too late.   
But you live and learn.   It's an experience that I'm sure I can learn a lot from and I'm sure I will.   
   
 Q.   What was the solution?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, I just had to sort of stay within myself.   I was more so trying to serve hard rather than hitting spots.   I wasn't getting the percentages I needed on my first serve.   I was trying to go for a little bit too much and too quick in the points.   
Obviously he was playing great.   He wasn't making many errors, if any.   But at some points I wasn't making him play enough, or waiting for the right shot.   I think I was rushing a lot of the first set and a half.   
Especially the top four guys, when they get ahead that much, it's very hard to get back.   
   
 Q.   Did today's experience give you a deeper appreciation for just what it takes and how hard it is to get to the top 10 and stay there now that you've arrived?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, it has.   It takes a lot of time and effort that's really not seen by anybody really other than the people that are close to you.   
I know that you sort of think that today's tournament is over, sort of relax after this.   I play within 48 hours for sure in Cincinnati.   Today I have probably about two, three more hours of recovery to do, which is longer than the match.   Tomorrow I'll probably have the same thing to get myself in the best shape I can for that event.   
There's a lot of things, a lot of steps, a lot of professionalism that is not optional really to get to this level, stuff I really pride myself in, I put a lot of emphasis on.   
To do it here is really special for me, but also it's very motivating for the next steps to sort of know that I've made that step to where I want to be.   It makes me want to push harder and work more to make the next step to go down that line and try to get as close as I can to my goals.   
   
 Q.   Do you think your final game would be easier with Novak Djokovic?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   If you watched the match yesterday.   I watched a lot of that match.   Definitely not.   I think it's sort of the same situation.   
I think the one thing Rafa did today, he played well.   I think both of them are very dangerous, especially in finals.   When they get a lot of matches underneath them, start getting into a groove, them, along with Roger, are the best at dealing with those situations.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your emotions this week, coming into the tournament with lower confidence, then you had to deal with the controversy with the Del Potro match, playing Vasek in the semis, playing Rafa in the finals.   Just your emotions this week.   
MILOS RAONIC:   I've sort of gone through a whole spectrum of things.   Obviously a lot of frustration and let's say need to talk about from the way I was playing last week to what I wanted to do here, really wanting it to come together for me here.   Then getting through the first matches fairly happy with how things were going.   
The thing with Juan was unfortunate, something I'm going to learn a lot from.   Then sort of on to the breakthroughs I've had this week with everything, from ranking to results.   It's all great things to have, to have happen especially here at home.   
But even though I don't have the time now, there will be a time when I can stop, reflect upon it, learn as much as I can from it.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday you said if you made unforced errors, it was okay if the intentions were right.   Were they?  
MILOS RAONIC:   The intentions were right, just not at the right time.   I think there was too much intention, too much rush.   I think you have to respect the top guys, for sure.   But at some aspects I felt maybe I was giving too much to him rather than sort of staying within myself and sort of focusing on that, on what I need to do.   I was focused on what he could do to me.   I think I got a little bit lost in that earlier.   
That's the thing I'm probably most frustrated in because it didn't allow me to play my best tennis.   Overall it's all great, what's happened this week, but definitely a lot I can learn from today's match.   
   
 Q.   How was your first Masters final?   Were you nervous before the game?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, I was pretty relaxed about it.   I didn't really have too much to lose in that situation.   It was a great opportunity for me.   The only thing, I really wanted to play well in that situation.   Unfortunately, I wasn't able to play my best.   I think everything at the end of the day is all good and positive.   
I have to say, though, getting that standing ovation at the beginning, how long that lasted, that was one of the most special feelings I've had in my career to this date, and even a little bit of goosebumps from that.   I'm very, very grateful to have that memory and that experience here.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel more pressure because of that standing ovation at the beginning?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   I felt more of an appreciation for the situation, appreciation for how supportive the crowd was for me.   I don't think it really increased anything from it.   
   
 Q.   There's a lot of talk about the difference between the top four and the top ten.   Is this match a reflection of that?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, they're a step ahead.   But I think I can do much better than I did today.   I'll say that.   I don't think those guys by scorelines are that much ahead.   I think it's really about myself wishing I could have dealt better with that situation, and I know I will be able to deal with it better in the future.  
   
 Q.   Louis Borfiga says Canada will win a Grand Slam within five years.   
MILOS RAONIC:   That's a pretty great thing.   Louis knows what he's talking about, that's for sure.   He's put his faith in the right people, support in the right players.   Obviously we're seeing that this week, and many weeks throughout the year, between myself, Vasek, Filip, Genie.   There's many, many people that are doing well.   
The thing that Louis does so well is he has direct interaction with the players, but he's a great manager on top of that, how to put players with which player, sort of guide them in the right way.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT