COUPE ROGERS
August 9, 2013
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. RAONIC/E. Gulbis
  7‑6, 4‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Was that a little tougher than you thought it was going to be?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   I was expecting it to be very difficult.   He had a great win yesterday.   He's especially dangerous when he gets matches under him, he's feeling well.   He wasn't really making many errors.   Sort of had to figure it out as much as I could.   
   
 Q.   This has been the case all week:   you got great support from the crowd.   Ernests seemed to feel they were a little unfavorable toward him.   He might have gotten a rough ride from the crowd.   Did you feel that?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Uhm, I don't really think so.   I don't think they were being negative towards him.   Maybe a bit later when there was a little bit of controversy.   But that's about it.  
   
 Q.   A couple key moments, you saved a couple set points in the first set, then 4‑4 you saved the breakpoint.   Mentally how have you managed to get yourself righted?   
MILOS RAONIC:   I just focused on taking a little bit more time, not rushing through those moments.   Most of the time those moments have been on my serve.   Rather than focusing always on what I should do right after the serve, I've sort of decided a little bit more to focus in on the serve, knowing that's the best way I know how to win a point.   Sort of closing in on that, trying to sort of simplify it as much as I can for myself.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel in the third set that you were doing the things you wanted to do with the serve and volley, that you were putting the pressure on him?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, I did a lot of things well in that aspect.   I was coming in, taking my opportunities to come in.   Felt a little bit in the second set I got a little too passive at some points.   So I sort of maybe went over a little bit, but I sort of forced myself to do that.   Later it was a little bit more natural for me to do it without hesitation.   
There was that one break I got.   The next four points he just played well.   I really couldn't do too much about it.  
   
 Q.   We've been saying maybe that you'll face Vasek for so long.   Now it's true.   What is your feeling about it?  
MILOS RAONIC:   It's a great thing.   I think it means a lot not just to us but to Canadian tennis.   It's a lot of opportunity.   It's a great, great moment.   At the same time it's another tennis match.   That doesn't change.   
   
 Q.   Before your match began, Pospisil was asked who he thought had the edge.   He said, You've got to give the edge to Milos, for sure.   Would you handicap that?  
MILOS RAONIC:   In what sense?   
   
 Q.   He gave the edge to you.   
MILOS RAONIC:   Oh, I don't know.   I don't think that matters.   We both start at 0‑0 when the match comes.  
   
 Q.   What can you say about your relationship with Vasek?   How much of a rivalry is there?  
MILOS RAONIC:   We've played more so in juniors, through the development stages.   This is the first time we're playing at an ATP Tour tournament.   I think it's something that's developing there.   
We have a friendly relationship.   We get along.   We don't see each other too much.   Obviously now more and more.   Before this, it was mostly at Davis Cup weeks.   So it's a good thing to have another familiar face on tour.  
   
 Q.   Was there a bit of a rivalry back when you were playing at juniors?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, most of the tournaments came down to us.   There was also another junior back then that was playing really well.   Most of the events was between the three of us.   
Haven't played for a long time now.   
   
 Q.   Has the historical significance of not just one but two Canadians facing each other this deep in the tournament sunk in for you yet?  
MILOS RAONIC:   It's great, what it all means.   It's great, what it represents for tennis in Canada, Canadian tennis.   It's great what it shows to little kids:   that you can succeed as a Canadian in tennis.   
But for what I want to achieve, what I've got to do to prepare myself as best as possible for tomorrow, it doesn't change anything.   
It's how you take it.   The broad picture is very important.   For what I got to do for tomorrow, it doesn't change anything.   
   
 Q.   A dumb question because it's me.   
MILOS RAONIC:   Was that the question (smiling)?   
   
 Q.   Is it hard to play after a guy hits four double‑faults and gives you a game?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   I don't think I did too much wrong.   I can't remember the first point.   I don't remember what happened.   Then I missed a volley that I probably should have made.   He came up with a good pass, a good defensive shot.   
I think maybe I let it get to me more so that I got broken after, not that he gave me a game, in that sense.   
   
 Q.   I'm not very good with math, but can we figure out you only have three different colored shirts for this tournament?  
MILOS RAONIC:   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   I want a yes or no answer.   
MILOS RAONIC:   Maybe today was a different shade of blue.   How closely did you look?   Surprise, surprise (smiling).   
   
 Q.   You have a chance to move into the top 10 with a win tomorrow.   What is the importance of that?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I wasn't even aware.   It's a good opportunity to have.   But the thought of that isn't going to help me win or lose tomorrow.   There's other things that I got to focus on, things that are within my control, like what I need to do.   
Try to sort of leave those things aside as much as possible.   
   
 Q.   You played a hard three‑setter today while Vasek only played three games.   Do you think the fatigue could be a factor tomorrow?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I don't think so.   I've prepared well.   I've taken a lot of time, especially after Wimbledon, to work.   I took a period of time which was only physical with no tennis.   So I've done the right work to prepare myself to best deal with the situation as I can.  
   
 Q.   When is the first time you played Vasek in juniors?   
MILOS RAONIC:   When we met?   I think we went to La Petite A's together.   For sure Under‑14 Nationals was the first time.   I think Under‑14 Nationals in Edmonton, if I'm not mistaken.  
   
 Q.   Which of the two won?  
MILOS RAONIC:   He won.   He won most of them as a junior, if not all of them.   
   
 Q.   He was a year older?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, same age.   We're both from '90, just different times of the year.   
   
 Q.   For your arm, was that something that bothered you today or not at all?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, it was okay.   There was some parts where it was a little bit uncomfortable.   It didn't change anything.   
   
 Q.   Same as the last match?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, no, much better than yesterday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT