AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2013
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







I. DODIG/M. Raonic
  6‑2, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you just talk us through the match?   Because the first set and the second set were two different animals, it seemed. 
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, I couldn't have started in a worse way.   I think I missed four backhands to start off the match.   I had break chances and then lost my serve easily again. 
I think he's doing a lot of things well, but I think a lot of it comes down on me, things I didn't do.   Even in the second set I think it was pretty poor play.
I was trying to get a little bit closer, and I had my chance at the tiebreak, but I don't think I should let situations where I get two double faults from my opponent pass by and not win a tiebreaker.   That's pretty bad.

Q.   Is there something about the grass that maybe this year even isn't really suiting you?
MILOS RAONIC:   It's more me.   I've got to figure out my thing.   It's like I'm just not executing the things I need to execute. 
Obviously the surface doesn't make it easy.   I think it's easier for me to figure out things on hard courts per se, but I think it's all on my shoulders.

Q.   You and Ivan, it's early days, but I mean, is it a big change from the previous regime?   Maybe it's something to get used to?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, obviously I think it needs time, that's for sure, and I think the approach and things we're trying to achieve are a bit different. 
We're trying to incorporate things and understanding that it's not always going to work, try to sort of win the matches but sort of think about what I'm trying to improve, not just for that day what I need to do in a practice to win a set.   It's not about winning practice sets.   It's about having a long‑term goal and something and a way and a vision that I need to play if I want to achieve the things I want to achieve down the road.

Q.   So just given all that, what's your mental state going into Wimbledon, I mean, considering what's happened the last couple of weeks?
MILOS RAONIC:   Can't play much worse, so it's only going to get better.     I think I should be positive in that sense.

Q.   After our emphatic wins in the Davis Cup and your great win in San Jose against Tommy Haas, do you think there is any elements that are missing in your game now since those great moments that you had about three, four months ago?
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, results.   I don't think I'm a worse player.   I don't think I'm playing worse.   I have been playing okay, and I just ‑‑I think the last few weeks I haven't played my best, so it sort of affects the confidence in those tight situations, how you deal with them. 
But throughout San Jose I have a comfort there, obviously.   Davis Cup I think at home gives me a certain amount of comfort.   I just wish to have had better results at these other events.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT