AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2013
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. RAONIC/J. Hajek
  3‑6, 6‑1, 6‑2, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What happened in the first set?   Obviously not your finest hour. 
MILOS RAONIC:   I don't think not my finest two and a half hours. 
No, I wasn't putting anything on the ball the whole match.   I was playing a little bit tight.   I sort of wasn't hitting freely.   I was just letting him get in the points and get in the match.

Q.   You did have stretches of playing reasonably well, I thought. 
MILOS RAONIC:   But never the right way.   He gave me a lot of mistakes. 
And it was always similar sort of the third set.   I had a lot of break chances in the third set, but I was always missing the first or second ball.   Then I just started overthinking a little bit too much. 

Q.   And the second serve on the set point in the fourth set, just another day at the office?
MILOS RAONIC:   That's how I know how to serve.   I hope that's how it always goes. 

Q.   Did that affect you at all, the fact that you hit a let on the previous serve?
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   I was thinking to go wide, but I've been doing this serve the whole time.   I haven't really been double‑faulting.   I double‑faulted maybe early in the game, but on the deuce side.   I wasn't double‑faulting at all on that side.

Q.   Do you blame any of the erratic play on the pretty windy conditions? 
MILOS RAONIC:   No, the wind wasn't that bad, as bad as it seems.   It was actually pretty okay to play.   I just wasn't swinging freely, and then just the wind seem a lot worse than it is. 
My legs weren't moving, my arm wasn't moving, so the margin for error when I was swinging through the ball was much smaller.

Q.   How do you explain not moving the arms?
MILOS RAONIC:   First match.   Just looking to get better and better.   I think I played better against Giraldo last year in US Open, but I think it was same of the sort of the same situation.   Then I came out better and better and better by the match. 
So happy to get through and trying to make it better.

Q.   So it's Rosol or Jamie Baker. 
MILOS RAONIC:   I played Jamie I think three times, three weeks in a row, in futures in Bangkok.   Three weeks in a row I played him.   I think semis all three weeks.   I won twice and lost once. 

Q.   Rosol is he anything but a guy that had one phenomenal performance?
MILOS RAONIC:   That's not my place to comment.   We'll see about that in two days. 

Q.   And what did you think of him today?   Steady at certain times. 
MILOS RAONIC:   He's steady.   He doesn't move that great.   He needs time.   That's why I felt I let him into it quite often, because I'm normally pretty good when I get ahead in the point making the guy go from side to side. 
Guys like Ferrer that defend really well I struggle with a bit more.   I wasn't able to get him going, and that's the thing.   I was letting him into the game.   That's why I was a bit disappointed with, well, not just that part but many parts of the match.

Q.   Trying to incorporate a few new things into your game this year.   I guess you weren't too successful with that today. 
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   The only thing I incorporated is winning the match and getting by and trying to be better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT