AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2013
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/M. Raonic
      6‑4, 7‑6, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What can you say about the match?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   I think he played well.   I made the most with what I had in me today.   I wish in a few moments I did a little bit better.   I think he played well.   Didn't give me any chances on his serve.   Didn't make too many unforced errors.   
    I felt like I was hitting the ball pretty well.   But just a lot of mistakes by little margins I was making.  
   
 Q.   How does it compare with the other three times?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   I think this time he played the cleanest.   I think the slams mean a little more to him than the other events.  
   
 Q.   When you say you made the most with what you had, does that mean you didn't have everything you usually had?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   I had a tough day today.   It wasn't as smooth of a day as I would have liked to have.   
   
 Q.   Struggling physically from the fever?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   No.   Well, long story short, until probably 45 minutes to an hour before the match, I wasn't even sure I'd play.   I rushed over to get a quick MRI on my foot.   I was having issues walking.   I got the clear to play after that.   
    I just had an anesthesia injection into my foot.   I was given the go to play.   
   
 Q.   How did it feel to you in the match?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   It felt numb.   The job was done by the anesthesia.   A few times it would hurt on some awkward steps.   
    It was more how much it weighs on you mentally throughout the day when somebody is saying there might be a stress fracture, four to six weeks out, whatever.   You hear these things.   You think about it non‑stop.   I took a nap during the day.   It wasn't a good‑quality nap.   All the time I was thinking about these things.   It really sort of weighs on you throughout a day.   
    I was able to actually clear it out of my mind pretty well before the match and just sort of go along with everything and just play as well as I could.   
   
 Q.   What was the final diagnosis?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   Just inflammation in the joints.  
   
 Q.   Whereabouts in the foot?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   I think fourth toe, fourth metatarsal, just before the toe starts.  
   
 Q.   Has it been there during the tournament?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   The story is yesterday I went to warm up and I just started feeling it.   Practiced, I was fine.   Did a little bit of treatment for it.   Took a nap before dinner.   Couldn't really walk to dinner.   Came back, got worse.   I was supposed to warm up this morning.   Didn't warm up.   Had a sort of a trial with anesthesia and was able to take 10 minutes.   
    Came back here after my nap, after lunch at the hotel, to hit again.   Couldn't walk.   And it was hurting even with some anesthesia already inside me.   At that point ran over, took about an hour, hour and a half to get an MRI and results and everything.   Came back, had another injection, just played.   
    So I didn't really get a chance to hit before my match.   Hit five minutes, ten minutes total.  
   
 Q.   How does it feel now?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   Anesthesia is still doing its job.  
   
 Q.   Left or right?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   Left foot.   
   
 Q.   Didn't seem to affect your serve too much.   You served pretty well.   
    MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah.   Well, I think it's the only part where sort of, with anesthesia and everything, you don't think about it.   Even other parts, I don't think it affected me too much.   I just felt like it was tough.   It was tough to play.   Sort of everything.   In the conditions, he's playing well, not missing much.   As soon as you let up a little bit with a shorter ball or anything, he's taking advantage of it.   
    He's doing a lot of things well.   Well, that's Roger.   Just sort of swept me off the court.   
   
 Q.   This shouldn't affect next week's Davis Cup for you?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   No.   It's something that just sort of needs a few days' rest.  
   
 Q.   How do you reflect on your performance tonight, unfortunate and difficult circumstances?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   You treat it like anything, as if I was 100%.   Even though I was limited in some things, there's some things to compete with Roger, to compete with Novak, to compete with Andy, to compete with Rafa that I need to do better.   I take those things and I learn.   
    I've had moments sort of like, and I've had history in my matches, where things don't go my way.   I sort of just bow out and I'm not really as competitive.   But I'm happy with sort of how I managed it given the circumstances, just sort of kept pushing.   
    There I was down in the second set two breaks right away and I sort of kept pushing.   
    These things, I don't think many people thought‑‑ I think in myself I was just pushing to get one break.   I wasn't thinking, Okay, let's win this set at 4‑Love down.   You just keep plugging away.   Just keep doing this as much as I can.   I know it then becomes a habit.   That saves me in a lot of matches.   
   
 Q.   Before when you came out 110% because you didn't know how it would affect you, what was it like when you were out there tonight?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, I came out full.   But the thing is, it's a little bit different.   Fever, you're just not going to feel well.   When it's sort of a pain in the body, you want to go 110% but you don't want to take that bad step that causes a sharp pain.   
    So fever, you push too hard, maybe you're gasping for air, maybe you're feeling a little bit nauseous, dizzy.   Normally with fever, you'll feel it when you stop.   It's two different things.   
   
 Q.   During your match, the commentators said you are Canadian but you could have been Australian.   It was a matter of papers.   
    MILOS RAONIC:   It was one page back and front.   I was three years old, so I didn't fill out any forms for my immigration.   I think for Canada it was one page.   We had family, friends there to help us out starting off.   And for Australia, we have here family, friends that come out to my matches.   My mom was last year here in Melbourne.   She stayed with them.   It was a couple pages to move here.   
    I don't know how serious my dad replies about it.   He always replies laughing.   But that's the reason he tells me.   That's the reason he told many people.  
   
 Q.   Did you really want to play just to get a chance to play on Rod Laver, center court at a Grand Slam?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   It's a Grand Slam.   No chance ever.   I know my chances are low, but who knows what can happen.   I don't wish anything bad on anybody.   But Roger could not be having his best day, whatever.   
    You go out there trying to win and you try to make the most of it, knowing if in any way I got through today, I'd have two days for it to get better.   You don't take these tournaments for granted.   I know I'll play many more of these.   But every one's just as important as if it was sort of the last.   
   
 Q.   What is your opinion to improve your game?   What should you concentrate on in the future?  
    MILOS RAONIC:   I haven't had a chance to watch him play.   I don't think many of us have.   The thing that he's done well is he's had momentum on his side and he's made the most of it.   He's playing well.   He's confident at the moment.   Even though he's a top seed at tournaments like this, he has nothing to lose.   He doesn't have any points to defend so he can just go out there playing and he's making the most of that.   So that's good for him.   
    For myself I know there's a lot of things I need to improve.   Movement, backhand, returns, forehands, keeping hold of my serve, a lot of these changes.   It's a process.   It takes time.   I just plug away.   I work away.   I give it my all every day.   I just hope to keep getting better and better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT