WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2012
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. RAONIC/M. Baghdatis
  6‑7, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Pretty tough tiebreaker first set.   Can you take us through that?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, he got up ahead early.   I wasn't able to really create anything.   I gave away two second serve points on his serve.  
I got fortunate to get that dropshot.   But after that, went for maybe a little bit too much at the 6‑All point.   I was thinking it was a shot I feel like I could make, but considering the way I was playing, maybe it wasn't the best idea to go for that.   Then he played a great next point.  
   
 Q.   The conditions today were different than what you practiced and played in in your last match.   What kind of adjustments did you make to that?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I don't think it was too, too different.   It was hot and maybe the ball was just going through the court a little bit quicker, but I started off the match not playing aggressive enough.   I started playing too flat, just to the way he likes, and then I was sort of figuring out a few points here and there.   
I wasn't really ‑‑didn't really have a solution consistently throughout the match, so that sort of made it difficult.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday's match and again today, when serving to close out a set, you had a few hiccups along those lines.   Are you going for too much on your serves or not doing enough with them?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, I think it's okay.   Today to get down Love‑30 he had two really good passing shots.  
I couldn't really do too much about it.   I don't think it was as much a serve.   Maybe I wish I hit the ball a little bit better, the approach coming off maybe the right shot or I didn't do enough on the approach.  
   
 Q.   He had a second serve ace that was 125, 130 or so.   It reminded me of Pete going for it big on the second serve.   
MILOS RAONIC:   I was break point down on that one.   And, no, it was good that it went in thankfully.  
   
 Q.   Professional photographers take lots of pictures of you.   When you see those pictures of you, how do you feel about them?   Like them?   Don't like them?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Um, I like them.   I stick my tongue out in a weird way.   Maybe I would change that, but I'm not really going to think about that too much.  
   
 Q.   When something happens like Nadal pulling out of the US Open while you're at a tournament, what's the buzz in the locker room among the players like?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I don't think too many players concern themselves too deeply about it.   Everybody pretty much in the locker room had a match today.   I don't think it was by any means any, say, priority for them, that kind of news.  
It's a little bit sad just because he's a really good guy and a lot of people get along with him; but at the same time, it's a competitive sport.  
   
 Q.   We have a fan question from the Western & Souther Open Facebook page:   If you could play mixed doubles with anyone, who would it be?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Ana Ivanovic.  
   
 Q.   Why?  
MILOS RAONIC:   You can come up with the answer to that one.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   You've got Berdych next.   Can you talk about that match?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, we're both going to be going for our shots.   For myself, on my serve it's going to be a priority to really try to dictate as much as possible; on the returns, just sort of make him try to play as much as possible and hopefully create some opportunities with it.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about your training routine, your training regimen?  
MILOS RAONIC:   During tournaments or outside of tournaments?   
   
 Q.   Both.   
MILOS RAONIC:   Outside of tournaments, let's say offseason and so forth, pretty much it's three sessions a day about between hour and a half, two hours each session, two sessions in the morning.   
Then we take one fitness, one tennis, and then we take lunch and a nap break.   We do one more either fitness or tennis in the afternoon again.  
That is five days a week.   Then Saturday we just do two sessions in the morning.   That's offseason training or when I have a little bit more time on my hands.  
Tournament training pretty much varies a lot depending on how I'm playing.   For example, before I go out here ‑‑ I got here on Sunday so I only had two days and I was playing mostly sets trying to get in as many practices as possible and just play sets.  
Wasn't working on anything really too specific.   It was more about adjusting.   But if I have time and if I feel I need to pick it up on something, I will work with my coach, Galo, on specifics.  
   
 Q.   Murray, Djokovic, and Fish have really changed their diets recently.   Have you done anything differently with respect to what you're eating?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I'm more conscious about it, but I don't think I'm on as strict of a regimen as they are.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT