ROGERS CUP MEN
August 9, 2012
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Milos is into the quarterfinals for the first time in his career here and is available for three, four questions on the withdrawal and walkover only.   
First question, please.   
   
 Q.   What was the conversation like between and you Andy?   
MILOS RAONIC:   No, I sort of asked him is he going to be okay and everything.   I guess we made a joke because I pulled out earlier to him in Miami this year.   So it was joke about that.   
Just wished him that he gets healthy quick, because he's been playing really well lately.  
   
 Q.   Does it bother you at all that you didn't get a match to get there?   Might you be underplayed when you get to the quarterfinals?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Obviously it was something I was really looking forward to.   It's sort of like an unpleasant thing, but at the same time it's a good thing.   Obviously it's my first quarterfinal in a Master's, and to be at home is pretty special.  
I guess there is a give and take with it.   
   
 Q.   I know it's a dubious honor to be in the quarterfinals because your opponent had to withdraw, but I want to ask you this:   Although you are in the quarterfinals, there was such hype about this match.   Had, let's say, Andy not come to the tournament there would have been a lucky loser to kind of substitute.   Do you feel that the rules of tennis could be changed?   That perhaps when the player goes on for a victory and then withdraws from his next match there should be a lucky loser so that way the fans would in not denied the match that they should see?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, because losing last‑round quallies can be better than being in the main draw if there is a withdraw in the semifinals of a tournament.   And to have one match to play for, let's say 600 points here, I don't think is an injustice to what the year‑end rankings could end up with.   
It could make the difference between one guy that should be seeded at a Grand Slam and one guy slipping in because of a lucky break in front of him.  
And just things like this, I think the rules as far as lucky losers go are fair right now.   That would just be an unfair thing to have.   I think also it would be‑‑ you're not going to find too many lucky losers that are going to be staying around to the semifinals hopingsomebody ‑‑ there's going to be a lot of lost money for a few players.   
If you tend to be a lucky loser at the Grand Slam, you're ranked around ‑ at the Master's ‑ you're ranked around 60.   
And so I'm sure you want to go to Cincinnati to play quallies, so who is really going to risk staying here.   And then you're going to have some guy that maybe lost first‑round quallies that might be a local or something, and I don't think the fans are going to enjoy that any more.  
   
 Q.   How much is this helping you in terms of rest and preparation for your next match?   
MILOS RAONIC:   It helps me; it doesn't help me.   But I'm playing pretty well, I'm pretty healthy, so it's a good opportunity.   I'm just going to try to make the most of it come tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Obviously there are implications here pertaining to ranking and seeding going into the US Open.   Is that something you think about at all?   
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   
   
 Q.   Just a general question about rain delays.   The forecast for tomorrow is a disaster too.   Is this something that you ever get used to as a player, having to deal with the uncertainty?   How do you deal with that?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No, you get used to it.   You find certain ways.   Here I'm fortunate that I live ten minutes away.   I could have gone home throughout the day.   I'm not fortunate 95% of the other weeks.  
No, it's something within the sport that you just have to deal with.   There is nothing that can come off it.   You just have to make sure, come around.   
Last year I was very unlucky, I had a six‑hour rain delay at Wimbledon, went out, played well, tore my hip when I slipped after three games.   Probably wasn't most enjoyable rain delay, but it's a rain delay.   It's part of the sport.   Nobody likes them, but everybody deals with them.  
   
 Q.   We won't have a chance to talk to you before the quarterfinal.   What would you think if you ended up playing Isner just because you guys are both known for your big serves?   Is it a confrontation you look forward to?   Is there something special about it?   
MILOS RAONIC:   Yeah, I look forward to whoever it may be against.   My job is to take care of my serve and try to make the most of the return games.   
Against either guy I hope like I can do that.   I feel like I'm returning a lot better.   I felt like even on the grass at the Olympics I returned much better.   Coming into here, the first round, I felt like I was able to get into more points, so I feel like I'm just improving on that aspect of my game.   
I think my serve is there, so I am just going to try to make the most of it, whoever I may be against on the return games.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT