SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 25, 2012
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What actually happened?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Yesterday at the end of practice, we finished doing an hour‑long practice, and I was just moving back and I rolled over my ankle and ended up spraining it.  
   
 Q.   What did they tell you about it?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I don't know too much about it right now.   I haven't really looked that much into it.   Yesterday in the doubles it wasn't getting better, and then this morning it was a bit painful on pretty much every movement.  
And playing the caliber of player I'd be up against, to play at 40% really didn't make much sense.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any doctors that you can talk to about it?  
MILOS RAONIC:   I'm contacting the doctor back in Spain.   I've spoken with him a bit.   He doesn't think it's anything big.   It probably just needs a couple days of rest, but active rest.   
With treatment and so on, it should be okay within a week or so.   
   
 Q.   Puts you in your next match where?  
MILOS RAONIC:   Monte‑Carlo.  
   
 Q.   How frustrating is this for you?   Just when things go well, suddenly there is another hiccup, whether it's minor or bigger injury or anything like that.   
MILOS RAONIC:   No, it's frustrating, but I thinkyou take it from the big picture.   Everything is going well.   Obviously it would be more frustrating if things were going poorly.  
When these things do happen, I have been pretty good at‑‑ even though if I might miss or have some worries about something, I'm pretty good at coming back pretty quickly.  
So it's nothing too bad.   It's just something to deal with, put your head down, do the work, and let it take its time and come back ready to play when the next event comes around.  
   
 Q.   Are you heading straight to Europe?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   I'm going to go home a few days.  
   
 Q.   Is this going to affect in any way your preparation for the clay court season?  
MILOS RAONIC:   No.   Um, I had plans on anyways after I finish here going to Europe probably five to seven days after and starting my preparations.  
So now I'll just have, I guess, a few more days because I will be there beginning of next week.  
   
 Q.   Can you say your decision was partly influenced by the caliber of opposition you were going to be up against today?   
MILOS RAONIC:   Not really.   I put myself in that position.   Am I competitive?   Am I going out there with an opportunity to win?   
And also another factor is am I going out there with the risk of doing something worse about it, making more of an issue than it already is?   
With all that calculated, it wasn't, by any means, the right choice to go out there today.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT