U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2018
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. RAONIC/G. Simon
6-3, 6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I want to ask you about the heat.  Nothing you can do about the heat.  Just what it is.  But if you're Federer or Serena, you play at night a lot more often.  What do you think about that?  Is there anything that can be adjusted to keep people healthy?
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, there's definitely a favorism [sic] in that sense.  There is not many players that would like to play the second night match two times in a row.  That would pretty much refuse if the weather was normal.  But, obviously, I believe Rafa is playing twice, tonight the second night match.  This is probably the only conditions he would prefer that in.  If the weather was normal, I'm sure he would want to play middle of the day.
It is what it is.  It's always going to be that way.  It's always been that way.  So it's not really something that's too concerning or requires too much thought.
Q. Just talk about the match itself and, you know, are you pleased with the way you played out there?
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, I did the things well.  I created my opportunities.  I converted my opportunities in all three sets in the beginning.  Had one towards the end of the fourth, as well, to get ahead two breaks, but wasn't able to make the most of it there.
Overall, I did the things well and took care of my serve.  I was a lot more disciplined with myself.  I wasn't going up and down in the match like I did my previous one.
Overall, I'm happy.
Q. You're one of those people who generally prepares very, very well for the heat.  Australia, you were practicing with a cap, even though you don't normally play with one.  I noticed today you actually didn't put a cap on.  Normally would you do that or did you decide not to?
MILOS RAONIC: The thing is today I felt the sun was hotter when it was in my back rather than when it was in my face.  I didn't necessarily think -- I did bring hats, which I normally never do.  I thought it was more sort of daunting when it was in my back rather than when it was hitting me in the face.
Q. You seemed to outlast and unsteady him with rallies. (Indiscernible question.)
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, I wish I had a bit more rhythm when I was trying to be aggressive.  It wasn't necessarily the case today.  He does a very good job of sort of throwing you out of the rhythm, where he plays very slow, sort of gets you to slow down your intentions and will sort of surprise you by taking the ball early.
So I was happy that I was able to, in those important moments, just, you know, be patient and sort of trust my legs that I would be able to hold on, just to keep that pressure on him.
Q. Slice backhand, great against Djokovic, great again today.  Has it gone up a notch?  Something you haven't used quite as much.
MILOS RAONIC: I think I have always had a pretty good slice backhand.  Since I have had a chance to play more consistent, I think I have gotten in better shape where I can get in better position.  I think that sort of how it carries through, being able to be more effective with it.
Q. Guys with two-handed backhands, how do you explain having such a good single-handed backhand?
MILOS RAONIC: Because I don't have a very good two-handed backhand.  I need it (smiling).
Q. We are looking at a big change in the weather, a front coming in.  Temperatures will drop down to 25 degrees from the daytime high.  Knowing you were able to get through two really hot days, today in particular, and not have to face those conditions likely again in the tournament, do you feel good you were able to get by the tough stuff?
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, it's nice to get by, and in an efficient manner today.  I don't really regard the heat as a disadvantage or advantage.  I think both guys have to deal with it.  Both guys have to start preparing for it, not the day before, two days before, as soon as this match finishes if it was the case for another match.  So I think it's about how you go about the things.
So I don't think of it as a big deal if it's going to be cool or hot.  I'll just try to practice in a time where it's a little bit more similar to how it's going to be.  Obviously that's going to be tough tomorrow, but after that, you know, just deal with it just like the other guy would.
Q. How do you feel playing Wawrinka?
MILOS RAONIC: It's going to be good.  I watched him play two matches last week.  I watched him play a little bit of his match against Grigor on Monday.  He's playing well again.  He's moving well.  He's doing his things, you know.  He's stepping up.  He's playing well in those big points.  He's hitting the ball hard, as he knows.  He's effective with his backhand.  It's going to be tough.  I'm going to have to play well.
Q. The Milos Raonic hair on Twitter.
MILOS RAONIC: Yes.
Q. Not too much to write about today?  Pretty All-American guy?  Nothing too exciting?  No gel?
MILOS RAONIC: Maybe the person who started that account is on summer vacation.  I don't know.  It could be a lot of factors to it.  It's Labor Day Soon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT