U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2018
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. ISNER/M. Raonic   
3-6, 6-3, 6-4, 3-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What happened with the treatment in the fifth set?  
MILOS RAONIC: Just started feeling like a bit of a sharp feeling in my hip.  Tried to make it feel better.  It was sort of a pain that dulled down, but I just wasn't able to push that much.   
 Q.  Have you experienced that before in the hip?  
MILOS RAONIC: Not that kind of pain, no.   
 Q.  Do you have any idea at this point what it might be?  
MILOS RAONIC: No.   
 Q.  Can you comment on John's arc these days.  He's taken a pretty big step winning Miami, his Wimbledon performance.  Do you sense it's a different player from the guy you know?  
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, I think he's definitely more confident now.  He's going for a bit more of the returns.  He's creating more opportunities for himself.  I think it's sort of coming together for him.   
He didn't start the year off well.  He turned things around very drastically in Miami.  From there on he's played well.   
 Q.  When did the pain start?  
MILOS RAONIC: Middle of the fourth set.   
 Q.  Any particular movement or anything?  
MILOS RAONIC: It was hard to jump on the serve.   
 Q.  Something that started it?  
MILOS RAONIC: No.  I got up off the chair, and my hip felt tight.  I was experiencing sort of a sharp pain after.   
 Q.  You're doing everything you can to try to stay healthy all the time.  It's really been a struggle for you.  Is there anything else you can think of that you can do to try to address the recurring things, before you make yourself crazy?  
MILOS RAONIC: I'll sit down with my guys.  We'll discuss what happened, how it happened, what we can do.  There's really nothing else.   
I work hard.  I try to be better.  Hopefully there's some kind of progress I can make that's going to help somewhat mitigate the issues.   
 Q.  All the injuries have been different, but any theory, have you talked to any doctors?  Is there such a thing as being injury-prone?  Anything about the makeup of your body, diet that makes you more prone to injury than you'd like?  
MILOS RAONIC: I think I'll take the next steps over these next few days to be able to really answer those questions.  I'll take a look with the people that we started talking about before at the beginning of the summer, discuss.  I'll have those meetings.   
We didn't really have the time in the beginning of the summer because I was healing something else.  By the time I got into shape, I wasn't really in a shape where I could do tests properly.  I'll take the time to do that now.   
 Q.  Right hip?  
MILOS RAONIC: Yes.   
 Q.  It seemed like maybe he's a little more comfortable playing you than you are playing him.  You're more of a normal player than he is.  He plays guys like you all the time, whereas you don't play guys like him they often.  
MILOS RAONIC: I've definitely struggled with him specifically.  There's other guys that are big servers that I've played better against.  For me, I think the biggest thing is there's not guys that make me hit returns above my shoulders.  That's sort of the hardest part for me.  Today I was much more successful going further back, buying my time.  I wasn't sharp enough when I needed to be.   
 Q.  Davis Cup now?  
MILOS RAONIC: I think this will be fine by then.  I told Frank when we spoke yesterday that I'll be ready to play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT