U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2018
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. RAONIC/S. Wawrinka   
7-6, 6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Pretty obvious, I think you talked about it on court, the first set tiebreak, he scores a spectacular point on the first point, you go down 3-0, then somehow it all seemed to go your way from there, except for the set points he had.  
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, sort of gave me opportunities in that first set.  He missed a few forehands there.  Let me get back into it.  I was a little bit lucky there.   
After that, I thought I was able to sort of dictate more, get in more service games of his, take control of the match.   
 Q.  You have some history with Stan.  Given the injuries, his inconsistency over the last year, is that what you expected from him today or a little unpredictable because he's trying to find his game?  
MILOS RAONIC: I watched him play quite a bit actually the last Masters in Cincinnati.  I also watched him play his two matches in Toronto.  You see that he's doing some things well.  He is just sometimes a little bit in and out of the match.  I think he gave me a few looks there.   
 Q.  You seemed to hit your inside-out forehand as an unbelievable angle tonight.  Any reason why that was going so well?  
MILOS RAONIC: I felt like he was struggling to hit a bit through the court consistently with his backhand.  Sometimes he was just trying to push me back.  So it's a little bit easier when the ball is higher to get that angle, rather than if let's say he was slicing a bit more to me.  I think it would be tougher for me to create that angle.   
 Q.  All of the five meetings against John always went into the tiebreak.  With this mindset, what is the difference for the next meeting?  Anything change for the mental preparation?  
MILOS RAONIC: I don't think so.  I think we're both quite aware of what the other guy wants to do.  We're both aware that opportunities are not going to be that often arising.  It's going to be important to be disciplined and to make sure you sort of are always getting there, giving yourself some kind of situations, that you're disciplined and sharp with yourself when those situations arise.   
 Q.  Did you see anything different from Isner since Wimbledon?  See his game at all change because of the hard court season?  
MILOS RAONIC: I haven't watched him play that much.  I didn't watch him in Atlanta.  He didn't do so well I believe in Cincinnati and Toronto.  I didn't have a chance to watch him that much.  I'll have the chance to do that over the next 24 hours, 48 hours.   
 Q.  The level you're playing at, Cincinnati was great, this level now, when is the last time you were playing this well?  
MILOS RAONIC: I think towards the end of 2016, I'd say.   
 Q.  What did it feel like playing in that arena, the atmosphere?  
MILOS RAONIC: It takes a little getting used to.  It's quite a bit bigger.  Just quite noisy the whole time.  So that takes a little bit getting used to.  I remember last year I didn't play here, so I didn't have a chance to feel that on Ashe.  I remember sitting there for a few matches, watching a few matches.  It definitely takes a little bit sort of getting used to to sort of quiet that noise in your head.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT