ROGERS CUP
August 8, 2018
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
F. TIAFOE/M. Raonic   
7-6, 4-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I wonder what it feels like to go through a day like that where it's so disjointed by rain and how you're able to spend the time going on and off the court like that?  
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, you do what you can.  You try to sort of just stay quiet and stay within yourself.  Everybody has a different way.  Some guys like to sit in the locker room, joke around.  Some guys just sort of like to isolate themselves.   
So I think it's different for everybody, but everybody plays under the same conditions.   
 Q.  After the rain delay, you came back and you won the set, so it looked good.  So could you explain what happened in the third one?  
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, just played sort of the wrong way.  I rushed a little bit on my serve, didn't take the time I needed and just became a little bit too predictable.   
And he stepped up.  He played well.  He played a few good shots, made me play a few extra shots as well, and that sort of caught up with me.   
 Q.  You and Frances have a very similar game style, very serve-focused.  What was he doing that maybe you weren't this afternoon?  
MILOS RAONIC: I think he was mixing up his serve better, especially there towards the end.  And he was also putting in more returns.  But I started putting more returns in there towards the end even before the rain delay in the second set.   
But I definitely didn't do the thing I need to, and that's take care of my serve in the third.   
 Q.  You said you were rushing your serves a bit in the third.  Was that anything to do with the serve clock?  
MILOS RAONIC: No.  I played the whole match with the same thing.  It wasn't an issue.  I just sort of got a little bit ahead of myself in that sense and just didn't take the time when I needed to.   
I ended up being in a hole and, you know, I just couldn't get myself out of it.   
 Q.  What is your disappointment level at this point.  You seem pretty down.  This is your home tournament and you had a pretty good win yesterday against Goffin.  Talk about where you're at.  
MILOS RAONIC: I'll be fine in an hour.  It's, what, 30 minutes after the match?  So give it some time.   
And obviously it's disappointing to not do the things I wanted to do well and sort of feel like I might have handed it to him a little bit too much.   
But that's, let's say, the most disappointing part.   
 Q.  Physically you're feeling good I guess?  Is that a positive you can take from this tournament?  
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, it's nice to get through -- it's a little bit sad to say two matches.  But I guess if I'm looking for the good things, that's one of them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT