ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2017
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. CARRENO BUSTA/M. Raonic
6-4, 6-7, 7-6, 4-6, 6-8
THE MODERATOR: Questions please.
Q. What are your feelings after a match like that?
MILOS RAONIC: Heavy disappointment.  That's pretty much the best way to describe it.
Q. You played amazing in lockdown mode on the match points, I think, the first three winners.  I mean, that was pretty impressive tennis at times.
MILOS RAONIC: Well, yeah, I just wasn't very efficient, especially through the first three sets.  I had a lot of times where I'm controlling the point.  And short forehands that I wasn't very efficient with and just let him stick around in those moments.  And then he started to believe a lot.
And he was the better player there towards the end.  I hung on as much as I could, but definitely lacked some efficiency from the -- at least definitely from the aggressive side of my game.
Q. Do you feel like you have learned a bit more about your game over this week at Roland Garros?
MILOS RAONIC: I don't think it's anything that I necessarily didn't know.  But if I'm going to win matches, it's going to be by dictating and being efficient when I get those short forehands in the middle of the court that I didn't do today.
So I don't think it's anything new.  Probably just a reminder.
Q. I know it's hard to rank things and whatever but this match -- I mean, you beat Simon, a fantastic match here.  You had the match with Murray.  Even though you lost, is this one of the matches that goes down as a real battle and you like to be involved in for the test of it?
MILOS RAONIC: No, not this one.  I can't explain why, but no.
Q. And just to look for a little bit of good news, have you come out of this no problems physically?
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah.  I played the last -- what is it now?  Almost start of the sixth week consecutively.  And the body is good, so I'm happy about that.
Q. You had some struggles on your serve the past week and you got broken a lot today.  Is it still something you can't really understand why it's not clicking as it used to?
MILOS RAONIC: I just haven't been hitting the spots on the Deuce side.  I haven't been pulling the guy wide enough.  So when I've been hitting that T-spot, the serve, it's not as effective.  And the percentages are there but the effectiveness isn't.
And I think, for example, today I would have done myself a lot of favors through a lot of the returns that were just floating in the middle of the court if I punish them significantly more.
Q. You had a really successful year at Wimbledon last year.  How much are you looking forward to it this year and tell us a bit about your preparation building up to it, please.
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, obviously it's the best memory I've had on court.  I played some good tennis there last year.  And I'm going to try to get on the grass after a few days off right away and get there early and prepare, leading into Queen's first.
Q. Do you feel nerves played a part at all today?  Like, when you were close to maybe put an end to this, you were not as clutch as usual?
MILOS RAONIC: I don't think it's necessarily nerves.  I think it's just -- most of the time, when I come on clay, I'll come in playing pretty well on hard courts and that's where I get my confidence.  It's not necessarily the easiest for me to pick up confidence on clay courts.  I can play matches and find ways, but it's not sort of the surface that comes the most naturally to me.
Q. I know this is a hard question again, but a lot of people thought you had a better shot against Rafa than maybe a guy like Carreno Busta because of your game is different than everybody else who's been playing here.  How disappointed are you not to get a shot at him?
MILOS RAONIC: Well, definitely, first of all, beyond who is there, I wanted to be in the next round.
And then, obviously, that being, for me at least, the most difficult challenge there is.  You take the best guy on the surface that I have the least natural style for and it's a big challenge.  I play tennis to face challenges.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT