ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2017
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. RAONIC/G. Garcia-Lopez
6-1, 1-0 [Ret.]
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. A question on the injury itself.  What did he tell you at the changeover when he retired?  You had a short discussion there.
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, he told me it's something he dealt with since the first round, that he was happy that he managed to get through two matches, and he couldn't really bear it anymore.
Q. The match up to that point, did you have any sense he was injured in any way?
MILOS RAONIC: I thought he was going for more than he normally would have, at least since I've played him recently.  I don't know if necessarily it was a strategy.  He sort of gifted me that start that first game.  But I thought I had much better intentions than I did in my previous match.  There are some things that are definitely positive on my side, but unfortunate for the way it sort of had to take place throughout the rest of it.
Q. It was a dominant first set.  Would you have liked the game to have continued to hit more balls, or are you pleased you now get to rest?
MILOS RAONIC: Well, I'll take it when I can have it.  I have played a lot over the last weeks.  I'm playing well.  I'm happy with the way I was able to start today.  I think I have made good progress in getting better and better each match.
Now just looking forward to playing in two days.
Q. David Goffin had a freak injury on the Lenglen, stuck his foot on the tarp.  I wonder how much you guys are conscious about the tarps at the back of the court, if you pay attention or are afraid of that?
MILOS RAONIC: It's a bad accident.  It's very unfortunate.  I don't know necessarily if he got stuck in the tarp, but I also believe there is concrete underneath those tarps for the drainage, so I don't know which part he got stuck in.
Obviously when you're getting in that area there, whether it be in the back of the court, or on the sides, there is some kind of I guess exposure to danger.
But what happened even in that scenario, you can tell it was a freak accident.  I hope it's nothing too serious for him.
Q. The trend lately has been to play so far back in the court at times that the opponents are almost in the stands.  You see people do it and try to handle your serve.  That's exactly where he was when that happened.  Do you think that at some point they might have to adjust things to the way the game is changing and have more room?  Because a lot of courts have a lot less room than that particular one does.
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, I think you have to -- I don't think there is a rule size for minimum amount of size for a regular court.  But other than that, I don't know how Lenglen does compare in dimensions to Chatrier, but these are some of the bigger courts that you will find on tour.
You know, if you play on a small court in Australia, you sort of, against a big server, it is sort of a disadvantage.  You have to play closer.  It's just unfortunate the way it happened.
That could happen the exact same thing, you slide into the tarps, and nothing happens many times over.  He just had that terrible luck in that scenario.
Q. Speaking of Australia, there has been a fair amount of controversy over Margaret Court Arena having that name, and a few players calling for a name change.  Any thoughts on that effort that's going on now?
MILOS RAONIC: I think it's sort of really shocking comments to hear.  I won't get necessarily into the politics on what something should and shouldn't be called, but I think to some extent definitely there should be some kind of apology and whatever repercussions.
Q. Any chance you go out and hit any more today?
MILOS RAONIC: No.
Q. Krajicek made the semis here, and he's an aggressive serve and volley type player.  Can he be of any use to you, having been your type of player a bit, having that kind of success here at the French Open?
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, it's one of those years where it does benefit bigger hitters, the court has been quite warm.  I don't know how the next few days are going to play out.  I know there is supposed to be some wet weather around the corner.
It has been one of those, I'd say of any tournament, this is the one that's probably the most affected by weather just because it can change the conditions so extremely, considering that there is no roofs and either the courts can be very dry or they can be very damp.  These courts can hold a lot of water in them.  It's been one of those years that's been a positive trend for me.
Q. I think it was a year ago here you dubbed yourself the CEO of Milos Raonic Tennis.  If there was a shareholders meeting, what's your annual report on your last 12 months?
MILOS RAONIC: No cause for panic.  Stay healthy (smiling).
Q. What's it like for you and all the other players -- I don't know what Rafa is doing today but it's 5-0 in the first set -- just the whole aura of him and his dominance here.  How would it affect you if you went up against him?
MILOS RAONIC: I guess you think about it a bit before the tournament starts, but as soon as the tournament starts, everybody, despite what it may be like to be a good top-level tennis player, you have to be pretty selfish.  I think everyone is focused on themselves quite a bit as long as they are still in this tournament.
I think before the tournament there is a hype or a buzz, but as soon as people have matches, their own things they have to go and get to, everybody is looking down and going about their own business.  I wouldn't say there is anything sort of different, too different about it.
But then when you do sit down and talk about it, it's beyond remarkable.  It's going to be one of the greatest, if possible, feats in any sport.  I have a little bit more work to do to be able to put myself in that situation, so I'm not looking that far ahead.
Q. Would that be the ultimate challenge for you, playing him on clay for your game?
MILOS RAONIC: I believe so.  You have the best player ever on this surface, which I don't think will ever be my best surface.
Q. Carreno Busta in the next round.
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, I watched a bit of his match today.  He's playing quite well, improved over the last 16 months or so, played him a few times towards the end of last year.  He's very solid.  He's disciplined.  He shows up, and he's there, and he doesn't exit the match.  You really have to beat him, take it to him.
It's going to be about trying to get control and trying to hold on to it throughout the match.
Q. How much different is it not playing Dimitrov?  Would Dimitrov be a regular match for you but on clay, whereas this guy is kind of a clay court expert?  Talk about the differences between playing either of them.
MILOS RAONIC: I wouldn't necessarily say he's a clay court expert.  At least from what I know of his results I believe he has one title on each surface, clay and hard.  I don't necessarily think he's one way or the other.  Obviously he plays well on this surface, but as always, for me it's about what I've got to do.  If I can take care of my half of the court and do my business well, I think I can give myself some pretty good looks.
Q. Since you're not going to go out and hit any more balls today, what will you do?
MILOS RAONIC: I'm going to do some fitness.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT