AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2017
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/M. Raonic
6-4, 7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously not the result you would have liked tonight.  How would you assess the match?
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, there were some opportunities in that second set.  Other than that, there wasn't much for me to hold onto.
I thought he did some things well.  I thought, you know, he took the match to me.  He did something a little bit different than he normally does.  He played better than I did.
Q. Did he change his position on the return?  Is that the difference from Brisbane, for example?
MILOS RAONIC: Well, you could see he was trying to do something.  It would be good for a few moments, it also would create a few more mistakes for him.
But I don't think that was a big change necessarily.  It was more from the back.  I just wasn't able to sort of push him back behind the baseline like I was able to do a few weeks ago.
Q. Six set points in that second set.  What happened on those, in your opinion?
MILOS RAONIC: I think the first two, he hit one good serve well, and the other one I didn't cover the serve I should have covered.  Then after that I think I rushed in that tiebreaker.  I made two pretty poor mistakes off balls that didn't have much in the middle of the court on my forehand side.
I think at that point I just put it a little bit too much on myself.
Q. Did you rush because you felt physically you needed to be one set all because you couldn't go the distance?
MILOS RAONIC: No.  I rushed because it was just, sort of, I wanted to take that opportunity.  I wasn't volleying well by any means, so I felt like I had to finish it with that shot.
Q. What was the problem at 3-2 in the second?  How did it affect you before that or after that?
MILOS RAONIC: I hope it's nothing too serious.
Q. It's the right thigh?
MILOS RAONIC: It's my adductor again.
Q. How bad did it bother you after?  Did you carry it going in or did it happen during the match?
MILOS RAONIC: Sort of the backstory is another part of the adductor I damaged in Brisbane.  I was healing that before this tournament.  I got it to pretty good shape.  We still had to monitor it.
Then today, I guess I hurt another aspect of it similar to the last two, but not by any means that serious.
Q. Does it feel like sometimes whenever you get close to one of your goals or one of the things you work so hard for, that something always happens, particularly physically?
MILOS RAONIC: I don't know.  I don't want to depress myself thinking about that too much right now.
Q. How do you think the flu you've been fighting affected your fitness today?  Maybe you didn't practice as much as you wanted.
MILOS RAONIC: I'm sure that everybody has something they carry.  Obviously this tournament, for me in general, these last now two and a half weeks, have been quite difficult just trying to manage everything.
First dealing with the physical aspect, getting myself quite ready, I thought, making the most of that, then dealing with the health aspect, then now with this.
It was quite a draining two and a half weeks.
Q. What is your thought on Davis Cup at this point?  It's five minutes after your match, I realize.
MILOS RAONIC: I don't really know.  I have to see what this is.  It's occurred now four times in the last 12 months.  I'm very much up in the air.
Q. How did you feel he played compared to the way he played in Brisbane, generally?
MILOS RAONIC: You know, when he was able to get ahead, when he was able to get comfortable, he was playing better.  He had that chance against me in Brisbane.  He was up a set, and he had a look in the middle of the second set.
But I felt like when I was able to take some swipes at it, when I pushed, I was able to get a little bit ahead of him.
Obviously he put it together more consistently, much more consistently, than I did today.  He's doing a lot of things well.  He's fighting well, which has always been his strongest attribute.
It's going to be an interesting two more matches, one more match, depending on how he goes.  But from everything, it's going to be an interesting three more matches to follow.  There's a lot of storylines there.
Q. Have you found any reason why you always get injured in this adductor?  Is there any reason explaining it?
MILOS RAONIC: I don't know.  I've had surgery on that hip.  I'm hoping that's not any reason why I struggled.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT