BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 17, 2016
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. RAONIC/D. Thiem   
7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Happy with the way you fought out there, the tiebreak, and also pushing at the end of the second set?  
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, I did a lot of things quite well today.  I stepped up when I had an opportunity in the tiebreak.  I stepped up at the beginning of the second set and the end of it.  There's a lot definitely to be proud of, playing under that kind of pressure, 'cause I really wanted to get out of the group stages and I wanted to give myself a chance in the semifinals.   
 Q.  A lot of talk about John McEnroe being here again.  Talk about that.  Seemed like you were surprised to see him at practice.  Was there a little bit of I won't say extra motivation, but there was a lot of fist pumping, almost saw Djokovic out there at one point.  I know he's been saying you should show more of that out on the court.  
MILOS RAONIC: I was aware John was coming.  He had other obligations.  I spoke with him last night.  He asked if I minded if he came out.  Obviously it's a pleasure to have him there.  He shares a lot of wisdom with me, a lot of his opinions.  I respect that.  I respect him a lot for all those kind of things.  It was a big plus to have him there.   
There's a lot of things I'm really trying to pay attention to.  It's the end of the year, so sometimes you got to push yourself through difficult moments with a more aggressive and positive attitude.  That's what I'm focusing on.  It's not just this week.  I did the same thing to improve from the way I was playing in Basel three weeks ago to playing much better in Paris, as well.   
 Q.  Having been in Paris, you said you got five to ten days to recover, here you are 12 days later, three matches, semifinals.  Can you believe where you are at the moment given where you were?  
MILOS RAONIC: No, I'm very happy to be in the situation I'm in right now.  I'm very happy I was able to play.  Obviously it's a big bonus to be able to play at this high level I've been playing so far in all three of my matches.   
 Q.  When you consider that it was a muscle leg tear two years ago that pulled you out of this, does this feel like redemption?  What were the similarities between that and what you suffered in Paris?  
MILOS RAONIC: Well, I think the differences were the other thing I suffered within two days sort of seemed impossible.  I felt like I was risking a lot.  I think I was risking a lot - not a lot, but a fair amount by coming out here and playing as well.   
I had how many days, eight days, before my first match to really see where I was at.  I didn't have that comfort last time in two days.  I had days on court before that, as well.   
I was able to gather more information.  In a way it's maybe a little plus considering all the times I have struggled with injuries this year and so forth, over the last four years.  Actually, let's say my whole career (smiling).   
If I can be diagnosed with longer recovery times and actually heal up quicker, I'll take that.   
 Q.  Are you going to keep working with or taking advice from John for the rest of the week?  Also, what can you learn, what can you take from the matches that you've played against Andy this year if it is Andy you end up playing in the semifinals?  
MILOS RAONIC: John I believe is already leaving tomorrow, so he won't be here for my next match.  But we'll be in touch.  We always are on a loose basis.   
There's a lot to take from it.  I've played Andy many times this year.  I haven't gotten the better of him.  He's been playing well.  He's been playing a lot of matches.   
I think the one thing that I might have is how much he has really on his shoulders right now, a lot of consecutive matches, and as well what he's playing for.  I have to try to do my best to try to accentuate that as much as possible in my own favor so I can really get the most out of myself and hopefully be able to get on top of him for once this year.   
 Q.  It's off topic, but these couple days we have seen a funny video quite often which is all you eight players pretending like mannequins.  Who came up with that idea?  Are you guys discussing which players are doing which roles?  
MILOS RAONIC: The fantastic staff of the ATP media had a unique idea that they never saw anywhere else and they thought, we have eight players here, maybe we should start a new trend (smiling).   
 Q.  You could be world No. 3 after this week potentially.  How important is it if it happens?  
MILOS RAONIC: It's very big for me.  I had a very big goal of wanting to win my first slam this year.  I came up short on that.  Obviously I didn't do it.  That was what I had for myself as the biggest motivator after the US Open.  That's what I had for myself as the biggest motivator to come here and try to heal up quickly and play.   
Right now I think I've put myself in a good situation.  Obviously there's a lot that plays out tomorrow.  But I've done well to give myself this opportunity.  I don't know where I stand right now, but I think I've done pretty good.   
 Q.  We can see the commercial where you are promoting the new model of your racquet.  Why are you not playing with this racquet, with the new one?  
MILOS RAONIC: Just because I'm very picky.  I've been using this certain racquet for X amount.  It was only possible to use it for I think the last three tournaments.  I like to use my racquets for a longer period of time.   
 Q.  This year final in Wimbledon, here as well.  Are you starting to like London as your favorite city, or the whole world?  
MILOS RAONIC: I like the city a lot.  It's been very kind to me this year.  I believe I've only lost to world No. 2s here.  Andy was 2 at both times, no?  So hopefully I can change my fate in the next turnaround.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT