WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 20, 2016
Milos Raonic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/M. Raonic
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Midway through the second set you had a chance to get an overhead smash.  You let it go; it landed in.  Did you regret that possibly?
MILOS RAONIC: No, I regret not going up 30-15 with an easy overhead.  That's probably what I regret.  I don't regret the other aspect of it by any means.
Q. The opening game things got delayed because of rain and then you got broken.  Were you annoyed by that?
MILOS RAONIC: The rain wasn't a factor by any means.  I double faulted twice to go down 15-40, and then I hit a pretty bad approach at 15-40.  It was just probably one of my worst starts.
Q. You know you can beat him; obviously you're having a bit of a run where he's just finding a way.  What do you think is going to be the difference?
MILOS RAONIC: I think it's going to come down to certain things.  I got to obviously serve much better than I did today.  Today I also did a better job of creating opportunities on his serve that I didn't make count.  I had three break chances and three second serves; I put the ball in twice.  No, I put the ball in once on second serves.
That is not a formula of success by any means.  It's going to come down to a few important points, playing them better, and obviously executing better than I did on my end of things when it comes to my service games than I did today.
Q. When you get situations like that and you're not actually being able to get through his barriers, how frustrating does it become in the middle of a match when you're trying to stay positive?
MILOS RAONIC: Well, it's sort of how you look at it.  At the same time, even though I was struggling I had chances to even out the first set.  Even the game -- the chances I didn't create or make happen, I believe out of the five or four service games he served I had 15-30 in each one of them at least.  In two of them I had break chances.
Those kind of things can't me positive.  It wasn't like I was struggling on that end of things.  That was probably my more successful side of things today relative for my game.
I sort of figured that, you know, if I can putt -- get the serve back, because that's what I know how to do by far the best, but it just didn't come through for me today.
Q. When you're playing someone like Andy and you don't want to get into those long rallies, how do you manage the desire to end the point quickly verse waiting and being patient for the right opportunity?
MILOS RAONIC: Well, the right opportunity is the key word there.  I know what I can come in on; I know what I can maybe try to go for something more on and sort of the bear that risk, what is reasonable and what's not.
When you face those kind of things, you try to make him come up with some good shots.  He did it sometimes today and sometimes I miss-fired quite a bit today in certain situations.
But if you can do those things well and sort of be challenging all the time, then you can maybe play more on your terms.
Q. You had an excellent day serving yesterday.  Did you change your serve strategy with respect to the fact that he gets a lot of serves back?
MILOS RAONIC: No.  I think I struggled at the beginning of the match just because it was my first time playing at night here.
So I think what you sort of expect the ball to do is quite different.  I didn't have that sense.
And then he's one of the best returners.  If he can get some kind of rhythm, which he did right away from the beginning, it's difficult in that situation.  So you got to try to keep him out of those scenarios.
The second game I got broken I had the overhead I should have taken to get ahead.  I missed another ball that I shanked after -- I believe I've never hit a serve where I shanked it into the crowd and then double faulted.
I guess I was my own worst enemy in some moments.
Q. He had a lot of success with those low slices to your forehand.  How difficult was that, and how can you try to adjust to that?  He's doing that almost every time he plays you.
MILOS RAONIC: Yeah, well, it's about getting the legs behind and you being in the right position.  Obviously it's very different, what I've faced these days.  So I guess the first few it's okay to miss.  I could have adjusted definitely better.
Because definitely when you play at nighttime those stay a lot lower, or maybe have a lot less on it so they die a bit on your racquet so you have to accelerate more on them.  I could have adjusted on those better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT