THE SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SOFTBANK INVESTMENT ADVISERS
February 5, 2021
Ryan Fox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Ryan, two rounds of 65.  How pleased with how you're playing at Saudi International?
 RYAN FOX:   Yeah, very happy.  It's been a really solid couple days of ball-striking, and saw a few putts go in both days, which was nice.  And, I mean, to be sitting near the top of this leaderboard is always a good thing.  It's a pretty strong field this week.
 Q. How did it play out this afternoon?  Because it's looking like you guys got the better side of the draw.
 RYAN FOX:   Yeah, I think we got very, very lucky.  Obviously, no wind yesterday morning and showers that went through with the thunderstorms, and when we came back out, it was pretty much perfect.  You don't often get two days of no wind around here, and it was nice to take advantage of that.  And, you know, you get the bad side of the draw enough times, it's nice to get the good side every now and again.
 Q. There's a lot of golf to be played, but it's looking like you could be in the final group tomorrow.  This is where you want to be, isn't it, Ryan?
 RYAN FOX:   It is, as long as I can make my flight on Sunday to make sure I get back into New Zealand.  But, yeah, like this is what you play golf for, to be in contention.  And it's been a while since I've been in this position.  And I'll just go out and enjoy it on the weekend and see if I can keep playing how I'm playing.  I know if I do, I've got a good chance on Sunday.
 Q. What do you make of the challenge over the weekend?  We talk a lot about the field this week, a lot of world-class players breathing down your neck.
 RYAN FOX:   Yeah, I mean, I can just control what I can control.  If I go out and play well, try to see the target and make them chase me, I don't know how many of the top 50 in the world are here this week, but it's a lot.  And there's a reason they're there.  They're world-class players.
 And I certainly hope to be there one day.  And if I can play well this week, then it's a step forward in that direction.  If not, it's just good experience and a nice finish to my desert swing because I don't really know when I'm going to come back out here again.
 Q. Best of luck over the weekend.
 RYAN FOX:   Thanks, mate.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT