DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 6, 2018
Ryan Fox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well played for the second straight day.  Through 36, finishing it off in style, how sweet is that?
RYAN FOX: It was nice.  I played pretty solid all day.
Q. You said yesterday you wanted to go out and take the golf course on, similar conditions today.  Is that the same approach?
RYAN FOX: Definitely.  I'll probably hit a few more irons on the front nine than yesterday and pretty much driver everywhere around the back nine, drove it really good and gave myself a lot of chances.  We got the conditions to do it today and I guess we'll see what happens over the weekend.
Q. Is it the same mental approach at the weekend now, given you're in this position?
RYAN FOX: Yeah, it's going to take -- 7- or 8-under is not going to win the golf tournament.  You have to get it double digits.  I'll take the golf course on if it's there.  We've been lucky with the wind, it's been obviously down today, as well, but I can take on a couple of bunkers with the wind direction it's been.  If it blows the other way, I have no chance.  I'll just take it how it comes and that's the great thing about links golf.
Q. Given that and what you said yesterday about hitting a large number of drivers, we know how tough these fairways are to hit.  What will that strategy be do you think, Saturday?
RYAN FOX: Yeah, driver is probably the strongest club in my bag at the moment, so if I can hit driver, I'll definitely do it.  To be honest, it's hard enough trying to hit a fairway with an iron, at least if you're coming in with a wedge or lob-wedge out of the rough, it's not too bad.  You've got plenty of room to run it on to these greens and you can get some pretty good lies, especially with the crowds we've had out of the rough.  It's trampled down a little bit in places and obviously Rory would have had a lot of people following them.  Thankfully I hit a lot of fairways but I guess I'll take it on and see what happens tomorrow.
Q. Open qualification, we know what you did here a year ago.  Good golf takes care of itself.  Is that the approach you're taking?
RYAN FOX: Yeah, just keep playing well and see what happens.  Obviously I'd love to be in The Open and if not, it's a week off, which is not a bad thing at this point of the year.
But it's good golf.  Don't think about it.  And if I can finish in that Top-10, I've got a really good chance and obviously I'm in a pretty good place at the moment.
Q. 18 set up another birdie chance?
RYAN FOX: Yeah, nice it finish strong.  Hit a great drive, left a nice little sand wedge.  It's tough to get it close to these holes.  I had a good number and thankfully hit a good wedge shot and converted the putt.
I tried to take it on yesterday and did the same today.  Hit some great drives on the back nine.  Maybe one scruffy one on 17, a little disappointed because that's a gym me birdie hole.  But birdied 17, 18, great tee shots and another one on 10, as well to set up a birdie.  I'll see if I can keep doing it over the weekend.
Q. Was it a little bit frustrating not to pick up shots on the par 5s today?
RYAN FOX: Yeah, especially on 4 and 17, I feel like gimmies, really.  I hit a bad drive up 4 and probably made a pretty scrappy par.  17, hit a poor wedge shot from 20 feet.  That was a bit frustrating but hopefully I can rectify that over the week end.
Q. We talked about The Open spot that's available.  Can we expect the same aggressive stance over the weekend?
RYAN FOX: It's probably my first time in one of these events being right up there.  Probably leading or going to be in the last group, which is going to be a nice experience tomorrow.
Yeah, look, it's all wind dependent.  That brings a lot of those bunkers into play and you have to lay back on them.  That's the great thing about links golf, you can play a different golf course every day, hit different clubs all four days, and you know, I'll just see what happens tomorrow.  Looks like we're going to get another good day, so I'm looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT