DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 16, 2017
Ryan Fox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on an opening 5-under.  
RYAN FOX: Yeah, nice to take advantage of some pretty decent golf out there.  It's been a little bit of a struggle the last three weeks.  Yeah, just I guess happy to be here and happy to be playing some good golf again.   
 Q.  What do you feel has been the main difference today?  You mentioned you've struggled over the last couple of weeks but what do you feel came together today?  
RYAN FOX: I just haven't been making mistakes.  I think this golf course probably suits me a little better than the last couple of weeks.  It's long and it's fairly wide off the tee, and those little misses I've been having that have been hurting the last couple of weeks really didn't hurt much today.  You know, took advantage of the par 5s and made a couple of putts, which is nice.   
 Q.  Obviously first season on The European Tour.  You had a great run in the Rolex Series Events which helped you to you're 34th place ranking.  Has this year exceeded your expectations?  
RYAN FOX: By far.  The goal at the start of the year was just to be here next year, and I guess through the middle I gave myself a really good opportunity to play in a couple of majors, a WGC and now all The Final Series, and I guess to be in the Top 60 at the end of the season, that was the big goal at the end of the year.   
You know, very happy to achieve it and hopefully I can tick off a couple more places this week with some good golf.   
 Q.  Is this a golf course that's enjoyable to play?  
RYAN FOX: Yeah, it certainly is.  As I said, it really suits my game.  It's pretty long off the tee.  It's pretty long and it's wide.  You get to hit a lot of drivers and that certainly works for me.  There's not a whole lot of trouble, especially compared to last week, so I feel like I can let loose a little bit and that's always a little bit of fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT