DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 9, 2017
Ryan Fox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Ryan, Jon Rahm is playing some unbelievable job and you've got yourself a great finish here?  
RYAN FOX: Obviously no one is going to catch Jon today how he's playing.  I gave it a pretty good run.  Unfortunately the putts didn't go in early, and hit the two worst tee shots I hit all day down the last two holes and holed two 15-footers.  Golf is a funny game.  A couple good weeks in a row and hopefully it's enough to get that Open spot this week.   
 Q.  Three bogeys in a row on the first.  It is quite daunting, that first tee, isn't it.  
RYAN FOX: I hit a good tee shot yesterday and hit the one foot of rough you couldn't hit it in.  I couldn't get it near the green, and hit a pretty average tee shot today.   
I struggled on the greens all day speed-wise.  I left one way short from the back fringe and 3-putted it.  Sometimes you get holes like that and it's one of the most picturesque first tee shots you'll ever hit, but unfortunately I couldn't figure out how to play it properly.   
 Q.  But last week seems to be the kick-start you've had into the great week this week.  Consistency is the thing, and that must be very pleasing to follow a good performance up with another.  
RYAN FOX: Yeah, it is, you've got to ride your form in this game.  You have enough bad weeks, enough missed cuts.  You have to take advantage when you're playing well.  That's certainly nice to do that and last week took some pressure off Money List-wise and I can and freewheel it a bit this week.  Did that really well.   
I felt pretty comfy out there this afternoon, teeing off thinking I had a chance to win and obviously Jon closed that door pretty quickly.  Nice to be out there, great crowds out for the week and just a great week all around really.   
 Q.  Looks like it might be third time lucky for you clinching an Open Championship spot.  What does that mean for you to appear on another major on a links course?  
RYAN FOX: Yeah, I'm hoping third time lucky.  I played St. Andrews a couple of years ago, and probably the highlight of my golfing career up with the Olympics last year.  I'd love another chance to play Birkdale.  I remember watching Harrington win there.  I'd just love to go out and see it.  I'm sure my family would come over if we get the opportunity to play it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT