AMUNDI OPEN DE FRANCE
October 17, 2019
Ryan Fox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's your thoughts on that 65?
RYAN FOX: I'm pretty happy. This is a golf course that can kick you pretty quickly. I played really solid today. Holed some putts. Played those tough holes, that closing stretch, really well. I could have potentially grabbed a couple more on those last four, which is always a bonus, but very happy to walk away with a 65 around here.
Q. You mentioned you could have grabbed a couple more. What's the key to scoring around this course?
RYAN FOX: You've got to drive it really well. The rough's down a little bit from when we've normally played here in June, but it's still pretty tough to get it on the green if you don't drive it on the fairway. For the most part I did a really good job of keeping it in play and a couple holes I hit poor tee shots and I managed to scramble and make pars from there, which is nice. But yeah, you just keep yourself out of trouble. Obviously there's a lot of water around here and a lot of intimidating holes. Stay away from the trouble, and there is some birdie opportunities if you hit good shots and thankfully I converted a few of them today.
Q. Do you think there's an advantage of having a good round late in the afternoon and carrying it on early in the morning tomorrow?
RYAN FOX: I always enjoy, playing well on a Thursday afternoon, getting out, you feel like you can maintain that rhythm. Sometimes it's tough if you've got a 24-hour break between rounds to get that rhythm again. Be nice come out in the morning. The greens hopefully should be nice. They were rolling still pretty well this afternoon with all the traffic on them. I don't know what the weather conditions are like, but it was a lot better than it was yesterday in the Pro-Am, so I'm looking forward to getting out there tomorrow.
Q. Anything you've been working on before your round or pick up where you left off?
RYAN FOX: Just pick up where I left off. It's been a little bit of a struggle the last couple of months, and I sort of found something last week in Italy, and it was nice to sort of carry that on today and see some putts go in. That's probably been my Achilles heel most of the year. When I've played well, I haven't converted them, and today I took advantage of most of the shots, which was nice.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT