ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2019
Ryan Fox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts on around there, 12-under now, heading into the weekend, must be a good position?
RYAN FOX: Yeah, I'm happy be to playing the weekend at this point. It's been a bit of a tough stretch the last few months.
Yeah, look, I've always loved this style of golf. I've loved this event, and you know, playing with Warne is nice and relaxing, and I think that's sort of helped my mentality this week and made a few putts. Just enjoyed it out there. This golf course is always tough. So happy to walk off with anything under 70.
Q. What have you been changing up? Bit of a struggle for the last few months, but what's been clicking for you for the last couple of days, back on the links, as well?
RYAN FOX: Just managing everything really well, yeah. I didn't hit it great off the tee today but I missed everything in the right place, and you know, I played nice yesterday at St. Andrews, and managed to hole a few putts and I did the same today. I was pretty solid on the greens.
You know, made those little three-, four-footers for par that in the previous weeks I've been struggling with and you hole a couple 20-footers on top of that, it's easy to feel good about your golf game. I did that well today. I didn't really get myself in too much trouble, but when I did, I got out of it and made gave myself a few birdie looks and made them, as well.
Q. You said playing with Warne has relaxed you. How do you enjoy the vibe of the Pro-Am and the event this week?
RYAN FOX: I love it. I've always enjoyed a chat out on the golf course. It can get a bit serious most weeks at times, and this is just a fun week for us.
I've been lucky I got somebody I know well. He's a good mate now and he's competitive. He wants to play well, but he also knows it's fun, and we just have a bit of a chat about cricket and everything else. I'm a massive cricket fan. I grew up bowling leagues, so it's quite cool to play with one of your idols in that respect. We just have a lot of fun on the golf course and that's showing in the golf game this week.
Q. Has there been much chat, as well, about the Rugby World Cup?
RYAN FOX: There's been plenty with all the South Africans here. Not too much with Warne about it. I think he's an AFL man.
Q. Grand Final this weekend?
RYAN FOX: Yeah, so I'm sure he'll be keen on that. Definitely been a favourite to talk around the Rugby World Cup with the South African boys this week, and I think I got a little bit of stick with the referee favouring us last weekend. I'm not sure that was quite right, but it was a bloody good game last week between us, and hopefully we can meet them in the final.
Q. Who are the All Blacks up against next?
RYAN FOX: We play Canada on Wednesday, so probably not going to be our strongest test, but I'm sure Steve Hansen and the boys will have something to work on there. I've got a week off next week, so I'll be watching it from the couch intently.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT