ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2018
Ryan Fox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You must be happy with that round out there today?
RYAN FOX: Yeah, it's a funny one.  I'm fighting it to be honest at the moment.  I started off nice today and then threw the middle of the round, it was definitely a fight.  Made double on 18 and then it was nice to see a few putts go in to be honest.  I hit a couple of good drives on three and four.  Knocked it on the fourth green about 320 yards or something today.  2-putted from there and made an eagle and then made another sort of 25-footer for birdie on 6.
It was one of those rounds, I took advantage of the good shots and a couple of times when I hit average shots, I sort of made a 25-, 30-footer for birdie.  I fought it a little bit coming home.  Played the last two holes pretty poorly and managed to scrape out two pars.  Happy to finish with a 67.
Q. How do you stay involved mentally when it's up-and-down in the round.  Is it just that grind to take it one shot at a time?
RYAN FOX: It's a little bit of the grind, but there's also I think, I'm playing with Warne and you can see how much he wants to play on Sunday.  He was struggling a little bit today, and every par I made and every birdie I made helped the team.  It was sort of a little bit of both.  It was a little bit of kicking myself and a little bit of trying to play for the team.  When I was getting frustrated, try not to let it get to me so I can at least help the team out and I managed to do that today.
Q. How much do you enjoy the team scenario?
RYAN FOX: I love it.  I've been very, very lucky.  The three years I played, I played twice with Warne and once with Michael Vaughn.  I grew up a cricketer.  Those guys are my idols growing up.  To get a chance to play golf with them, three of the best golf courses in the world, it makes it -- it's pretty nice.
You put up with a little bit of slowness.  I think it's 5 1/2, 6-hour rounds most of the time but it's certainly worth it for the experience and getting a chance to play great links golf, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT