ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2010
Alejandro Canizares
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your second consecutive 66, yesterday you said putting was the key; what about today?   
 ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: Well, today I hit the ball better I think. My front nine, I really hit the ball good. I felt great with my swing, but made one mistake on 17. I pulled my driver into the high stuff and I tried to hit it out. I hit it too far and I moved it like ten yards into the very high stuff and I made double there. But I got back into it and after the stop, I started making some putts, good ones. So very happy overall.  
  
  Q. When you make a double-bogey like that and you're going well, how do you put it behind you quickly?  
 ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: Well, I know I was hitting the ball good, so I knew I was going to have birdie chances, because it just felt really good. It felt like one of those days with the swing, and with a little help of my caddie trying to get me up and running again and that little stop helped us maybe a little bit and finished off very good.  
  
  Q. Last year you finished 130th in The Race to Dubai and lost your card and had to go back to the school. This year has been so different, seven Top 15s; what's been the difference in your play?  
 ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: I was a little negative in my play last year, I wasn't into it very much, last year had a couple of problems, personal problems.   
 But this year, I came out, I got my card again, so it was like a new start and I knew what I lost and I learned to appreciate it a little more, this game, and try to have fun and try and enjoy it.   
  
  Q. A lot of pressure when you went back?   
 ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: Yeah, six days with two days of practice is a long, long week. A lot of pressure, but I was playing good, I was going Top-10 -- Top-5 into the last day, and I was playing good. I was confident and it's like a marathon, you know, you've got to take it little by little. It wasn't my first Q-School, so I knew you how it was going to be and I tried to be steady and play good.   
  
  Q. Simon Khan has come through Q-School as well and went on to win at Wentworth. Is he a bit of an inspiration this year?  
 ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: Yeah, played with him the first three days I think, I don't know if it's first two days or three days with Simon can and he played great at Q-School and I thought he was going to be great this year, started a little slow but you never know in this game, he won the biggest tournament of the year and very happy for him. Also another guy playing in Q-School, Andersson Hed, Swedish guy, he's in the Top 15 on the Money List, so it's a good year for Q-School guys.  
  
  Q. Do want to join them now?  
 ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: Definitely, I'm trying to.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT