QUINN INSURANCE BRITISH MASTERS
September 26, 2008
Alejandro Canizares
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: Well, the greens are rolling great and you can get very confident with the putter, because if you are rolling the ball on-line, they roll beautifully, and as soon as you make putts -- it's a tough golf course, but the rough is unbelievably tough.   
 As soon as you miss the fairways, you have to lay up and I managed to hit the ball in the fairway today a little better than yesterday, and I made some good putts again. So, pretty happy with how I played.  
  
  Q. When you say how tough it is, it does seem that everybody is making a couple of birdies and they fall back just a little bit. It's hard to pull away.   
 ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: You make a couple birdies -- you have to hit driver on many holes because it's playing long and it's kind of wet and playing long. As soon as you miss the fairways, it's a three-shot hole and it's difficult to keep up with the pars and birdies.   
  
  Q. We spoke in Switzerland and things were working very nicely, and on the first day it was relief and you were building confidence there and you look that much more assured at the moment?  
 ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: At Switzerland I started to play better and my confidence got up a little bit more. I did terrible on Sunday on last six. But I know I can do it again and I know I'm playing pretty good, so it's nice to be back.  
  
  Q. Is it very nice to be back in amongst all the guys, not that you've been out on Tour all that long, but you're playing with friends.   
 ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: Yeah, yeah, over here in Europe, it's playing at home and every week we are almost ten guys at least and it's a lot of fun. It's not as lonely as in America.   
  
  Q. Does it help when you're playing alongside someone like Lara?  
 ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: It takes away some of the pressure sometimes when your focus and you get into it and you start a little bit talking with your partner and it gets easier to get away from the pressure.   
  
  Q. Did that help this morning, as well, when you had to kill all of those hours, the delay because of the fog?  
 ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: Yeah, we were sitting for three hours, and so we are chatting and trying to figure out the cubes that they left for us in the players lounge. It was fun. It wasn't that long.   
  
  Q. The cubes?   
 ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: I don't know, how you call it.   
  
  Q. Like the Rubik's Cubes?   
 ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: Only Garrido can figure it out. None of us can.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT