ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 5, 2016
Alejandro Canizares
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've beaten the third seed, Matthew Fitzpatrick.  How well do you feel you played today?  
ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: I've played really well this afternoon.  I started out strong.  I didn't miss many shots.  I hit the ball a lot better in the morning, a lot more solid and I made some good putts.   
I was very pleased with the way I played.  I kept it going.  I never stopped pushing, and I had to play great against a guy like Matt because he doesn't miss many shots.  I'm really happy in the end to beat him.   
 Q.  We know what he's capable of, and you were 3-up through nine holes.  What's the sort of mind-set at that stage, because you know you can rattle off a whole succession of birdies in a row.  
ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: In match play, you never know, even if you are 4-up with five or four to play, you've got to keep going, because he's a great player.  He could maybe start making some birdies and put some pressure on me.   
I just kept playing my game, and I saw the shots, and I played the shots the way I wanted them and they came out good.  So really pleased in the end.   
 Q.  The matches don't get easier and you're playing James Morrison who has been in fantastic form.  What do you know about him?  
ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: I've played with him a couple times.  He's a great player and, well, I'm just going to play my game and try to do the same I've been doing.  Whoever shots lowest will win.   
 Q.  He played very well in his first two games, so it was a good one to win.  
ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: Yeah, I played great today.  The best so far of the week.  I hit great shots, great iron shots.  I moved the ball like I wanted.  I felt in control and I putted good.  I made some good putts, some good saves.  Didn't miss many.  And in the end, I had a great day to beat a great player.   
 Q.  You holed a wee one on 8 and a wee one on 9; they were important putts.  
ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: Yeah, they were important.  On 8, Matt made birdie from a good range, and I had a 6-footer I think.  I knew it was very important because even if you are 3-over, you start missing those, in match play, you never know.  You might have a 20-footer and the other guy might have a 4-footer and you make it and the other guy misses it.   
Just kept going with my game, kept focusing, kept thinking about making the putts, making the birdies.  We thought about what he was doing pretty much and I knew he was going to make some good putts in the end.  I kept pushing, and I'm happy that it ended up my way.   
 Q.  How long has Janet been on the bag?  
ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: We started together this year.  She puts up with me very well.   
 Q.  What sort of qualities does she bring?  
ALEJANDRO CAÑIZARES: She is very calm on the golf course, and she loves her job and she calms me down.  It feels like I can't get as much, let's say, mad on the golf course or upset.  Sometimes you just get a little overwhelmed with bad shots, but she keeps me calmer than normal.  So it's a great partner to be on the bag with, and I'm really happy with her.  And she's really positive and she's a great, great caddie.  She's been here for 23 years I think.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT