DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 19, 2015
Alejandro Canizares
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you think of starting nicely with a /ROUP of 68 here?  
ALEJANDRO CANIZARES: It's nice, the first half, and I got a good round going on the back nine.  Feels great.  The greens were fantastic like we expected, and I started hitting some good shots coming in and making some putts and it felt good.  So happy about the round and excited about the week.   
 Q.  Does that mean there are two distinct halves to this course and the easier chance is coming home?  
ALEJANDRO CANIZARES: Well, I think there's more birdie chances on the back nine, but that doesn't mean that it was a lot easier.  I just hit better shots.  I just didn't hit it very well on the front nine.  Made some irons and I didn't make -- could have made a couple birdie putts, but I mean, it's not an easy golf course when you're trying to hit it close with 5-iron.   
But on the back nine, I did that and I played a lot better and got it going.   
 Q.  One of those lovely shots was at the last there, it's beautiful, isn't it, to pitch it in to tap-in range?  
ALEJANDRO CANIZARES: It was a perfect yardage with a 52 and I just thought, hit it normal and it came out perfect.   
 Q.  I know we touched on this yesterday as being the 62nd person into the event, but that means going out first, so have you felt the benefit of getting up in the dark and playing a course that nobody's played before?  
ALEJANDRO CANIZARES: Well, the only benefit I would think is the heat; it's a little cooler, and the greens are as smooth as they can be at the beginning.   
I don't think they are going to change much because they are in great conditions.  But when you play first, that's the advantage you have.  The greens are as good as they get.  So it was nice.  It was nice.  And with a little bit of jet-lag from China, it wasn't that hard to wake up early, so it was good.   
 Q.  I take it there were no winds out there first thing, as well; they tend to pick up.  
ALEJANDRO CANIZARES: No wind, and the back nine, just a little breeze.  But nothing really that bothers anybody.  It was a nice round and a nice day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT