AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 1, 2020
Weronika Baszak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. JIMENEZ KASINTSEVA/W. Baszak   
5-7, 6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Where did you feel like she started to sink her teeth into the match in the second and third set?  
WERONIKA BASZAK: I think in the beginning of the second set actually she started to play more aggressive and much better. I did some stupid mistakes in the beginning in the first game and second game, so it was my fault actually. I should do in the first game of the second set.   
Yeah, I was quite tired in the second set and the third one because, like, yesterday I finished my singles match so late, and I didn't have much time to rest. I think it decides that I lost.   
But, yeah, she's a very good player. She was better than me today, so I cannot say anything. She's a great player.   
 Q.  You had a lot of good matches this week. You said on court you were proud of the week you had. What are you the most proud of from the Australian Open?  
WERONIKA BASZAK: I did finals. I won five tough matches. I think I'm very proud of me because I was really fighting to end in all matches. I did two comebacks. Was really tough in the first round. I beated fifth seeded. It was such a surprise.   
Like, I was keep fighting and believe in myself, so I'm proud of that.   
 Q.  Can you tell us where your one-handed backhand comes from and how you've used it as a weapon?  
WERONIKA BASZAK: Actually from the beginning of my career, I started playing one-hander. It was my coach decision because, like, he always teaches players to play one-hander. It went that way.   
I didn't complain, so I think it's a good weapon, yeah.   
 Q.  Have you had anyone try to change it?  
WERONIKA BASZAK: No, no. I haven't had that idea. I will stay in my one-handed backhand, for sure.   
 Q.  Earlier this week we spoke about Iga here supporting you, also your coach supporting you by video call. Have you spoken to either of them after the match?  
WERONIKA BASZAK: Yeah, actually I spoken with my coach like 30 minutes ago. He's proud of me. I wanted to win today, of course. But as I said, finals are very good success.   
I have three more Grand Slams. I will do my best. Maybe I will win one of them. I'm counting for the Wimbledon this year. I love playing on the grass, so...   
 Q.  Your plan is to play all three of the rest of the slams?  
WERONIKA BASZAK: Yes, for sure. US Open will be my last junior tournament, then I will start playing pro tournaments.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT