ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 14, 2020
Nicole Larsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Talk me through your round a little bit today.
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   I didn't hit it very well.  I mean, I was pretty -- I was decent off the tee, actually better than yesterday I think.  But my approach game was so bad today, like real bad.  So I'm definitely going to hit the range now, but I hung in there and I mean 2-over is not a good score but I haven't seen any leaderboards but I feel like I'm still in it.  So I'm not out of it, and yeah, with a little bit of work on the range I should be good to go for tomorrow.
Q. So you're staying calm and feeling positive?
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   Definitely.  I feel like 2-over was the worst score I could get out of it and I had a bit of unlucky break on 10.  Hit it to the right and was in the bush, only bush out there and had to take a drop and three-putted.  That was a stupid double.  But the rest was all right, and yeah, I hit some good shots coming in.
Q. Overall you're still feeling very confident, and it is links golf?
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   Exactly.  I'm not playing my A Game, and so I mean, just to find myself up there in the first event coming back is nice, and yeah, I'm just seeing these events as like you can play free and see how it goes.
Q. And it is your first competitive LPGA event back, so you have to be pleased with the first couple days?
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   It's fine.  I wish I was playing better and hitting the ball better.  Normally I'm pretty good ball-striker but my approach game definitely was not great today.  But hopefully I'll find something and can give myself a little bit more opportunities coming into the weekend.
Q. And so therefore, the way you hung in there for that round and have scored --
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   Definitely.  I three-putted on 17, which was annoying because I felt like on the back nine, I really fought to be like only 1-over.  Yeah, so that three-putt was kind of really annoying.  But the rest was all right, and I had some good up-and-downs and yeah, I was fighting my way through it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT