U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2013
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/M. Youzhny
      6‑3, 6‑2, 3‑6, 6‑0

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What is so difficult when you play Djokovic? 
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   It's tough.   We have to ‑‑ every point you have to play.   He never miss.   He never give you some presents. 
    Okay, maybe one, two, but not consistent one.   Every point you have to win against him.

Q.   Even after the third set, never thought you could turn this around?
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   Well, I didn't think about, but I just try to continue do my best and play every point.   But he was much better and much fresh in fourth set.

Q.   Obviously so much has been made of the level he's playing right now.   Just talk about it.   You have had a great tournament thus far.   Obviously you come up against one of the top players in the world, perhaps one of the top players of all time.   Talk about, you know, trying to contest that level of play. 
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   It was good tournament for me.   And, you're right, I beat some very good players, top players.   And against Novak I can say I have many chances during this match, but still, you know, after the first set of course he was more fresh, but still I was in the game and I tried to continue.
    I can't say I'm happy, but it was good result.   And level of my game is more important for me.   It was a pretty high not only one match or one set, so it was many matches, all matches here, because every matches here it was really tough.   I play against really tough players here.
    That's why I glad how I play all these matches.

Q.   David Ferrer was saying earlier in the tournament, talking about the level that Rafa plays and the level that Novak plays.   He said, quote unquote, they're just better than me right now.   They're just better than me.   What is it about these players that, you know, that are so hard to get by?   What is it about Novak that's so difficult to beat?
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   No, I agree.   No, I agree he play better than me.   It's not guarantee when we are going to play he gonna win.   No guarantee.   Maybe if we play ten matches in a row he has more chances to win.
    But every new match you will thinking maybe this match you're going to beat him.   But these guys play more consistent.   If maybe some players can play the same free games one set, one match, play in really high level all year, not only one, two matches, one, two tournaments.   They play all year like this one.
    So of course they lose sometimes because everybody losing, but I think it's a little bit another level.   But anyway, when we gonna play against these guys, you really believe you can beat him.

Q.   Do you look at it as an opportunity also too to make yourself a better player?
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   Of course you watch how you play and you try to improve your game.   First of all, try to improve my game, and after maybe result coming.   Maybe better chance beat these players.   Watch how these guys play well, I never beat these guys.
    So I have to do something to try to be close to these guys.   Maybe you never be close to these guys, but still you try to find a way to come here.

Q.   What is the game plan when you're facing Djokovic?   What do you think that maybe you think would be the most efficient?
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   No, I don't like talking about the tactics during the match, after the match, because I'm still in the tour.   I think that if you see in the match against Hewitt and match against Djokovic it was two different matches.
    I try to be a little bit more aggressive, not like I play against Hewitt.   It's only what I can say.   But still, it was not enough to beat Novak today.

Q.   He did have to play his best to beat you today.   You had a great tournament, had some great wins.   How does it translate to your game, you know, for the rest of the year?
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   We have many tournaments and many big and good tournaments rest of the year.
    You know, it's no guarantee I coming to next tournament level be the same.   So I still have to work and keep this game if I want to ‑‑ not keep this game, I have to improve if want to going forward, not just thinking how I play in US Open.
    So I was semifinal here in 2010 and '06 and now the quarterfinal, but I still believe what I can still improve my game.   Could be a lot of work, but I hope I can do this one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT