U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2010
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. YOUZHNY/T. Robredo
  7-5, 6-2, 4-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You've had a little bit of lackluster season, this hard court season. How do you explain your performance here at the US Open?
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Actually, I get good result in Paris, Roland Garros, but after I played some tournaments, I lost second round Wimbledon first round Halle. 
 Played Davis Cup in Moscow; I lost the second point. I played just one tournament in Gstaad on clay.
 I mean, Gstaad, it was more tournament for like preparation before for the hard season. 
 Come to USA and to play two Masters, what I play not so well. I lost second and first round. So now, it's okay. In quarter already, and I hope I improve my game a little bit before next match.

 Q. Are you pleased with the way you've played today? I know you like the result, but can you comment on the way you played today?
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Yeah. I like result and actually I like how I played today.
 Of course, I have some mistakes. I was a little bit lucky in fourth set. Maybe not a little bit when I have first net ball and breakpoint; but I have some chances in third set.
 I think first set was Tommy played better than me, but third set maybe I play better than Tommy. So that's why second set just Tommy make a lot of mistakes. That's it was so easy and so fast.

 Q. Quarterfinal, making it to a quarterfinal in a Grand Slam, what does that mean to you?
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: I think it's first time in the year I have already two quarterfinals in Grand Slams. It's maybe mean I start to play a little bit more consistent, not only really, really good some tournaments and after not so well. I hope.

 Q. There were six Spanish guys that made it to the round of 16. As somebody on the tour, any explanation for why one country that's not that huge has so much success?
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Yeah, now it's a lot of Spanish guys. They play really, really well.
 Why? I think we -- actually, they have a lot of courts; they have a lot of good facilities to practice well. I think it's not really expensive to practice in Spain for Spanish people. 
 In Russia now it's much expensive to practice in Moscow. Not everybody can do this one.
 I think this is my point, and they have actually really good school, I mean, tennis school in Spain. Before they have only good results in clay, but now, my opinion, it's all hard courts going a little bit slower to previous years. That's why they can play also well on hard court.

 Q. Is there anything that when you face these guys they have in common, like something you know you're going to get from somebody? I know they're real good on clay, but is there anything they seem to all do well?
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: No. It's just I tell before maybe they play much better on clay or indoor or hard court, but now I think it's not big different between Nadal and clay court. Of course some different, but not so different like was previous years when indoors courts was faster. 
 And like when they play I think Bruguera, Berasategui it was more different than now. Now Ferrer, he has really good results on hard court. Nadal, Verdasco, Lopez even play better in hard court maybe. Montanes pass three rounds here; Robredo I think almost every round pass three rounds here. 
 So that's why start play really good hard court, as well. 

 Q. Your opponent this afternoon had a one-handed backhand. You might potentially have with Stanislas with a Wawrinka next round, face another one-handed backhand. He won twice on clay against you; you've won twice on hard court most recently in Miami, if I'm not mistaken. How would your tactics or your game vary against, you know, Stan if he should make it through compared to Querrey with a two-handed backhand? How would your game plan vary?
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: No, now I doesn't want to think actually about Stan. He still play. And will be not so well if I start to talking about Stan, because he still play.
 So, but, I don't think now about tactics. Yeah, we play three matches or four matches against Stan, and all matches were different. He have really good backhand, one-hand, but now I doesn't want to think about it, I think. 

 Q. I couldn't hear what you said on court about your victory salute. Do you give it a name? What is it? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: What kind of name you are waiting? (Smiling.) Just salute for thanks for crowd, you know. Everybody -- a lot of guys are kiss their hands and say thanks, put racquet up and say thanks. I do like this one.

 Q. Do you practice it?
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: After I winning matches. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT