U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2010
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. YOUZHNY/J. Isner
  6-4, 6-7, 7-6, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. John said he thought you were able to read his serve better than most of the other players. Do you feel that way? If so, why?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Today was tough match. I returned well, but I have some problems in my serve.   
 But maybe I was little bit lucky today that I have good return.   
  
  Q. What's it like out there when there is almost everybody for your opponent? Did you like that atmosphere? Did it bother you? Was it fun?  
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: No, was good atmosphere, but of course it's better to play not against guy from USA here. Because when is all crowd not against you but for your opponent, it's tough.   
 Anyway, we are only two players on the court. Yeah, maybe can help a little bit, but not all the time.   
  
  Q. You won the last match last year against Isner. What was the difference between this match and the last one?  
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Everybody knows he has injury before this tournament, and I think he's not recovered 100 percentage. So that's why sometimes he's moving looks likes not so well. But sometimes he starts moving normal.   
 It was tough moment. But when we play in Montréal, it was another story. He come after final. I think he play final before in Washington, so he was a little bit tired. But it was I feel pretty the same match. It was really close.   
  
  Q. Going into a match against him, are you willing to say that he's going to hit many aces and you just have to look for your spots on the return?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Yeah, of course you understand it will be aces. But here main point, if you have some chances, try to take these chance, because it will not be too many chances.   
 But if you can take in main moment like point, it's really important against Isner. And, of course, when you have two, three aces in a row, it could happen.   
  
  Q. How important was it to get the break right off the start? He was playing from behind almost from the beginning of the match.   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: He start bad. It was break, but he miss I think three or four easy balls. So it was, of course, important I won the first set because I have this break.   
 So, but, after it was another story.   
  
  Q. When he won the second set, what was your mind frame? At what point did you think you were really going to win the game?  
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Yeah, I have two break up, 5-2. Look like everybody going to my hands. Some points he play well; some points I have a lot of mistakes, and match changes.   
 So after 5-2, it's starting new match. You can say like this.   
 But I am happy, you know, because after tough situation, when I lose the second set, two break ups, I come back to court and start to play again.   
  
  Q. You've now won on center court, Arthur Ashe at the US Open. How much momentum do you think that gives you going to the next round?  
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: I hope a lot. I hope. But we will see next round.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT