SONY ERICSSON OPEN
April 1, 2010
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. SODERLING/M. Youzhny
  6-1, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. I wanted to talk to you a little bit about Magnus Norman and what he's done for you and how he's helped you develop your game and come so much farther than you have. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, he helped me a lot, that's for sure. You know, Magnus has been such a good player, and he's been through everything, you know, that I'm experiencing right now.
 You know, he played those big matches. He played a Grand Slam final. So he was a great player, and he's definitely a great coach as well.

 Q. His match in the final was against Kuerten?
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, French Open, yeah, 2000.

 Q. How did you feel tonight?
 ROBIN SODERLING: I felt okay. I think I played really well from the back of the court. I was moving well and didn't miss much.
 But I didn't serve quite the way I wanted to. I think served really well the past three matches here, but today it wasn't is good. 
 Hopefully I can improve on that tomorrow.

 Q. So you'll play... 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Berdych.

 Q. Berdych. And your experiences with him? 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Yeah, we played, I'm not sure how many times, at least five, six times. We always had good matches. He's a great player. He played really well now in the past couple of weeks. 
 I think he reached the quarters in Indian Wells, and now here he beat Roger and today Fernando. So he's definitely in good form. I really have to play well.

 Q. I know I'm projecting a little bit, but if you were to play Nadal in the final, can you say just a couple words to that? There certainly is some history there. 
 ROBIN SODERLING: Well, yeah, we played a couple of times. I won twice and lost two, three times. 
 Of course he's one of the best players in the world, if not the best one right now, so it's gonna be -- whoever I play, him or Andy, it's gonna be a very tough match. 
 That's what you have to expect in a tournament like this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT