BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 28, 2010
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/M. Youzhny
  7-5, 5-7, 6-3 
   
  Q. You must be very disappointed to lose a match that long and that close?  
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Yeah, all the time when I lose I'm disappointed. Of course you want more. Before the tournament if you say you'll play the final, you say good result. But now straight after the final, you know, when you have some chances I think -- of course if I had much more chances and I was a little bit lucky maybe. In the second set when it was 4-3 breakpoint for him, and pretty easy ball he's missing.   
 But anyway, you know, you start thinking last moments and last moments for me it was 3-All and 15-40 and I played actually good and it was two balls close to the line. If I win this game, nobody knows how it finish this match.  
  
  Q. How tough was it to resume from overnight when you were a long way down?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: It's tough because you're going to court and you understand you know if you miss some balls or if you play not so well, after 15 minutes you can go again to locker room because it's called at 2-Love, 30-15. Yesterday was also very good for me I had break up, and advantage 3-2, and was challenged and ball touched the line.   
 But anyway, I think yesterday Novak played better than today, so that's why. So it was very close set. Today I understand I have to try to play aggressive, maybe more aggressive like usually if I want to continue. If I want to save this match.  
  
  Q. Had you broken for 4-3, do you think you would have won the match with that?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: I'm not sure, because you see we have a lot of chances to break each other. Well serve bad. Maybe my serve not so well like usually. It was a lot of second serves, had a lot of double faults. And all the time we have some more chances to broke each other. Maybe after 4-3 I continue better and win this match. You never know. Now no more reason to talk about it.  
  
  Q. What was the difference between today and when you beat him two weeks ago?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: I think it was pretty same. It was, in Rotterdam I just was more like because the two tie breaks it's very close. One, two points and match changes.   
 And I think today Novak has more chances to beat me in second set. But because I was all the time down, it was really tough to know, you understand, to try, try, try every point you kind of miss. And when you looks already catch him and you won second set, and you're a little bit down, and 3-Love immediately. You have to begin the same.   
 Again, 3-All it looks like. But my stop at 3-All. I think it's problem is I was too much down all the time. And I need to all the time come him up. And maybe finally I can come back to two breakpoints. If it touches line, little bit lucky, I win the game.  
  
  Q. You had a lot of success here. You've gotten so close now twice to winning the title. Do you think it's an award that's possibly passed you by now? Do you think your best chance of winning here is gone?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Well, we'll see. I don't know if I continue play like I play now, today, yesterday, why not? But I don't know all the things. There are so many tournaments I like, so you never know.   
 I played twice final, but first final I lost to Roger Federer. It was two sets. And now I lost to Djokovic three sets. Maybe next time if something changes. Maybe not.   
  
  Q. There will be a next time though?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: But, anyway, if I will be in final, I'll try my best to get to win. But it's long, long time I have to wait, really, one year.  
  
  Q. But you're planning to come back?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: We'll see what's happening. For this moment, it's good tournament-wise to play here. But it's too long to think about it.   
  
  Q. Compared to last year, what do you think you improved in your game?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Well, I think I think I can say everything, but maybe I start to play little bit more aggressive. I sometimes play more to the net.   
 So, but actually I'm starting from September I really enjoy to play how I play. I enjoy my game. So maybe this is main reason, because when I go on to court I really enjoy and I really want to play.   
 Sometimes you work, you're tired, and you're going like for work. So I don't like to work for tennis. But you're going like work, I don't want to but I need to. And now more time I go because I really want it and I enjoy what I do even when I lost like today.   
 But actually it was good match for me. It was good level of tennis. That's why I'm disappointed because I lost, but I'm happy because it was a good level of game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT