BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 26, 2010
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. YOUZHNY/J. Melzer
  7-5, 7-6

 Q. That was hard work, wasn't it? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: It was a tough match, actually, yes. It was really close for both players. But I saved set point in the first set and both games were very close.

 Q. Do you have to adapt to play in that heat? Do you have to change something and be more economic?
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: No, he, actually -- of course, you know, before every player, we have to change something. When it's lefty or right-handed or left-handed, it's more changes. But I think Jurgen played really well today. He was aggressive. He won a lot of good points. So for me it was really tough.

 Q. It didn't change because of the conditions being very hot? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: It was hot. But, you know, I had tough tournament in Rotterdam after I have little bit injury. I just recover, and I need to play, you know, all matches. It was very tough for it. So of course before the final I was today maybe little bit slowly like usually that's Jurgen can pressure to me more. And for him it was little bit easy to attack me. 
 So that's why many points play for the standard. But, actually I serve really good on tiebreak and during the match. So during the match it was so-so, but on tiebreak I served really good.

 Q. You play in the final at night. Do you prefer the nighttime conditions? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Yeah. It's might be a little bit easier because it was not really hot, but, actually, it doesn't matter. 

 Q. Can you tell us something about India next week in the Davis Cup? Your thoughts on the tie? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Now I cannot tell you anything about Davis Cup. Only that I come back to Moscow, and I will be with the team. That's only what I know. 

 Q. Have you seen the top Indian player during the week? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: No, I didn't see how he played. But I practiced with him sometimes in previous years. I cannot tell you like I know him well, but I know him.

 Q. What about his game? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: You know, I prefer now my press conference about Dubai. Sorry, after if you want to -- next week I will be ready to talk about Davis Cup. Now I don't even want to think about it (smiling). 

 Q. You nearly didn't get past the first round, did you? Do you think that this is a fine achievement given you nearly went out? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: I don't know. First round may be toughest match in this tournament right now because it was first match after the injury. I'm still thinking about the leg how it will be.
 So I played not so well, but this guy played very good, Lacko. So I was break down second set, he served for match 30-15. He took two points. 
 Of course, I just try to play every point for 100%, and then I like it in the end because I win the match. But it was really, really tough.

 Q. And the leg now? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Oh, now it feels good. 

 Q. 100%? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: I just, you know, in Rotterdam it was tough match against Monfils, and just during the match I don't know what exactly, but it was pretty long time I think.

 Q. Your serve is doing pretty well. It's working really good. 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Sometimes.

 Q. Okay. Last two matches it was great. 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Last two matches, yeah.

 Q. They say when the shadow falls on the court, the court is very slow or much slower. Do you think there will be disability for you because you played two day matches? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: No, all courts on all tournaments going slower. But here in Dubai it's a little bit faster over other tournaments, but still slow. That's why all matches now you see play too long but longer and more rally even on hard court before. Five years ago, three years ago, it was not too much volley on hard. Now we can like 25, 20 shots, so almost normal. 

 Q. Roger Federer was the king of Dubai when he beat you in 2007, full-time champion. Do you think you've got much more of a chance tomorrow against whoever you play? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Yeah, of course. When you don't play against Roger, you have a little bit more chances against another player. But still, you know, you have Djokovic or Baghdatis. Still good players. Will be really tough for me. For these guys I hope it will be also tough.

 Q. What do you recall about your last final? Do you have a good memory for things like this? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: It was actually I enjoyed even to play Dubai. A lot of Russians come to watch the matches, and actually I enjoy here and of course when you play final. I think only if you are not losing from match points or something, you have good memory. 

 Q. Who do you prefer, Djokovic or Baghdatis? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Actually doesn't matter because I know it will be tough. All the time you prefer the guys who lost. But it's impossible. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT