WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2008
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  R. NADAL/M. Youzhny  
6-3, 6-3,6-1  
   
  Q. You didn't play that bad, but that was not enough.   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Yeah, if you want to beat Nadal you have to play not not bad, you have to play good or sometimes very good.  
  
  Q. So today it was not a close match. Last year it was a very close match. So what was the difference between last year and this year?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Difference, last year I played first two sets much better. Last three sets was the same way today. I have more time for Rafa be ready because it was long time rains and we wait too long and it was not so tough matches before.   
 And here it was just two five-set matches, not day by day, but one day off, but against Rafa it was not enough to be fresh.  
  
  Q. How difficult is it to play now Rafa on grass? What is difficult, returning the serve? What is difficult?  
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: It's difficult because he didn't miss anything. It doesn't matter if it's grass or clay. What I feel, he start to serve better than he serve before. In tough moments when you have breakpoint or something, today it was only first serve, so it's not easy.   
 Anyway, he play aggressive, and all the time you need to be on the court. You cannot beat him just in one shot, but even on grass he's fast enough to come back everything. So it's not easy.  
  
  Q. Improving on the serve and improving the speed?  
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: No, I was today not so fast. No, what I feel he improve, looks like slides, backhand and serve.  
  
  Q. Some people have said the court is slower than before, but Federer says he disagrees with that. What's your feeling, is it slower?  
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Yeah, now it's all courts slower than it was before. We don't have now fast surface, only one tournament what I know, one tournament on the grass where it was fast. Now the tournament is surface slower and slower. That's why it is too many Latino guys and Spanish guys start to play good on hard, on grass. Before it was much easier to play against these guys on grass and hard court. Now it's not a big difference between surface.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT