AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2008
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  You were playing very well today.  What happened today? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  I cannot say I played bad today, but it was too many wrong things for me, too many mistakes, and my decision was late all the time and wrong.  Not always, but it was too many. 

 Q.  Were you tired from the matches you played? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  I cannot say I felt really tired, but it was enough for going to semifinal.  Because when you think quickly, you know, you give all decisions quickly.  You don't think it's like short ball and you need to play forehand or backhand.  You just come and you play. 
 Today I need to be think sometimes what I have to do with this ball.  It was too many times.  It was too many mistakes. 

 Q.  What do you think of his game? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  I think he played very well.  He served very good, because it's fast and I think it's good percentage of first serve, because it was too many.  Actually he didn't miss a lot and he played very well today. 

 Q.  Do you think he can match Nadal? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  You know, if he play like today or -- it's tough question.  I don't want to say he can -- of course, every player now can beat anyone in the tour.  Even Tipsarevic/Federer, close match.  Depends how we come and what balls also feel in the semifinal. 

 Q.  Do you think he has some of the qualities that you need to play against Nadal to do well against him? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  If he need to beat Nadal he need to play very well.  I think Tsonga can play very well.  I cannot say he can beat Nadal, no, but he has chances. 

 Q.  You were very close to him in the third.  You had set point.  Were you surprised that he kept his nerve as well, or not?  Did you think he's a young player and he should be nervous? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  When you win matches in Grand Slam and in you're already in quarterfinal and you beat very good players before, I don't feel he has a lot of nervous.  When you have two sets up and when it's up and you don't have any chance to break, he serve very well, it's tough. 

 Q.  What makes his serve so difficult?  The pace or something else?  What makes his serve so tough to return? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  He just, he serve well and he, you know, hits ball very well.  Even on the return, the set points, it was very good and it was good return, but he played -- he played good volleys and he play after very good. 

 Q.  Do you find him difficult to pass?  He's so big. 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No, it's not difficult.  If you see, actually, I think -- I miss some set point.  He's going to net only for last ball when I already was out of the court and he just win the point. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT