U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2013
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. YOUZHNY/L. Hewitt
      6‑3, 3‑6, 6‑7, 6‑4, 7‑5

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How did you make it past Hewitt?
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   It was a tough match, and I was like in the end.   I prefer like question and answer like.

Q.   Sorry? 
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   Just question, answer. 

Q.   Can you describe your emotions after that?   You were out there for almost four hours and there was some fantastic tennis.   Just describe your emotions. 
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   No, no, I'm happy now, and it was really tough match.   Of course I'm happy because I play many matches against Lleyton, and I beat him only once in the Tokyo.
    I know that he's great player and he's great fighting player, I mean, who is fighting every point, every match.
    For me, this way what I beat him today, it's really important actually.

Q.   If I heard right, you were thanking the crowd on court for their providing you energy. 
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   Yeah, you're right.   It was in the fourth set like ‑‑it was nice atmosphere, but it was more fans for Lleyton.   I agrees.   I understand.   He is former champion and he's ‑‑yeah, when I was already down at 4‑2 I think I make some great point. 
    I say, Yes, please give me some more power.

Q.   Novak got through 6‑3, 6‑Love 6‑Love.   He is your next opponent.   Talk about atmosphere.   It will be on Ashe.   Just talk about what you expect in that match. 
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   No, yeah, it will be really tough match for me.   First of all, I need to recover after this rally and to try to be ready for 100%.   It will be another match for me, really tough to beat him, but you never know.   We will see.

Q.   What helped you, even though you're down in the fourth set and fifth set, to stay strong and ultimately come back and win the match?
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   When you're on court you just try to continue to play every match.   Never know what happens in the match like today.   Sometimes Lleyton help me, sometimes I play well, so it looks like 4‑1 down, but it was just one break. 
    Of course we have a lot of breaks today, and you understand maybe you have chance next game or just try to be focus and continue to fight.

Q.   Do you feel like you had a very good rhythm and you seemed very aggressive in going for your shots. 
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   No, it was tough match, and sometime ‑‑ it was many times during the match when I won the many games in the row and I lost many games in the row.   The same like I won many points in a row then lost like many more ten points in the row. 
    So it was good rally some.   It was some good points, and just try to best what you can. 

Q.   What do you think you will need to do besides the obvious of play great tennis?   Considering your own game, what are the things you're going to need to do to beat Novak?
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   I have to play tennis not like I play against Lleyton.   Tactically, I mean.   How, first of all, I don't know yet (smiling).   I have time to thinking about that and have the team help me with this.
    Even if I know, I never tell before the match what I have to do after, you know.   Maybe when I finish my tennis career I will talking more about what I have to do, but not now.   Sorry (smiling). 
    But I have to play well, and unbelievably well to beat him.

Q.   Is there anything today that you say, I have to correct that for this match?   Is there anything that you fell short of today?
    MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   No, always you can find something what you can do better during the match or what you need to change.
    But finally when you win the match, yeah, you can correct, but for what?   Play well one hour less or something? 
    No.   Now I doesn't want to think about it because I'm still in the tournament.   Maybe after the tournament, yeah, you can analyze it a bit more about your matches, but not now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT