WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2007
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Mikhail.   
  
  Q.  Can we ask you what happened to your back?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No, you cannot ask me (laughter).   
  
  Q.  It changed a lot, the match, after you got injured.  Is it mental or physical?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  It's physical, not mental.  If I have pain, I have pain in my back, not in my head.  If I have something in my head I ask the physio trainer to work with my head, not with back (smiling).   
  
  Q.  It was a serious thing?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  Yeah, it's serious because it disturb me a lot during the year.  It was Halle the same.  I play good, I pass two rounds, but I start to feel after second round.  I pull out from Halle.   
 I take one week rest to be ready in Wimbledon.  And here I was lucky because was a lot of rains.  I never play too much.   
 Against Nieminen we stop many, many times.  That what help me.  Today I waiting rain.  It's coming, but they said, You got one minute.  Doesn't help me.   
  
  Q.  What is the injury?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  Yeah, I know.  Problems, big disbalance between left side and right side in my back.  When I play a lot, it's disbalance more and more and I start to feel pain.   
 Actually I need time for come back my body to right position, but I don't have this time because, you know, ATP have such a good calendar for us he have very not too many mandatory tournaments, just 13.   
 That's why if you want to play good, you have to play all these tournaments.  Physically my body is not ready to play all the tournaments, but I cannot do nothing.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel about Nadal's chances in the coming matches?  He's playing every day.   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  Yeah, but yesterday he play not too much, and day before not too much.  It was tough.  Emotions was unbelievable because 4-All, they go in at 4-All.   
 But today, yeah, we play around three hours I think.  For Nadal is nothing (smiling).  I think he will be ready before tomorrow for sure.   
  
  Q.  After the second set, your standard of tennis dropped quickly.  Was there a point or particular movement that suddenly hurt your back?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No.  Tough situation because looks like I can do everything, even is with pain.  But is another level.  I cannot move like I move first and second set.   
 Is problem against Nadal.  Very tough beat him if you are not moving good.   
  
  Q.  Did you think you had any chance to win once the pain set in?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No.  I know if I call doctors, against Nadal it's very difficult, because if he see you have some problems, he has a lot of emotion, he has a lot of power, motivation maybe.   
 I think all third set I think call the doctor or not.  But after pain going more and more and I think maybe he help me.  He help me little bit, but I still feel this pain.   
 I can play, maybe not the same level like I play first and second set.  But, anyway, I play, and I think maybe something happens and I win this match.   
  
  Q.  Do you think it was more who went down or him coming up?  To talk with him, he didn't know how much you were injured.   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No, we were both -- of course, when he see I'm going down, he going up.  It's normal.  All players do like this.   
 Yeah, after, fourth and fifth sets, he no have any mistakes.  He was almost always maybe winners.  But it's tough to say now, he make the winners or I give him shots to make these winners.   
  
  Q.  You've beaten him twice this year.  You were dominating the two sets.  Were you thinking you were the better player today with no injury?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No, just look to the ranking and after we can talk about who has the better ranking, who's the better player.  No, I don't want to have answer to this question what I'm thinking about this.   
  
  Q.  Is your back something you will be able to fix, or is it always going to be a problem?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No, it's many years already problem.  But it's tough to say now what's happens if I have serve like Federer and play volley like Federer and play backhand like Nadal.  That's why I don't want to talk.   
 I lost this match.  It was close match to me, close to Rafa.   
  
  Q.  Are you very disappointed because of this injury?  Do you think if you didn't have the injury you would have won, or you don't think about that?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  I don't think about this because situations like this, okay, I don't know if I win this match if I was perfect in third set.  I don't know.   
 Maybe Rafa start to play unbelievable and he beat me anyway today.  Maybe no.  Maybe I win straight sets.   
 It's tough to say now what's happens if I don't have this pain.  I don't want to think about this.  Yeah, I have this pain, but no problem.   
  
  Q.  You seemed to be enjoying it till the last game.   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  What I have to do already?  Go 5-2, two breaks?   
  
  Q.  You seemed to be enjoying the atmosphere even right at the end.   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  It was nice atmosphere.  I tried to be positive on court.   
  
  Q.  Seems like you have more confidence in your backhand than forehand.  Is that true?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No.   
  
  Q.  Same?   
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  Yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT