WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 19, 2005
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Ladies and gentlemen, Mikhail Youzhny.  Questions, please.


Q.  What changed in the second and third set?  You looked like you were pretty dominant in the first.  Kind of turned things around. 

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No, Roddick start, it's not so good.  It was serve not like it was second and third set.  And second and third set he served much better it was first set.  I am starting from middle of second set serve, you know -- my percentage was not so high like in first set.  n my serve, you know, we start to play already.  And his serve, it was -- for him it was much easy. 

Q.  Will you be going on to the next tournament, the Pilot Pen, to be continuing your warm-up for the US Open? 

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No.  From here we're going straight to US Open.  We have, you know, some points we have to clean little bit before the Grand Slam.  Next tournament, US Open. 

Q.  What happened with your serve in the last couple -- it seemed like he had an easier time picking it up.  Just wasn't working as well for you?

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  What again? 

Q.  Your serve in the second and third sets. 

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No, I cannot say it was bad serve but, you know, percentage was not so high like was in first set.  And, you know, Roddick start to return my serve, you know. And if I win this point, already I start to (running?).  It's not a lot of pressure, but it's already little bit pressure for my serve. And his serve, you know, I thought already he serve very good and too many aces where I just (inaudible) the ball. 

Q.  Did the heat or temperatures, conditions out there bother you at all?

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No, it was no problem. 

Q.  How did you feel with the crowd being behind Roddick so much? 

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  What? 

Q.  The fans. 

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No, USA.  I understand we play in USA.  But it was -- I saw some Russians, he say (speaking in Russian).  It was some Russians, and they help me little bit.  But the spectators was really polited for both players.  You know, didn't say nothing against me and before serve, during the point - nothing.  That's why not a lot of problem.

Q.  The other day Safin said that you are the only player on tour who's "Made in Russia," so you practice there, you live there, you stay there.  What's good about just staying in Russia? 

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  You know, it's my home.  Where you stay? 

Q.  Because maybe abroad you can get better training. 

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No, no.  I like to go back to my home, to my family, to my apartment.  You know, we travel a lot and, you know, I am very Russians and I am happy when I home.  I need some time rest in my mind a little because it's tough when you all year traveling.  If I would practice, you know, outside from my country, for me, it's all really tough.  That's why I don't want to change nothing.  I have good team in Russia:  Fitness coach, my coach, masseur, everything.  I have very good club where I practice - I have a lot of time, and I practice whenever I want.  That's why I don't need to change something.

Q.  So do you disagree with the comment from Safin, he said the Russian federation is like a joke. 

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  You know, what does it mean, "joke"?  You know, for me, yeah, but we (sic) help me a lot.  Even Tarpischev.  If, you know, I don't have any problems outside the tennis or if I need balls, if I need sparring partners, whatever I want, I need just call to tennis federation and we (sic) help me with whatever I want, you know.  I don't know, maybe he has another situations.  But I cannot say it's federation, like Russian federation is joke.  You know, if our federation was like joke, we never win Davis Cup and we never win Fed Cup. 

Q.  Who do you practice with? 

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  We have young players in Moscow, you know.  We have some sparring guy.  I can take just two guys put in our side.  I have good coach help me.  I need to work sometimes with box.  You know, I have a brother, so if I have problems he always can help me.  And we have a lot of young players who, you know, who really want to play and practice very good. 

Q.  You've defeated Roddick twice out of three times prior to tonight.  What was the difference tonight in contrast to your other two victories, do you think? 

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  You know, it's -- I don't know.  For me, it was almost the same.  Nothing special. 

Q.  When he broke you in the third set, did you still believe that you could return, get this break back?

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  You know, of course I believe, but it was tough.  You know, it was one game it was Love-15 and I have mistake and from backhand - I think it was 4-2 or something.  I don't remember exactly the score.  But it was maybe not really chance.  But he serve well.  That's why he don't give me any chance to broke him.  But I believe for I can, you know, break him. 

Q.  Are you satisfied with the way you played tonight? 

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  What again? 

Q.  Are you satisfied with the way you played tonight, your tennis?

MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  Yes, for this moment, you know, it was maybe -- maybe it was the best my match after injury.  That's why of course I feeling I slowly, but I come back.  And if I can play here, maybe in US Open I can play the same things - maybe better.  For this moment, yes. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT