WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 18, 2005
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  You did a little salute after the match.  Do you remember?
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Just happy to get through?
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  You know, I start this -- I think first time I started this one, last year in US Open after Nalbandian.  I like it, you know, because after the match, you know, everybody going (waving), say like this.  Srichaphan doing like (bowing), Thai guys.  But I think Russian, I can do like this. 
 
Q.  So you do that after every victory?
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  You know, when a lot of spectators and there is a good court, yes.  Because I didn't do it when I play Court 20 and nobody sees it (smiling). 
 
Q.  Can you talk about your match against Roddick, your upcoming match.
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  Long time I didn't play against Roddick.  Last time we play Australia Open 2003 and I lost. You know, now he is different, me different.  But it will be tough match because I play very tough three matches here.  You know, I don't know about result, what his result is.  But my result now in this year, it's first quarterfinal in Super 9 tournaments here. Now I enjoy my game, and I just try play my best tennis here. 
 
Q.  How are you different?  You talk about you're two different players from two years ago.
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  Yeah, because, you know, long time after Roddick be No. 1, after he be No. 2. And me also.  Last year, before -- 2003 I finish around 40.  I was little bit down.  After I be Top 20.  After I have injury, I didn't play long time.  Now I hope I go on top again. 
 
Q.  You did beat him two times before he beat you the last time.  Do you feel like you have a game that is going to, you know, be tough for him to stop?
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No.  Against Roddick for players play tough because he has great serve. But I think it's Roddick in America and Roddick when he play in Europe or somewhere, it's two difference players.  I beat him two times in Europe, but I never play against him in America.  But heres he play much better than Europe.  Here play against Roddick much tough for me. 
 
Q.  He said that you are very aggressive.  He's been talking about how he's trying to get more aggressive.  I'm guessing it might be a matter of who can control the match.  Do you think you can control the match or dictate the action?
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No.  If you serve good against Roddick, if you keep your serve very easy - not very, but, you know - yeah, you can control a game against Roddick. But, you know, if you -- every serve game play advantage and his serve you just 40-15, 40-Love, it's tough play against him.  You need keep your serve first, and after try.  Because for sure, one, two times in match you have chance to break him. 
 
Q.  You haven't returned against him in two years.  How much better has the serve gotten?
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  What? 
 
Q.  How much better has his serve gotten, do you think, in the last two years?
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  Roddick (smiling)? 
 
Q.  Yeah.  Or do you think it is the same as it was?
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  I didn't see him long time this year.  That's why, you know, I know. Sometimes he, you know -- like all players, sometimes he can play his serve really good and nobody can beat him, and sometimes -- because Roddick, if he doesn't serve good, sorry, but he's already not Top 5 player. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT