AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2003
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  What was the point that you felt that match turned?  What did you feel was the turning point?
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No, there's no turn.  Very tough match.  I won first two sets, but after break was very bad game because was 2-All, maybe three easy mistakes.  After it was also the same, but at 5-4, was deuce.  After serve, two easy mistakes.  Fourth and fifth sets, Andy plays better already because I'm a little bit tired.  He started better serve.  I have chance sometimes.  Fourth set, it was 4-3 or 4-2, but he played good today. 
 
Q.  For all Andy's physical abilities as a tennis player, his reputation is of being that not strong mentally.  Were you surprised today that he was able to come back as hard and as long as he did?
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No, is not surprise for me.  All matches on fifth sets is very tough for players because everythings, it's mental, everythings.  If you play fifth sets, no.  In beginning, of course, it's better, you play better sometimes.  No, today it was play tough.  After three sets, for me it was very tough. 
 
Q.  You probably are aware that the tournament's heat policy came into effect during your match. 
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  When I play first match, for me it was the same.  It's not was sun.  I don't have.  
 
Q.  He comes from south Florida where it's hotter than this all the time.  Of course, you come from Russia where it's a little colder.  Do you think that had an effect?
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  Before Australia Open we practice one month, three weeks in Thailand.  It was every times in Thailand 34, 32.  It's every day was 32.  It's here play easy of Thailand practice.  Thailand practice, it was very tough because weather was unbelievable.  It's not like here.  Here for me, play easy.  Before Australia Open, it was a good practice for one months.  It was good weather.  After this practice, it's here pretty easy. 
 
Q.  You came back in Paris from two sets down.  I guess it happens to everybody. 
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  What?  
 
Q.  Could you feel it slipping away?  Could you feel that it wasn't going to be your day? 
 
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:  No, it was usually, like the same every match.  Sleep well, breakfast well.  No, it's all the same.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT