DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 25, 2013
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. YOUZHNY/B. Kavcic
  1‑6, 6‑1, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   So why the slow start?  
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   It was bad start for me.   Like first half an hour, first set, I played so many mistakes.   He played okay, like normal, but I have too many mistakes.  
   
 Q.   How did you manage to turn it around?  
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   He helped me a little bit actually in the beginning of the second set.   First game he made two double faults, one mistake.   After the break was a little bit easy, you know.   You have even better motivation to come back to the court.  
So that's why I just tried to continue to play, just try to put more ball into the court and doesn't have too many mistakes.  
Anyway, match was a little bit nervous for me after the first set because it's tough conditions to play.   It was too many mistakes, and it was tough, tough match for me.  
   
 Q.   Surviving a match like that or coming through a match like that, first round, does that give you confidence going forward?  
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   It's a little tough to say now.   Actually, I'm happy because I didn't play good, doesn't show my good tennis.  
But I pass first round.   I know the second round will be also tough.   You know, you can feel really confidence and lose second round or you feel really bad and play finals.  
I try not to think about this.   I try to go in the court and just play.  
   
 Q.   You've got a very good record here, two finals.   Why do you think you play so well here?   Is it something about the place you like?  
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   I like place here.   I like to play here, actually.  
Maybe the surface a little bit faster, or now the tournament maybe I was just lucky sometimes to have a good, like good form.   First final was afterI won Rotterdam, I coming straight and next day I had the first round and go just straight.   
The second final was also after the good results in Rotterdam final.   But if you see, I have some pretty good draws, I mean, compared of what I can have.   I can have Roger second round or semifinal, the same with Novak.  
It's tough to say why, but I enjoy to be here, enjoy the atmosphere and during the matches here, a lot of Russians here while I stay in Dubai.   It's nice here for me.   
   
 Q.   In Davis Cup you play against Britain in April.   How important will that be for Russia?   You have had many years in the World Group.   
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   I think it's important match for us, and I think Russia has to be in the World Group and our level of the tennis, level of our players, it's not in the first group.  
But now we are in first group, and anyway, it's important for Russia not to go really down.   That's why now all matches, any match for us is important.  
   
 Q.   Andy Murray will not play.   Would you expect to be the favorites to win that?  
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   No.   Of course is right now Great Britain with Andy and without him is big difference.   But anyway, you have good players who play in Great Britain.   
Of course it's a little bit advantage for us because he is not playing, but it's not guarantee that we are going to win.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever been to Coventry?   
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   I taking good before, but I don't know about ‑‑I don't know.   It's too early.   We have to‑‑ I mean, two Masters 1000 tournaments, Indian Wells and Miami, and we will see.  
   
 Q.   You play Daniel Brands next round, German qualifier.   Have you ever played Daniel before, or what are you expecting?  
MIKHAIL YOUZHNY:   I played I think couple of times against him.   He starts pretty good with season.   He was semifinal I think in Doha.   He had very good results this year on this surface with his big serve.   It will be pretty tough.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT