DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 22, 2011
Mikhail Youzhny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. SIMON/M. Youzhny
  6-3, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Your reaction to the straight-sets defeat this evening? You must be quite disappointed to have lost. 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Yeah, of course I'm not happy. When I lost I cannot be happy. It's tennis. Sometimes you win; sometimes you lose. 
 So today it was not best match for me, but actually Simon played good.

 Q. You obviously had a winning record against him, 7-nil up. What were you trying to do out there? What did Gilles do which caused you trouble tonight?
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: When I go to play new match, I never think about what's happened before. You know, we don't have a big different? Yeah, it's 7-0. Yeah, before I won seven matches. But, you know, I can lose before two, three matches also, maybe four. 
 All matches was very close. So before I win; today, he win. 

 Q. There were times where it was a bit nip and tuck and you are obviously quite well matched. Do you think it was only small margins here and there? On another day you might have taken it to a third? How do you see it? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: I tell you already. It's new match it's like new life. You never know what's happens in new match. I played not bad previous weeks. I just came from Marseilles, and looks like was not enough to play from indoor to outdoor like one and a half day. 
 So it's like maybe I was not really focused during the long points. Sometimes I play good, three, four, maybe five shots, and after I make mistake because during the point a lot of time I missed the ball.

 Q. Obviously it's different conditions from Marseille; the court is faster as well. It's quite fast. Is it difficult to acclimatize to the court? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: Yeah, it's not easy, but I know before the tournament it could be like this. If you play good Marseilles, you will have tough first matches in Dubai. Doesn't matter against whom you're going to play. 
 That's why it was my decision. I knew about it's could happen like today. 

 Q. Is this the best he played against you? 
 MIKHAIL YOUZHNY: No, I think it was not the best of our matches. We both just start to play outside after Marseilles. Maybe he has some days more; I have some days less. 
 But I think it was not best tennis from our side. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT