WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 10, 2009
Ted Lilly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TED LILLY: This is a great place to pitch, I think. And, you know, I definitely came on this trip and was part of this so that I could pitch and be part of this team on the field.   
 So I'm going to get a chance tomorrow.  
  
  Q. A bit of a rye smile before the introductions?  
 TED LILLY: That was funny. You know, there was a little bit of thought that that might happen. And so I guess the best part about it is that they, you know, remembered that I played here.   
 I had a great time playing here, too.  
  
  Q. Chomping at the bit a little bit after, you know, watching this for four days?  
 TED LILLY: It feels like it's been a long time since I've pitched. Not even sure when I pitched last, probably been a week maybe, something like that. So definitely eager to get out there.  
  
  Q. Did you have a bullpen yesterday?  
 TED LILLY: Two days ago. I'm fresh and definitely well rested and looking forward to it.  
  
  Q. What's your pitch count like in general? What you got up to in Detroit?  
 TED LILLY: Um, hard to say. I'm not really sure what my pitch count is. You know, I'm going to try to just go out there and really try and keep it as simple as possible. It's clearly not a regular season start or anything like that, but I'm going to go out there and a try and focus on just getting one guy out at a time. And then go as long as I can until they pull me out.   
 My guess is, my pitch count's probably right around 50, something like that. You know, I don't know, you know, somewhere around there.  
  
  Q. How important is it not to let the foot off the gas tomorrow? I know you don't have to win, but just to keep it going?  
 TED LILLY: Well, we want to win. We don't have to win, we -- even though we don't have to win, we want to play well. It's not a must win but we're going to go about it as we did the other games.   
 And I'm sure once it gets going, it's going to be competitive. It will be fun. And either team we face, you know, I think is going to be a good challenge.   
 Italy obviously's playing well. They beat a very good Canadian team last night. And Venezuela has a lot of talent as well. So it will be fun.  
  
  Q. Anyone in that Venezuela line-up who has given you trouble in the past?  
 TED LILLY: Not that I can think of. I guess, you know, any of them in that line-up are capable of hitting pitches that aren't executed, and that's my goal. And I feel like if I make my pitches, you know, I expect to get good results. And if I don't make good pitches, it's hard to expect things to go well.   
 Like I said, there's a lot of good hitters in that line-up, and you go out there and you need to make pitches regardless.   
 I think that's one of the reasons why you've seen some upsets. Even though a guy might not have a lot of major league experience, if pitches out there aren't being executed, there's going to be runs scored.  
  
  Q. You're playing with a lot of these guys for the first time. Anybody in particular who is fun to be a teammate with or to see do his thing on your side?  
 TED LILLY: You know, Adam Dunn is a lot of fun. He is one guy that jumps to mind when you ask that question. He's got a lot of energy, and he keeps things light. He's been a lot of fun in a short amount of time. You know, he's the guy that I guess it just hasn't taken him long to -- you know, he is himself and hasn't taken him long to kind of, you know, warm everybody up and keep the mood light. Just an easy going guy.   
  
  Q. What about facing him as a power guy? I know he is a lefty.   
 TED LILLY: Yeah, he is a dangerous hitter. You know, you look at what he does over his career and, you know, he's going to strikeout, he's going to walk, and he's going to hit balls really far. And that's what he does. So his game -- you know, you make mistakes to a guy like that. You're lucky if he hits a single up the middle.  
  
  Q. He was one of those guys over the off-season, him and Abreu and a few others, who were just so good for so long, but it took them a long time to get a job. As a fellow player, were you surprised that some of those guys, it took them forever to find even two years?  
 TED LILLY: Yeah. Kind of strange. That's another topic, though.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT