AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v RAYS
October 16, 2008
Joe Maddon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Joe, I thought Scotty showed a lot of fortitude out there with his performance. Is it just a shame that the bullpen let him down a little bit?  
 JOE MADDON: Well, that's been one of our biggest strong points all season has been the bullpen. Kaz was very good tonight, two hits I think it was. How many strikeouts? Seven? I thought he had some of those, too.   
 He was very good. You feel pretty good about seven-run lead at that part of the game with Grant and Danny coming into it, it just didn't want to happen. There goes Papi and there goes Drew. I mean, that just can happen at any time. We just have to go back home and get it going again.   
  
  Q. The outcome, notwithstanding, are you able for a moment yet to appreciate -- not appreciate, but understand the magnitude of this game?  
 JOE MADDON: Yeah, I mean, of course, if we had won it, we'd be in the World Series by now. We'll just have to wait one more day, hopefully, to get that done.   
 Listen, it is what it is. I don't dwell on it. Nobody feels worse than the guy out of our bullpen right now. Nobody feels worse. They've done a tremendous job all year. I thought we played a great game. They just came back and beat us tonight. That happens sometimes. We're going to go home, take tomorrow off and come back, and Shields will pitch in Game No. 6.   
 But you can't dwell on it. Again, we'll lose for a half hour or so and then we'll move on. We have another game to play.  
  
  Q. Did you have any thought of bringing in Howell or Miller to pitch to Ortiz with the two guys on?  
 JOE MADDON: No, we've been doing that all year. Grant has been very good in that situation, actually. He just got him tonight.   
 If you had been watching us all season, that's the situation where Grant has really done well. He's been kind of like that middle closer guy, and I felt pretty good about it. Papi just got him.   
  
  Q. Were you planning for Wheeler to go the rest of the way, seven outs, or did you have someone else in mind to close the game?  
 JOE MADDON: Just depends on how it went, the number of pitches he was throwing, whether he was stressed or not, and we still had J.P. and Chad Bradford in those situations.   
 Again, I just wanted to try to stop the bleeding at that point, and if we had -- if you do something like that, you possibly could score more runs. It doesn't have to stay at 7 to 4.   
 So I felt good about Dan. He was going to go as far as I thought he could, and then we had J.P. and Chad behind him.   
  
  Q. How tough would it be to get your club regrouped for Saturday after the devastating loss?  
 JOE MADDON: I don't think it'll be that tough, actually. Again, it's one game, it's a loss. Obviously we're in a pretty good position to move on. Earlier in the game we gave it up. But if you dwell on something like that and you permit your mind to dwell in that negative mode, then nothing good can happen after that.   
 Of course we're upset, of course we don't like losing that game, of course. But to dwell on it does no good whatsoever. We'll lose heart for about a half hour or so, get on that plane, go home, and then we'll come back out for Game 6 and roll it out there again.   
 I'm a firm believer in that. The more you dwell on something in a negative sense, the more it can permeate your whole existence, so we're not going to do that.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT