MLB WINTER MEETINGS
December 5, 2006
Joe Maddon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  So, what's your opening day lineup? 
 JOE MADDON:  Wow.  Opening day would be Navarro, Kazmir, Delmon Young, Rocco, Carl, Zobrist, Cantu, I would say Wiggy and who am I missing? 

 Q.  Mora? 
 JOE MADDON:  Yes.  And sign that. 

 Q.  Eight? 
 JOE MADDON:  I'd love to say Aki is in there somewhere.  Yeah.  I did say Aki, didn't I? 

 Q.  Yeah, you did. 
 JOE MADDON:  I'm not going to give you a batting order yet, but it's kind of an interesting group. 

 Q.  We're missing one here? 
 JOE MADDON:  The DH? 

 Q.  You need a DH? 
 JOE MADDON:  Probably Mori, a right-handed pitcher, or Johnny Gomes, a left-handed, something like that.  It's getting a little bit thicker, you know.  These guys are a little bit more experienced. 

 Q.  Need a first or third baseman, too? 
 JOE MADDON:  Said Wiggy and Aki, too. 

 Q.  You want to put him in there? 
 JOE MADDON:  Yeah.  Yeah.  Aki can play third.  Does that make it up right?  One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.  There you go.  Yeah. 

 Q.  That leaves BJ where?  The trading block? 
 JOE MADDON:  We'll see.  It's like I'm saying, we have so many more players.  There are more options going to be presented to us.  BJ is in the running there.  I -- Wiggy had such a good year last year.  Norty, a DH, very interesting.  Aki, if we can get that done, is a very interesting addition to our group.  Um, there's just a lot of different -- there's a lot of different potentiality there is. 

 Q.  So the point of you don't know? 
 JOE MADDON:  I don't.  There's some nice names there.  I mean, the thing we'd like to be able to do too is just to get the -- to thicken up the pitching a little bit also, but it's turning into an interesting group. 

 Q.  If we wind up with the addition of Iwamura, is that sort of like pushing BJ up with the outfield? 
 JOE MADDON:  My biggest thing is I always like to see guys first before I make those kind of decisions.  Like with BJ, he did some nice work at third base last year.  Obviously, he made some mistakes.  There still is that consideration to move him into the outfield.  We have talked about that. 

 Q.  As we get through these meetings and as we get closer to spring training and as this thing takes better shape and form, at that point, I will be able to make better determinations in regard to somebody else in the outfield or not. 
 Getting Aki would be a very interesting situation period for us, because just hearing what kind of a player he is and having met him the other night, it really does thicken us up in a good way also.  So, I just think these meetings are important. 
 What we do over the next couple of days and obviously over the next couple of weeks and as we get closer to the spring, that stuff will crystallize.  It is really hard.  It is not a set lineup, it is close to a set lineup.  I have talked about that all last year.  I would like to have a set lineup.  I think it is very important to go out with the same people on a daily basis and pretty much the same batting order too, the exception would be versus a right or left-handed pitcher. 

 Q.  You talk about the core, talked about identifying the core and around those guys, just mentioned a whole bunch of them.  In terms of pitching order, how close are you to finding that? 
 JOE MADDON:  Well, that's even a better question, I think, because the position players, I think we're pretty much in agreement.  It is a nice group, and it can be a nice core group for years.  We got to have Kaz come back well, which we think he is going to be fine.  Shields is well.  Jason did a nice job.  Casey coming off surgery, very important for us also.  And then, of course, here comes the fifth starter, and then we get back to the amorphic bullpen and trying to really create some form about that before we get to the regular season. 
 Again, if you look at -- we are like any other team.  You look at the losses last year.  A lot of that occurred because of what we couldn't do late in the game, particularly on the pitching mound.  So, we do need to answer some questions there.  Definitely want to get better in that regard. 
 A couple of guys that might have begun to establish themselves and maybe Camper? 
 I thought Camper did a great job.  Lugo did a great job.  To a certain extent, Seth McClung showed promise at the end of last season.  I thought Danny Miceli did a nice job at the end of last season also.  We just have to wait and see.  There's no definitive answers, I don't think, at this point time.  I think they are all really good names.  I think some guys really did prove themselves and put themselves in prime position for this year, but we still would like to augment that group. 

 Q.  Are you confident going into spring training, knowing McClung is your closer?  Or is that something you wanted some insurance? 
 JOE MADDON:  Am I confident?  I'd like to see us get a little bit, maybe could develop more options there.  That would be good thing. 
 I don't -- we talked about, you know, ordaining people from the past and the sense of entitlement program that's going on.  Seth did some nice work, but he doesn't necessarily become a major league closer yet.  So, we really have to look at that closely and make sure we are going in the right direction with that also.  So, just to say that he's a the closer, I'm not willing to say that. 

 Q.  Is there a chance of moving him to first place, like you said, play first base? 
 JOE MADDON:  Seth?  No chance of moving him to first base. 
 Um, how much would it help if you could get a veteran starter or two?  I mean, you've got young arms there, but you've been on staffs that have had the veteran. 
 JOE MADDON:  Right. 

 Q.  How much would that -- 
 JOE MADDON:  It would help a lot.  I mean, if we could get one guy, a veteran-wise starting pitcher to really solidify that group, that would be nice.  If it doesn't happen, I think Hammel and Howell and Stokes did some nice work at the end of last season that can vie for that particular spot.  You got a Talbot coming up in the minor leagues as an example also. 
 So, there's different options, but if you're really trying to get to that next level, which we are trying to get to, getting somebody out there that can solidify that group would be nice, an anchor beyond a young guy like Kazmir, who is an anchor but a young guy. 

 Q.  You have some questions about Kaz? 
 JOE MADDON:  Right. 

 Q.  About Casey? 
 JOE MADDON:  Right, health issues. 

 Q.  Jamie, half a year? 
 JOE MADDON:  Right. 

 Q.  No certainty there in the guys in any of those names? 
 JOE MADDON:  No, there is no certainty.  Those are the guys.  We like the guys a lot.  Any time, if you could add one real crusty veteran in there that knows what he is doing, that would always be a nice addition.  If it doesn't happen, and it may not, of course we've a pool of other guys to draw from and we will do that. 

 Q.  Sure. 
 JOE MADDON:  Those are all part of the ongoing discussions right now. 

 Q.  With all the change that you had last year, the players, a lot of trades, a lot of movement, struggled very much in the second half.  What would be reasonable level of improvement to shoot for? 
 JOE MADDON:  I've been thinking about that a lot.  I mean, for example, I would like to see us get even better at home.  Played a little bit over .500 at home.  I think it is reasonable to play at least 10 games over .500 at home, and then we just have to get much closer to .500 on the road. 
 I think that was abysmal last year.  I think the first time to play over .500 at home and lose over 100 games and that's not right.  No excuses to be made.  I mean, a lot of close games, a lot of well-played games.  We did a lot of good things, but couldn't get it done, couldn't make the same plays on the road we made at home, and somehow we have to get to the point where we can. 
 So, I've been thinking about it in those terms.  I really want to address the players at the beginning of camp and talk about that specifically.  Let's continue what we've been doing at the pit, and let's do something better on the road and not just sweep it under the rug or just hope that it becomes better.  We need to talk about it and figure out why we weren't that good there and how we can get better there. 

 Q.  You mentioned you met Mori the other night? 
 JOE MADDON:  Yes. 

 Q.  Talk about your impressions of him as a person.  Did he spend some time with you? 
 JOE MADDON:  Flamboyant.  Gregarious.  Even though I couldn't understand everything he was saying because I don't speak very good Japanese, just a very outgoing, interesting kind of a fella.  I think that from what I gathered, he really wants to play here.  He's very self-confident, I think he will be successful here.  I enjoyed our meeting.  It was very good. 

 Q.  What's the status on Shinji Mori as far as working out? 
 JOE MADDON:  Mori right now, I understand he's doing better, but velocity still hasn't come back to a reasonable level at this point, so we have to wait on Shinji at this time, but he is making progress. 

 Q.  Do you expect him for the full recovery the beginning of the spring training? 
 JOE MADDON:  I don't think so.  I'm not expecting a full recovery by spring training.  No. 

 Q.  The season after Julio Lugo was traded, what did you miss most about him in the lineup? 
 JOE MADDON:  Just saying hello to him every day.  He is very contagious.  Then in the dugout prior to the game, this guy's the kind of guy that runs up and down the dugout, slaps everybody, high-five, has a special handshake for everybody, plays with enthusiasm always.  He's very contagious.  He's a leader.  He's a leader in the sense that he sets a good example.  Just missed his presence on a daily basis. 

 Q.  A lot of rumors and speculation, especially about the AL East and the Red Sox.  If Manny Ramirez was traded away from the Red Sox, how does that change the division? 
 JOE MADDON:  I don't know.  They are still pretty good.  Ortiz is still pretty good there.  It does impact them in their lineup.  They would need protection for him somehow for Ortiz.  If Ortiz is going there naked, I mean, all of a sudden, really don't have to pitch to him.  So, it can impact their offense in a pretty dramatic way possible.  I would say that that stands out to me the most, that thought. 

 Q.  You talked a little bit about how you kind of have pretty much a set lineup.  You have got a whole new rotation.  A lot of speculation, you know, trade Baldelli, Crawford to get a pitcher.  Is that something you just moved a hole from one place to another? 
 JOE MADDON:  You could look at it that way, but the one area we are covered is in the outfield a little bit.  I mean, that would be the one spot, if there is any particular areas within our system that we can cover, we think we can cover center field or in the outfield.  So, if something like that were to happen, we feel as though that's the one spot we can do something about internally. 

 Q.  Trying to get a number-one kind of pitcher, the starting rotation, is that designed to take the edge off of the younger pitchers so they won't throw as many hard innings as opposed to what they did previous years? 
 JOE MADDON:  It is just a matter of getting somebody else in there not to take a burden off them in a sense, just to augment and possibly set a good direction or example for these guys.  I mean, Kaz is growing up fast.  I think Shields can grow up pretty quickly also.  I think Jason staying healthy is capable of winning 12 to 15 games also. 
 So, I think that core group there.  Casey coming back, Casey was pitching good before he went down.  That is just a matter of getting five guys you like out there.  I know every team would like to have five guys out there you like.  I think it lends to longer wing streaks, and, obviously, later in the season, having a chance to make it to the playoffs.  The biggest reason is just to make the staff cut. 

 Q.  What is your personal preference?  Would you rather have more of a veteran kind of bullpen or -- because they've been through the wars? 
 JOE MADDON:  My thing with the bullpen, I'll say it -- I will always say it, like to have four guys you like to pitch when you are even or ahead, regardless if they are younger or older, just four guys you feel comfortable with.  I think when that you have kind of mix in the bullpen, you can't sustain the winning streaks. 
 When you don't have those four guys, it is difficult.  You win two or three games in a row.  Expand the couple of guys and all of a sudden back off and the win/loss can pop up and you have good secondary pitching.  That is good also.  But my formula, four guys to pitch even or ahead, and if you have that, you can sustain long running streaks. 

 Q.  Now, would you consider Niemann an outside shot at number five or is he even going to be looked at for that? 
 JOE MADDON:  I don't know that yet.  I mean, he did well in the fall league.  He had to shut it down at the end a little bit, but that -- again we will have to look at that in the spring.  I'm not counting on it at this particular moment, but not saying it is impossible. 

 Q.  Have you talked to him? 
 JOE MADDON:  No, I have not. 

 Q.  Is he one of those guys you probably have to see or an organization have to make a few starts in the minors in a row without breaking down? 
 JOE MADDON:  Yeah.  I mean, he needs to come back.  I mean, it is -- the long playoff apparently done some good things at the end of the season.  Going into next year, health will be an issue, I agree with you.  It will have some success.  Very important.  Also, to just get him out there pitching on a regular basis would probably be primary, and if we can do that, we will see what happens after that.  But he is an interesting young man and heard some good things about the ball. 

 Q.  What do you think of the guys most likely to be up in the from AAA to AA be in your team by mid-season or beyond? 
 JOE MADDON:  Geez, haven't even speculated on that.  We have some nice kids coming up.  AA team did a nice job last year.  Of course, Longoria's name jumps out.  Brignac's name jumps out.  We have a nice group.  I guess you look at "Baseball America" ranked us number one among all minor league systems.  So, obviously, we have a number of players competing to get to our situation. 
 For me, I don't jump the gun on that kind of stuff.  Just look at the major league group.  This group will come up.  This group will come to camp and evaluate them.  Heads up.  It is nice coming into my second camp.  You hear about all these people, see them on the field.  It's really important for me to see people on the field and interact with them.  At that point, I think you really get a better understanding of what everybody's about, what they're like, what you really think their level of play is. 

 Q.  Joe, looks like a very real possibility you will play a three-game series around the corner from here in Orlando.  Do you welcome that possibility in that's obviously one fewer series you will play at the Trop? 
 JOE MADDON:  Right. 

 Q.  And one more series where you have to beat someone on the road? 
 JOE MADDON:  Yeah, but I'm okay with it.  I kind of think it's an interesting thought.  We are trying to expand our fan base within the state of Florida.  Looking at the schedule, the way it might break down, I don't think it will be a bad thing.  I think it could be good for us.  It could be good for the entire state of Florida.  I'm okay with it.  I really don't see the negative, I understand about the away game, it is not really a big travel situation for us.  That's not a bad ride, but I think it will be kind of interesting to get out, get in the community or the state, community-at-large, and I'm okay with it.  Doesn't bother me. 

 Q.  Joe, I know that finances aren't your decision, but does the spending around the rest of baseball worry you at all, knowing some of the limitations that are placed on teams in smaller markets? 
 JOE MADDON:  You know, I addressed our players about that at dinner last season, and what I told them, the moment I start worrying or talking about that, then I'm telling you, the players, that you're not good enough.  So, for me, that is not a decision I had to make.  I came into the decision knowing the circumstances, knowing what we are able to do, and I'm fine with that.  That's not my responsibility. 
 My responsibility is to take the players that we're given and try to do the best that we can and I believe that we can.  I like the developmental aspects.  I like the fact that you can join a core group together, right here, now.  Of course, to augment a situation with a well-chosen free agent or two would be interesting, but for me, I want our guys to understand that this is what we're about.  This is where we're coming from. 
 There's no excuses to be made.  We know the rules.  Everybody plays the same game.  So, I'm okay with it.  I really am.  I find it interesting.  I find it a great challenge.  I know, I'm crazy, but I kind of -- I kind of like the whole scene, and I love playing the American League East.  It's the only place to play. 
 I love the nightly atmosphere when we play the Yankees and the Red Sox and Toronto, and et cetera.  I like it.  I really do like it.  And I think it's a great challenge for us to compete within this organism, within the parameters that we have set for ourselves. 

 Q.  At the same time ago, a month ago, you guys are making the same amount of money that you are making now, but a month ago, the salaries then as opposed to the salaries now, which is -- I mean, do you get the feeling that the collective bargaining agreement might have hindered smaller-market teams and pushed them away? 
 JOE MADDON:  You know, honestly, I have not really set -- I have been painting walls the last couple of weeks.  So, I haven't really sat down and taken it to that level.  And honestly, I really mean this, I don't worry about stuff like that.  And I really -- it is not my concern in a sense. 
 Andrew and the guys do, and Matthew and Danny and Jerry, they are all doing this stuff to put our group together.  I really feel, for me, it is important to keep myself and our group focused on -- on doing the pure baseball things and getting this group better.  And I'm good with that.  I like that challenge and I find it very interesting. 
 So, what you're saying probably have some merit to it.  I mean, the fact that the game is healthy and we just -- the bargain agreement has occurred and everybody's feeling a golden era going on right now, and that's understandable, but from my perspective, our perspective here, this is how the Rays operate.  And I'm good with it.  And it's up to us.  And me being the manager, it is incumbent upon me to make sure within these parameters that we get better and we are going to do that. 

 Q.  You said a couple of times toward the end of last season you were going to communicate with the players during the winter and address some of them.  How do you think, having had a year now, will you be different, in terms of temperament and atmosphere and discipline and things like that? 
 JOE MADDON:  Well, first of all, I have already gotten in contact we everybody.  I wrote everybody a note at the end of the season.  And so I've -- that part was taken care of.  My plans were put back because we had a death in the family back in Pennsylvania.  So, that put me back a couple of weeks.  My uncle passed away, and then the holidays showed up, but at least I got this far.  And I want to continue with different items that I want to send out to them and hopefully get a chance to talk to them all on the phone at some point. 
 But you are right.  I mean, now that I know them, now that I know the group, now that I know the inner dynamics of this entire situation going into next year in regard to making plans and right down to discipline, interaction, relationship, whatever you want to call it, I have -- I think I have a better feel of what needs to be done and how to approach it. 
  It is really awkward when you meet people for the first time and you're put in a position of authority and then have to try to determine how this dynamic works here, because I want to be fair to everybody.  But I think after having a year to getting a chance to understand the way this thing works within our group, I feel good about that going into this camp.  So, those -- that's a good question and I have thought about that. 

 Q.  I mean, I don't know if I have the right word, if it will be tougher.  It will be more open -- 
 JOE MADDON:  Um, I think the word is -- 

 Q.  Hard ass? 
 JOE MADDON:  No.  It's just -- to me, you have to get to be yourself every day.  I mean, whenever you have to contrive a way to be, then just go do something else.  I mean, to contrive things to me is wrong.  I react pretty much off-field, and I mean, there is a lot of thought prior to the field, but when it comes down to the moment, I prefer the blink attitude as opposed to trying to be somebody that I'm not.  I won't do that. 
 I thought we established a lot of good parameters with relationships with the players last year.  We had a lot of problems and we worked through them.  I'll really, really satisfied with the issues that we worked through last year.  I really think that we attacked everything head-on.  We faced everything straight up and we dealt with people honestly.  And I thought it worked out pretty well by the end of the year. 
 So, I would just like to continue along that path.  I want our guys.  I want open interaction.  I want good professionals.  I want people to show up every day and care and want to win.  I mean, that's -- that's what I want us to be about. 

 Q.  Have you in any way changed your philosophies on -- I know last year, one of the big struggles was getting your guys to become better, you know, better discipline at the plate.  And I don't know if you maybe have ever encountered it, like maybe the way you had it last year when you had talented guys, but their approaches seemed to be lacking a lot of times.  Have you maybe rethought that and you're going to have a different approach this year or keep pounding the same thing? 
 JOE MADDON:  We are gonna talk about all of that.  Actually, when I was with the Angels, it was similar.  I mean, there was a lot of, you know, plate discipline in the sense of on-base percentage and those kinds of things.  We really didn't have that there either.  We are going to address, talk about it.  We already have spoken about it.  Andrew and I have had limited conversations about it, and we are going to get together with that. 
 I want our guys to be more in tune to all of that.  We have to grow and, okay, I mean we just talked about not being able to spend a lot of money.  That means we got to do everything, all these things better than everybody else.  I said those things and I still believe it. 
 So, we have to address these issues and have our players understand that, if we are going to compete at the right end of these divisions, these standings, we got to do little things like that.  And we got to talk about it we got to work at it.  We got to commit to it.  We got to do all those things.  Yes, we do.  And that's going to be a big part this year, to make sure everybody understands that.  And they -- 

 Q.  With the changes in the Minor League system, is that sort of now the first -- you've got a year under your belt.  You're starting to signal that we want everything done the same way all the way down the line? 
 JOE MADDON:  Yes. 

 Q.  This way, from A-ball, make that jump, still the same thing on the AAA level? 
 JOE MADDON:  Yes.  The answer to that is yes, and we did start that last year.  We have different things within the pitching, different things within the offense, different things within the base running.  All that stuff, we actually got out there for the first time last year and put it in place. 
 Listen, the one thing I did find out, it is difficult to do it in one year.  I mean, when you come in and there's people that have been there before and there's different people with different ideas, and I understand that to unfreeze all those items that had been frozen to a certain way and then elicit the change and then try to refreeze things takes some time.  And that's basically what you try to do, try to unfreeze it, make your changes and freeze it back up. 
 So, that's what we're trying to get done there.  And it really became apparent to me as the season was in progress.  Despite all your good intentions and how well you think you laid things out, there's still going to be room where things were misinterpreted along the way.  So, as the season was in progress, that we figured that out and we got more on board throughout the entire organization as the season was going on.  And I'm really expecting a lot better cohesiveness this year from our group all the way down. 

 Q.  The Rays' way? 
 JOE MADDON:  It is the Rays' way, and it is gonna happen and it is gonna take hold, and it takes time.  It takes time, but it's happening. 
 Considering the way the things went in mid-season in the farm systems, were you pleased at least two of the players that made it up to the major leagues have made that transformation to sort of more mature kind of way?  Because the reputation obviously was there before you actually -- 
 JOE MADDON:  That is what I was alluding to also, in the fact that I felt we handled the situation head-on, and I think the guys -- I think BJ did a nice job and so did Delmon in regard to not only participating as players, but also the way they fit into the group and how they handled their situations.  I thought they both did wonderful.  So, I thought that we did okay with that.  I thought we did okay with that. 

 Q.  This may not be the fairest question, but I will take a shot at it anyway.  Since you have admitted the one place we do have depth is center field in the offense, what is your level of confidence that the projected outfield you have now is the one you are going to start spring training with? 
 JOE MADDON:  I'm pretty confident.  Of course, something can happen.  Level of confidence, most of them will still be there. 

 Q.  Most of them? 
 JOE MADDON:  Yeah.  I don't know.  I really don't know.  You hear all these different things, the different rumors that occur, and when it comes right down to people deciding or making a decision or pulling the trigger, whatever you want to call it, a lot of times it doesn't happen.  So, I mean if we go to camp next year with that outfield that we finished with, I would be happy with that too. 
 That is a great group.  It is a talented group.  Personality-wise, the interaction was spectacular.  This it is a group, you talk about a core group to grow with, my God, it is one of the finest that has come along in a long time. 

 Q.  So, you don't feel like we have got to move one of these guys? 
 JOE MADDON:  I don't.  I don't feel that way.  We do, that is going to happen.  That is the way it is going to be.  If we don't, I'm okay with that also.  It is a great group.  It really is. 

 Q.  Do you approach these baseball winter meetings as crucial days for the future ball of the ball club or is this just another mandatory step along the way as the season approach? 
 JOE MADDON:  I think it is another mandatory step.  I don't necessarily think any moment is that crucial.  I think everybody comes here with good intentions.  They are trying to lay groundwork for particular items or things that will happen.  Sometimes they do.  Sometimes, they might happen right after this, whatever.  I don't think they are necessarily absolutely crucial. 
 But for us, it's a great place to get together and really establish that continuity and that game plan.  You talk about it on the phone and you send e-mails or text messages, but to sit in a room and really discuss it is important.  And even if something doesn't happen right now, it definitely gets the wheels in motion to get something done. 

 Q.  Thanks, Joe? 
 JOE MADDON:  All good.  Thank you very much.  Have a good time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT