88TH MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 2017
Joe Maddon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
American League - 2, National League - 1   
 Q.  Joe, having been through this before, have you noticed guys having more fun, with Nelson taking the photo of Joe West at the plate?  And not meaning what it used to mean, obviously not deciding what it used to decide, did you notice guys being more relaxed?  
JOE MADDON: I would bet if the game had counted, he would not have done that, yes.   
Overall I just thought the overall intensity of the game was very good.  Right down to the very last out, both sides wanted to win that game.  Spectacular pitching on both sides.  Not really challenged defensively.  The pitchers were that good tonight, missing bats.  Weaker contact.  The pitching was outstanding.   
 Q.  It's kind of like the season as whole.  Guys just coming in throwing upper 90s.  It's hard to score anything.  
JOE MADDON: It's pretty incredible, isn't it?  Not only that but with command, too, for the most part.  They came out both sides again.  You look at the gun readings, they're very high.  And plus you have a little bit of adrenaline to all that in an All-Star Game, like Max in the beginning of the game as an example.  On their side Sale, too.  So you have really good guys, really good pitches with really good arms, with a little bit of an adrenaline rush playing in an All-Star Game like that, you're seeing them at their best tonight.   
 Q.  Joe, any concern with running out of players as this thing was kind of -- you have ten innings.  
JOE MADDON: Not at all.  We had it all set up.  We had reentry rule.  We played Turner for one at-bat.  He got out there for an inning, one at-bat.  Had something happened he was the reentry for the position players.  Buster stuck around in case something happened to Molina.  We still had Robbie Ray three innings, if necessary, Strasburg for one and Knebel, and so we had another five or six innings left in the bullpen also.   
Thank you, guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT