CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 1, 2019
Yealimi Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You made great today, not the way you wanted it to finish. How do you feel right now? Are you proud of the way you played today?  
YEALIMI NOH: Today, yeah, it was all going good till 16 I think, just the last two bogeys on 16, and 18, really hurts, because I was playing okay up until that. I really thought I could hang in there, but just made a couple mistakes.   
 Q.  Coming down the end, could you feel Hannah starting to hang in there a bit?  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, especially the birdie on 17 was big. It was a long putt, too. And then making that putt downhill was really good, but she was just really strong.   
I watched her at the KPMG Women's PGA Championship, and like when I was -- she was only like one stroke ahead and she stayed really strong till the last hole. I knew she was going to make that.   
 Q.  But you still had a lot of big moments today. What do you look at today or this week as moments that stand out to you from the way you played?  
YEALIMI NOH: I think my putting just got a lot better overall. Even if I didn't make a lot today, I made a couple of important putts. My putting got better.   
 Q.  14, your birdie there. Can you talk about that a little bit and how you were feeling at that point?  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, I hit that shot really well. It came out the way I imagined it, so to make a birdie, to make that putt was really big I think.   
Yeah, I hit another good shot on 15, but didn't make that one.   
 Q.  The last chip here after the drop, what was going through your mind, the strategy of trying to keep it close?  
YEALIMI NOH: I probably should have tried keeping it in close -- I should have just tried to make it. I don't know, I just think it was more downhill than I thought and I didn't hit it high enough. I just kind of hit it and hit the slope and it just went away.   
 Q.  How has this been compared to the other one you were in contention?  
YEALIMI NOH: I was really happy this week because on -- well, yesterday, I was able move up and play well, because I didn't get to do that the last one because I played with Sung Hyun Park so I was kind of nervous. But I felt really good about yesterday's round.   
 Q.  Rest of the year then, if I were a sponsor, I'd want to invite you?  
YEALIMI NOH: This is my last one for this year.   
 Q.  Can you play any now?  
YEALIMI NOH: I don't know, but this is my last one because I have other commitments overseas.   
 Q.  And you're entered in Stage 2?  
YEALIMI NOH: Yes, right now. I don't know how my ranking will go down, but for now, Stage 2.   
 Q.  If you had won, what would you have done?  
YEALIMI NOH: I would have been right through and not even -- just would have --   
 Q.  Off and running?  
YEALIMI NOH: I don't know if I would play because I have other tournaments next month, but it just would have been a lot of pressure off forgetting my card next year.   
 Q.  But you have to take so much learning from this week, and you know how much you want it.  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, I do. After playing a couple events, kind of used to or kind of know what's going on at the events here. I'm really excited for next year. Hopefully I can win next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT