CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 31, 2019
Yealimi Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 64, describe what was going on out there for you?
YEALIMI NOH: Well, on the front nine, I started out with a birdie on the second hole, which I was just every -- after the first birdie, I can keep going but just getting that first one is, like, tough, when you're starting the round. So I was just really glad to start off with a birdie early in the round and it just kind of kept going throughout the front nine.
Q. You didn't birdie the 10th or the 12th, which are par 5s, you've usually dominated. Seemed like when you missed the birdie putt on 12 it fired you up?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, I was a little disappointed in both the par 5s, because today I didn't want to miss any birdie chance that I got because it's moving day, so I need to take every chance.
After that, it was 14, the slider that I made, I was just really happy with that putt, and after that, kept going.
Q. It is moving day and you've moved yourself to the top of the leaderboard. Are you one to look at leaderboards? Did you know how you were moving out there as you were making more and more birdies?
YEALIMI NOH: On front nine, I was kind of looking at the leaderboard, but towards the end, I didn't -- actually, I didn't even know what I shot on the back nine. I know I was 4-under through the front. But just having that stretch of pars on the beginning of the back nine, I was like, just need a birdie and after I kept getting birdies, I didn't know what I shot but I'm happy with the round.
Q. 8-under, bogey-free round today, low round of the day. What kept you so consistent today?
YEALIMI NOH: I hit my iron shots really well, and then made a couple of important putts, but overall, I just didn't make a mistake.
Q. You mentioned ending your rounds on eight-foot par putts were important for you. How do you compare that with birdieing four of the last five holes today?
YEALIMI NOH: I didn't expect it because the back nine I started off slow with four or five straight pars, when I could have birdied the par 5s. I was like, I just need one birdie to start. On 14, I got birdie and after, kept going.
Q. You've had three birdies in a row in each of your rounds. What about your game gives you that ability to get so many birdies in a row?
YEALIMI NOH: That's kind of weird because I've never really done that during a tournament, like keep going in a row. I think my iron shots are really good this week but my putting is a lot better, so I can actually make the putts that I left for myself.
Q. 19-under and in contention at the same tournament where Brooke Henderson Monday-qualified and went on to win. What would it mean to win the same tournament she did in 2015 to launch her career?
YEALIMI NOH: That would be really, really cool. She's doing so well right now. That's just really cool, Monday qualifying and winning, but I don't want to think about that tomorrow. Just go out and play my game, but really hope that's the result.
Q. Playing your game seems to be making a lot of birdies. The putter, how did that putter feel today?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, I actually just got that putter, too, like two weeks ago, and I just like, as soon as I saw it, I was like, I fell in love with it because of the color. It's blue and so pretty.
Q. What kind of putter is it?
YEALIMI NOH: It's an Odyssey XO, I don't know what it's called, but it's usually red. I was like, this is the first time I've ever seen it and I got it and I was like, oh, my God, I love this putter. But then I missed the cut with it on my first tournament. So I was like, I'm going to think about it again. But it's working this week.
Q. Is blue your favorite color?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, I like blue. Blue is a birdie thing on the LPGA, and dark blue is an eagle.
Q. Does just feel good, the weight?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, it's just so pretty to look at. Yeah, I like the weight of it, and my stroke is good right now.
Q. You must have been reading the greens pretty well, too, or have a good feel on the speed.
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, I think I really read the greens well today, especially because the pins were kind of like weird on some of the holes. Really just like, I don't know, it was just a little tricky today where they put the pins so I'm just really glad I was able to read them well.
Q. You shoot 68, qualifier, what is your thinking? Do you go into the first hole thinking you want to win this week?
YEALIMI NOH: I just want to score well. I just want to score well this week. After I shot 4-under on Monday, I was like, I feel good where my game is at right now. I know I can shoot 4-under or better because I did it on Monday. Yeah, just keeping a good score.
Q. Are you ready to win at this level?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, I didn't think I was -- to be honest, to be in contention this week -- it was better than last week, my game overall. I was hoping for a good week, but to be in contention, I'm really excited.
Yesterday, too, I was just like, I couldn't really sleep. I was excited to come out and try to move on moving day.
Q. Any scoreboard watching today? Did you know when you got tied or in the lead?
YEALIMI NOH: I think a little bit on No. 14, I saw another group, I was trying to look at their score but I couldn't really see it.
Q. What would it mean to be in the final group and all that tomorrow, have a shot to win?
YEALIMI NOH: I'm just really excited to play tomorrow. I'm just hoping I won't get too nervous coming down the stretch. I'm just excited to play.
Q. And a win would change your --
YEALIMI NOH: It would change my entire like, year, my life. That would just be a dream come true.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT