U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2018
Yealimi Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Long day, but you made quick work of your opponent today.
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah.
Q. Tell me how you played, obviously winning 7 & 5, it's a big win.
YEALIMI NOH: I made a lot of good par saves in the beginning because she was playing really well in the beginning, as well.  She made some really good par saves, and I was able to complement that and make some good par saves, too.  I had a couple birdies on -- most of them on the par-5s, 4, 9 and 10.
Q. So those were big.
YEALIMI NOH: Uh-huh, especially 9 and 10 because I can reach it in two with irons.
Q. You reached both in two today?
YEALIMI NOH: Yes, with 4-iron, both.
Q. About 200 yards on each?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, 200 on 9, and I had 195 on 10.
Q. How about playing in these conditions today?  How challenging was it?
YEALIMI NOH: It was definitely a little different, but I kind of liked it.  I enjoyed it.  It's like a little challenging and different from when it was bright and sunny yesterday, and I think it just tests everyone's game and shows how consistent you have to be.  You have to be smart, really smart, in the weather, and you think it's going to be like a club more or club less, but it ended up not being, and you just have to be really smart.
Q. It seems like you're getting better with every round in match play.  Seems like you're rolling.  Do you feel a lot of momentum even though you've had a lot of waiting around for delays?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, I think I kind of start out a little slow in the beginning, like my other matches and this one, as well, and once I get used to the course and playing a tournament, instead of practicing, getting used to it, I get a little in the mode and have that momentum, I guess.
Q. This is the farthest you have been in a USGA championship, right?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah.
Q. You're already in the Amateur, so you're playing obviously for a title and the big prize at the end?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, I really, really -- I just want to get to the finals.  Yeah, I'm really excited right now.
Q. Especially the last two weeks that you've had.
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, it's really weird.  When you're on the range with like quarterfinals, semifinals, there's no one on the range, so I was on the range this morning, I was the only one there, and I was like, wow, I've never had this situation before.
Q. Except maybe the California Girls?
YEALIMI NOH: Oh, yeah.  Yeah, but at the USGA events I've never had this.
Q. And your thoughts of playing Ashley or Gina?  You probably know both of them.
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, I played with Ashley in the stroke play.  It was fun playing with her.  And I know Gina pretty well.  Yeah, I know both of them, and I've played with both of them, obviously.  I think it's -- even Lucy's match and Alexa, they're all just juniors here, and we all play the same tournaments, and yeah, it's cool.
Q. We haven't had a 1-2 matchup in a girls' junior in 54 years.
YEALIMI NOH: Really?  That would be really cool.
Q. And have two northern Californians, if that would be the matchup, how much of a buzz do you think that would be?
YEALIMI NOH: That would be so cool.  I've never played a stroke play recently with Lucy, so I don't really know how she plays, but I was partners with her at Solheim Cup.  We were four-ball partners.
Q. That was last year?
YEALIMI NOH: Last year.
Q. And you're already in the Junior Ryder Cup, correct?
YEALIMI NOH: Yes.
Q. A lot of big things happening.
YEALIMI NOH: Uh-huh, and Gina is a past Ryder Cup teammate, so that's cool.
Q. What do you think you'll do tonight to rest up?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, we are finally having dinner before bed.  My caddie is happier than I am.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT