U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Yealimi Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First of all, take me through your birdies in the match, birdie on 4, what happened on that hole?  
YEALIMI NOH: I hit my drive really good.  I hit my 3-wood really far, but my third shot was about 60 yards, and I hit it like over the green.  I went over.  It was on the fringe about 20 feet, and yeah, it was a right-to-left putt and I made it.  I hit it pretty hard, but it caught the hole and went in.   
 Q.  And then I heard you hit a really good shot on 9.  What happened on that hole?  
YEALIMI NOH: I hit my drive over the right bunker and I had about 220 to the hole, and then I hit -- this morning I had the same position, but I hit hybrid.  I chunked it, but it went over the green -- it was on the green but pretty long, so I hit 4-iron this time, and I hit it more to the right, so it caught the slope, and I stuck it to about like five feet.   
 Q.  And you had a birdie on 11?  
YEALIMI NOH: 11, yes.  I had about 15 feet, and it was the right speed.  It was a tricky putt, and I was confused with the break, but got the right speed and it went in.   
 Q.  Talk about being out here representing northern California.  You and Lucy Li are into the quarterfinals.  You've had lots of people following your matches.  Does it mean something special to do that near home?  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, definitely.  I've played this course a couple of times, and I'm part of NCGA, play a lot of JTNC events, NCGA events.  I'm also a member at the Yumathon (phon) course, so means a lot to be kind of on home turf, and yeah, everyone here is part of the NCGA and all the volunteers -- and I see a lot of familiar faces, too, so it's nice.   
 Q.  Relieved to get done today?  You're caught up to where we should be.  How much do you think that's an advantage for you?  
YEALIMI NOH: I probably just will get a lot more sleep.  Yeah, I think it's an advantage because you never know tomorrow there might be fog, too, so all the delays.  Hopefully not, but yeah, I'm just glad to be done.  This is the furthest I've actually gone for U.S. Junior, so I'm really happy.   
 Q.  Do you think it helped, you got pushed, your opponent in the round of 32 made a late run on you.  You were cruising, she won a couple holes.  You're 4-up and then she won two in a row, hit it really close on 16 --  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah.   
 Q.  Do you think it helps to play a match like that to focus you for the next one?  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, because I was kind of in the same position on this match.  I was 3-up through 15 or something, and it was -- yeah, match play, it really just made me focus more.  You never know what's going to happen.  You can never let your guard down.  I was dormie, and I was like, okay, like I could just tie this hole, but she hit it close -- she did that a lot today, too, the round of 32.  She played well, so yeah, it made me focus on the next match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT