CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 19, 2020
Yealimi Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Yeahlimi, you've had a great round before here prior to this year.  How does it feel to play this year and have good rounds, too?
 YEALIMI NOH:   Yeah, it feels really good.  I wasn't really expecting anything coming into the week, but playing the practice round I really like -- I just like remember the course, how much I like the course.
 Feels really good to be back and post a few good scores.
 Q. We had one day off this week because of the smoke.  What do you do that day?
 YEALIMI  NOH:   Well, I came to play nine -- wait, no.  I forget what I -- we didn't come to the course at all that day, right?
 Q. No.
 YEALIMI NOH:   Yeah, I just was in the hotel room just chilling.
 Q. And how did that affect you mentally or physically?  Did you do exercises in your room?
 YEALIMI NOH:   Yeah, yeah.  I had my trainer come into my room and we did some exercises and just putt in the room.
 Q. What worked for you the most today?  Long game?  Short game?  Putting?
 YEALIMI NOH:   Today was like a mix.  I was hitting it good but I missed -- all my bogeys were just short putts that I missed, so I left a few shots out there.
 But everything was pretty good overall.
 Q. You played more than 18 holes today.  How did that feel?
 YEALIMI NOH:   Yeah, I played 19.
 Q. So yesterday knowing that you had to play more than 18 today, did that affect you mentally at all or did you just want to go out and have fun?
 YEALIMI NOH:   Not really.  It was just one hole, which was nice.  Just got the par.  I actually almost 3-putted so I was like, oh, know.
 But I got a par, and it was just nice to get out here earlier and just hit a few more putts on the putting green.
 Q. Tomorrow is the last round.  What are you thinking strategy-wise?
 YEALIMI NOH:   I just want to hit the -- I'm hitting it really good right now, so just going to work on my putting a little bit more.  Tomorrow like the mindset is just like not leave anything out there.  Just take every opportunity.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT