LPGA Q-SERIES
November 2, 2019
Yealimi Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
YEALIMI NOH: I didn't think I would get to play that many LPGA events. Just being able to contend in the few ones that I did play in is really big for me. I learned a lot about myself. God, I learned so much about my game even just this last two weeks. I learned a lot from what I can do.   
 Q.  Give my something you learned these two weeks.  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, that I can come back after a bad round. I usually would kind of give up on myself after the first bad round or first bad couple holes. I really learned to bounce back. I could still finish tournament good.   
Just, yeah, it's a lot more mentally than what I thought it was. Yeah.   
 Q.  What's your thing you're most looking forward to being a rookie next year?  
YEALIMI NOH: Next year I'm just looking forward to summer, I think.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
YEALIMI NOH: Maybe the beginning of the year. I don't know how it'll go. I'll still be like, I don't know, still resting. I'm really excited for summer and just the whole year.   
I'm excited to play and have chances to win. I'm just really happy to be out there when I'm going to be out there. I'm just excited. Yeah.   
 Q.  You have a Korean agent or an American agent?  
YEALIMI NOH: Yes, Korean agent.   
 Q.  Will you try to get another agent, an American based one?  
YEALIMI NOH: I don't know. Maybe. I will think about.   
 Q.  She may have already asked, but what are some of the emotions? I know you said you're excited, but were you feeling it as you were walking down some of these holes here?  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah. I mean, especially, I mean, I can't get too excited until it's over. So after I hit my second shot, which is over the water (laughter) -- after I hit my second on the green and close, too, I was like -- and I had mud on my ball, too. Yeah. I was like, Oh, if I go in the water this is not cool.   
Just going on green and finally being able to breathe, I don't know, just really happy all of a sudden that I'm finally done and will get to play next year.   
 Q.  Did you get emotional at any point?  
YEALIMI NOH: Kind of. On the last hole I'm like, I'm not going to cry but I'm just really -- like so much has been going on, so to finally breathe and have a have a break is really nice. Yeah, I can't even...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT