LPGA Q-SERIES
November 1, 2019
Yealimi Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So it was a little different out there today than the last couple days. What was it like kind of drastically changing with the weather today?  
YEALIMI NOH: Oh, my God. It was so cold like in the morning. We've been used to pretty good weather. It was pretty humid yesterday, too.   
But, oh, my gosh. It was like so different. Like I had three jackets on, like pants, skirt.   
And then obviously golf-wise it wasn't going as far. It was pretty soft from the rain yesterday. So, yeah, it was like a lot of yardage -- like was shorter so I had to take more clubs, so it was really different.   
 Q.  Where do you think the coldest you've played is? Would you say this course, or do you have other experience playing in some colder conditions?  
YEALIMI NOH: I've played in Korea once last year in November. Oh, just right now, just exactly a year ago. The last tournament of the KLPGA season, so it was like super cold. I was wearing on of those like big parka things. I couldn't swing. I was like, What am I doing?   
Yeah, so that was probably the coldest. But this is pretty close, like second, third coldest, yeah.   
 Q.  Did you have to draw on those experiences to help you out today, or was it kind of just relaxing and having a good mentality about it?  
YEALIMI NOH: I guess, yeah, a little bit, but it was kind of a long time ago so I don't remember. We've had such great weather so I didn't really think of it.   
Just really keeping my tempo and not like hitting it too fast. Actually, yeah, I did, because those are some of the habits I have, like mistakes that I make when it is cold. Like going too fast or something. Not keeping my tempo. But just kind of focusing on that today was really helpful.   
 Q.  One more round to go.  
YEALIMI NOH: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  And then being able to come out, you know, with a card, is there a little bit of a relief after everything you've been through this past season?  
YEALIMI NOH: Oh, yeah, for sure. I'm just so excited for tomorrow. It's not over until it's really over. Just want to play steady and patient, keep patient. I don't have to win or anything. I mean, obviously there is a big lead, but just need to play my game and really just get through tomorrow.   
I'm really excited to just be or with.   
 Q.  What does it take to have that mentality after getting so close at Cambia in Portland, but also getting close at Thornberry too as well? Are you thinking about those instances and being like, Wow, I really deserve to be here among pros?  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, especially after Thornberry was that my first LPGA as a pro, so that was really kind of like my first one I played well. But then Cambia, just being able to contend again was really kind of like, okay, I can do it here. I belong.   
Yeah, it definitely is validation for me. I'm just really excited for next year and hope to win as soon as possible.   
 Q.  I know you said yesterday that it was a little discouraging that you had to go through Q2. And now that you've come through so you much, do you think you'll look back and be like, I think this really showed what I could do and kind of helped your mentality before a life on tour?  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, for sure. I'm actually really thankful that I was able to play even in Florida. The first three days were like really rollercoaster for me. I was on the edge of like really far from making it.   
Just to come back on the last day showed me how tough I was mentally. Really I surprised myself a little, too. I played really relaxed. Now I kind of know what to do when I feel so much pressure and kind of stuff like that. It really helped me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT