LPGA Q-SERIES
November 1, 2019
Yealimi Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First off, I kind of just interrupted something there. How cute was that? Explain what just happened there.  
YEALIMI NOH: So cute. So little girl came up and, well, she just wanted a picture. But it's so special to see someone so young be into golf and be competing.   
I think a lot of us girl out here, we all started golfing at that age and competing, so it's so cool to see. Brings back a lot of good memories.   
 Q.  So today was a little bit different out there. Drastic change in weather a lot of people had to deal with mentally, and also with your clubs. How do you think you were able to go through that obstacle?  
YEALIMI NOH: I think it's all about adapting, but definitely the conditions were quite different today. It dropped, I don't know, 20 degrees or something like that. Yeah, very, very cold.   
The course played a lot longer today. I think, like I said, it was just trying to hit fairways and greens and be consistent throughout the round.   
 Q.  You had an incredible bogey-free streak going there until think No. 15 I was told.  
YEALIMI NOH: Right.   
 Q.  Did you think about that at all as you were playing today?  
YEALIMI NOH: It's funny, because walking up to that hole I was thinking about it, which is very ironic. Just proves I shouldn't be overthinking. It was just a little unfortunate, because I came up just short and got caught in the rough and my ball was right behind an ant hill and it was hard for me to stand.   
I still stayed committed to my shot, and, yeah, it was just a little bit of bad luck. I think could have been avoided, but it happens. I think it would be incredible if I had four days all bogey-free, but I'm not too mad about it at all.   
 Q.  There is one more day left out here. It's been a marathon, a grind. Is there a sense of relief that it's almost over?  
YEALIMI NOH: I think so. I think the first week went by super quickly, and this week, it's been a little slower. But that's okay. I think we're all really enjoying it out here.   
Yeah, not too stressed out, but I'm really glad that it's coming to an end. Eight rounds, that's a lot golf.   
 Q.  What's it like tomorrow possibly being around a ceremony and being able to be named possibly the medalist of this compared to where you were last year?  
YEALIMI NOH: I think if anything, it just really proves to myself how much I've improved as a golfer throughout this past year. I'm really proud of myself for sticking through some of the struggles and obstacles earlier in the year and coming out and improving on it.   
But medalist would be really, really nice. It's not something I'm really stressed out about. I think obviously the main goal was to get my tour card full status for next year. I'm happy and content, so that would be a bonus for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT