LPGA Q-SERIES
October 30, 2019
Yealimi Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. After shooting a fifth round 67 here on the LPGA Q-Series presented by Blue Cross and Blue Shield North Carolina, a completely different rounds it seems than what you were able to put together in the fourth round. What was it like adjusting to No. 9?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, it's completely different. Even like the surroundings; a lot more houses for scenery. Yeah, the course is completely different. More undulations in the greens and the fairways, and, yeah, just really feels different.
And just playing my game, hopefully will keep letting me score like this. But, yeah, last week I felt good about my game the whole week, but the last round was a little iffy. This week is a completely new start.
Q. What do you say to yourself? This is a grueling process. A marathon, not a sprint. What is in the back of your mind when you have a round like you did last week?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, for sure. I was just really thankful that I played well the first three days. It was damaging, being but it wasn't like completely damaging. I really need to damage control.
I think just like since it's a new course and a new start, it's like really you never know how it's going to go on this week. It really is like a marathon. I just need to keep staying patient and just wait -- you got to keep going through until it's over.
Q. You've had a busy couple weeks not only here in America but also in Korea. What's it been like for you, and especially your Q-School and Q-Series experience?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, it's been really crazy. Like the whole year I've been golfing and just the end of the year, this is probably the hardest month I've been through. I was in Japan right before Korea as well, so I was over there for like three weeks.
I didn't expect to have trouble adjusting with time that much, but I was here the day after so it was really, really tough. And then just the pressure I put on myself and like just getting through Q-School stage two was really, really tough.
I felt more comfortable being here at Q-Series because no matter what I'll still have a chance at getting a card, so playing more comfortably this week.
Q. And what have you learned about your game or your experiences about yourself and how to deal with these kind of situations now that you are a professional?
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, I've actually learned a lot about my game. I use to think that I wouldn't be able to -- like after a first bad round or something like that, the next day I have to come back. A lot of times I would kind of give up on myself and think that a first bad round would lead to more bad rounds.
I was really able to like come back after a bad round, and I did that in Korea too, so it gave me a lot of confidence going into Q-School. So I was able to do that on the final round, so, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT