LPGA Q-SERIES
October 25, 2019
Yealimi Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We talked about it a little at stage two and yesterday, but I want to dive into it a little more. You really got kind of a real professional experience going overseas, coming back, jet lagged.  
YEALIMI NOH: Oh, yeah.   
 Q.  Dealing with the travel, dealing with the exhaustion, dealing with early rounds and all that.  
YEALIMI NOH: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  What was that like to finally really have that kind of first real experience?  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, for sure. It was hard too because I was expecting myself to -- I usually say that I'm pretty good at jet lag. I adjust pretty fast. But then like coming from the west to the east kind of messed me up.   
When I got back from Asia I was okay at home and for a couple days was fine. Coming over here, another time change was kind of hard. I didn't realize how hard it would be. And then just having even more pressure of just Q-School was probably the hardest thing I did all year, just stage two was probably the hardest.   
Yeah, really traveling and like -- I don't know, especially because it was Asia and I was there for so long. Just really hard. I think it helped me learn a lot from just that kind of stuff, like travel and how to adjust and exhaustion and stuff like that.   
 Q.  Seem to be back in your element though, atop the leaderboard.  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah.   
 Q.  You've done that quite a bit this year. You won on the WAPT. Obviously had great finishes after Monday qualifying on the LPGA.  
YEALIMI NOH: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Is it just one of those where you just know you're ready and just kind of showing it?  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah.   
 Q.  Is that how it feels?  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah. I know I'm ready and I know I have what it takes to play on the LPGA because of this year and stuff, but just playing well right now feels really good. I'm ready. I just needed to control like my condition and stuff because I was -- like last week too I was ready and my game was in a good place. It was all the exhaustion ans stuff was getting to me.   
Yeah, I finally am like rested and I feel better and just playing my game.   
 Q.  When you have those experiences like WAPT when you won, when you have those experiences, how much does build confidence?  
YEALIMI NOH: Yeah, because a win is still a win. You always feel pressure in any kind of tournament. Doesn't matter if it's big or small. I think just knowing how to win and being under pressure and stuff helps a lot.   
Even when I was a junior. Like all the local tournaments I played you might think it's small, but it really helps me build confidence in just being able to win under like pressure and stuff. Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT