THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 28, 2004
Mike Schuchart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  We'd like to welcome the winner of the 2004 PLAYERS Championship, Adam Scott.  Adam, congratulations on an incredible week.  It came down to the wire, and you had problems on 18, but you came through with a clutch putt from ten feet.  First and foremost, if we could start with comments on that hole.  Congratulations, first and foremost.
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, well, going from in the middle of the fairway cruising, thinking on the green and two putts for the easy win, to hitting one quickly into the water, and having a chip and a putt to save it or you're going down to the last again or not at all, in fact, it's a roller coaster of emotion.  I hit such a good chip, by my standards, anyway.  And once I knew the putt was pretty straight up there, I felt really confident I could make it.  I just didn't let myself think about anything else then but making the putt.

I thought of other times, I thought of actually the Match Play tournament, where I went extra holes with Robert Allenby, and he kept making putts in front of me to win the match in extra holes and I made them back on top of him, and that's what I thought over that putt.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You join two other Australians who have won THE PLAYERS Championship, Steve Elkington and Greg Norman, and Greg Norman has already called congratulating you.  A couple of quick comments about joining those two illustrious players.
ADAM SCOTT:  Joining Greg and Steve obviously is huge, but the list is long, here, at this tournament.  I hope this can kick me on to become a champion like most of the guys who have won this.  It takes something to win this tournament, I said that even before I won it, because those last three holes are brutal.
Q.  Johnny Miller said that everyone had been misreading that putt, and he didn't know if you'd seen it before.  Had you had that putt before, and what made you read it so well?
ADAM SCOTT:  Actually last year I hit it quite close on the 18th hole on Sunday in similar position.  It was a little shorter, it was probably five feet last year, and I kind of remembered that it was pretty straight.  But, you know, I saw a little break, if anything, going to the right.  But I thought, this is your chance; let's take the break out in a nice firm putt and knock it straight on the back.  And it was just perfect, that putt.
Q.  You went to the middle?
ADAM SCOTT:  Right to the middle.
Q.  Give us the detail on the little tutorial you got from Greg.  Yesterday I kind of ignored it; I didn't think it was going to be relevant.
ADAM SCOTT:  Turns out I hit three unbelievable chips the last four holes.  That's nice, thanks.  Now you can listen to this.  But, you know, the last three -- three of the last four holes I had some tough chips, and I hit really good chips on all of them.  I missed the putt on 16, but I was still in good shape with a couple to go.  It was really -- he really changed my technique.  I was a lot inside with my chipping.  My clubhead was traveling inside going back, and it shuts the club face down, no loft on the club, then you have to do it all with your hands when you get back to the ball.  He got me keeping the loft on the club, and letting my hands through.  I was dragging the left hand through it.  And I quieted everything down, got me covering the ball a lot better, and hit more aggressive chips.
Q.  I'm sorry, when was this?
ADAM SCOTT:  This was on Wednesday.
Q.  Two years ago you missed the cut and last year top-30.  Who gets the credit for the quantum leap here?
ADAM SCOTT:  You know, last year I was doing well.  I played late on Saturday, I think it was second-to-last group.  I struggled a little on Saturday, and I played okay on Sunday, as well.  I think I made a triple bogey on 14 and finished 17th or something last year.  But it's not necessarily a course that suits anyone.

I think the whole field has a chance around here.  Length isn't that much of an advantage.  But a good short game obviously helps.  The greens were getting so firm this week.  I think my game has just improved since -- especially in two years, but definitely in the last year, as well.
Q.  Adam, could you tell us what happened with the swing on the last?  What was going through your mind as you walked to the drop area?  Have you ever had a situation where you had something, let it get away and were able to bring it back like that?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I didn't hit great shots coming in to be honest with you.  From 14 on in, it was a bit of a struggle.  I didn't hit a very good drive on 14 and 15.  I hit a bad shot into 16.  I kept it left to avoid the water right.  And 17 was nice, I got a good swing off there.  18, you know, I was safe up the right.  It was 182, I think, to the front and 213 to the pin downwind.  And I just felt like if I could trap a 6-iron, I could pitch it maybe 200 yards, or just under 200, 195 or something, and get it past that first dip in the green.  I tried to hit it a little low, and when I came through, I knew straight away, I chased with my hands, flipped my hands over, and it was always going left.  There was no chance that ball was going over the water.
Q.  What was going through your mind as you headed to the drop area?
ADAM SCOTT:  It was -- I just told myself it was a chip and a putt.  I told my caddy, Alistair, it was a chip and a putt and we're done.  And it was nice, I got two club lengths back into the fairway, so I could hit a nice spinning pitch.  I hit a pretty good shot.  I was nervous, because I was going with this new technique (laughter).  But that's what it's all about.  So I hit a good pitch.  It didn't skip as hard on the first bounce, but it got on the same level as the pin, and I was pretty happy with myself.
Q.  What did Greg say to you?  Did he give you any schtick about hitting it into the water?
ADAM SCOTT:  I haven't heard anything.
Q.  I thought he called you.
ADAM SCOTT:  I don't know.  He called somebody.
Q.  How do you think you would have fared had you not got that chipping lesson from Greg?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I probably would have lost the tournament, to be honest with you, if I was chipping the same way as I did earlier in the week.  But I probably wouldn't have been standing on the last with a chip and a putt to win, either.  I definitely did make the most out of that chipping lesson, and the times I was in trouble this week I got out and it made a big difference, definitely a few shots in it.
Q.  How do you erase everything from your mind so that you can execute the last two shots that you need to win?
ADAM SCOTT:  It's probably a little easier because I'm going from a 6-iron to a chip, and it's totally different.  If I had to drop a 6-iron again, it's pretty tough to forget you just hooked it in the water.  It's totally different and I felt like -- I felt confident that I can get this up-and-down, because I've been hitting nice chips lately, whereas I hadn't hit that many nice shots, and that's why I probably wasn't so surprised it went in the water.  I'd hit a lot of nice chips, so I had the confidence going.  I had the feel in my hands.
Q.  For the sake of clarity, was the second on 18, was it a hook or more of a straight pull?
ADAM SCOTT:  It was a little pull, but it was hooking, as well.  It started left of where I wanted it to and it hooked in there.
Q.  Was there any confusion as to where to drop?  You looked to Frank, and Frank seemed very comfortable with where you were?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I asked Frank, I said did you have a good line on it, because I wanted to be clear with him and everything.  He told me the point, and I said should I call an official and make sure, and he said I'm real happy with that, and he said do you think it was further up, and I said no, I don't.  And that was right where I thought it would have crossed.
Q.  Did you have any leaderboard watching and when did you know what Padraig finished at?
ADAM SCOTT:  I think I saw that on about 15 green.  I think he might have just finished.  So I was pretty comfortable for most of the round.  I looked occasionally, maybe once on the front nine and once after I made a putt on 12 to just check out what's happening, and then I didn't look again until I saw Padraig finished at 11, and I was 13, I think.  I was thinking to myself, easy birdie on 16 and three shots and cruise in.  But, you know, it's that kind of place where funny things can happen.
Q.  As a young player can you tell us about your relationship with Alistair, your caddy and what part he's played?
ADAM SCOTT:  It's been interesting, because generally the caddies I've had have been older guys.  There's something to be said for that as far as being a young player.  And I had Dave Rennick for a while, a lot of experience, and a Scotsman, actually, to think about it.
Q.  What did he say to you in the last?
ADAM SCOTT:  He was probably hiding from me.  But I said to him, come on, a chip and a putt.  He said, that's right, and we just went about it.  He's obviously very experienced.  He's won a lot of big tournaments with Colin Montgomerie.  He knows what he's doing out there.  He's been a great help to me just from his experience point of view.  And I think our personalities gel well together.
Q.  You said you didn't look at the leaderboard a lot.  Were you surprised nobody made a run at you earlier until Paddy did at the back nine?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yes and no.  I saw a couple of people got off to some good starts, but it was very difficult.  The greens were frighteningly quick, especially the front nine, I thought.  And so it's got to be hard to really be aggressive on those greens, unless you're hitting it close into the hole.  But I was wrong, Butch told me someone, there's going to be someone who has a run.  I saw Padraig made eagle, and there it was.  I knew he was going to put the number in there for me to beat.

It's hard when you're out leading and playing well, you think you should just keep going.  But you get a little defensive.  It's hard to manage that when there's a number already in the clubhouse.  A couple of times I've put a number in the clubhouse in the past and you feel pretty happy with yourself because you know what that guy is going through out on the course.
Q.  Could you talk about what happened with the cut on 16?  And also, when you were standing over the putt on 18, did you feel calm inside or did you feel your heart racing any harder or knees shaking?  Would you talk about your demeanor on 18, as well?
ADAM SCOTT:  16 was a bit of a mystery, actually.  I put it just inside the right and it went right.  I didn't think it was that bad a putt.  I probably should have played it straighter and it should have went straighter from that distance.  It wasn't necessarily I hit a bad putt.  I probably hit the wrong putt and misread it.

18, I was more -- I was calmer on 18 than I was on 16 and 17, for sure.  Whatever reason it was, I got myself in a good frame of mind, just thinking back about the few clutch putts I've holed, even though they weren't to win a big tournament.  That did it for me, and it got me calm.  I got it straight and lined up, and from there it's what you practice for is to put a good stroke on it.  And I did, and it went pretty much in the middle.
Q.  You've won before, but what does winning a tournament of this caliber mean?  What does it mean to your confidence and career?
ADAM SCOTT:  It's a great start for the year, obviously, and it's a big step for me, winning a tournament, for me.  It's on the path for me.  It's got to give me a lot of confidence going into Augusta.  As long as I can keep my rhythm and swing in check the way it has been this week, it never really got too far off, and I feel good about teeing off Thursday at Augusta, and without putting too much pressure on myself, I feel like I have a legitimate chance there.
Q.  On the same lines, how satisfying is it to win on -- on a course where the greens were playing as difficult as they were, and what does that do for your mindset for Augusta?
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, I think, once again, I drew on previous experience, and we're lucky in Australia to have greens down in Melbourne that are just as fast as this.  I said to my caddy out there, this is almost like the Australian Open a couple of years ago where they were rolling about 19.

Every year we get down there at the end of the year, it's hot just like this, the greens dry out and it's almost like, you know, you're putting across this brown stuff that has nothing to slow the ball down.  You get to Royal Melbourne and the greens are just like this.  I've had plenty of experience on putting on these greens, so I know how it works.  So I've felt pretty comfortable on them.
Q.  It's been six months since your win in Boston.  Do you think this win here indicates that your game has moved up another level?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I think my game is better than in Boston, yeah.  I played great in Boston, all week, but especially on Sunday, I never faltered over there.  I faltered a little bit here, but, you know, that's something to work on.  And I think my game is definitely in front of where I was, especially with my swing, my attitude and my mindset, as well.
Q.  Having followed Greg's career as you have, as you know, he suffered some heartbreak in big tournaments.  Any of those stand out to you that were maybe tough on you and have you ever discussed any of that with him?
ADAM SCOTT:  Just the one that stands out for me is The Masters in '96 for Greg.  That was a huge blow, obviously, for him.  For all of us back in Australia, I remember being up at the golf club at Royal Queensland with Charlie Eur who taught him.  That was hard to watch, because that guy deserved to win that golf tournament.  I was very fortunate to stay with Greg at his house the week before Augusta and he let me stay on when he went up and played.  I know how much that tournament means to him.

I had a great opportunity to play there with him in a practice round the last time he played there, and that was probably one of the more special moments for me.
Q.  Do you have any more pictures of Michelle Wie -- (inaudible).
ADAM SCOTT:  Did she win today?
Q.  Fourth.
ADAM SCOTT:  No, I got her this time, maybe.
Q.  Your caddy called you unflappable.  Have you always been that way on the golf course or is that something you've worked on through the years?
ADAM SCOTT:  I think I'm getting better.  I think I'm learning to have a little confidence in myself and belief in my game.  I think that's something I've picked up slowly, but I'm getting there and obviously winning some big events helps that, especially this one.  But, you know, it's kind of my demeanor, anyway, I'm pretty cruisey and casual, but I know when business has to be done.
Q.  What has been said that prevents you from getting to the next level is your putting.  Do you agree with that?  Does it bother you when people talk about your putting in negative terms?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it did when I was putting bad.  To be honest with you, I haven't been putting bad since the British Open last year.  They had every right to talk about me in the negative; it was grinding me into the ground I was putting so bad.  I had a week off after that Open and all I did was chip and putt for the week.  And then I won the next tournament I played in Sweden and I started to putt better and get a bit more confidence, and I've been putting fine ever since.  It was definitely the weakest part of my game a year or so ago.  But I've worked hard on it and turned it right around.
Q.  You've been a highly decorated player for a while.  Since Tiger, you've been maybe the most decorated phenom, and I'm wondering why you seem to have a lack of confidence or a lack of comfort around the Els-Woods set despite all the practice rounds with Tiger.  You mentioned it's just your demeanor that perhaps you've been shy?
ADAM SCOTT:  It's not necessarily that I'm not confident around those guys.  I'm definitely getting better.  I've been playing with them for a few years now.  And I think the Match Play a year or so ago, the semifinal match with Tiger.  I'm not afraid to go play these guys.  It takes -- when you first get out here, it takes a while to get around the fact that you're playing against guys who I was watching in Grade 9 or something when this guy won the U.S. Open or whatever it is.  So that takes a little while.  But I definitely -- I think it was more belief in my own ability is what I was saying rather than being comfortable around them, because no one's been anything but nice to me out here.  And they definitely didn't make me feel uncomfortable.
Q.  The last hole was kind of wild, but it must be cool that a tip from your A, hero, and B, mentor, helped you deliver the goods in the biggest tournament you've ever won.
ADAM SCOTT:  Definitely.  I think it's pretty cool, and I think I definitely owe Greg a beer.  Hopefully he enjoyed it, as well, because it did mean a lot to me what he did on Wednesday.  And I don't get too pumped up on the golf course, but when that putt went in I could have knocked anybody out (laughter).
Q.  So much is made of 17, and we haven't talked about that yet.  Where was your head space at on the tee?  People in the gallery were saying one ball in the water and he'll be gone.  Once you got through 17, was it in some ways, you were lulled into a false sense of comfort or security?
ADAM SCOTT:  A little bit, yeah.  I was -- I got a nice number and I convinced myself in my head this is the perfect club, you've got the right swing for it and that was all fine.  And I had a good putt down there, too.  But I think I maybe let my guard drop a little bit after I got my tee shot on 18 away.  And it almost cost me the whole tournament.  You really have to finish the job off, because I just thought I'd just squeeze the 6-iron up the right side of the green there and chase it back, two putts and it's an easy win, and you really have to finish it off properly, otherwise you could make a meal of it.
Q.  Guys that have won multiple majors like Ernie, Tiger, Vijay, they get in contention, and they can draw on previous experience.  Do you think if you were to get in contention this year in a major, this tournament is of such a stature, that you could lean back on the experience here, in the same way or not quite or is this no different than Deutsche Bank?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, sure.  I think no matter what tournament it is, whether it's a major or not, you can draw on any experience that makes you feel good.  I probably won't draw on the experience of hitting the 6-iron left in a major, but I'll think of something else.  I'll find something else.  Whether it's just the feeling, the way I carried myself the last few holes, because I thought I did a pretty good job of getting around the last few holes before that shot, when I didn't hit -- have my best stuff on the fairway, but, yeah, definitely draw back on this.  I'll try and remember how calm I was on that putt on 18 to finish it out.
Q.  What was the danger with the chip at 16, or why was that a hard chip?
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, if you get too cute you just leave it right there in the grass.  If you mishit it, it can go straight over in the water, just come out high and soft.  It wasn't a ten-out-of-ten difficult chip, but there wasn't too much room for error.  I wanted to get it down on the flat there.  It was just a good, solid chip and nice technique that allowed me to do that.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If we could go through your birdies and bogeys.  You had a birdie on No. 2, par-5.
ADAM SCOTT:  I hit a 3-wood and a 4-iron, two putts from 60 feet.

3, 8-iron and 3-putted from the right fringe.

Birdie on 4, 2-iron, wedge, about six feet.

Birdie on 6, 3-iron, wedge, five feet.

8, par-3.  4-iron, and probably 35-footer.

Bogey on 10, 3-wood, 6-iron, chip and 2-putts.

Birdie on 11, driver, 5-iron, out of the bunker to a foot.

12, 3-wood, lob wedge and 15 feet.

14, bogey, driver, 6-iron, bunker onto the green and two putts.

18, 2-iron off the tee, 6-iron.
Q.  What do the exemptions mean that you get winning this tournament?
ADAM SCOTT:  It makes the next ten years pretty nice no matter what happens.  Hopefully I don't have to worry about that.  I can now just go out and play.  I've got a spot to play the next ten years and let my game develop.  It is a little bit of a relief to win this tournament.  I have a two-year exemption with Boston.  A lot of things can happen in that time.
Q.  Is it more important with a foreigner, so you can get home more often, plan your schedule better?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yes and no.  I'm pretty much committed to playing golf and being where I have to be.  I'm not too worried about being away from home at this stage.
Q.  What will you do with the prize money?
ADAM SCOTT:  I don't know, that's a lot -- I have no idea.  I'm sure I'll find a way to treat everybody that's helped me and enjoy it a little bit myself, too.  I have no idea.
Q.  Greg Norman said even before you won the tournament that he was proud of you as an Australian and proud of you as a golfer, and he predicted you were going to be the next superstar of golf.  A, how does that make you feel that he said that, and B, given that he said that you have a chance to win a Masters, what are your expectations now?
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, it makes me feel good to hear that.  You know, it's nice that Greg has helped me along the way, and partly because of that I think he's made me into who I am, and he showed me when I was a kid watching him on TV how to carry yourself out here on the golf course.  He did a great job of that, and he was a great role model for every kid in Australia.  Augusta is a different ballgame again, and it's a couple of weeks away.  I've still got this week to worry about.  As I said before, I'm just looking to keep in a rhythm and I can go there with a lot of confidence now.  I don't have anything to lose, and I've only got to gain in Augusta.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT