U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2013
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Michael Allen, 2 over par, 72 and finishes the Championship at 6 under par. 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   No cigars.   I don't know what else to say.

Q.   What was it, the ups and downs today? 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I didn't really feel nervous in the first, you know, holes, but obviously, I didn't quite hit the shots I was looking for.   I don't know.   I hung in there kind of after getting off to a terrible start and kind of got it back.
Kenny was just playing so well.   It was very hard to really compete with him.   He never made a mistake, and every time he got a putt inside of 12, 15 feet, he made it.   He played great golf today, and it was hard to catch up. 
So I tried to put some pressure on him, hang in there until that 13th hole.   It was‑‑ you know, I wasn't really having a chance, the way he was playing, but at least I was kind of hanging in there.

Q.   When you saved par on 9, did you think it might jump start you a little bit? 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Without question, because that was just kind of a miracle par.   We made a bad decision there as far as taking a shot that was kind of green‑high.   We misjudged the wind a little bit.   Obviously, in hindsight, we're always perfect.
I know I should have been playing off the middle of the green.   That's what I was talking about.   When we're in trouble, we've got to get the ball in the middle of the green and go from there.
I was lucky to get away with one because that was obviously a good shot, but a very bad decision.

Q.   In a way, a lot of stuff really turned on the 3rd and 4th holes there, that two‑hole stretch, didn't it? 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Yeah, because he made that putt down that hill, and all of a sudden, the wind blew behind me, and my ball took off down the hill on the other side.   I three‑putt, he one‑putts, and all of a sudden he's leading the tournament.   He pitches out and gets it close.

Q.   You were trying for the green on your second shot on 4, and you hit the tree.   Is that what happened? 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Yeah, I was.   I didn't quite catch it clean.   But I had to get it up in the air, which isn't always my strength, you know.

Q.   What was the yardage and club on that shot, Michael? 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I think it was about 144 front, and I was hitting an 8 iron, so it shouldn't have been a big problem.   But I just didn't quite get the ball clean, and so it didn't kind of get up as much as I would have liked.

Q.   After 13 and things started to look a little inevitable, what did you and Kenny start talking about out there? 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Well, really kind of his car.   He's got a new dragster he's going to get next week.   So that was kind of it, you know, at that point.   He was‑‑ I certainly wasn't in the competition anymore. 
That was the hardest thing to overcome is, when you have discipline, you're trying to hang in there and keep applying a little bit of pressure.   There wasn't much, the way he was going.
That 13th hole was very depressing.

Q.   Michael, when Kenny gets it going like he has been having it going, does he remind you of any other top player in the world? 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Maybe something like Johnny Miller because he hits it pretty close.   But he gets his putter going like that, and he's as good as anybody I've ever seen in the world, maybe a Loren Roberts.   I mean, he rolls the ball great.   He's very long too, so he has completely different lines than I see and do.
When he gets going, he's obviously a great player.

Q.   Does it lessen your disappointment that Kenny played so well the last two rounds?   He basically won the tournament. 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I joked about him going on 18.   Really, what does the first two rounds matter?   Last week, he didn't do well in the first round or two in Pittsburgh.   We were playing together.   It wasn't until the middle of the second round he started going, and he shoots 19 under in 2 1/2 rounds. 
But that's how good he can putt.   When he putts great, he's one of the best putters in the world. 
Good?   All right.   Thank you, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT