U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2013
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Michael Allen, today's round 2 over par, 72.   8 under par for the Championship.  
   
 Q.   You still have the lead, but you gave a couple back more than you wanted to, I'm sure.   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   That's for sure.   I was hoping to kind of get more separation today.   You know, the only thing I really did was close the gap.   But it's hard.  
I fought it out.   I hung in there.   I didn't feel very good to start the day.   I got better during the day.   It's tricky.   It's tough out there.  
   
 Q.   Rocco said you didn't play badly.   You just got some shots that you just couldn't recover from.   It's that difficult out there.   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   It is.   I missed a few putts on the back nine, some five, six‑footers.   Hit a bad putt on 16.   But I put myself in position to have those putts.   I didn't hit good shots.  
I've got to play a little better tomorrow for sure.  
   
 Q.   A two‑shot lead heading into Sunday, though?  
MICHAEL ALLEN:   That's a pretty good thing.   If you'd have said, Mike, you're going to have a two‑shot lead going into Sunday, I'd be happy.   I'd take it.   Life's good.   The USGA here is nice.  
   
 Q.   Michael, you bounced back on 13 and 14 after being a little shaky.   Talk about those birdies.   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   That was kind of a point where I knew I was‑‑ for some reason, I just made a few bogeys at the turn there.   Of course, 10's a hard hole.   But I just felt like 13, I had to make that putt.   I had to get something going.   I had to keep myself in the game here.   So you know, that was nice to get that going.   
Then I hit a great drive on 14.   It kind of ran through, and I hit what I thought was absolutely a perfect 5 iron, but it just kind of came up on the front edge.   That wind got pretty strong out there.   So I hit some really good shots coming in there, but it was tricky.  
I hit a bad shot on 16 and let it go.  
   
 Q.   What kind of score do you think you'll need tomorrow to hold everyone off?   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   You know, you don't really know.   I try not to really predict because I know that, if I go out and make five birdies in a row, I'll know I want to make six.   I feel like Kenny and Freddy and these guys are all good players and they like to make birdies.   I'm sure they're going to make their share.  
I know for me I'm going to have to go out and make birdies and be aggressive to have a chance to win, for sure.  
   
 Q.   Mr. Allen, how is the neck?   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   The neck is feeling a little bit better this afternoon.   On the back nine, it kind of loosened up.   It's still been very tight.   The worst it's been kind of all year.  
Luckily, you know, Keith is here helping me out.   And I was able to play today.   It would have been pretty tough without him.  
   
 Q.   Thank you.   Appreciate your time.   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   All right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT