U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2013
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Michael Allen, 7 under par, 63, one off the Senior Open record, and it's 10 under par for the Championship.  
   
 Q.   Disappointed by that?   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Now I heard that, man, I should have been a little more aggressive coming in, I think.   That's nice.   That's one‑‑ that's been a record that's stood a long time, I'm sure.  
   
 Q.   How hard is it to kind of keep in your own state of mind, knowing that you're playing as well as you're doing?   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   It's kind of really the challenge.   That's kind of‑‑ people go, oh, my God, it's so hard.   You're making it look so easy.   When you're playing well, it is relatively easy.   The hardest part is keeping your mind focused and channelled to keep doing the right thing and keep playing the shot and staying in the moment and in the ball game there.  
So that's always a challenge, when you're playing well, when you're kind of turned like this, to keep yourself on focus of what you're trying to do.  
   
 Q.   You have a five‑shot lead.   Going into this weekend, is your foot off the pedal at all, or do you keep being as aggressive as you're being?   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I sure hope I don't.   Fuzzy told me, man, play like you're broke.   I'm going to try to do that.   I know I've got a long way, and I know there have been a lot bigger leads than this.   
I'm going to enjoy the weekend.   It's nice being in the lead, playing where I want to play, playing for a USGA title, and I'm going to go out there and try to birdie the 1st hole, try and birdie the 2nd hole, and then just kind of keep going from there.  
   
 Q.   Take us through the eagle putt on 14.   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   The miracle shot?   It was a putt that, honestly, I was just trying to get it about‑‑ if I get a ten‑foot putt back at the hole, I was going to be happy.   It was a putt that, if I got‑‑ if I hit it a little too soft, I mean, it's going to go off the green probably in the rough in that lower level.   So I just wanted to make sure to get it in the upper level.  
I hit it plenty firm to do that, obviously.   Thank goodness the hole got in the way and caught it.   Must have been Buster Posey there for me.   Anyhow, it was‑‑ I kind of did what I wanted to do as far as getting on the upper level, having a birdie putt.   The fact that it went in is beyond me, that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   Started out so strong.   5 under through nine.   The back stretch, kind of take us through your mindset on that, going into the back nine?  
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I was feeling really good.   10, I hit two good shots.   But I was just getting kind of worn out by the sun, to be honest with you.   I was‑‑ the heat was getting to me.   I was getting tired.   So I ate an orange or an apple, and I had a bar.   Just trying to get my body back.  
I got to 12, I was struggling a little bit right there.   Thank goodness, kind of 13 got me going.   I just tried to get myself some water and some food in me and get my blood sugar back up and try and make sure I was kind of okay for the back nine.   
It's a struggle out here.   It's a hard walk and it is warm.   Even though the wind makes it really nice, makes it a little challenging, but makes it comfortable to play, it still wears on you a bit.  
   
 Q.   How aware of how large of a lead you had after you made the eagle putt?   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I try not to get too caught up on that.   I did realize that Rocco was at 5 under.   After that, he was only like 3 under.   I don't watch scoreboards, but I knew exactly where everybody was.  
Again, I try not to get too caught up on that, but I kind of knew where I was.   You just try to stay in focus and try to get a bigger lead if I can.  
   
 Q.   Sense the galleries getting any bigger after you made that, the last few holes for you?   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   The last few holes, they gathered.   It's hard to get to the top of the hill.   But they were nice.   This tournament's been extremely well‑attended, and I'm sure this weekend, it's going to be a lot of fun.  
Omaha's really supported this tournament great, made it a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Thank you.   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Pleasure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT