U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2013
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Folks, next up on flash, co‑leader, minus 3, 67, Michael Allen.  
   
 Q.   What was the best part of your round?   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Probably the walk‑off on the 9th hole because it's kind of downhill.  
   
 Q.   You had an issue with terrain today.   Got to be an issue with hills and stuff.   Is it as bad as people have been talking about?   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Today was a nice day.   It's not real hot here.   Nice breeze.   It wasn't a bad walk today at all.   It's the first day.   So it's, you know, legs are still there.   But it's going to be an issue if it gets hot for sure.   It's going to be kind of a war of attrition a little bit.   But it was nice.  
   
 Q.   How would you characterize your position right now?   How satisfied are you with it?   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I felt like I played pretty well today at times, and I also played pretty bad at times.   So I made a lot of stupid bogeys out there.   I'm happy with the score I finished.   If you'd give me that before I teed off, I'd have probably been happy with it.  
I think I can do a little better.   If you don't play well out here, you can make a lot of bogeys real quick.   I like my position to start with overall.  
   
 Q.   Everyone is saying how hard this course is.   If you do make a mistake, you're going to pay for it.   Is it there for the taking as well?   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I think so, at least today.   I think it's kind of soft.   You know, again, you got to get the ball in the fairway, but they cut the rough down a little bit so the ball wasn't sitting at the bottom like it was on Monday and Tuesday when I played.  
So hence, saying that, when you hit in the rough, you can kind of make pars, you know.   I made a birdie on the last hole out of the rough.   So it's definitely a little more playable now with the rough the way it is.   
I mean, I think it can certainly grow teeth, I'm sure, if the greens get a little firm and the fairways do.   It can be a very difficult golf course for sure.  
   
 Q.   Thank you, sir.   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Is that it?   All right.   I'll tell my jokes later.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT