THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2012
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Some comments on your round today, pretty good finish?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Yeah, I've really been kind of sick all week.   It was kind of nice because it kept me from getting out and overdoing it.   I played beautiful the front nine.   A few mistakes in the middle and a great finish.   I hit two good shots on 17 that kind of caught the hill.   I couldn't quite get over the hill with my second, and so came up just short and made about a 60,70‑‑foot putt there from just off the green.
Then a nice little 3‑wood and a 7‑iron here to about ten feet and made birdie.

Q.   What was your shot sequence on 17?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I hit a good drive, and I had like 220 to the front and 245 to the hole.   And the problem is there was a big rise in front of me, so I hit a really good one trying to get it in the air and still clipped it and came up short right in front of the green, and then I made the putt from‑‑ pin was back 26 feet, 26 yards, so I was about two steps short of the green.

Q.   Conditions good for scoring today?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Out here in a short‑sleeved shirt in   Scotland (chuckling).   This is as good as it gets.   Yeah, nice little light breeze, it's been a beautiful day.
It was a great day.   Any day out here, it was a great walk and then to go out on a beautiful day, I got short sleeves on, and it's a great day at Turnberry.   To actually play really well, it was a good day all the way around.

Q.   Talk me through the finish in particular, because that was something spectacular on 17. 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   It was.   I really hit a good tee shot but I kind of stuck underneath that little knob there, so I had about 220 to the front.   So I tried to hit a hybrid and it just kind of caught that little ridge, couldn't quite get it over the ridge.   So it bounced in the dirt and I ended up two yards short of the green. 
And so I had to wait for my caddie, it was 81 feet or something like that he said.   So those are always bonuses.   It was a good putt, would have ended up a foot or two away.   For it to go in was a nice exclamation point. 

Q.   He told me that he tried to convince you you should chip it but you wanted that putt. 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I've been a little sick and under the weather, so I haven't been able to practise too much this whole week.   I wasn't quite as confident with that turned out to be the right play.     Once again, the player is right.
18, I hit a nice 3‑wood and 7‑iron in there and had about ten feet, so good way to end the day.

Q.   I take it this is a continuation of your form for the season. 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Yeah, I've been playing well.   The last few weeks haven't been very good.   I think I've been kind of worn out with the U.S. Open and trying to play a few extra tournaments here or there.   The form has not been very good the last few weeks.   But had a week off and went to France last week, so feeling a little better.   Being sick, I didn't practise too much and I feel pretty good now. 

Q.   So just fatigue?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Yeah, that's what I think.   So I'm going to take the next few weeks off after this, but you've got to come here and enjoy this place.   It's special and it's probably our greatest course we play all year, so it's always special to play in a British Open. 
Every chance I get, I come over.   I love the golf here.   I won The Scottish Open; I was an Honorary Scotsman years ago.   Every time I go into a pub, they bring me out these finger Sandwiches. 

Q.   And you love links golf? 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   It's one of those things, I remember years ago after I quit playing, I was coming back on the Nationwide and it was such a grind.   You're not really sure what you're doing and you're working hard, and some buddies got me to come over and play for about a week, and it's just like you kind of remember that golf is fun and that's what links golf is to me. 
You have a lot of fun shots to play out there.   I know we will get some weather eventually.   I enjoy it.   It's always a challenge.   It's not just walk off a number and hit it.   It's play a shot and that's what golf is, and it's fun to come over and play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT