U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2012
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What was your thought process throughout the day?  
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Really after yesterday I kind of threw up the goose, I guess.   And played myself right out of the tournament.   Having said that, I just came out today to see if I could put up a good score.   I know I can play this course well and really just enjoy the day.   It's been a lot of fun.   
This whole week has been a great time for me.   A lot of love shown towards me with the fans and the media.   You guys have all been wonderful to me.   For me, I'm trying to have a fun day out here and let everybody know I appreciate all the support I've gotten.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the whole process from the qualifying to now? That you're done, kind of the whole experience?  
MICHAEL ALLEN:   The hardest part qualifying was when I was doing well, I made the tournament at Harding Park.   I'm coming to like 13 or 14.   And I know I'm doing pretty well.   So know it's extremely hard getting in here, but once I got here it's been a great time.   
I'm still trying to play any Champions Tour and make a living.   It's just fun for me, a fun week.   I was just going to have a good time.   I come here to compete.   I'm a good competitor.   I feel I can play well here at the U.S. Open.   The course kind of got the best of me.   I make a few bogeys, and it's hard to make a birdie.   I birdied 2.   I thought I had a good chance to get things going, and it turned out it was the only birdie I had today.   It's a tough track.   But it's been a lot of fun to play.  
   
 Q.   You're playing with a fairly well‑known golfer today, but it's his first Open, which is surprising.   The way the chronology worked out, the PGA was his first‑‑ got here having won a Major, but he didn't ever get one, so I'm sure for both of you the emotion was, hey, we're finally here.   
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Steve gave up the bag to his dad for the last hole.   Did it make you think, or at any point in the round, did you think of your own kids or your dad ever, because it always ends on Father's Day.   What's that emotion like?  
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Well, that was‑‑ obviously the first hole I was thinking about my father there.   And all the great times we had.   My mother was able to come out in one of those little school things, drive around the last two or three days.   So it's been great having her because she's walked a lot of rounds with me over the years.  
It was nice to see that happen with Keegan.   That made me think of my father when that happened.   That's pretty neat.   It's Father's Day.   And it's been a long time since he died.   But it's been about 15 or 17 years now.   
   
 Q.   He wasn't here in '98?  
MICHAEL ALLEN:   No, but he was the first one in '87.   It's life.   We're all going to die.   None of us is getting out of this alive.   It's a part of life.   It's a nice to see that.   It was wonderful to have my mother out here to be a part of this with me.  
   
 Q.   Can you speak about the range of experience you have on the golf course?   You have the eagle, you have a stretch of birdies, a stretch of pars, and then the tough holes?  
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Today I had a lot of tough pars.   I just kind of kept fighting it out and kept trying to keep it in the ballgame.   Yeah, and then I had that eagle and birdie.   And then I go the next‑‑ get to 17 and I three‑putt from 15 feet below the hole.   And that was‑‑ I'm going, 2‑under is a lot better than 1.   So, it has.   And that's the way these hard golf tournaments are, these U.S. Opens and PGA's.   They're always full of emotions.   But for me, I don't get as caught up as I used to.   It used to bug the hell out of me and wear me out.   Now it's not going to change my life and I understand it more.   I love doing what I'm doing.   I love my experiences out here.   It's not the deep ups and downs like there used to be.  
   
 Q.   As much as you have to focus on every shot here, are you able to take a step back and say I'm playing at the U.S. Open, my home club, and all of that?  
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Yeah, as I say I'm a competitor.   I didn't come here just to play, I came here to compete.   It's been a nice kind of segue, I guess, where I can go out and get after them, focus on my shot.   And when I'm done I'm relaxed enough to take it in and say hi to people and kind of enjoy the moment.   As I said everybody has been so nice.   Overall it's been good.  
   
 Q.   You made the climb up to 16, did sort of a huff and puff, like the old man thing.   You're 53.   I'm 55 and I know what you're feeling.   You got a little bit of rocky jolt out of the fans.   They're not only encouraging you, they're probably a little sympathetic that you have to walk this golf course?  
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Yeah, I think a few of them are trying to give me a license to their cart.   I got used to that on the Champions Tour.   I'm in pretty good shape.   I'm joking around.   But I'll feel this one at the end of the week, come tomorrow it will be a good day to relax.  
   
 Q.   Could you leave this tournament in handshakes?  
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I think I must have.   It was different today.   A lot of people rooting for Keegan, too.   Before I was playing with guys that no one really knew.   So I got most of the stuff.   I was out a little bit early.  
   
 Q.   I'm guessing that's the first time you've played with him?  
MICHAEL ALLEN:   It is.   I hadn't even met him before.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT