U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2012
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Michael, today you played in the afternoon wave today and the morning wave yesterday.   Can you tell me how the course was different between the two different days?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   It's certainly dried up a bit today.   The greens were certainly a lot tighter in certain areas.   They have been trampled on all day.   Overall yesterday the course was really firm, and so I think I watched it on TV today. 
It looked a little softer early and this afternoon it was like it was yesterday.   It was as hard as could be, just as far as firmness.   The greens rolled a little better yesterday than they did today, but it was an edgy day out there.

Q.   You've played this course thousands of times as we have heard so many times during the course of the week.   Did the local knowledge come into play?   You know the course is playing in much different conditions.   But knowing where things are, knowing where spots are, does that really help you?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   It helps a great deal.   I know how the winds are and how certain holes play.   I kind of have a pretty good idea of how certain shots are going to play.   I got to take in the firmness, but overall, yes, it helps a great deal. 

Q.   You were in the position where it was really warm when you teed off, and by the time you were finished it dropped at least 20 degrees probably.   Does that change the way you play the golf course?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Yeah, it does, because out here the ball just doesn't fly very far.   When it gets cold out here, the ball, you got to add another half a club all the time.   A little wind in your face, this cold wind, it's a strong, heavy wind.

Q.   What's it feel like being the hometown favorite?   When you made your putt there on 18 you got quite a little ovation from the Olympic Club faithful?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   It's been great week for me.   I didn't know I had so many friends around here.   All the media has been so nice to me and put some nice articles out there.   So I've gotten a great deal of support here and everybody all day has been yelling at me and rooting for me.   So it's been a wonderful experience.

Q.   What will your day be like tomorrow?   When do you think you'll get to the course?   You don't know your tee time yet, but how is your day going to be tomorrow?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I'm going to try to get here and get a little more warmed up.   It seems like whenever I got a late tee time I'm always rushing.   Today it was the same thing.   Tomorrow I'm going to be sure I get here early and get a little extra time on the greens.   You got to get the feel on the greens, the feel of the speed.   So that will be my big thing tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT