SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2012
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How did you like your round today?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I feel like I kind of got a fair amount out of it.   I didn't really play very well today.   I just wasn't quite on my game.   I wasn't quite real sharp.   But I kept away from making mistakes, so I kind of shot a decent score. 
But Roger Chapman is running away from things, so it would be a good tournament without him around.

Q.   Would you feel better about your score if there wasn't a guy at 13‑under, you'd think, my score is not that bad. 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Exactly.   Without him leading we would all have a real good chance.   So obviously it's all up to him whether he plays really well tomorrow or not.

Q.   So he affects your self worth?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Not really.   I had a great time today.   I had a great time playing with Bernhard every day.   It's been a nice week so far.   And today I feel good about myself, I'll have a nice evening.

Q.   You were in a similar situation several years ago, you hadn't won out here yet, what's going through his mind, based on your past experience?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   I think that tonight will be kind of a hard night for him.   I know for me when I was leading that tournament in Tampa Bay, it was hard to have a five shot lead.   I haven't led that many tournaments on Sunday. 
So luckily I was hanging out with Fuzzy that night and he said, you know, just play like you're broke.   And so that kind of helped.   So that was a nice thing. 
It's not going to be an easy night for him.   When you got a big lead like that it's kind of all on you.   If you play well, the tournament's over.   If you don't, you let everybody in.   So it's up to him.

Q.   What about for you, what are your thoughts and goals for tomorrow?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Well obviously tomorrow for me to have any chance at all I'm sure I got to get to 8, 10‑under par, at least 10‑under par, probably to have any chance at all.   And that's only if he kind of ‑‑ well, let's just put it, doesn't play well, you know. 
So I'm going to go out and have a great time, I'm enjoying the golf course, the weather's nice, so hopefully I can play better tomorrow and have a good day.   And if I can get to 10‑under par and he falls down a bit, then maybe I would have a chance. 

Q.   What's going through your mind when he's doing what he's doing today?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   He's tying my course record, gosh dang it.   You know, he's obviously playing great golf.   That's hard to do.   John Cook's a great competitor, so he's controlling the situation, taking advantage of it.

Q.   Did you ever encounter him when you played over in Europe?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Yeah, when I won the Scottish Open I played with Roger and he's been a good friend or kind of a friend for quite awhile.   So he's had his kind of card over here a little bit, at least out of the TOUR school.   So I seen him quite a bit.   Him and his wife, they're sweet people.   And he's a very nice guy.   So I wish him the best, really.

Q.   You got to tell us something about him. 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Well most of the things I got to say about guys I really wouldn't give to the media. 

Q.   What kind of wine does he like?
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Well knowing him I would think white, but I don't know.   I don't think he's a scotch drinker.   Him and his wife always seem to be traveling.   I tell you, he's a world traveller, he's all over the place, all the time.   So I wish I had some better information for you, but I don't have enough. 

Q.   Was he one of these guys that he's been good all these years and obviously you probably, you probably are the only person here who is not surprised by what he's doing. 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Yeah, I'm surprised, I'm only surprised he's playing this well because in the time he's been over here he hasn't really played very well.   So that is a little surprising to see him all of a sudden come out of the box on a really hard course like this and do so well.   But having said that, he's been a good player for a long time and he was bound to have a week like this eventually.

Q.   Been everywhere, done it all.   He's played everywhere and played well.   He just doesn't have as many W's as would he probably like. 
MICHAEL ALLEN:   Exactly.   He's won in Europe a few times, but not nearly as much as you would think.   And I haven't played with him since the 1980's, like my last year over there was really '89.   And then he came on and played better, so.   But I would take him out and get him, you know, take him with me tonight, that might help the field a little bit if I take him with me.   I might have to give him an invitation, get him over to the house.   We'll see if he can play that way.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT