CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
November 4, 2011
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Michael, you shot a second consecutive 69, 4-under par, tied for the lead. Just a few thoughts about today's round. You had the home crowd today again out here. 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: They are boisterous. 
 It was such a beautiful day. Expecting the worst weather. God, I mean, the course played beautiful again. The greens are just spectacular. A beautiful day to play. A little surprised the scoring isn't a little bit better. But the golf course is playing tough. 
 It's a good challenge out there. 
 THE MODERATOR: Take us through the round real quick. 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: 5th hole I birdied. Hit a 3-wood off that tee. I hit a pitching wedge. I made about a 20-foot putt there. I got things going. 
 9, I hit a good drive. A weird hybrid that kind of came up short. Thought I hit it pretty good. Must have been mud on it. It came up just short of the bunker. I chipped up to about six inches. 
 Then I made a couple bogeys on 11 and 12. 11 I hit a pretty good shot just a hair right and it went in the bunker and I missed about a six-footer for par. 
 THE MODERATOR: What club there? 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: That was a 6-iron. 
 Then the next hole I hit a pretty good drive, then just a terrible 6-iron right. Hit the tree, came down. I 2-putted from 25 feet or whatever it was. That was the bad stuff. 
 Then we got to 14. I hit a good drive and a 6-iron from about 160 yards. I made about a 10-footer there from the right side. 
 16, I tried to hit driver. Didn't hit a very good drive. Hit it in the bunker. Hit a beautiful bunker shot from 25, 30 yards to about two inches. 
 Then I had the great up-and-down on 18. That was kind of it. 
 THE MODERATOR: Tell us about the up-and-down. 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: It was extremely difficult (laughter). I hit it left off of tee. Got a little lucky. Didn't hit a very good tee shot there. Then you're kind of stuck. I was trying to punch a little 6-iron out to the right which kind of took off and went back into the stands, the corporate tents. 
 From there, I got a drop. Went forward a couple times. I made a great drop. I got a pretty good lie there on that downslope. Hit a nice shot trying to be kind of safe, not do something stupid. Came up to six, maybe eight feet, I guess. Knocked that one in. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll go to questions. 

 Q. Michael, a few of the guys stumbled on the back nine. You know how tough the back nine is. Maybe that knowledge helped you finish well today. 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, it's always tough. Once you make that turn coming home on like 13 or 14, I guess, all those holes just play so long. People don't understand. Even last year I left them short on 15, too. You got to take an extra club or two or really 14, 15, 16, 17. Just plays so long into that wind. Always blows out of there. If they stumble, that's usually why probably. 

 Q. I know you're only halfway through the tournament. Considering where you grew up, the magnitude of this tournament, can you let yourself think about where this would rank in your career if you were to come out on top on Sunday?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, it's always my goal out there. I've been a little frustrated not winning since I opened up with a win at the PGA. It means a lot to me to win. I've been in position a lot out here over the last year or two. 
 It means a lot. These guys are all great players. To beat them is always a great thing. It's going to be nice around here. With all my friends here it will be even better. I would love to get a win in the Bay Area.

 Q. More helpful here knowing the course or having the backing of 85% of the fans?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Certainly it starts with the course. For me I like the color of the grass. I can see the breaks a little better. So it's comfortable for me. 
 It's evened out a little bit because all these greens are so smooth anybody could putt them. Used to be, growing up out here, bumps everywhere. You had to have some nerve to putt them. 

 Q. This is your old home. Next year the tournament moves to where you live now. Are you going to miss the tournament not being here? What are your thoughts about where it's moving next year?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Desert Mountain is an incredible place up there. That development is just first class. It will be beautiful locker rooms. The food, everything will be phenomenal. 
 I love coming down here. For me it's a great time to come to San Francisco. I wish they played here every year. I love coming down, being in the city for a week. I love the golf here. You hit a bad shot, you got a chance to play. We go there, you hit a bad shot, you're hopefully going to get lucky in the desert, chip it out. 
 It will be fun because it's a golf tournament, it's what I like to do. I'd much rather be doing it here. This is what I enjoy as far as golf. I guess it is what it is. I'll be happy to play if they let me. I'll be there. 
 THE MODERATOR: Continued good luck, Michael. 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT