U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2011
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How was is out there?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: It was a beautiful day to play. It was kind of like dome golf out here. It was so nice. I know that this place gets a lot of sun, I know that, and I really saw it on that 18th hole. I was just zeroed in right behind the flag, so a little bit tough. 
 Definitely a disappointing finish there, but I played well all week and so far. I'm certainly in great shape for the weekend and just really looking forward to it.

 Q. Nice you don't have to wait around and start again?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Isn't that the truth. I did not want to be getting up early tomorrow. It's nice. It's all working out well, and I've got a great chance this weekend.

 Q. You putted well yesterday. Did you follow it up today?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, I putted pretty well today. I really made most all the short ones I really had to. I had a bad lip-out on 18, in a divot on 18 into the sun, so kind of a lot of little factors. I didn't play very well, and I guess a little tired, too. 
 But overall my putting has been pretty good and hopefully I can keep up like that and I'll be pretty happy.

 Q. Talk about the course. 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: You know, the course played nicely. It's certainly soft again. You could kind of hit all your shots pretty much to the pin. You know, playing in the afternoon after everybody has been playing the greens were a little beat up. They weren't as nice as they were early in the morning yesterday. They were really nice and smooth and you could make some putts. 
 But overall I thought the course played pretty well. I'd like to see it dry out I'm sure like the USGA would, but it's playing beautifully. It's a fair test.

 Q. Did your putt on 18 hit a spike?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: It just hit the -- the whole circumference of the hole and came right back. I needed one on 18 to have a 6-,7-footer for par in the first place so I didn't hit a very good shot coming in. Seemed like a few factors there, but such is golf.

 Q. When you said the greens were beat up, were they playing slow today? Did they firm up as the day went on or what?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: They really didn't firm up too much. They're a little bit slower than they would kind of normally be, I'm sure the course would like them to be. But they've had a lot of rain, I guess, last night and this morning, so the course is holding up beautifully for all the environmental conditions going on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT