U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2011
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, the course was definitely soft. It was pretty good. It's been rough weather, other than that it's been great.

 Q. Can you go through 12 to 18, the final six? 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, for me, I played those -- I started on the back nine, so that was kind of early. Luckily I was able to get off to a good start, birdieing 10 and 12, so it made it, at least if you make a bogey there you feel a little better about it. But I had some nice shots there. 
 13 was a nice par, but then 14, you know, you hit a good drive, I had a nice little 7-iron in, so that wasn't bad. The next hole was tough, and then the one up the hill, I hit a nice 6-iron just a little past to the right. Kind of had some good birdie putts there, actually. 
 Today was a little benign when you hit a good tee shot there. Not too bad. But they're hard tee shots. You've got to hit good tee shots on each hole.

 Q. You started on the back nine, all of a sudden you're putting a real number up (Indiscernible)?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, because the course sets up beautifully the way it is using those holes as your back nine. So assuming you get started and get off to a good start like that and get through all of that, not like the rest of the course is easy, but you're certainly kind of taking the meat out of it and you've got a chance to put a little mustard on.

 Q. Any coincidence that you're playing well in Ohio again? 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I sure hope so. I don't know. I like the golf course here a lot. It's a great challenge. It's fun to come out and play each day. I'm enjoying my time here. Ohio just suits me well. I don't know, hopefully, at the end of the week I can say that.

 Q. Have you gotten more out of this week? 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I think you can always get more. But I didn't really. I only missed two or three greens but I chipped close. I never had more than a two- or three-footer for par. So another round went pretty easy for me, as low stress as you're going to make it out here and as nice a day as you're going to get. 
 I mean, sure you can make a few more putts, but I kind of capitalized on most of my shortish ones, so...

 Q. Do you put much stock into it being at the top of the leaderboard after the first day with the conditions? 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Well, it's always nicer, you know. Usually when I'm out here I seem to be chasing them so far behind, so it's nice to be able to come out and hopefully be able to play and not have to keep making birdies and catch up all the time. 
 I'll have a better answer for you on Sunday, but I like this a lot better so I can keep going and playing my game instead of trying to push things hard to keep making birdies. I know I'm going to have to make birdies, but, you know, it is a U.S. Open, so pars are good too.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT