CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
November 7, 2010
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVE SENKO: Michael, thanks for joining us. Finished 1-under 70 today and two shots back. Maybe just take us back through your day.   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah. You know, I think it was a fun day. I competed as hard as I could. I really didn't have my best -- you know, I didn't play that great today, so it was a little frustrating, but you know, it was hard.   
 It was just hard getting warmed up and getting going today. It was a little rainy, and the range was so flat. I never really got a feel of really hitting some good shots. But I got off to a good start. I birdied the first hole and hit a wedge to about four feet and then it kind of went downhill. Do you want me to go through the holes?   
 DAVE SENKO: Yeah. No. 4 and 6?   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah. 4, I didn't hit a good tee shot. The tee shot was awkward for me, all week. I hit it left and stayed up in the tree and I birdied for a bogey after that. Then 6.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: No. I just went back to the tee and just hit it down the right side.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah. That's what I played. Yeah. I didn't even look forward, to be honest. Yeah. A little frustrating. (Laughs).   
 Then like No. 6 I hit a good drive and not even that solid, but I had like 3-iron into the green, and I didn't hit a good shot out to the right and didn't get it up-and-down.   
 And then 9 I hit a good drive and a rescue onto the green, and I was probably 30, 40 feet, probably about 40 feet from the hole and I was able to two-putt that for a birdie.   
 Then 10, I hate a decent drive, hit my rescue a little left and kind of left my wedge kind of short just the very front edge of the green just below that little slope, and I made a nice 30-footer there at least. So that kind of got me going.   
 Then really after that I just kind of played all right. I just really couldn't get it close. I was scrambling, a few good shots. I did hit like 12, kind of hit the fringe of the green and kicked all the way to the back. So it was just kind of one of those days I just didn't quite have it, couldn't get it going.  
 DAVE SENKO: Conditions, maybe just talk a little bit about that? I know with the rain and everything today.   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, it was kind of really a nice typical Northern California day. I really kind of -- I don't mind it too much, you know. It's the way we usually play around here really a lot of the times.   
 So but again, I never really got going. I never got going on the range. I wasn't hitting that great. I just kind of struggled. I just didn't quite have it today. But I think I changed sweaters and jackets like 25 times.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I know. I don't like playing in jackets. I don't mind a sweater, but I don't like playing in jackets.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah. When it was raining really hard, I put my jacket on and umbrella, but other than that, I just kind of --  
  
  Q. In weather like this, is that memories of here we go again?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, a little bit. But I always kind of enjoy that, too. I enjoy the golf when it's a little bit different, a little trying.   
 I think that's what makes it a little bit different, a little fun. The greens are really soft and you can really roll the ball. John really did a good job of that today.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible). It's hard to follow. Did you fall victim to that?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah. I think I did. I didn't put a whole lot of pressure on myself. I went out to Beach Blanket last night and Babylon, and then we went to Gary Senko's. We had a great evening.   
 So I wasn't able to stick around too long. I had today on my mind. I told you my life story in here, so that took a while.   
  
  Q. Even though you say you didn't get it going coming to 16, it was still one stroke difference, and actually on 16 and 17 talk about your tee shots there going into the bunker.   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah. On 16 I was just -- that was a perfect shot for me. I really hit that nice little hard cut, and I guess the wind got her or something and just a little too much and ended up in the bunker.   
 These bunkers were really tough today. The sand was kind of gloppy. It wasn't even grainy. So it was all wet. It was a tough bunker shot today. So normally it wouldn't be quite as bad. So I didn't hit a great bunker shot on 16. I hit it to about 12 feet, I think, maybe 15 feet, and I just wasn't able to make that putt.   
 And then 17 I hit really a superb bunker shot out of there, but it was kind of too late after he birdied that, but at least I made him play the last hole. As it turned out I didn't make that putt, I really thought I could have made that.  
  
  Q. You mentioned the way John putted. I'm just curious your thoughts seemed like on the back nine he particularly was really kind of dialed in and not making any mistakes at all and forcing you to be aggressive.   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Exactly. That was kind of fun. I enjoyed it. It was nice kind of Match Play out there between the two of us. It was.   
 He started out the first hole a long putt. He made a good putt on the second hole for par. He made a long putt on the third hole. He really kind of had that blade rolling, long putt on the third hole.   
 We had a couple of two-shot swings there with him making some really good putts and me not converting. Front nine there were a lot of two-shot swings that kind of made it tough for me to come back, especially when I wasn't really firing on all cylinders.  
  
  Q. You were talking about how much you'd like to win in this area. Did you push it a little too much? I mean was that any problem or you just didn't play well?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I feel like I felt great coming into the day. I was looking forward to it. I thought I was going to have a fun day, and I did.   
 It's the way the game is. You just -- some of the shots yesterday, you know, the wind was maybe a little stronger than I played to and I didn't play that quite as well, and you get out here and it's hard sometimes just judging how far the ball is going to go. Where normally you got a 180 shot and you're hitting a 5-iron in right now and normally that's maybe a little 6. So it's tough judging all these distances and the way the ball is going to play out here. So the elements had a lot of background out here today.  
  
  Q. You kind of just touched on it, but how difficult were the conditions compared to yesterday when you obviously went so slow?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: It was just colder and wetter and maybe a little more wind. Doesn't take a lot of wind here to really affect the ball. It's really so heavy.  
  
  Q. You've had a series of runner-up finishes. Are they still encouraging or are they getting frustrating?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: They're encouraging and they're frustrating, you know. I mean it's nice to be chasing the title. If I could do this the rest of my life, I'd be a happy camper. I know I'm going to get a few.   
 It is frustrating. It's probably a little more frustrating because at the TPC a couple weeks ago, when you watched in D.C. because that one I really thought I had. I played so nice and I didn't make that putt on 15 and 18 and I didn't play a good hole in the playoff. It was the first one I ever played in. That was probably a little more frustrating then. This Cy Young he just kept coming to the challenge. He kept knocking those putts in when he had to.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I'm going to leave on Monday. I got a direct flight out to Orlando.  
  
  Q. How difficult a transition is it to go from playing on this tour just making the 61 and now going to the PGA TOUR kind of playing for your job next year?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah. Exactly. You know, it can be difficult, but it's a good time. I'm looking forward to going out there. It'll certainly be a challenge I'll have to be completely ready for, because it's more of a mental challenge than anything, to keep yourself in the ball game and just keep calm and comfortable. You know, a lot of energy out there to keep trying to play. It's a long week with kind of a lot of stress, but you know, it's all self-induced.   
 So that's my real challenge next week is to just really kind of keep calm and comfortable and try to enjoy myself and have fun and enjoy the challenge of what I'm trying to do. And it's not the end of the world if I don't do it, but you can't go in with that mindset. You can't let there be that letdown. It's okay if I don't. I've gotta make it happen.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: It is to me. I mean it is my qualifying school this year. This is what it's all about for me. I've gotta get that done. That's what's been great this week, too. I've had a week to prepare and I've had a week to prepare and there are guys that had two weeks off. This is been really nice for me. I love coming up here and I'm going to give it everything I got next week and see what happens.   
 DAVE SENKO: Any more questions? Thanks, Michael.  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: My pleasure. Thank you, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT