CONSTELLATION ENERGY SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 10, 2010
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Michael, thanks for joining us. Maybe just talk a little bit about your day. You made a great run there at the end with birdies, birdied 3 through the last five holes. But maybe just talk about that little run, and then the playoff hole.
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, you know, I felt I played well today. I had a lot of good opportunities I wasn't able to cash in on. And I felt I was able to make a couple at the end, made 16 at the left, middle of the green, came up right at the hole, one shot away. 
 I don't know. Other than that, I had a great day playing today. It was a lot of fun going out, and this is a great golf course, fun course to really play well on. I played well nearly most of the day. 
 And at the end, I guess, I had a lot of second-place finishes that felt pretty darned good. And this one played just as good, but overall I had a great day today. So I had a chance.
 THE MODERATOR: Take us through your birdies, bogeys, just start at No. 1. 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: 1, I just hit -- my shoes were still loose. Almost came out of them. I hit that dead right. Had to pitch out along the grass and didn't even get back to the fairways. 
 And I actually hit a pretty good shot, hit a 15-footer for par but I missed that. 
 Then let's see what happened. I guess 5, I hit a nice shot in there. And hit a 3-wood and a little 9-iron there. Hit that to about eight feet or so, made a nice birdie there. 
 And then 7, I missed about a two- or three-footer for birdie. And then 8, I finally hit a nice drive, 8-iron to about five or six feet. Made that.
 And what else, I had some other good opportunities all the way through, really. And, finally, on 14 I hit a 3-wood just right over the back edge, right off the fringe. And just a little rusty down to about a couple of feet.
 Then 15 I hit it to about six feet and missed that. And then -- yeah, 15. On 16, I hit, as I say, I really drive a little right there. And I was trying to hit a 9-iron right in the middle of the green to make sure to keep it in front. I kind of pushed it a little bit and came about eight feet, 10 feet above the hole, and I was able to make that.
 And 17 I hit a beautiful 6-iron to about 10 feet left of the hole and hit that right to the middle. And 18 I hit a drive and nice little 9-iron to about six, seven feet of the last hole and messed that one up. 
 So there I was in the playoff. Just kind of got a bad break on that. I shouldn't say a bad break. Hit it right. Ended up on the side of the hill, in kind of pretty nasty lie. Had a hard time getting it to that. Not my day. How was your day? 
 THE MODERATOR: What did you hit on that second shot on the playoff hole? 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I was trying to hit a 7-iron out. A little chunky, came up short. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, folks? 

 Q. How cognizant were you of what was going on out there and just how did that affect your playing?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Well, I wasn't that kind of worried. I knew I had to get off my bad start. I was a little bit in the hole. 
 But really, after making the turn, and kind of seeing the scores, where really he was only 6-under and I was still at 3-under, maybe 4 at that time. I guess I was 4. I knew I was still close. And I was kind of surprised because I kind of made a few mistakes.
 Anyhow, kind of from there on I kind of knew, had an idea where I was. And really obviously he made bogey on 16 when I was on 18 tee. I'm happy for him, but you know.

 Q. Finished 2nd in a PGA TOUR and 2nd in a Champions Tour, what does it say about you and your game and this TOUR; it's pretty strong to be able to do that?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yes, it says a lot about his TOUR too. This TOUR, I feel like when I come out and play, I play well, I'm going to probably finish in the top 10. 
 But it's hard to win out here. These are all great players. They've all -- you know, it's hard to win out here. There's always so many playing well and there's good players when they play well. So for me, hopefully I can keep it up another week or two and try to keep my card out there, too. 
 But I'm just having fun going back and forth and kind of enjoying it. It's been fun lately.

 Q. You would like to keep doing both TOURs, then, if you can for as long as you can?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I wouldn't say necessarily as long as I can. I enjoy playing out here. It's nice to get together with these guys. 
 I'm certainly making my way over to this TOUR more and more. But for me I've been playing out there for 15 years or whatever. And I know the tournaments I really enjoy out there. So I really like going and playing in those. 
 As I've played more and more here, I'll find the ones I enjoy more. Eventually I'll be playing full time here. But last year or two, part time, it would be great. The best of both worlds.

 Q. You're certainly not the only player doing that, Tom Hanks, Jr. is in hunt for this week on the regular tour, another guy who has done what you have done?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Corey Pavin. Obviously he doesn't have to worry it out here. He's made enough money in his life. 
 That's the thing about Tom, too, is Tom made enough career money that it's not an issue for him. 
 For me I have to come out and get in the top 30 or they send me on my way. It's kind of important this year to come out and play enough so I'm not forced next year. So it feels good to get some of those things done.

 Q. A major championship, you get a chance for a second one. I missed where your tee shot went on the playoff hole. I know it was in the right to the trees. What kind of lie did you draw, and what club were you hitting it and what were your options?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I didn't have any option. I had a bad lie. It was on the side of the hill. I hit a 7-iron. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT