U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2010
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL ALLEN: Oh, man, goin' backwards.   
  
  Q. Looked like you had fun.   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: This is a course you have to concentrate on but -- you've got to really concentrate out here. You can't lose your focus at all. But I've been playin' for a while and lately it's been frustrating. I enjoy playing and like last week and this week coming up playing these golf courses, I really enjoy playing these golf courses.   
 So for me -- yeah, he must have made it! We've had a great crowd out here especially for him, I tell ya.   
  
  Q. What do you think of the course? Three days it's been, like, tough and stuff like that, but as Kite says, this is the way it should be.   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I agree. It's the way it should be, challenges everything you have and you can't just hit balls to pins. I enjoy this kind of golf, enjoy the challenge of playing shots to the middle of the green and pars are good scores, you know? So many times you make par and you're going backwards it seems like a lot.   
 I like this. And as I said, a lot of times you get up and you're playing John Deere and it's a nice course and you say, okay, but I need to make a living. And I enjoy the challenge of here or Carnoustie. So it makes it easier to be happy out there even when you're making a few bogeys.   
  
  Q. You're going to be behind the lead group tomorrow. Does that mean you have to show some aggressiveness after these things because you can't pick your spots anymore, you have to --  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: On this course there are just certain pins I personally can't get at. There aren't many guys that can, so you have to pick your spot but I'm going to definitely need to be aggressive and they're not going to come that far back to me so I've got to get out and make some birdies tomorrow. And if I can get three or four on the front nine it will give me a good chance on the back nine.   
  
  Q. How many pins were "unfair" today?   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I don't think any of them have been unfair all week. There are certain pins that I can't hit within 20 feet. Today there were only two or three like that where you're not going to challenge it at all. 3 was that way and there was a few, but for the most part the first day I thought has been the hardest setup as far as pins that you just -- I can't hit it inside of 20 feet.   
 Today that was not that way, you had pins you could attack and get after.   
  
  Q. Was today the easiest of the three days?   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I think the pins were the easiest, yeah. Yesterday was warmer and if you can get some wedges in you can get the ball to stop and you can be aggressive. But you've got to get the ball on the fairway.   
 Okay, guys, thank you.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT