U.S. SENIOR OPEN
August 11, 2016
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  [No microphone.]  
MICHAEL ALLEN: It's drying out the fairways a little bit.  So, yeah, we have to make some adjustments.  We kind of know where we want to play the hole from, so what clubs you take to get there and now that you get the wind blowing, it is kind of what it is about out here.   
 Q.  What is it about the Senior Open that brings out the best in you?  
MICHAEL ALLEN: I guess it's the only USGA event I get to play in, you know.  I love playing the golf courses.  They're always a challenge.  You guys have done so much work to get a wonderful setup.  It's a nice environment for us.  I like the atmosphere a little bit more, but I love the golf course.  It's always a great challenge.  It's always fun to come out and play like that.   
 Q.  When you're playing for your nation's title, does that mean more to you?  
MICHAEL ALLEN: It does.  This is our biggest tournament of the year.  So it's one you like to kind of prepare for and win the most.  Having said that, you know, I would love to win a USGA title.  That's what I've always wanted to since I was a little kid, and it continues today.   
Luckily, we have a Senior Open, and I still get to get a few more chances at it, so maybe I cherish it a little bit more now.   
 Q.  Just take us through your birdies today.  
MICHAEL ALLEN: Okay.  At 3, I birdied.  I hit a 3 wood, I made it about two feet, and I made double.  On the par 5, par 5, I hit a driver and a hybrid right to the front of the green and chipped up to about three feet.  And the next hole was 7.  I hit a driver, probably made about a 15-footer.  I hit a 3 wood or something, a 3-wood into the 50 to about 15 feet out there, and I made that putt.   
What else did I birdie?  Oh, I birdied 12.  Then I hit a driver and a hybrid to just short of the green and chipped up to like two inches.   
Then I birdied one more.  I birdied 15.  I hit a 3 wood off that tee and a pitching wedge to about probably about 12 or 15 feet.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT