U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2010
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL ALLEN: That was nice, it was a fun day out there. Is this the interview or --  
  
  Q. This is the interview.   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Oh, okay.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Exactly, Michael Allen, I spelled my name, make sure I spell right, huh?   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Well, I mean the real surprises were how tough the pins were, especially on that front nine. They can't get any tougher; I don't know where they could put them. A bunch of the pins are in such corners that you can't get after them at all so you're just kinda making pars out there, and the greens are extremely firm. I didn't expect them to be that firm this morning, to be honest.   
  
  Q. Did you have to adjust your game a little bit in that firmness? Did you have to try to hit the club short maybe?   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Oh yeah, a lot of 'em. There's a few because there is some slope in there. You can take it 10 yards short, but for the most part you're hitting shots that are -- 8-irons that are landing 15 steps short.   
 If you're taking something off it, it was really bouncing and amazingly it was bouncing so early in the morning. Usually in the morning it's softer and you can get after it a little bit.   
  
  Q. When did you make your move? Where did you play your best golf?   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I made my move, I made two birdies today.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: That's right, wasn't easy! I birdied 17 and I birdied 10. I bogeyed the 15th. So I made my move by just making 15 pars, you know? (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Pars are good.   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Pars are good out here. As I say, the greens are so firm. Where the pins were you just couldn't get a lot of those, so you were just making pars.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, I really didn't expect the pins to be tucked quite as severely as they were on the first round especially. You know you kind of expect that later in the week, but this early in the week I thought it was -- I mean the course was set up nicely, too. It was playable; it was just hard to make birdies.   
  
  Q. If it's tough today, what do you expect by Sunday?   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I don't know, I think on the front nine they've used a lot of their toughest pins. I don't think they can put -- some holes they'll make tougher but for the most part a lot of those pins were -- you know, as hard as they can make 'em. By Sunday I don't know if the greens will get much firmer or not. If it does, they're going to have to repair 'em or redo them at the end of the week.   
  
  Q. Think they've got to watch them and keep them from getting goofy?   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: They looked healthy still, weren't getting a weird color yet so they were nice. It was a nice day at Sahalee. After last week you aimed at one tree on 10, and you come out here and there are so many on that first hole it was overwhelming at first, you kind of say "Wow, where are we here?"   
  
  Q. Is this as tight as anything you've seen?   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: It's as tight as any hole I've ever seen. You know, and you realize most of them are kinda that way; it wasn't that ridiculous. After last week playing at Carnoustie and then playing the first tee shot, it was like a bowling alley. There is room to play out there, it's nice. Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT