SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2010
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. First of all, can you walk us through the birdies you got on 3, 10 and 13.   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, 3 I hit 3-wood down there and I had about, it was playing about a 105, 110 shot, kind of straight into the wind. I hit that to about a foot, foot and a half.   
 I made one on 10. I hit driver, a little bit right, just barely in the rough. And then I hit a nice little 9-iron out of there and ran it up to about maybe 10 feet, eight feet and made that.   
 I had a whole bunch of good opportunities.   
 Then I finally made one on 13, I think it was. I hit it just -- I hit a drive a little bit right again, but I had a 100 yard shot, went just past the hole and I made about a 15, 20-footer there for a birdie. So that was like the highlight of my day.   
  
  Q. Do you think that you did well? I mean you were even today, you were 1-under yesterday.   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I'm a -- I missed so many putts inside of 10 feet for birdie. I gave myself a lot of good opportunities today and I didn't take advantage of them. Finishing with a bogey.   
 And then I got myself 2-under going on a nice stretch with 14 through 16, and I gave myself good putts on every hole, but I just -- the 16th, I hit it in two or on the fringe, right on the edge, and 3-putted.   
 And then the hole on 15 I hit a perfect, what I thought was a perfect line and it ran straight through the fairway and then on that down slope there, and in that rough, and you just had to lay up. I had no chance there.   
 It's a little frustrating to finish the way I did. I felt like I played pretty well and I got even par and I really would have liked to have closed the gap on these guys a little bit and I didn't do it today.  
  
  Q. As defending champion what are your thoughts going into the weekend?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Well I'm still defending champ for two more days, and hopefully for another year, but I'm going to have to play a lot better than I did today, get the ball in the hole and score a lot better than I have.  
 As I say, I'm in position, I'm playing well, so hopefully I can shoot a good score. That's what I haven't done yet. I played well, I just haven't shot a good score yet.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT