FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 31, 2010
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did it go from being a fun day to all of a sudden a little pressure?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Well, a little bit, but I knew I wasn't in contention yet. I knew that I still had to make at least two or three more birdies to kind of get to at least 14 to have a chance. At that point I wasn't too uptight about it. I just was trying to keep staying committed to my shots and trying to get it around this golf course. If I had gotten a couple clubs and made them, I probably would have started getting a little nervous, but I really just kind of had a nice time today.  
  
  Q. You were about 40 yards behind Piercy out there.   
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Oh, man, well, he's young.   
  
  Q. What was the secret to all the birdies and the big run you had? Just knocking it close?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, actually I missed like a ten-footer and about a four-footer on the first and second hole. I really hit a lot of other really good shots, too. But it's just today the numbers seemed to work out, and the pins seemed to be accessible. With the greens soft like this, it spins too much, but I seemed to be able to get numbers and I was able to control it today.  
  
  Q. They sang happy birthday to you coming up 18, and you almost knocked it in for eagle. Did you get goosebumps on that one?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, my biggest disappointment last year really was missing the cut out there at the Phoenix Open. I missed by one shot. I was really getting a little uptight there because I wanted that 16th hole to sing happy birthday to me on Saturday, which was my birthday. This was nice, though.   
  
  Q. A lot of guys that turn 50 can't wait to get out to the Champions Tour and leave the other Tour behind. What compels you to want to keep going and keep grinding out here?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Well, for me I'm still desperate. I'm still trying to make a living. I've still got two kids need to go through college. I love playing out here. I'm not like a lot of those guys who have had some great careers leading up to it and won quite a bit. I still want to win out here. That's my number one goal. Once I can accomplish that, I'll take different things into sight. But right now I enjoy playing out here and I enjoy my endeavor to try and win some golf tournaments out here.  
  
  Q. What's your schedule the next month or so?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Well, I'm not sure about Pebble. I was planning on playing there, but I know I'm playing next week. But you know, I am going to probably -- I know I'm going to play Phoenix and Honda. I'm not even sure right now. I know I'm playing next week in LA. Let's leave it at that. I really am not completely sure what I'm going to do.  
  
  Q. Will there be a celebration tonight?  
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Oh, definitely. The kids have a flight out about 8:00, so we're going to get together and I'm going to drink some champagne. Actually my daughter likes that, too.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT