U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2015
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Michael Allen.  1 over, 71, 2 over overall.   Q.  Michael, great start.  A couple bogeys to start the round and couldn't keep the momentum.  More bogeys than birdies today.  Overall assessment?  MICHAEL ALLEN: I didn't play nearly as well today.  I didn't drive it as well.  Yesterday, I was basically in every fairway except for the last one or, I guess, 17.  The course plays totally different from there.  You're struggling a little bit.  When I did hit some good shots, I really wasn't able to make the putts.  I think I hit pretty good putts, but I didn't make anything today.  At least those nice eight, ten-footers I made yesterday.  So I think that's kind of the biggest difference. I was close to playing a good round.  I could have shot a few under par pretty easily, but just didn't quite happen today.   Q.  Nice, funny moment on your last hole.  You almost holed it and put the club down and said that's it.  It's like, I got to get this out of my system?  MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah.  I think the whole day for some reason, I was just a little tighter than I normally am.  I like playing with a crowd a little bit and screwing around a little bit.  I think I need to embrace that a little bit more, coming through, because it helps me relax and have fun.  And I need to do that to play well.   Q.  You've got some great experience at the Senior Open with successes, playing well.  Where you stand in the leaderboard, what's your mindset as you go into the weekend?  MICHAEL ALLEN: I think, if I can get back to kind of playing much more like I did yesterday -- you know, I really have a chance to shoot a low score -- I have a good chance.  Kenny Perry was ten shots behind me when he beat me a couple years ago.  So I know if I can go out and play well, you can move up pretty quickly out here. Nice to see Watson playing awfully steady out there.  He's a couple groups behind.  I watched him hit a few of his shots.  He's right in the middle on 16.  Obviously playing very well and controlling what he's doing.  A guy like that, he's certainly been here a lot and overcome all this stuff.  So it will be fun. I'd love to get up there and have a good challenge and a good chance on Sunday with him.  So I'd love to play well tomorrow and give myself a really good opportunity.   Q.  Given the fact that you said you like to play to the crowd a little bit, are you a scoreboard watcher too?  Or do you just stay with your game?  MICHAEL ALLEN: I'm not too much of a scoreboard watcher.  I do know what's going on, but I don't really always know who's there or whatever.  I'm not.  I try to make birdie on every hole, so it always creates more anxiety for me.  So I just try and do what I can do, and then hopefully, at the end, I kind of know what I need to do. I know where I'm at, but I try to keep away that anxiety because it's hard enough as it is.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT