JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 16, 2008
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO: Michael Allen, thanks for coming in and spending a few minutes with us here. You are a University of Nevada guy. 63 today, bogey free. Talk about the conditions out there. I'm sure you're used to playing out there in the desert. 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I am.
 NELSON SILVERIO: Any different today? 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, it was -- the conditions were kind of like being inside in a warm gymnasium, you know. It was absolutely perfect conditions. The greens were beautiful being early out. A little bit quick, but they were rolling great. Beautiful golf course. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: All right. Questions. 

 Q. For someone like you who has had so many years of experience playing professional golf, what expectations do you put on yourself these days when you come to events this late in the year?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I mean, my expectations and my goals are really always same: I come to win the tournament. That's always been my goal out here. You know, each day you just kind of get up and try and go about your business and do it the best you can. I prepare hard and I try to be ready to play. 
 You know, my expectations are always high, so most of my career has been kind of a letdown, so to speak. I haven't met all my expectations. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MICHAEL ALLEN: You know, I feel like I've been playing pretty consistently all year. You know, these fields here are a little bit weaker and you don't get quite all the top players. It's maybe a little bit easier to shine or whatever. 
 But it's -- you know, I feel like I've been playing well the last few years. My game has gotten better and better. Working with Mike Mitchell has helped my game a tremendous amount, which is why I stay on TOUR instead of going to the senior tour. 

 Q. (No microphone.) 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I made some ten-footers and a few putts. I didn't make a ton of bombs or anything. Out here you keep the ball in play and try and make sure you make pars at worst and stay away from the few tricky shots you got out here, and then the rest of the course you just know you got to make birdies out here, that's for sure. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MICHAEL ALLEN: You know, I saw him out -- I saw the scoreboard when we were on about 15 or 16 with 9-under. You know, that's pretty good after you come back from winning last week to come out here and put up 62. Yeah, he's a great competitor. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: Thanks. 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: My pleasure.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT