TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2008
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Michael Allen into the interview room at The Turning Stone Resort Championship after 4-under par 68. Michael finished runner up here last year, and now off to a great start this year. You like this place, don't you? 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: It's good to be back. Yes, it is.
 JOHN BUSH: Just comment on the day if you can.
 MICHAEL ALLEN: You know, it was a nice day for me. It was awfully tough starting out. You're never sure what you're going to get, but I was able to hit a few good shots and make a little putt on the first hole for par, and then things kind of kept going. 
 It got better as the day got -- and the day got better. Sunshine came out.
 JOHN BUSH: You mentioned outside that cold weather doesn't scare you. Used to this type weather, aren't you?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: A little bit. Growing up in northern California we got these courses that are kind of wet and, you know, cold. Typical summer day in San Francisco is pretty cold.
 JOHN BUSH: Get you to take us through your card. The eagle on No. 5 obviously got things kick started for you.
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, I hit a good drive there and hit 3-wood to about six feet behind the hole and was able to put it in. 
 Then I kind of messed up the next hole. I 3-putted.
 JOHN BUSH: Birdies on 10 and 11.
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, 10, God, it was one of those holes you got like 155 and I'm hitting 6-iron in. I hit a beautiful shot to probably eight, ten feet and made that. 
 Then 11 I hit a good 5-iron to about three feet right below the hole. 
 JOHN BUSH: Bogey on 13.
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, I was coming in to tee up and hit 3-wood and hit it left. I just kind of laid it out there and thought I could -- I had a bad lie so I couldn't go for the green. I just didn't get up-and-down. 
 16, I had a little 7-iron there. Hit it to about probably pin high on the edge of the green, so probably 15 feet something like that, and made that. 
 JOHN BUSH: Always nice to finish up with a birdie. Take us through that one on 18. 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: That was nice. I really hit a decent drive. I was going to hit 3-wood but I hit driver, and then -- hit 3-wood, and I thought I had plenty to clear the bunker, and it actually bounced through and got nice little break there. 
 I hit a nice wedge, and then I had the same putt I kind of had last year for a birdie. I missed it last year but I made it this year.
 JOHN BUSH: Questions.

 Q. What is it about this golf course? Clearly you've had a phenomenal success last year, and this year you started out well. Is it the setup or you feel comfortable out here? 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I love the Indians (laughing.) I don't know. I guess it is. I mean, you kind of get to this point in the season and you got to play well. Your job is on the line. I work hard towards it. 
 For some reason this golf course just seems nice for me. I seem to be able to see the shots and the fairways can be relatively generous. So I don't know. I seem to be able to make a few putts out here too more than anything. Seems to be a nice place for me. 
 I don't have a lot of friends around and I can actually concentrate on what I'm doing.

 Q. The last putt, ten feet?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Yeah, about ten feet. 

 Q. You finished in a golf shirt, and you might have been the only guy out there all day in a golf shirt. 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: I had to show my colors, you know. Everybody is jsut dressed in black out here. But it got nice. As I say, it got sunny. I hate playing in a jacket, so... 

 Q. Do you ever pack sunglasses? Because when you went out it was miserable. 
 MICHAEL ALLEN: From here? When I left Arizona I got three pairs of sunglasses.

 Q. Today did you have any in your bag?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: No, I had no sunglasses in my bag. No, I mean, it was -- I don't even have rain pants. These are actually my caddie's rain pants. When I left Arizona it was 100 there. I couldn't imagine it would be 50 here.

 Q. When did you take the jacket off?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Well, a few times during the round, but on the last hole I took it off. Usually I put my sweater on because it was still chilly, but it got nice out. It's beautiful. Colors are out. The leaves are turning. You guys should go out and enjoy it. 

 Q. The experience of playing at this course last year, the conditions were so different from last year to this year, does that experience still help you, or is it just like playing it or for the first time?
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Well, it helps you in that you know where you want to hit the ball and where you don't want to hit it, especially with certain pins. It helps with knowing a few of the putts. Like 18, I knew that putt. 
 But it is, it's totally different. Last year you could reach every par-5 in two basically. This year I certainly can't reach any, and not many guys can, I don't think. 
 I'm hitting 4- and 5-irons to an awful lot of greens that last year I'm hitting 7-, 8-, and 9-irons to. So, no, it's playing a lot more difficult, but I guess maybe it simplifies it more. You hit more in the middle of green, and you don't have to take as many chances, too. 
 JOHN BUSH: Anything else? All right, Michael, I think that's got it. Thank you for coming by.
 MICHAEL ALLEN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT