CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 17, 2004
Michael Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  Well, congratulations, Michael.  Runner-up.  16-under, I believe.  Great birdie on 18 to take lone second.  Talk about what it felt like to have that final putt drop.
MICHAEL ALLEN:  Oh, man, it was just one of those things.  I kind of hit that putt a few times before and I kind of knew it.  I just kind of relaxed.  I was never that uptight today.  A little uptight on 17.  But I kind of knew I said stay in the putt, I knew I was in good shape and didn't want to do anything stupid.  I hit a good solid putt and lo and behold the sucker went in.  It was beautiful.
CHRIS REIMER:  We talked about it out there a little, but on the leaderboard there was some pretty good names on it and you shot one heck of a final round.  Talk about what it means to go up against some of the great players out here.  To actually shoot a really good number against them.
MICHAEL ALLEN:  Yeah, I kind of felt going into the day that as I was telling you, you didn't have Tiger here or Vijay or them, so I felt like that was kind of to my advantage in that, not that everybody there is not great players, they have all won more tournaments than I have, more money, they're all great players.  But I felt like I put a good round up I would have a good chance.  Like I said yesterday, I was able to go out and make five or six birdies and, hey, Brent beat me.  And God, more power to him.  It was great playing by him.  I'm actually thrilled with my round and being where I'm at.  Having a job and letting you guys talk to me twice this week.
CHRIS REIMER:  Take some questions.
Q.  How many times did you look at the leaderboard?  Every chance you had?
MICHAEL ALLEN:  I really tried not to.  I don't like to do that.  I'm doing the best I can, I kind of knew where I was on about 13 or 14.  When I made that long putt it kind of surprised me and that.  14, 15.  I knew I had to birdie 15.  I figured after that I would look at the leader board and see where I was.  See what I needed to do.
Q.  More excited or more relieved?
MICHAEL ALLEN:  I'm definitely relieved.  I can tell you that.  I think in an hour I'm going to be really excited.  I've been trying to keep myself down the whole time has been my main quest for the day.

So I try to be too ridiculous right now.
Q.  Have you done the math yet?
MICHAEL ALLEN:  I sat in there actually in the trailer signed my card and looked at the amount, I couldn't believe they were going to give me a half million dollars for this and I was like, geez, what a great time.
CHRIS REIMER:  Puts him right around in the 80, 90 range.
Q.  Pretty safe now.  You're hired, I guess.
MICHAEL ALLEN:  I'm hired.  Yeah.  I'm hired.
Q.  Just talk about what Brent did, especially going out and birdieing five early holes and really setting the pace?
MICHAEL ALLEN:  Did he?  I saw he got to like 15 when I was at 13 and I saw that.  So he went out and just birdied three of the first four?  Wow.  Wow.  Gosh.
CHRIS REIMER:  Makes the back nine a little easier.
MICHAEL ALLEN:  It sure does.  It's still tough.  You got three tough holes out there and kind of anything can happen.  You can get after it for quite awhile out there.  There's only a couple tough holes in the first 14 or 15.  And those last three though are tough holes.  And so he parred all those, so that's great playing.
Q.  That's your best pay day obviously, right?
MICHAEL ALLEN:  That's like a career for me, pards.  Yes, it is.  Definitely.  I finished third before I won $50,000.  So I finished third this time I would have made $360,000.  So it's ridiculous now.  It's good time to be here.
Q.  Did you realize when you made the birdie on 15 that at that point you were within two shots?
MICHAEL ALLEN:  Yeah, I kind of realized really about 14 or 15 I kind of relaxed and said, you know what, really, unless I do something really stupid I got my job done what I really needed to do today, so let's relax, get focused and try and hit some good shots and see if you can actually make a run at winning the tournament.  I didn't really know exactly where I was, but I knew I had that if I could get my birdie on 15 and move forward that I had a good chance.  And I looked at the leader board and all of a sudden he's 18-under and that kind of knocks the wind out of you, but that's fine.
Q.  Can you imagine with what it would be like to win the same tournament your dad won?
MICHAEL ALLEN:  Yeah, I'm just trying to imagine winning a tournament.  Did he win this one, Al?
Q.  Yeah, they're the first in golf history to do that.
MICHAEL ALLEN:  I can't imagine.  His father being a professional, a great player, would be a tougher circumstance.  Certainly you have advantages, but it would be a tough way to come up, a lot of expectations on you that maybe are undue.
Q.  How special would something like that be?
MICHAEL ALLEN:  I think it would be incredible.  It's his first win too, so I believe, isn't it?
Q.  Second.
MICHAEL ALLEN:  His second.  Well, then he won Hartford, didn't he.  Okay.  That's right.  Well, it's not a special for him, it's still great though.
CHRIS REIMER:  Not going to have a chance to add to your career Q-School monies list.
MICHAEL ALLEN:  That's always the year after.
CHRIS REIMER:  The guys at the club aren't going to have anything to rip on you about.
MICHAEL ALLEN:  No, they have plenty, don't worry.
Q.  Are you finished now?  Are you going home?
MICHAEL ALLEN:  I'm going to play next week in Orlando and then I'm not in the week after, so I'll see.  I'm not sure.  I may go back, have some time with the kids.  I wouldn't mind that to have a little time off.  For me time off, heck, I got the next three months off or something, so playing golf is not really like work.  Too much.
CHRIS REIMER:  Any more questions, guys?  Michael, congratulations.
MICHAEL ALLEN:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT