SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: GEORGIA v ALABAMA
November 26, 2012
Eddie Lacy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Eddie, if you could talk about Alabama as they enter the SEC Championship game on Saturday against Georgia?   
EDDIE LACY:   We basically are going to have the same mindset we've been having all year.   We know it's going to be a tough opponent on both sides of the ball and on special teams as well.   So we just have to come out and prepare the same way we've been preparing and expect a dog fight.  
   
 Q.   I don't know how much you've seen of Georgia, but they've got two freshmen running backs.   Both of these teams with you and T.J., and Georgia with Gurley and Marshall, can you talk about them?   Do they seem comparable to you, as far as the tailback tandems from Saturday?   
EDDIE LACY:   I don't know too much about them.   I don't watch football that much.   I hear they're pretty good running backs, but our defense prides themselves on playing against good offensive opponents.   So, you know, it's a challenge for our defense, the same way for me and T.J., it will be a challenge.   We're just going to come out and take the challenge?  
   
 Q.   The fact that you and T.J. rotate, how fresh do you feel in this game?   Do you all come into this game pretty fresh?   
EDDIE LACY:   Yeah, we're a lot fresher than we would be if we were taking 20, 25‑plus carries a game.   You know, the rotation we have helps out a lot in that department.  
   
 Q.   How much do you guys consider where this game takes you in your motivation this week knowing that if you win, you play for a title?   Does that factor in much at all this week?   
EDDIE LACY:   It factors in, but for us to get there, we have to focus on this week.   So all our time and preparation is focused on this week because if we don't win this week, it doesn't matter.   We're just going in taking it one game at a time.  
   
 Q.   When you look at the Georgia defense, the three‑four, what do you think about it?   Is it comparable to maybe a defense you run against this year?   
EDDIE LACY:   Now they get talented defensively.   It's going to be a great challenge for our offense.   The offensive line and running backs as well.   We're going to watch film, and work on what we have to work on, and hopefully we'll be able to win.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned your offensive line.   Can you tell me what it's like to run behind them and how you see them as the season has gone on?   
EDDIE LACY:   Running with the offensive line, it's one of the best offensive lines I've ever ran with.   I have a great group of guys.   They come out, prepare hard, practice hard, and play even harder.   They give us the holes that we need and they also hold up in pass protection which gives the quarterback enough time to pass.   They're the best offensive line I've ever run with.   I love each and every one of them.  
   
 Q.   When you look at Georgia's defensive front, how do they compare to what you've seen this year already on your schedule?   In terms of that, they have some big size at the nose guard spot?   
EDDIE LACY:   They're big and physical, but most defensive linemen are in this conference.   So as far as the challenge of the offensive line, there shouldn't be anything different to come out and play like we always do.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT