ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 15, 2018
Jens Dantorp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sum up your final round, if you would.  
JENS DANTORP: Yeah, it was a nice experience today.  Played a lot of good golf this week, and was pretty nervous heading out in the final group.  Something I will pride myself on the good golf of today.   
 Q.  Were you mindful of Brandon Stone on his way to shooting 60?  Were you watching the boards?  
JENS DANTORP: I saw his name there earlier, and 20-under I saw I think he was on the twelfth green.  I was thinking I have no idea what his score was, but I knew it was a pretty good score.  It was a bit unfortunate to miss that on the last hole for the 59.  But very good.   
 Q.  Okay.  Now we talk about you going to the beastly Carnoustie.  How does that feel?  Is that something you're looking forward to?  
JENS DANTORP: Yeah, absolutely.  That was the main goal of the week and had three chances now the last three weeks.  It was nice to grab that final spot.   
 Q.  Good week.  Enjoy Carnoustie.  Maybe you'll go with a couple there.  
JENS DANTORP: Yeah.  Hopefully I'll keep the form.  Thanks.   
 Q.  Final round 68.  You still managed to shoot under par, but in the end you can't legislate for someone shooting a 60 on the final day.  Just give us your thoughts on the final round.  
JENS DANTORP: Yeah, I did my best today.  I missed a couple of good chances out there, but I'm pretty proud of myself for a final round under par and finishing in the top 3.  That was nice.   
 Q.  Obviously you've played consistently well all week.  What is it that's pleased you most over this type of golf course this week?  
JENS DANTORP: I like links golf.  It's good fun.  You never know what you're going to get.  I've been fortunate sometimes, unfortunate a couple times as well.  I mean if you just can accept that and move on, I think you'll do well on links course, and I've been striking the ball pretty well this week as well, and the putter has been working very good, too.   
 Q.  Obviously nice to go into the final day in contention in one of the big Rolex Series events.  What will you take from the overall experience this week?  
JENS DANTORP: Well, every time you're in this situation you learn something new, and I'll probably be a bit more calm next time I'm there.  And today I noticed it's nothing dangerous.  You learn from every experience out here.   
 Q.  And on the plus side you've got yourself into the Open Championship at Carnoustie next week.  How exciting a prospect is that?  
JENS DANTORP: Yeah.  I just heard it.  And I'm really happy for that.  That was the main goal for the week.  I've been having a couple of chances now in the Rolex Series the last couple weeks, didn't pull that off, so it was nice to grab the last one and I'm looking forward to next week.   
 Q.  Well played this week and hope everything goes well.  
JENS DANTORP: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT