KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2018
Wes Short, Jr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Going to be probably a few golfers that can say that, after a disappointing two holes, they end with an eagle.  Could you sort of just take us through the day you had and then talk about those two eagles, one that closes your day.  
WES SHORT JR: Yeah, I got off to an -- on the 12th hole I had a sand wedge and I guess I had 85 yards and it went in the hole.  So that was a good start.   
And then I played really good on the back side which was my front side.   
And then bogeyed No. 2, kind of put a damper on things, but then I came right back with a birdie on 3.   
Then kind of disappointed, hit kind of a bad drive on 6 and had to pitch out.   
And made bogey on 7.   
Then hit a terrible wedge shot on 8 and made bogey.   
And then hit, made a good eagle on the last hole that gives you a good finish, so it kind of erased those two bogeys.   
 Q.  How far was the eagle putt on the last hole?  
WES SHORT JR: I would say it was probably about 15, 18 feet.   
 Q.  This being the type of golf course where you have to be in a spot, great spots, did you, how would you grade yourself today for those spots?  
WES SHORT JR: On my back side, which was my front, I was really doing well.  And then it kind of, on the back side I didn't hit the spots very well, I had a lot longer putts.  It was a lot tougher on that nine because of the wind also.   
 Q.  On 7 after the bogey what was your mindset?  Did you feel any, just a letdown in terms of momentum at all?  
WES SHORT JR: I hit a pretty good putt there for par and then on 8 I was just thinking, well if I finish birdie, birdie, I'm going to be doing okay.   
And I bogeyed 8.   
And I hit two pretty decent shots on the last hole.   
 Q.  Where did this round come from?  Did you feel like you could go this low this morning?  
WES SHORT JR: I've been feeling pretty good the last two weeks.  I had three bogeys today, two or three -- three.  And it's just, you know, I'm making too many of those.  I'm making plenty of birdies, just got to slow them others down.   
 Q.  When you look at this leaderboard are you surprised at the scoring at all?  
WES SHORT JR: Today was a perfect day, the course was in good shape, I thought somebody might take it a little bit deeper.  But not really surprised, the course was in fantastic shape so you hit good shots you get rewarded.   
 Q.  And no better way to finish to go into a nice night and then back at it early tomorrow morning?  
WES SHORT JR: That's right.  Just keep the momentum going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT