U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1995
Brett Steven
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Did you have any leads up there today at all?

BRETT STEVEN: No.

Q. Were they there to begin with?

BRETT STEVEN: I peaked at 2-Love in the first. And it was all downhill after that. I
have no answer for it. I am not going to overanalyze it. I just felt lousy out there
today; I had no legs. I was light on everything and Patrick was hitting the ball firmly
and deep, one of those days. I don't have them very often. I hope it doesn't happen often
in the future, but I just felt bad out there. Had no feeling even hitting the ball, so
just not a good day.

Q. Not a physical problem, just one of those days?

BRETT STEVEN: No. No. I don't know if it was something I ate or whatever. I just didn't
feel -- had no energy out there. I had a good night sleep. I ate well this morning. Ate
well for lunch; just went out on the court, and wasn't there. I don't know. I don't know
what else to say. It was something -- I mean, Patrick was playing well. Anyway, I would
have had to have been on my top game to have beaten him today because he was, you know,
taking the ball very early. Seemed like that I was taking it later and later during every
point, and he was taking it earlier and earlier. That is the way he likes to play early
from the baseline, and that is not the way I like to play. I like to take it early; take
it to the net, serve and volley. Today I had no -- just no general feeling in my
concentration; subsequently was bad too.

Q. Frustrating, I guess, to lose out that way?

BRETT STEVEN: Yeah, well, it is and isn't. It is frustrating to go out there, but as
you said, I am not overanalyzing it. It just wasn't a good day. It happens. I am playing
well. I had a good summer, and I think now I just need to get a little bit of -- a little
bit of time off and do a bit of fitness work and go again for the next coming thing which
is Davis Cup for me. It is disappointing. Reasonably good luck in the first round to have
gotten through and to have even been in the second round and I guess it is disappointing
not to have capitalized on that, but that happens. I have had my good luck and I have had
some bad luck; not feeling great today.

Q. About your year?

BRETT STEVEN: I think it is the best one I have ever had consistently. I think the
whole year has been very consistent. I haven't had a lot of matches where I could say I
really didn't play that well. This is one of them, but I haven't had a lot like that. That
is pretty good. Took third round Canada; third round Cincinatti; third round Indianapolis;
second round here. You know, quite solid result; nothing spectacular, but pretty solid,
and that is the way I play. I don't have, I guess, a spectacular game. It is a solid
all-around game with nothing that good, but nothing hopefully that bad, and that is how my
results generally are going to be.

Q. Are you confident with that Davis Cup?

BRETT STEVEN: As far as the team goes or my performance.

Q. The team.

BRETT STEVEN: No, I wouldn't say the other two on the team have been playing that well,
so it is going to be a tough, tough battle. Looks like Rosset played well today to beat
Rafter in straight sets so he is getting into hard court form and Hlasek is still as well,
so they have got two players who are -- who are -- probably Rosset is definitely top 20
caliber and Jakob has been there before. I guess he and I are about equal, but the
difference will be their No. 1 player is a lot better than our No. 2 player, for sure.
Jakob and I are similar and Rosset is a lot better, so it is going to be a tough Tie, and
maybe nothing to lose or give -- like Australia last year, who knows, hopefully, we can
make it 1-All after the first day and see what happens.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT