COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 9, 1993
Brett Steven
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Brett, now that it is all over, your  thoughts.  
 
BRETT STEVEN:  I thought I played pretty well.  To take  Michael playing as well as he is, No. 2 player in the  world; to play him as close as the score was - we  played out there for nearly two hours, I think -  overall, I am pretty satisfied.  I think the difference possibly was that he,  you know, just really served well, and I never really  had a chance to get in most of his service games.  He  was always winning them very comfortably.  Most of the  time I was having to work on my service games; that was  a big difference.  He played a brilliant game, to break  me the first game of the third set.  He just hit 3  winners, I think, and he then served the rest of the  way pretty comfortably.   
 

Q.   What is the overall feeling you have, Brett,  is it one of disappointment, or disbelief, or what?  
 
BRETT STEVEN:  I think initially whenever you have lost a  tennis match, it is one of disappointment.  Two, three  hours' time, you know, days, three days' time, I will  be wondering, God, what I have accomplished here; the  money that I have won, it is the biggest payday I have  ever had.  It is a great thrill to be involved in a  tournament of this magnitude; 16 players only; they  really treat you very well in the tournament.  It is  very special.  It is something I'd love to partake in  again.  I was fortunate to get in, obviously.  Everyone  knows that I was the first alternate and that Krajicek  pulled out.  So I am, you know, thankful that I got in  and took an opportunity that was presented and really  lost today to a better player on the day.   
 

Q.   Brett, it has been an excellent year for  you.  How difficult is it going to be to repeat the  successes in '94?  
 
BRETT STEVEN:  Yeah, I don't know.  It will be something  that will -- it will be different for me because before  I have always been improving and improving my ranking  and playing different tournaments.  I sort of  progressed from playing in the satellites to the  Challengers, and this year I played full-time on the  ATP Tour, and I played all 4 Grand Slams, so next year  I will be going back into a familiar environment.      Hopefully, I will be able to handle it.  I am very, you  know, keen to do even better next year.  And I think my  work ethic is pretty good.  I am pretty consistent.  I  don't ever, sort of, have weeks where I just don't try  or anything like that.  I always give 100% each week on  Tour.  I think we play that many tournaments, that  if I can maintain that good attitude, I am going to get  good weeks, some good draws, good luck.  Then there is  going to be weeks where my luck isn't too good; I play  a top player who is too good on the day or something  like that.  I think I can improve facets of my game.  I  can get better, and hopefully if I do that, stay  focused; then, who knows, I will hopefully have a  better year next year, if I stay with that attitude.   
 

Q.   What about the immediate future, are you to  go back, and where are you to go; are you go to go back  to Bermuda?  New Zealand?  Are you going to prepare  immediately for the Australian Open?  
 
BRETT STEVEN:  Well, immediately I go back home to Bermuda  you know, as I explained yesterday, I was midway  through doing some sort of fitness work, off-season  fitness work.  I will just resume that and do two weeks  more.  I go down to New Zealand for Christmas day, and  then I go straight over to Australia and I play an      exhibition tournament in Melbourne.  Then Adelaide and  then I play the tournament in my hometown in Auckland,  which is always a special week for me.  Then over to  Australia for the Australian Open.  So my schedule -- I  have two weeks off; then it is very busy.   
 

Q.   When did you set up residence in Bermuda?  
 
BRETT STEVEN:  I was thinking about it the beginning of last  year following the Australian Open and I officially got  my residence after Wimbledon.  So I went the -- first I  went there was in May and then-- I now have a flat  there.  I went back after Wimbledon and finalized  everything.  So it is something for me that -- because,  you know, people from New Zealand, Australia,  everything is so far away for us, so most of us have  somewhere that we live or have a place to go to away  from home countries because the travelling is so far,  so you know, Bermuda was logical for me.   
 

Q.   Thank you.    

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT