COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1993
Brett Steven
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  When did you learn you were going to play?  

BRETT STEVEN:  I first had an indication last Tuesday that  Richard was in doubt for the tournament and so, you  know, I didn't know 100% for sure right then and there,  but I had a good indication.  And then I found out for  sure once I arrived here on Saturday.  


Q.  Were you in New Zealand when you got the  information?  

BRETT STEVEN:  No, I was in Bermuda.  I have a flat there,  and I was relaxing, just taking it easy.  


Q.  You mean you didn't have any special  preparation for this event?  

BRETT STEVEN:  No, I was midway through doing an off-season  strength program which isn't, you know, the ideal  preparation to going in to try and peak for a  tournament.  So really I was basically, you know, my  year had finished.  I thought I had come here and just  sit around as, you know, two of the other guys have  done and not play.  I hoped for someone, you know, not  to have a severe injury, but I would have loved to have  played which is how it has worked out.  I got here  early on Saturday, and I practiced very hard.  I  practiced twice a day, everyday, 'till four hours.  So  I got a lot of tennis in before today.  I think it was  fortunate that I wasn't playing Tuesday and I got to  play Wednesday.  That gave me an extra day, and yeah,  that was it.  


Q.  So Krajicek, did he do your pay balance a  favor?  

BRETT STEVEN:  Yeah, I think I owe Richard a couple of beers  next time I see him.  He has got enough money.  


Q.  You want to talk about your match today,  Brett?  

BRETT STEVEN:  Well, it was -- the court out there is quite  quick.  It has quickened up a lot over the last three  days when I first got here.  I thought, you know, it is  quite slow in here.  But it slicked up, and it is  playing very fast.  The atmosphere inside the arena is  very quick as well.  The ball tends to fly off your  racket and that makes, you know - for -- I think the  serve is very dominant.  I think it was evidenced today  with most of the big servers like Stich and Sampras  winning comfortably and today in our match, the serve  was very dominant.  And on a court like that you get  one or two chances per match.  You really have to take  them.  If you don't take them, then you are going to  lose, so it is you know, one or two points here and  there, and I was fortunate to win those.  


Q.  Brett, you said you were practicing hard when  you got here.  Who were you practicing with, and has  Jeff come over with you?  

BRETT STEVEN:  No, in fact Jeff is in New Zealand.  He had  been my coach, Jeff Simpson, has been on a satellite  tour with a few of our young kids, so he couldn't make  it over.  I practiced with Wayne Ferreira, you know, it  seems to have done us both pretty good.  I have got a  friend from London whom I played junior tennis with  Jason Moores (Phonetic).  He has been helping me out  with my serve, in particular.  Probably without that  help, I wouldn't have done as well today.  So really  maybe Wayne and I practiced three or four times.  I hit  with Boris Becker on Monday night, and, you know, I  just got to hit with a bunch of guys.  I worked out  hard.  Even if there was not someone to hit with, I hit  with my mate, so it was good.  


Q.  Brett, how will you approach the next match  with Michael Stich?  

BRETT STEVEN:  Well, you know, it is a daunting task to play  against Michael.  It is really a toss up at the moment  to say who is playing the best tennis in the world, and  I think in my opinion, he probably is at the moment.  You know, he has had a phenomenal end to the year,  winning the ATP Tour Championship, and also leading  Germany to the Davis -- winning the Davis Cup final so  he is riding, you know, a crest of a wave and got a lot  -- all the confidence in the world.  He is serving  fantastic.  He is middling the ball.  He has all the  shots.  What can I say?  If I go out there and play as  aggressively as I can; if I can serve well; hang in  there, and if I get a chance, take it.  Then, who  knows.  It is going to be an extremely tough match  especially indoors in Germany on this type of court,  which is his favorite surface, I think.  


Q.  Any thoughts on playing first tomorrow?  

BRETT STEVEN:  I was a little bit surprised.  I thought that  the players who played today would get the day off  tomorrow, and play on Friday.  So, I mean, it is fine  with me.  Physically I am 100%  I have no soreness or  anything like that.  I have come through the last few  days; have practiced great.  I guess it is good in a  way to keep the roll going, if I play tomorrow, and I  don't get a day to think about my match and have a  sense of what has happened and getting through to the  quarterfinals and the money involved and everything, I  think it is in a way good I do play tomorrow and it is  not a time that I can think about it and dwell.  It  just happened straightaway and I will get on with it.  


Q.  What was your biggest prize money check?  

BRETT STEVEN:  I think it was either the Australian Open or  Canadian Open and they were, I think, 35,000 U.S.  dollars, a slight difference.  


Q.  What will you do with the whole money now?  

BRETT STEVEN:  The whole money -- it is hard to understand  what it all means.  For most of the other guys in this  tournament it is, you know, they have enough money  already to last them for the rest of their lives.  For  me, it is fantastic in that this enables me to have a  choice once I finish playing tennis of what I am going  to do.  I am not going to spend it.  I will just save  it.  A few guys back there want me to buy them a few  drinks, but another thing coming.  I will try -- I will  just -- I don't know, I have a pretty normal -- don't  have any, you know, things that I need right now, so I  will just save it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT