INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 26, 2014
Moriya Jutanugarn
Onnarin Sattayabanphot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KELLY THESIER:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We would like to welcome Team Thailand into the interview room.   A big 1‑up victory for Onnarin Sattayabanphot and Pornanong Phatlum over Paula Creamer and Stacy Lewis.   Secured their spot on Sunday in the singles.   They capture the No. 2 seed in Pool A and the No. 3 seed overall for Sunday. 
First off, ladies, congratulations.   You've made it to Sunday play.   Pretty impressive accomplishment.   First off, Moo, you guys really had to battle there to get that victory and that meant the difference between going into a playoff and not having to go into a playoff.   How big was that win for you? 
ONNARIN SATTAYABANPHOT:   Such a big win today.   Then it was really close match.   They also played really well today and Pornanong played amazing today on the back nine.
KELLY THESIER:   You guys were matched up against Stacy Lewis who is the No. 1 player in the world.   Is it different when you're playing against someone of that caliber?   What did you guys do to motivate yourself for that match and get yourselves ready for that? 
ONNARIN SATTAYABANPHOT:   Well, I think the first day we kind of were scared of Spain.   Then we kept looking at how they played.   So today we tried to just play our game and take one at a time and just try to do our best.   So today I think that it went well. 
KELLY THESIER:   Moriya and Ariya, you guys now are playing on Sunday in singles matches.   Was that the goal all week to make sure that you got to Sunday?   Now how are you guys talking strategy for what you guys are going to do in your singles matches? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   For the singles matches, we're just trying to figure that out right now what we're going to do.   The first three days, they helped a lot, and also we had a good match.   Today we played pretty good just like not very good on the first like couple holes.   But after that, we just came back. 
KELLY THESIER:   All week or actually the whole time leading into this event, everybody had been talking about Team Thailand.   Other players were saying you guys were a team to be feared.   That you might be kind of the underdog pick to win this thing.   How do you like your chances tomorrow to actually walk away and be the first team to win the International Crown?   Anyone can answer that. 
ONNARIN SATTAYABANPHOT:   I think we have a good chance.   We don't really talk a lot, we don't do trash talking and stuff, but we would like to take that crown trophy back home tomorrow. 
KELLY THESIER:   Moo, yesterday you said when we left this press conference when everybody asked how you would fare against the USA, you said, Just come watch.   We watched and you guys did pretty well.   Do you think everybody should just come and watch tomorrow and see how it goes? 
ONNARIN SATTAYABANPHOT:   I guess so, because the Americans are knocked out right now, right? 
KELLY THESIER:   Knocked out the No. 1 seed.   That's a pretty impressive accomplishment.   Ladies, any shots that you remember from today that you ladies thought were really important in the matches.   Any shots or any particular holes that really stuck out as key for you guys to have that win? 
MORIYA JUTANUGARN:   To me, the key is we were more like a team and we worked out pretty good.   They were close and they worked out pretty good today.   We had to talk, and we had a couple good birdies.   I had some long putts on 13, 14?   On 14.   So I won that hole.   We were still tied on some holes when I made birdie. 
KELLY THESIER:   When you guys are done with this, what do you hope that people know now about Thailand golf?   What do you think people will learn from watching now and knowing about how good the golfers are coming out of Thailand?   Do you hope now that people will see?   I know there haven't been a ton of players on the LPGA Tour in the past from Thailand.   Do you guys hope that you're representing what golf is like now there, all of the talent that's coming up?   Do you hope you're showcasing that this week? 
ONNARIN SATTAYABANPHOT:   I think.   So I think there's a lot more good players back home.   I think in a few more years, I think it's going to be more great players coming from Thailand. 

Q.   How did you stay so calm today when it was so exciting with the cheers for the Americans and all that.   Why are you so calm?   Were you excited? 
ONNARIN SATTAYABANPHOT:   I tried to ignore all the crowd and all the loud noise from the gallery and then just try to play my game and try to support my partner.   We kind of talked more on how we're going to play each shot or how we're going to play the puts and stuff.   I think that went well. 

Q.   On behalf of the Thai country and the Thai people here in the U.S., we are proud for what you did today and hope you have the crowd tomorrow.   Good luck for tomorrow. 
KELLY THESIER:   Well, thank you very much, ladies.   Wishing you the best of luck tomorrow in your singles matches.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT