ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2019
Kristina Mladenovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. How do you feel after Rome?  Have you recovered well?  What's your feeling while training for the French Open?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: I decided to have a week of practice, even though there were tournaments on the schedule.  Everything went as planned.  The schedule that we fixed with Sascha, with my physio, with my coaches, everything went well.  I could train well.  I could test the courts out.  I could recover, as well, because I actually had a lot of matches in a row from Fed Cup and then all the way up to now.
Of course it's a good thing, but I managed to have a great transition and to be ready for this tournament.
Q. It seems that you're much better now that you're working with Sascha.  What is his added value?  I'm sure he has added something in terms of your practice on a daily basis.
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: There were a few details.  I was very flattered when we met to have a debriefing on the way he saw my game.  I liked it very much, because we had the same vision of my own feelings on court.
But it's not easy to manage everything.  What I liked was also the exercises that he made me do.  I liked the way he made me practice and the workload.
He's a hard worker, and I like to spend time on court to improve my game, to try new things.  And as I have always said, I always have had a lot of respect for him, for a few coaches, to be honest, actually.
And I was thinking about him.  He has a lot of confidence in his own work.  He's really good in his own work and I trust him very much.
We are fine-tuning a few details for now, but it has already brought some added value to my game.  There's nothing brand new, as you said, but it gives me a new vision.  It's quite the same, but it helps me to enhance my strongest points and to use them against some other opponents.
I'm delighted by the way we work and the way things are turning out.  It's nothing but positive things.
Q. If I'm not mistaken, you have practiced at least once on Simonne Mathieu.  What do you think about it?  Do you like it?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: It's hard to say.  We can't practice 20 hours on each court, because they are all the seeded players who need to play, as well.
It's beautiful, I have to say.  Nothing to say on that point.  I did one session one morning very early on.  It's hard to say in terms of the gaming conditions, because I will not play at 8:30 in the morning.
I can't say much about my feelings, but the court seems ready and well set.  But in terms of aesthetics, the French Open, the extension that was made behind the Lenglen, the new Chatrier, everything is wonderful.  I'm very much surprised.  I think it's beautiful.
I know it's not completely finished yet in terms of decoration, but it's a wonderful job that has been accomplished here.
Q. We have seen on social networks that you have a lot of fans supporting you on a daily basis.  Added to the fact that you're playing in France, can it actually help you to reach very high goals?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: At one point in your career, what we remember most when we decide to retire from tennis professionally, it's the fans, the crowd, being supported by the public.  I love sharing that with the public, my emotions, what I'm doing, I'm very proud and flattered.
If I inspire young tennis players, may they be girls or boys or adults, as well, they send me wonderful notes of support and they have a lot of emotions.  It has a lot of impact.  It's always strange to see how much impact we can have on others.
I try to give the best image possible and to convey values as a fighter in terms of tennis effects, this is what I want to share.  I want to share my passion.
And if I can do that through matches, especially at the French Open in front of our French crowd, all the better.
It's very moving to see that, to feel such support, and I thank them.  It's always been very special for me to play at the French Open.  I love it.  And I look forward to it.  I hope that I will play well.
Q. You have actually won against a No. 1.  What did you feel at the time?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: To talk about this match, it was not easy-peasy.
Indeed, this is something that will remain enshrined in my statistics, but what is more important is all my achievements throughout my career.  I think I managed to play the best players in the world, and I managed to show that when I play my best tennis, I can actually reach their level.
This is what inspires me and gives me confidence.  It helps me to see where I stand and where I can go if I pursue the right objectives.
It was very special to win against the then No. 1 at the time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT