INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 16, 2019
Kristina Mladenovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. MLADENOVIC/A. Barty
6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What's the feeling after two matches, the kind of challenge today, meeting the challenge?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, I think was a challenge for lots of players in this situation.  I'm not sure how many players were in situation to potentially have to go back on court for a second match.
Yeah, I have to be honest with you, it was very difficult to handle yesterday's day in particular because Belinda and I, we were scheduled second.  We arrived both pretty early, I believe.
We kind of feel that we were canceled quite late, actually in the worst possible timing.  We were canceled around 6.  It took us, talking for myself, an hour and a half to get a car because of the football match next door, then another hour and 15 minutes to get back to the hotel.  It was insane.  My coach actually went out from the car and finished it running (smiling).
We get to the hotel really late.  We had to come back and play first match at 10.  It was like short night.  We actually didn't even have dinner because at 6 we thought, Let's just go and have dinner around the hotel, just try to relax from this long day.  It turned out to be really a mess.
I tried to handle it, like, just take it easy, not try to lose too much energy and nerves on that.  It's something we can't really control.  Maybe the cancellation could have been earlier.
Then, yeah, well, I tried to prepare as best I can.  I was ready for my matches.  I think I work a lot.  Like when I am not on tournament, I don't like to practice twice a day, more like one big session, three or four hours in a row.  I think when you feel physically ready, you feel more confident.  I have no doubt about physical shape, if I could handle potentially two long matches.  Yeah, that's what I did.  Then there's another side where you have actually to play good, to win the first one, then give yourself a chance to have a good second one.
Was two different matches against two really good players, of course.  Especially they both in very good form this year, playing well.  Yeah, well, I don't know if I should talk about one or the other.
Yeah, in general, what can I say, it was a very successful day at the office.
Q. Can you talk us through what you did after the first match, how you adjust psychologically for the second match?  You play a lot of doubles, did that give you an advantage over other singles players?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, I definitely think so.  That's also one of the reasons I'm doing it.  I really think it's different, like, mentally.  First of all, I believe you work hard, weeks in and out, you believe in your physical shape.  First of all, you're not afraid of that part.  Just the fact, yeah, sometimes in doubles, to go back on the court, focus the mind, you're used to go twice a day on court.  I think this can be different.
I don't know how only singles players think about it.  Maybe it's strange for them to have, like, two matches where they have to go back.  I take it, yes, an advantage.
Well, what did I do?  After first match, I bike, I stretch.  I was playing on Court 3.  I have to say that my boyfriend was at 5-All in the third set at Pietrangeli.  I had to stop by the court.  It was a difficult one.  I was a little bit upset that I even forgot about my win.
Then, yeah, I regroup.  I just had lunch, shower, yeah, just preparation with my coach about the next one, and that's it.
Q. Obviously making the quarterfinals, having this great run, what does it mean to you?  What means more to you, making it to this stage at a big tournament like this, getting the types of wins you were able to get?  What is the satisfaction you get so far?  I'm not saying it's over, but...
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, I definitely feel satisfaction.  It just feels great to play, let's say, lots of matches.  In the back of my head, I was like, This tennis is funny, it will forever be ups and downs.  When I would lose few matches, worst season, I'm like, What's missing exactly?  You feel like, I'm not playing so bad, but it just doesn't click, doesn't go.
Now it's not something in particular you do so much different.  It's just, like, it's in two places:  you work hard and eventually it comes, you're successful.  Yeah, I don't want to talk about everybody, but I guess we all have waves, ups and downs.
Yeah, it just feels good.  I have to say clay helps me.  Every time I come back on clay, I'm like, Okay, I'll try things (smiling).  I feel like I have more time to kind of produce my game.
Of course, I have to mention that I'm loving what I'm working on with Sascha.  Helps me a lot because, yeah, I found with him someone that likes to spend hours and hours on court with me.  I have to say he brought on some new exercises.  We have the same vision of my tennis, but he kind of brought new exercises to this same vision and goal.  It helps me for sure in my consistency again.
I think that's making the difference right now in the fact I'm winning more matches.
Q. You talked about getting perspective of going through ups and downs.  When you're on another up right now, did it feel before you got the success like it was far away?  Did it feel like it was going to come quickly?  Or is this faster than you expected improvement?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: No, I don't want to sound, like, old or anything, but I feel like I've been through ups and downs already few times.  I'm not getting too excited now because I know actually I felt that before, like those results.  Of course, I'm happy.  Of course, it feels great to finish a match being the winner.
I just stay calm about it.  I'm like, Okay, it's cool, next opportunity for next match.  I try to learn more and improve.  I'm also aware that it's never a straight line.  I don't know, in a few weeks or few months, it can be again a bad feeling or period.
It's endlessly ups and downs in sport.  I think with the experience I'm kind of more calm.  Either it's a loss or a win.  For sure I'm very happy that let's say in a short period of time I already feel like the work I'm doing also with Sascha helps me and it's going in the right direction again for my tennis.
Q. You play either Petra or Sakkari.  Talk about what you expect with each one of those potential opponents.
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, they're very opposite game style.  Petra, I just played her in Madrid.  I think I showed some better stuff against her this time than the last few meetings where she was just too good.  I think I had some windows and some opportunities last week in Madrid.  Was also the first time we faced on clay.  It was interesting to see some other aspect of what I could maybe bring on the court.
If it's her, I'll try to work on not repeating the same mistakes I did last week, since it was super close.  We actually had a nice talk with Sascha about it.  I realized that it wasn't that far away.  It was a few points here and there.  I'll try that if it's Petra.
Maria, I'm not sure I've ever played.  I mean, she's also such a great player, big fighter, ready physically.  We actually practiced together off-season already two years in a row.  She comes in Dubai and we have some good practices, some good time.  She's a good girl I like.  She's always in a good mood.  We never played.  For sure she must be playing good.  I was happy for her for a first title in Rabat.
It's different.  I think she's also more like a clay court player, more time, more angles, more running.  It will be two opposite match, but both interesting.  Yeah, it's quarterfinals, so anyways it's a big stage.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT