INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 16, 2019
Kristina Mladenovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. MLADENOVIC/B. Bencic   
6-2, 2-6, 6-1   
(Transcribed from recorded WTA audio.)   
 Q.  Talk us through yesterday, sitting through the rain, knowing you had an early start today.  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, that was very difficult to handle because we arrive here early.  We all hang on-site, obviously waited.  We were canceled pretty late, to be honest.  Was also a big mess.   
Come back to the hotel, I have to be honest with you, there was the football match.  We were able to get a car around 7:30.  It took another hour at least to get back to the hotel.  We arrive really late at the hotel and we were scheduled very early.  It was difficult.   
But, you know, I try to stay calm and not lose too much energy because there's not much what we can do.  It's the weather.   
It was a early wakeup.  Yeah, preparation as usual.  Just got ready for the match.   
 Q.  There were a lot of up and downs in the match.  Obviously you lost the second set, but won the third set decisively.  How were you able to come back and do that?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: I think she has a very aggressive game.  She takes a lot of risk.  I think the start of the match was really good for me.  I managed to get the break, the first one.  I played a very solid first set.   
In the second, I have to say that it's because of me little bit.  It could have or should have been like 3-0 for me.  Just the fact I had 1-0, a breakpoint, easy forehand that I missed.  That could have been 2-Love.  Also the third game I had game point.  I had an easy overhead that I missed.  It was actually, yeah, 2-1 for her.  From there, it was a lack of concentration from me on those shots that cost me the lead.   
But then, credit to her, she played more aggressively, risk, won the second.  I was aware that I had the right tactic and the match in my hands if I was staying consistent and keep doing the right things, that my chances would come back.  I really had a positive attitude towards this.  I believed in it.   
It was a very crucial game in the third set that was very long.  That made a difference.  But also my hold on 3-1, because I saved two breakpoints.  That was a big difference to lead 4-1.   
Yeah, overall I think I'm very happy.  I played very consistent.  I was very positive and calm in my attitude because she's, like, fired up, winners, can be also mistakes.  She playing very fast and obviously she's playing very good this year.  She has such a big confidence, lots of wins under her belt.  She's very dangerous.  That's very good win for me.   
 Q.  You play Ash Barty next.  Your thoughts on that match?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, she's a top-10 player, right, if I'm not wrong.  It's going to be difficult also because draw section wasn't really fair for a lot of us.  She played two days ago, I will have a second match.  It's definitely going to be difficult.  But I'm here eating trying to get ready and do the best I can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT