THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 6, 2018
Kristina Mladenovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/K. Mladenovic   
7-5, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was a very competitive match, both sets.  What are your thoughts on how you were able to match her for most of that?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, well, I think it was a really high quality match.  Honestly, I felt good out there from the first moment.  I think I showed great tennis.  I think I pushed her to her limits really.   
She responded amazingly.  I mean, there is not much I can say or regret or be too difficult on myself, honestly, on all departments in my game really.  I served good from the first point to the last, going for my shots, also the returns.   
I mean, obviously her best stat today was her serve.  We all know she serves big, but today was extremely good, honestly.  I think, you know, it's kind of a match you say it's little details.  But when I tried to say to myself, What are those details?  I got broken back, yeah, I don't know how many -- two breaks, three in the match, and it was like I was serving big first serve that she returned bombs.  Afterwards I was late, surprised, and playing long.   
But even this, it's like completely provocated from her.  It's not something that I, you know, I gave up or I messed up myself, where I put her back in the game, absolutely not.   
So I thought that it was a really intense match from the first minute to the last.  She was really aggressive with not much errors.  I mean, it's kind of -- Serena, when you know she's on and she really wants it, she doesn't give you much.  She's really aggressive.  Honestly, even in that first set where I was in front, there is not much I can regret, honestly, you know.   
I was serving for the set, and I think my serve was quite good, so there is not much I can say.  Then from that moment she felt like she was even more aggressive.  But, yeah, overall was her serve, her serve, her stats on the serve was pretty good.   
 Q.  There have been a lot of upsets so far this week.  I'm curious what is your sense on kind of the mentality of players in the locker room now maybe compared with in the past?  Do you feel a difference?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: No, I don't think there is any difference.  I just think there is more and more girls that play great tennis.   
Top players that maybe lose, they don't lose to bad players.  They just lose to really quality players.  I think the depth of women's tennis is amazingly growing up, developing really every week, each week, and that's it.   
 Q.  Why do you think the depth is increasing?  Is it increased prize money, for example?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: I just think it's a beautiful sport and gives motivation to lots of people out there to play.  I think girls or women's and men's, as well, I think it wasn't like that decades ago.  You would have maybe 15, 20 players, but not hundreds of competitive players capable of showing really great tennis.   
 Q.  When you made your mixed doubles success here a couple years ago, were you surprised at how small the prize money was?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: I don't remember my prize money (smiling).  Why?  Was it small?   
 Q.  It's always just much smaller in mixed, is the thing.  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: It's smaller in mixed?   
 Q.  Much smaller in mixed than in women's doubles, for example.  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, well, yes, I guess.  But mixed, we only have four times a year, so I'm not the one deciding rules and prize money.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT