THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 4, 2018
Kristina Mladenovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. MLADENOVIC/T. Maria   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How happy are you to get your match finished today?  What was the key to winning?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, well, I'm more happy -- I'm happier to win it, first of all.  Yeah, it was a big privilege to be the match, to be picked up, actually to be moved on Centre Court.  It was a very nice surprise to me.  To be honest, I was chilling on the terrace, looking above my shoulder, how Stan was going on.  4-3 in the first set, so I was pretty relaxed.   
And then the referee came to me and said, You're next on Centre Court.  Was 6-1 for Serena.  It was a very nice surprise, and also obviously lucky when you see how it turned out to be right now with all the suspended matches.   
It was a good match for me, yes.  I think I prepared it really well.  I knew what I had to do.  The commitment was great.  I really used, you know, my patterns, what I know to do on a tennis court.  I had the response on her game.  I think even though the score looks really easy from the outside, I think it was not easy at all on the inside for me, because I really had to commit and make every single point.  Either was on my service game or on hers, because I think her first serve is really good.  I think she had great stats on it.   
And then overall, like I said, she's a very tricky opponent, very talented, and in really good confidence.  She was on a roll, and I'm happy not against me.  I feel sorry for her, because she's a very nice girl and friend.  Yeah, I'm happy I managed to find a solution compared to actually the top players she beat recently.  So I really tried to push forward and come closing out the points at the net.   
 Q.  Next you have Serena.  What do you expect from that match?  How do you prepare to play her here?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Well, I expect a very difficult match.  Even if she's on her way back, I definitely think she's a favorite of our match and maybe favorite -- just favorite.  If she plays her best, she's, for me, the best in our sport.  And, first of all, it's great to see her back even after giving birth.  It's great for tennis.   
It's, again, a very big privilege to play her, especially at this stage.  You know, we kind of both earned two matches to get to the third round, so will be a very nice challenge.  You know, I'm not getting too excited.  I just would like to be able to produce my game and what I have been working on for some weeks now.   
We'll see.   
 Q.  She did very well in the grass season.  Do you feel more pressure about that?  She also has, you know, her game, slicing.  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, yeah.  Well, you know, I didn't expect at all the scoreboard to look that easy from the outside for me.  To be honest, I was in Birmingham and I was following her success in Mallorca.  She beat back to back to back all those great players.  Especially here against Svitolina, you really have to dig deep and be consistent beat that kind of players.   
I really watched closely what she did, especially here in the first match, and you really have to work for your points.  You really have to, you know, have hands really to play all those different balls, because there is never one same ball.  Either the height or the length or the spin, lots of slices.  She makes you play on purpose for it, forward, so you have to not be afraid to come forward, play some volleys.   
That's actually what I like to do.  I think, you know, my doubles experience helps a lot, the vision, and my movement at the net.  So I think that was the key.  And the difference for me, why I managed to kind of break her streak today compared to the really good players she beat recently.   
 Q.  What do you remember most about the match you had against Serena in the French Open couple years ago?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: It was a really good match, tough match.  I remember it was a close one.  I lost, if I'm not wrong, 6-4, 7-6?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: I found out wrong again was just about one break in the first set, maybe 5-4, and then we hold serve the entire second set.  Was kind of a thriller tiebreak.   
I remember was a really close one that I had my opportunities, but not much I could regret from the match.  She was serving big.  Obviously her biggest weapon, and we all know that.  Well, that was kind of the same stage, you know.  Third round of the slam here again.   
I see it as a very big honor and opportunity to play her, and I know what to expect, because as you said, I played her once already and maybe few times in doubles.   
I know what to expect.  Of course it's big coming from her.  When she shows up on court, she's confident and she knows she's playing well.  Otherwise she wouldn't be here.  I think she proved that in the first two matches.   
It will be really up to me to try to bring some great tennis if I want to have my shot.   
 Q.  I know you're going to play two mothers back to back, and she has a four-year-old.  But for her, she adapted well on the tour, came back, rose through the rankings, as a female player.  Do you think about that and do you know how maybe it could be you, like, in the future?  Like how important it is for you guys now to understand what's going on?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, I'm really impressed, first of all, and inspired by those girls, those womans, mothers, players, really.  I mean, Serena is a huge champion.  She's a legend now for me in our sport.  I don't want to say it's too easy for her.  I expected it.  But other people like Tatjana Maria that had to, you know, come back from scratch after, you know, giving birth and playing probably the best tennis she played in her career.  It's very inspiring.  I think it's amazing to see.  I have a lot of respect for that, because I, you know, sometimes you try to see yourself in that position, Would I be able to do that?  How my life is going to turn to be?  Because we are all, you know, girls, womans, and life is not just about tennis.  So, yeah, it's very great to see.  They are great examples for womans in the world.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT