ROLAND GARROS
September 29, 2020
Kristina Mladenovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








L. SIEGEMUND/K. Mladenovic
7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. What do you think the turning point was of this match after your very strong start?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC:   I know what you're talking about, but obviously that double bounce, it was set point, supposed to be 6-1, and I think the chair umpire was the only person not to have seen it on the center court.
So we can call that a turning point.  I mean, should have been 6-1.  I don't know about the outcome of the rest of the match after that, but, yeah, was definitely a key point.
Q. How much did that call affect your concentration or your focus from then on?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC:   Well, it did affect.  I really tried to stay calm, though, and not try to complain much, because it was a brief complaint, because in these kind of situations, you know that they are bad, they made a mistake, there is nothing you can do about it.  Just have to try to refocus and keep going.
I had the results still in my hands, but you see how tennis, it's about one point at times.  And I got to give her credit for going for her shots afterwards and slowly coming back.
I tried to stay there, but I'm not sure I'm gonna watch again, but probably I put a little bit less intensity probably my focus.  Even though I tried, was a little bit away, was still in that point thinking, okay, I should have been in the second set already.
It wasn't easy, of course.  Yeah, what can I say?
Q. How tough has it been just these last few weeks, obviously everything that happened with you in New York, to have as good a mindset as you want, as clear mindset as you want at Roland Garros?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC:   Was definitely not easy.  Was definitely not the preparation I wanted to have coming up to Roland Garros.
I couldn't prepare the way I wanted, so it obviously affected my whole preparation.  Of course, I couldn't commit to the event after New York.  I wanted to play Rome, to play Strasbourg, but I couldn't be ready for it.
You know, it's brutal for the body when you are eight days lockdown in a hotel room.  If I just talk about those eight days, because even the first week where I competed in my singles I was basically isolated and couldn't train.  I just could go out there and play two singles match and one doubles.
So all in all, it was more or less two weeks where I was not active, not really being a professional tennis player.  So something new, for sure, and not a great experience.
So it was brutal on my body to come after these eight days in the room, so I had to withdraw from those events prior.  Roland Garros, for sure, not easy to come without any single match on clay, and not the way I'm used to get ready for these events.
Yeah, lots of strange things in 2020, for sure.
Q. On that call in the first set, do you think that Laura should have called it on herself and given you the point?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC:   Well, she would have been the best and most fair player on the tour if she would have done that (smiling).
Unfortunately, she didn't.  I didn't expect her to do it.  But if she would have done it, she would have all my respect and be super-fair play.  Yeah, this thing didn't happen.
But she's not the one responsible.  I think the chair umpire is the one that should be really focused on that call.
Q. Could this match be compared with the one in the US Open that you also were 5-1 and then it changed?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC:   No, I don't think so, because the set was mine.  It was just unlucky for me that the chair umpire didn't do her job.  Yeah.
Q. On a related subject, with these conditions and with people having to endure lockdowns like you had and stay in their hotel rooms a lot, how do you feel about the final set tiebreaker at the French Open?  Do you think it's a wise idea?  Would you like to see that changed?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC:   Sorry, again?
Q. Would you like to see the final set tiebreaker adopted in some form in France, or are you content to see it played out in advantage sets, especially considering the conditions?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC:   That's a tough question.  I think when it's normal conditions and we are all enjoying Roland Garros and it's a different time of the year and different scenarios, I think it's amazing for the crowd to enjoy that type of scenario.  I know that four of the Grand Slams now have different format, which makes it interesting, maybe a bit tricky for the fans to follow.
No, I'm absolutely fine.  I think when players are ready for it, I mean, it's how we used to always play.  I would say the changes are different.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT