ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2017
Kristina Mladenovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Well, it's the first time not going to Strasbourg, so you have to be well prepared.  A week to be prepared or a bit more than that.  How did you do that?  What do you feel about this?  Was that a problem for you, or do you feel a lot better, a lot fresher?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Well, it was something new, to start with, of course.  But then the conditions for me were different now that we have reached Roland Garros.  How can I say?  Yeah, it's not the same conditions this year for me at Roland Garros.  I know that things are slightly different, and it's been the case since the beginning of the year.
I'm trying to do new things differently.  And frankly, I have had a very good preparation.  After Rome, I took two or three days off.  It was really something good for me.  You know, we were talking about the beginning of season, but then we're in May.  So I have played a lot.  I'm not complaining.  This is something good.
But this was good for me, and then after this, I practiced a lot, which is what I did after Miami.  This time, it was really hard work.  After Miami, it was different.  I was not preparing myself for clay.  I was practicing Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, very tough.  Then today we're on Friday.  So then yesterday, since yesterday, I have been slowing down a little.  Slowing my pace.  Mega preparation.  This is what I did.  I'm trying to seize all opportunities, and I hope that this will be fruitful.
Q. Today you're rated as one of the top four favorites.
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Was that a true ranking?
Q. No, but this is what the journalists say in Paris.
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yeah, the journalists.
Q. You're one of the favorites.  Let's put it this way, one of the favorites for Roland Garros.  Is that any different for you?  You usually say that pressure is a privilege.  Would you say that this year something is different?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: No.  Frankly, no.  I was saying, oh, that's quite pleasing to hear this.  It's not the first time I'm here at Roland Garros.  I'm French, it's a French tournament.  I want to go as deep as I can, to be as good a player as I can.
I don't want to disappoint anybody.  This is some type of pressure I have always felt.  It's here again.  I can feel it here again today.  What's "interesting," I feel that in the world of tennis all over the world, well, people now are talking about me.  They are saying, Why not her?  And that's a change.
Otherwise, I have a few obligations here and there.  That's all.  Otherwise nothing has changed.  My preparation is the same.
Oh, yes, maybe one thing.  I could decide to get ready before Roland Garros and not to play in Strasbourg.  These details, you see, have changed.  But otherwise for me nothing had changed the way I look at things, the way I see things, the way I practice, the way I work.  I'm still very much focused on what I want to do, the objectives I set to myself, these types of things.
Well, of course, there are lots of people who talk about this, but you know what?  I feel I'm gaining confidence.  And that's all.  I'm saying it's no longer the domestic pressure.  It's the international pressure that I get nowadays.
Nowadays at international level, people are following me.  They know who I am.  They believe in me.  So honestly, that's all there is in terms of pressure.
I'm quite clear as to what I am doing for each tournament each week.  This is again a Grand Slam.  It's a long, long road, you know.  But if you do things well and if you have this philosophy, which is my philosophy, the one I have had since the beginning of the year, then you can keep your focus week in, week out, and practice.  If, on the contrary, I was flying and I was flying here and there, I was somewhere else, I was paying too much attention to what the media say, well, I wouldn't have harvested as many good results since the beginning of the year.  I have had one, two or three good weeks when I was surfing on my confidence, and then there is a drop.  You have to fall back on to earth.
But it's not my case.  My intention is that I want my foundations to be solid.
Q. Now, since the Fed Cup, have you met Mary Pierce?  Have you talked about Roland Garros?  She has won, played several finals, two, I think.  Do you need to discuss this tournament with her, or have you done that already?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Well, we have a Fed Cup group where we share lots of things.  We receive news from each other.  And then Mary has had some difficulties recently.  To answer your question clearly, no, I didn't talk about Roland Garros with her.
And this winter I thought that maybe I could get in touch with former champions, men and women, because I don't want to have a coach.  But then things went on so quickly that I didn't turn to anybody in particular.  I didn't ask anybody.  We'll see when the time comes.  But for the time being, no, I didn't discuss with anybody.
I had some discussions with Yannick during the Fed Cup, just after the Fed Cup I discussed my level of game, and positive feedback is what I received.  Plus some of his anecdotes about Roland Garros.
Q. What about this link between the two of you, that is double culture, your style?  Do you think there is some type of legitimacy in this link between you two or not?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Well, recently that's true.  I have heard lots of people say that we are more or less the same.  We are big hitters.  We have the same hair style with the plait.  I don't know if it's the same culture that we have, she and I.  She too has had two different cultural background.  She was such an example, such a splendid champion, such a nice person, as well.  Unfortunately she couldn't be with us during the Fed Cup in April.  But I know that in February we had shared so much.
Yannick or Mary, you know, they have so much experience, so many stories and anecdotes that we can use and reuse that we have seen as well as in our own careers.
Q. Do you know where you are in the main draw?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yes.
Q. You probably knew.  What do you think about the draw?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Well, as I said, I think it would not make any difference.  It's the way I look at things.  It's each match as they come, and I have repeated this more often than not.  I have said each opponent is a tough player.  Everybody plays tennis well.  Every match has to be taken seriously.  I don't think my draw is easy.  Far from that.  And I'd say it's quite a tough draw.
But it's the way it is.  To win this type of tournament or to go deep, you have to defeat all players.  You shouldn't just count on the draw.  You know, I usually make no more comments about the draw.
Personally, if I can play my best tennis, I have quite a lot of confidence and I know that I could be "the" girl to beat.
Q. Serena is not here.  Sharapova is not here.  Halep is a bit injured.  Many players have difficulties, injuries.  Would you say that this year is the year or this is "the" opportunity?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: I don't know.  Frankly, why do people keep on saying that?  They say, Okay, it's very open.  There are opportunities.  There are girls that have injuries.
It's always been the case.  And there will be in the future again.  The only thing that changes is that Serena is not here.
But for the other players, it's always been the case.  So to me there is nothing new.  There is no opportunity that's easier to take, no.  Some of these girls play extremely well, even better than this.  There is probably 10 or even 15 that have a very high level.  Frankly, to me, all the girls in the draw can be dangerous on the courts during a match.
For us, it means we always have to open our eyes.  It's the best tennis you have to play.  Otherwise, there's going to be a nasty surprise.  Last year I was defeated during the third round, and I was playing quite well.  Now, Serena has dominated the game for so long, and she's not here, so this is going to help us.
But otherwise, I think it's my level.  My level of game that has gone up a lot.  So all these names you have given, I have played against them.  Sometimes I won.  Sometimes I was defeated.  So it's the matches that count.
If you look at statistics and the competitions for statistics, yeah, there is an opportunity to seize.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT