BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2017
Kristina Mladenovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. MLADENOVIC/L. Davis   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You're having a great year.  You started off at No. 62 and now in the rankings to 26.  Quite a journey, really, in both singles and doubles.  What's making the difference for you at this point in your career?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: What's been the difference?  Well, I feel like I'm repeating myself a bit, but I don't know, really.  I mean, there is nothing really that has changed.  You know, it's just, you know, lots of work I put on.  And just everything that will be better, I would say, in my game.  Like, you know, serve, forehand, backhand.  Everything just a little bit better.  So it increases obviously my level, more consistent.   
And maybe one thing, as I said, that I could feel the difference is my movement on the court.  I'm more powerful, which means that maybe my groundstrokes are so -- kind of heavier, faster.   
And just like defensive-wise, sometimes now I can, you know, play defensive.  And when I have to do, I'm trying to be brave and put some balls back.   
Today was, again, a great example.  I run down couple of dropshots or I made some defense and earned some points like that that maybe in the past I wouldn't.   
I think, yeah, that maybe I can notice something obvious would be my physical part of my game.   
 Q.  Is it important to you to have a Plan B when you go out on court or do you want to play the same game, your game?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: No.  Actually, I feel like I never play the same (smiling).   
I like to study my opponent's game.  I try actually not to play all the time the same.  I feel quite confident about that.  I mean, it doesn't mean that I'm going to win every single match.  Of course not.  Because it's one thing to have different game plans in a day, but it's another thing to commit it well, and that is all about, you know.   
But I definitely feel I can play different kind of games.  I think it also shows it that I'm enjoying playing on every kind of surfaces, which obviously explain the fact that, you know, I can -- I can play spin.  I love playing on clay.  I have more time.  I can play faster, like flat and fast game, aggressive.   
Like, indoors like here -- like hard courts like here, or indoors or even grass, like, I love coming forward, put some slices in the game.   
Yeah, it's a lot of variation.  I think that if I can say that's maybe, like, the part of my game I'm enjoying the most to work on.  Hopefully it can become my weapon.   
 Q.  Do you find other players change their games, or is that something that makes you a bit different from...  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: I'm not sure.  I'm not sure.  You know, like, I cannot give names now, but you have kind of players that are aggressive, and they are, like, master in that kind of game.  Sometimes there is not much you can do.  You know, depends on them.   
I think everybody has their own game.  I would say I'm more capable of switching plans.  Other girls that are top players, like, they are very, like, mastering their big game, like big Plan A.  I mean, which is good, also.   
Like, you know, no matter the opponent you have, you're so good at what you're doing the best that sometimes, you know, you don't need a Plan B.  But obviously we all have days off, days where it's not working, and it's part of the game, part of the sport.  You cannot be successful every day.   
 Q.  I spoke with Svetlana earlier, and she complimented you.  She says she's loving playing doubles.  She also mentioned she wished she had paid more attention playing with Martina and Mauresmo and that she feels like she learned a lot but could have learned more.  How is that going with you?  Do you feel you're picking up with some of her experience?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Well, you know, it's just our first tournament.  So far we just played two matches.   
Obviously she's older than me, and, I mean, the story is nice, because she used to play with my former Fed Cup captain.  So it's a nice -- she's, like, Now I'm playing with you.  She had time to retire from being Fed Cup captain, and I'm still here and playing with you.   
She's a great girl.  She's also a great person, great champion for me.  I mean, obviously Grand Slam champion, lots of experience.   
Actually, yeah, I love playing with her.  You know, we played two matches.  I think we played amazing, really.  I really feel like somehow we look like each other game-wise, you know.  I'm on the court, and I'm enjoying it.  I'm, like, she understand the game like me.  You know, it's nice.   
Like tactic-wise, she uses variations a lot.  Like me, she has, from my opinion, all the shots in tennis game, which is beautiful to see in women's tennis.   
Yeah, I hope we can continue to have lots of fun like that and interesting matches.  Hopefully she sticks around for many more years, because she's very nice to see playing.   
 Q.  So you've either got Madison or Caroline.  Both big hitters, baseliners, one more offensive and the other more defensive.  What are your thoughts on playing either one of those?  
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: I mean, quarterfinals, I mean, for sure it's gonna be a big and tough match.   
I played both of them couple of times.  If I'm not wrong, played Madison.  Always tough matches.  Big battles.  Obviously she's one of those girls that -- maybe the one that hits the hardest on the tour and a big serve.   
I think conditions here suits her game well, because she has a great serve, big kick.  The bounce can bounce pretty high, let's say.   
And Caroline, I mean, former World No. 1.  She's coming back in great shape.  She has won lots of matches lately.  She has great confidence, I'm sure.   
I mean, it's going to be interesting for me to see their big matchup tonight.  I'll try to stalk a little bit what they are doing great this week, this tournament.   
I'm just going to try to focus on myself, as well, like recover.  It's been a long day, first night session match for me here.   
Actually, I'm happy.  Tomorrow I can have a day off, and I'm going to join forces with my doubles partner again, and then I will refocus for my quarterfinals.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT