ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2015
Kristina Mladenovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  K. MLADENOVIC/D. Kovinic6-3, 7-5THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.Q. We were under the impression that in the second set, even though you were down, we had the impression that you were dominant, that you were dictating play very easily.KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: That's a compliment.  Thank you.  So this is the impression that I gave.  I mean, I didn't take this match lightly.  It's the second round at the French Open.  I knew that the opponent would play very well, and I didn't get much information about her.  I watched some videos, but there aren't too many videos about this player. So I was in uncharted territory.  She has good qualities.  She moves well.  She serves well, 190 kilometers per hour.  She's a complete player. I'm very happy to get through, very happy with my game, happy with the way I played.  I was solid.  I converted almost all of the break point opportunities that I got to win the match.  That was not easy. When you wait for quite a long time, it's not easy, and there were lots of expectations following my first round.Q. Third round for you now, almost to the second week.  You said on Cedric Pioline's mic that you were thinking about it being into the third round and almost reaching the second week.KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: When you take part in this tournament, you don't want to lose in the first round.  When you are a professional player you have some goals and objectives.  You want to reach them.  If you don't have goals, if you don't have ambitions, you don't play.  That's all. Regarding this victory today, it was something new in the career.  There are steps and stages.  I have played three difficult matches, but I lost them.  So it's not always easy to be back and to turn the tables. I'm very happy with my win.  As I told you, there were lots of events that didn't turn in my favor.  So match after match, this is the first round of a Grand Slam.  All the players are playing well.  I will concentrate and focus and prepare for the next match in order to go deep in the tournament.Q. Advancing to the second week, do you have any other objectives?KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: I have already told you I will be able to prepare myself in order to qualify for the second week.Q. You said that you didn't have much information about your opponent today.  What about your next opponent?  Do you know her?KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: I think that people know her very well.  But I know her.  My next opponent has lots of qualities, good touch play, good serve, plays well on clay.  She's in the third round.  It's not coincident.  She's young.  I think she's brimming with confidence, so once again, it won't be an easy match.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT