ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2014
Kristina Mladenovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. PETKOVIC/K. Mladenovic
      6‑4, 4‑6, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   Well, I suppose it's not easy.   You were defeated 6‑4 during the third set.   How did you feel during the match and how do you feel now, please?
    KRISTINA MLADENOVIC:   Well, for sure, you know, at the end of the match when you're defeated 4‑6, 6‑4, 4‑6 the third round, that's tough to take. 
    What else?   What can I say about this match? 
    Well, tough, tough, hard.   I don't think that any of us have really played well.   It's tough, because you're playing against someone you know well. 
    What's more, you know today it was difficult for me to get used to the court.   I didn't have my landmarks.   I made many errors which usually I don't make, which I never make.   Well, almost never.   And what I would call neutral points that I lost. 
    When I was serving, I didn't serve well.   My serve was not well adjusted to the central court.   This central court is so huge, so different from any other court.   That, you know, I fought, I was fighting with the weapons I had today, with the feelings I had today, which were poor feelings, bad feelings.
    You know, as far as I'm concerned, I played twice on the Lenglen court, and then it's a lot smaller, and the clay I have the impression is a lot faster.   It's like on a slab of clay.   Whereas here it's a huge court. 
    If you look at the smaller courts, for instance, the doubles, I play on the smaller courts, it was difficult for me to adapt. 
    But then I thought, I tried to put a good fight.   But, you know, it's tight.   In this type of context there is not much.   It's difficult for both players to play.   Small things today.   6‑4 for her during the third set.

Q.   Physically was there something that hurt at the bottom part of your back, which was the case last time you played a match?
    KRISTINA MLADENOVIC:   Yes, of course, but her, too.   That was the case for her, too.   She, physically speaking, she is incredible.   But she was hurt as well.   She was feeling pain at the end. 
    So no excuses as far as this is concerned.   Quite normal.   We have our pains sometimes here and there.

Q.   What would you say is the most frustrating thing now that you're leaving the courts?   You're disappointed, of course.   Is it because you couldn't show what you wanted to show on the courts, or because you couldn't open up or something like this?
    KRISTINA MLADENOVIC:   No, it's not that I didn't open.   But, you know, I'm a bit disappointed because I didn't know how to adapt on the court, on the court.   It's the court, really. 
    This is what it is.   Unfortunately, this time it's a lesson, okay, an experience.   Yet another experience for me. 
    I think that now I'm getting used to playing on this huge court, which is crowded, which is why I'm frustrated today.   Because I know that if I have better feelings on this court, it's because I will play more often on this court. 
    But today I should have served better and I could have won the match in two sets.   You know, it's all about sensations.   I think I was fighting against myself, even though I saw that she was in the same situation as well.   You know, we made many mistakes.

Q.   Offhand, you're disappointed, that's true, we can see this.   But then this Roland Garros is a very good Roland Garros for you.   I suppose that you will certainly build on this experience, this Roland Garros, this year, this tournament, this competition?   In a way, it's a renewal, a new start?
    KRISTINA MLADENOVIC:   Well, yes.   Roland Garros is not yet over for me.   I have to play doubles.   I will take time to think about all this, all the good things, the things that didn't go that well for this Roland Garros. 
    Then you used the word, "to build."   I don't really agree with you, because it's not after a week that you can build your tennis style; but it's daily that you do this, that you develop and build your tennis.   It's every day, day in and day out, when you practice, when you work. 
    All of these good results are the fruit of what you do.   It pays off.   It will give you confidence and more appetite.   Even though I'm overflowing with appetite to win.
    But, yes, it was an incredible and a nice experience even though today, you know, I still need a few matches like this one to feel good on this court.   It's the only one. 
    You know, the Lenglen court is okay.   I'm doing well.   But on the Chatrier, frankly, if you're there, if you don't play that often, I only had 30 minutes.   It's complicated.
    So a good lesson, a nice experience, and this will help me, for sure, to develop and make even more progress.

Q.   Well, what about your development, then?   Even though you're not satisfied, you've done so many things with the balls, things that perhaps you didn't do in the past or less often, like these chopped balls.   And you kicked your serves.   Is this something you're going to work on?   This is a change in your game, I'd say. 
    KRISTINA MLADENOVIC:   Well, certainly.   You know, I discussed with my group, and they say I'm not lucid, that my eyes are not open.   But I think, Okay, we fought on the court.   It was not one of my matches, I would say. 
    But all in all, for Roland, singles and doubles, as you said, there are many things I'm working on.   I have improved on many things.   Many variations.   You know, I play well when I play doubles, as well. 
    So there are things I'm trying to do.   Also for singles like dropshots, volley, as well, I go to the net.   Sometimes I chop the ball.   Sometimes it's high balls.   Sometimes it's serve and volley.   A bit of everything, you see.   So little by little, it's taking shape. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT