ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2019
Kristina Mladenovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. MARTIC/K. Mladenovic
6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. How do you assess your match?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: My analysis is very simple:  She just dominated me in every single field of the game today.  She was much better than me today.  There is nothing else to say.  The score speaks for itself.
Q. Did you feel that at the beginning of the second something to hope about?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: I tried to hang on and I was able to break her once throughout the match maybe due to two errors, two unforced errors she made after good serves.  So I think that throughout the match she made very few unforced errors.  Maybe two in that game.  And I was able to break her.
But then I remember a volley I executed poorly, which made the difference, and it was 15-All instead of 30-Love.  So I can have regrets for that one.  But the break, I really tried to hang on, but she made very few unforced errors throughout the match.  And in that game, she made two unforced errors.
So it was not hopes.  It's just that she dominated the match.  She made very few mistakes.  Was very aggressive with heavy balls in forehand/backhand, I tried to make her move, I tried to vary my shots.  I tried to play heavy shots myself.
But she had solutions to everything I was offering today.  From that moment onwards, there is nothing more to say.
Q. Can I ask you your opinion on the possible introduction of Hawk-Eye on clay?  Would you be in favor of that?  If so, would you elaborate?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: Yes, why not?  I'm rather in favor of it, because it happened to me that I disagreed with the referees sometimes, there are two marks overlapping, or we disagree on the judgment, is there a small space or not.  It happened to me in the past.
And even recently in Rome against Sakkari, there were referee announcements where I saw the situation very differently, and I'm not the kind of player to dispute the marks.
Sometimes it's difficult to judge.  I can understand the difficulty for the umpires, but if the Hawk-Eye is very precise, of course I would not want it to be the contrary of what two people see on the court, but why not.
Q. How do you assess your clay season?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: It's positive.  I had a lot of matches, beautiful victories on top players.  As I said at the beginning of Roland Garros, I had a very difficult draw, and today I lose against a player who is much better than myself.  She did a beautiful match.
On clay, I knew it before the match, she has won 10 matches on clay against two defeats.  Not many players have these stats.  It's unfortunate for me to stop here against her today, so it's a pity, but I don't choose my draws.
After that match, it would have been Karolina Pliskova, so not something easier.  In my game, I feel pretty well also today.  It's just that the girl was really too strong.  She dominated.  She varied her shots.  She had everything, every type of shot.  If I was more aggressive, she sliced.  Dropshots.  She served very well and had a good kick serve to neutralize me.  Very few unforced errors, with a huge ratio of winners versus unforced errors.
It's the entire clay season is positive for me more than negative, I can say.
Q. Now there is only Caroline Garcia left in the draw, early Wednesday.  Is there a generational gap in the female French tennis?
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: We're in finals of Fed Cup, so I think the question is a bit strange.  And I'm asking you the question, do you think there is a generational gap if we are in the finals of the Fed Cup?
Q. (Question off microphone.)
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: So I'm asking the question.
Q. It's the third time in ten years that there is only one French player in the third round in Roland Garros.
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: I was in quarterfinal in 2017.
Q. No, in ten years it happened three times --
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: And how many finals, semifinals in Fed Cup?  Do you think there is a generational problem?  Are you aware that we are in the finals of the Fed Cup?
Q. I congratulate you.
KRISTINA MLADENOVIC: I think that your question is not really appropriate.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT