ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 20, 2019
Moeen Ali
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Moeen, thanks for joining us.  If selected tomorrow, it will be your 100th one-day international for England.  What does that milestone mean to you?  
MOEEN ALI: Obviously, It means a lot.  To play 100 games for England, ODI games, it's a dream.  I never thought in my wildest dreams that I would get close to it so, you know, it's an amazing feeling.   
 Q.  Is there a moment in the previous 99 matches that maybe stands out above all others for you?  
MOEEN ALI: I don't know.  Probably the hundred at Bristol will be definitely one.  But, no, just being part of the team, being part of the change I guess since when I first came in from 2015 and to see the team where we are now, it's, I think that would be...   
Looking back, if I was to retire, I'd always think I was part of that change and that whole mindset changing and the great cricket that we've played.   
 Q.  How is the team at the moment?  You obviously had those injury blows a week ago.  People are getting better now of course.  We saw Jason Roy for the first time with a bat today.  How has his recovery gone?  
MOEEN ALI: He is doing really well, I think.  Speaking to him, he is obviously desperate to get himself ready and play and hopefully we will see him very soon.   
But the team's, you know, as always we are in great shape in terms of atmosphere around and everyone is looking forward to it.  Even if we have some big injuries and stuff, we've got players who are not playing who are also very good, so the environment's amazing, like it always is, and we are trying to be as professional as we can in our games and we have played well so far.   
 Q.  You have got Australia now in less than a week.  How important is it to go into that game off the back of another win?  
MOEEN ALI: Of course you want to win all the games.  If it doesn't happen, then it doesn't.  But it is obviously a big game and all our games are big for us and we know momentum is key, so both teams are playing well and I'm sure they are very confident as well, so it's a big game no matter what the situation, a World Cup or not a World Cup, it's a huge game for both teams.   
 Q.  Moeen, there's been a fair bit of cricket now in the tournament.  Do you look at it and think the top four teams that are there are the best four in the tournament and probably the semifinalists?  
MOEEN ALI: Anything can happen.  Obviously, we all know that.  And I'm sure teams like Bangladesh will have something to say about that, they are playing really well, and they are a very dangerous side for everybody.  So you can lose to anybody in this tournament.  Sri Lanka pose a big threat tomorrow and, as you saw against Australia, they were playing really well and probably could have won that game as well.   
So, you know, at the moment, the top four are there for a reason because they are playing probably the best cricket out of all the teams and most consistent, so, you know, there's still a lot of games to go, but it looks like it could be the top four.  But anything can happen.   
 Q.  Do you think a team like Sri Lanka, there's not been too many upsets in the challenge, does that almost cranks up the likelihood of a team like Sri Lanka can knock one of those top four off?  
MOEEN ALI: Of course.  We thought that about all the teams.  Afghanistan, at Old Trafford, on a used wicket, could be a massive threat and we have adapted well so far and been very professional, where maybe in the past the odd game we'd slip up and stuff, but we know every game is huge for us and every point that we get is going to be massive.  There could be some weather around later in the tournament and stuff so we want to make the most of the occasion.  It's a World Cup, so we know every game is big for us.   
 Q.  England were without an opener a week or so ago and you have got two hundreds as an ODI opener, haven't you?  
MOEEN ALI: (Moeen nods his head).   
 Q.  Was there any thought about you putting yourself forward for that role?  Was there any talk about you going back to the top of the order?  
MOEEN ALI: No, not at all.  I think if I played that Southampton game, maybe I would have opened then.  No, I think when you have got someone of Vince's quality -- and I guess that's the reason why he was picked as a batter, as a spare batter almost, and because of the quality that he brings as an opening batsman and I think it was the right decision made.   
 Q.  And how are you feeling with your batting form?  Good in the IPL, a good innings the other day, but struggling at No. 7 sometimes?  
MOEEN ALI: Yeah, it is not an easy position, in my opinion.  I know you are always dictated by the pace of the game.  You either have to come in and hit quick runs which doesn't always happen, as you saw with top batters like Jos and Ben Stokes, they always find that hard as well.   
It is always nice when you've had a bit of balls, 40, 50 balls under your belt, and to first come in and have a go, it is not always easy and you kind of -- I heard from a great player that, you know, if you have ten innings, if you come off three times, you have done really well, but when you come off, you come off properly.   
 Q.  Mo, what is the best advice you can give to James Vince?  Throughout the squad, there's hundreds throughout the whole batting line-up, but he's only really got one fifty so far, so what is the best way for him to find his feet in this side?  
MOEEN ALI: I think it's been very difficult for him.  He's always come in knowing he is not going to be there for longer than two games, or maybe even one sometimes.  But depending on Jason's injury, I'd probably say to him just go out and -- not the cliché of 'express yourself and stuff' but go out like you are going to play all the games and make the most of, you are playing a World Cup in England, probably never going to do it again, or we don't know.  Just enjoy yourself as much as you can more than anything.   
Don't get too caught up in trying to making sure you have to score a hundred or you have to score runs, they will come.  He is such a good player, those runs will definitely come, if he almost enjoys it rather than thinking it is almost a test.   
 Q.  It's been a relentless format, the round-robin.  Do you find it tough, really hitting the straps every time you get on to the field?  
MOEEN ALI: No, I mean, it is something to -- to win a tournament you have to do that all the time and more so in pressure situations.  And our motto almost has been to not take the foot off the gas, to really -- every game we play like it's our last game and I think if we play like that, and obviously enjoy, to have the enjoyment and stuff, but every game is huge.   
And we know that, like I said, we all know as players that this is probably the only World Cup as a team where we are going to be together at home, so, you know, let's make the most of it and every game counts.   
 Q.  You mentioned how much this England team has improved since your first cap.  But does that only count for something if you win a trophy at the end of it?  
MOEEN ALI: I think so, yeah.  That improvement, everybody knows, and we have been talking about it for a while now, but as a team we know that a trophy matters for us and hopefully this is it.   
But without putting that extra -- the pressure will be there anyway but not getting too tense and be true to the way we have been playing and not change during those big pressure situations which we haven't done so far.   
 Q.  You came in and whacked four sixes after Morgan's 17.  Is there any rivalry between the players, the England team, who can hit the most sixes?  
MOEEN ALI: Not really, but we talk about it (smiling).  We talk about who hits the biggest sixes and stuff.  I think mine was probably the biggest the other day (laughter).  No, but, we do definitely have a bit of banter about it and I big myself up a little bit, yeah (smiling).   
 Q.  What role do you see the spinners playing tomorrow? You and Rashid what will you look to do to make things hard for Sri Lanka?  
MOEEN ALI: We are both obviously different.  He works a lot on his variations and more tactical side of things, whereas with me, it is more about repeating and trying to bowl my best ball.  I think he's different with both of us and he knows that and we both have different roles in the side so we talk more about that to be honest with you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT