WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2019
Yoshihito Nishioka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Y. NISHIOKA/A. De Minaur
7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. First Masters 1000 quarterfinal.  Just talk about that milestone and what it means to you.
YOSHIHITO NISHIOKA: Yeah, it was a very special moment for me.  I had a couple chances, I think I had twice chances to make quarterfinal Masters 1000s, but I couldn't make it.  I really want this, so, yeah, very happy for today.
Q. The bottom half of the draw you're in is wide open.  No one in the bottom half has won a Masters 1000 title before.  Is that something that you think about or plays in, or is it really just one match?
YOSHIHITO NISHIOKA: Yeah, I focus on one match, each matches, but -- well, yeah, I think bottom half have a chance for everybody.  If I can, I want to take that.
Q. Just talk about what do you credit with your rise up the rankings this season?  You've been having such a great year.  You're moving up week by week.  What do you accredit that to?
YOSHIHITO NISHIOKA: Yeah, my best ranking was 57 or something like that.  I know I can be there, but I had a couple tough times and, you know, didn't do well sometimes.  But this year, little by little, ranking is getting higher, and finally I got big points this tournament.
You know, I just believe I can more far away and more ranking higher.  This year my goal want to be past the top 40.  That's my goal for this year.  So I just believe in that one I can be.
Q. You played five matches in six days.  How are you able to recover so quickly and bounce back?  Is the fan support from the Japanese fans helped you through that?  What are you doing after matches to recover so quickly?
YOSHIHITO NISHIOKA: Well, eat well, sleep well (smiling).  Yeah, it's sometimes tough, but my body feeling is pretty good.  I don't feel that much tired.
I think my physio doing well for me, massage or stretching.  I'm eating Japanese food every night, so that's help me.
Q. Like what?
YOSHIHITO NISHIOKA: Oh, well, yesterday I ate salmon, salmon and rice, some other Japanese food.  You know, that's help me a lot, I think.
Also, I just taking, like, I took one day off before Kei's match.  So I think that's help too.
Q. You're far away from home.  How does it feel to look into the stands and see a Japanese flag and see the support?  Not just from Japanese or Asian people but everyone in general?
YOSHIHITO NISHIOKA: Yeah, that's very happy for me.  Now I think more people know about me and cheer on me.  Today I think many fans cheer on me than him, so maybe, yeah, many fans want to see my match maybe, and then I want to show them my best tennis each day.
Q. You have a great YouTube channel.  Why did you start it in the past?  And will you ever update it again?  It's been, like, a year, right?
YOSHIHITO NISHIOKA: Well, I just started YouTube channel when I was injured, and then I don't have nothing to do.  So, okay, what I can do?  I want to do something -- I just want to, I was thinking, what I can do for tennis.  I want to make bigger, more bigger tennis in Japan, so I want to do something for tennis.
And then, okay, YouTube channel is very good, great tool for showing tennis players, so that's why I start it.
Just wait a little bit.  I think it's going to be started again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT