BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2017
Yoshihito Nishioka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Y. NISHIOKA/T. Berdych
1-6, 7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. At what point did you start thinking you could win this match?
YOSHIHITO NISHIOKA: Well, I mean, I was down 1-6, 2-5, and, you know, I tried to do my best, but today I couldn't figure out how can I beat Berdych.
But down 2-5, I tried to find a way, and then I think he give me a little bit chances.  So I find a way, and then just keep trying to every point.  Then he show me, like, a little bit angry, a little bit feeling tired.  So, you know, I figured out how to win from down 2-5.
And then my body feeling like I cannot move, like, that much, but just stay on focus and try fight.  And then I find a way.
Q. (Question indiscernible.)
YOSHIHITO NISHIOKA: Well, yeah, today is wonderful coming back.  But beginning, you know, I didn't play my best tennis, but this is, I think, not technique and just on mentality much, and then I never lost my mentality.  That's why I think I won today.
Q. Did you on court think that I can win this?
YOSHIHITO NISHIOKA: Well, actually, down 2-5 and I was thinking, I think today I can win, but, you know, I never stop to try.
Little by little, I find a way, and then one break and then maybe I had a chance.  And then I break again.  And then -- or maybe I can coming back.  Little by little, I figure out.
Q. You figured it out.  Did you change something?  Did you modify something in your game?
YOSHIHITO NISHIOKA: No.  Actually, I didn't change.  But I can see a little bit he's nervous.  And then he missing, like, couple, like unforced errors.  I just focus on try to make a lot ball.  And he hit winner, okay, that's okay.
But I can see he don't want to rally, like, long.  So I just try to, like, long rally and then he did many -- starting many unforced errors.
Q. Did that surprise you, how nervous he was?  Because he's a veteran player who has been on tour for a long time.  Seems unusual that he would be nervous and have those issues.  Did that catch you off-guard?
YOSHIHITO NISHIOKA: But I think last match against Fratangelo, the time he was, I think, nervous, as well, on the second set.  So I can see he's going to be nervous.  So, I mean, I didn't know he gonna do, like, unforced errors like today.  But, yeah, but I know he gonna be nervous.  I knew it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT