LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 11, 2011
Mindy Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Mindy Kim into the interview room. Congratulations on your round today; one shot off the lead. How do you feel heading into Sunday's round? 
 MINDY KIM: You know, I don't really feel anything. I mean, I really -- I mean, I kind of -- honestly, I'm not going to lie, I was pretty nervous when I tee'd up, so my ball wasn't going so straight today. 
 I managed to get in a couple of birdies and my round kind of turned into a good round. 
 MODERATOR: I was going to say, with those nerves, everyone has nerves the first time they're up there at the top of the leaderboard and in the final round. Were you pleased by the you were able to get around the golf course and still shoot a low round and put yourself right up there near the top? 
 MINDY KIM: Yeah, I mean, my playing partner, Jenny, played pretty good today and she made a lot of long putts today. It kind of pressured me to make some putts. I think we -- I don't know what she shot, but she played good, too, so it kind of got me going there.
 MODERATOR: Did today's experience help you? Tomorrow you'll be playing in the final pairing of the final round. Did that experience today, at least having those nerves, you think help you going into tomorrow? 
 MINDY KIM: Yeah. It's definitely, you know, the first time -- you know, it's my first time being out here and playing in the final round -- I mean, final pair? No. Oh, God. 
 MODERATOR: I did that, too.
 MINDY KIM: Anyway, I was really nervous, but I just have to treat it like it's the same, you know, it's the same round or it's like Thursday instead of Saturday right now. You know what I'm saying? Starting off new and stuff.
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Some of us weren't out there on 18. What happened on 18 today? 
 MINDY KIM: Okay, so it was downwind; I hit a 3-wood off the tee and I babied it because I didn't feel comfortable, and I felt like my 3-wood was going to go sideways. So I didn't hit it so hard. I had 180 to the front and 191 to the flag, and it was downwind. 
 And it was maybe a good -- I don't know if it was a good club downwind, but I just decide to had the back out of play. So I hit a 5-iron, and I kind of caught it thin, and it was going towards the pin, so, I mean, it came up short and bounced into the hazard, but it wasn't in the hazard. It was just inside the hazard line.
 And then I had a question to ask the rules official. There was some high grass that was kind of right behind my ball, so I asked if I could touch that with my club. He said, Yeah. He said you just can't ground the club, and that's what really went down there. 

 Q. How close did you hit it then? When you hit it out of that area, how close did you hit to the hole? 
 MINDY KIM: Oh, I didn't hit it close at all. I was maybe six paces away from the hole. I mean, because I can't really judge if I'm going to catch it thin because obviously I'm not getting (indiscernible) clubs, so like I don't know how it's going to come out. 
 So I just hit it and it kind of caught fringe and just kind of died right there. But it was on the green.

 Q. These first two days you played with Yani and had a little rest today and now back with Yani tomorrow. Both of you made the comment that you hadn't really played together since age 12 or whatever. Going back to playing with her tomorrow, it's a final group situation, but I don't know if you've kind of worked off each other these first couple days? Are you excited about that aspect of it?
 MINDY KIM: Yeah, of course. She's the No. 1 golfer in the world right now. She's hot right now. I'm just happy that I'll get a chance to play with her, and, you know, hope many, many rounds to come with her play -- something. 

 Q. The course today, you know, we had some rain last night, was it -- did it play look you thought it would as far as -- even though you were in a late group, were the greens still receptive, that type of thing?
 MINDY KIM: Yeah, the greens were receptive. We had the lift, clean, and place rule, which I didn't use half the time. The fairways are a little damp and it doesn't go as far as it used to. The weather, the temperature has dropped right now, so it isn't going as much as it was on Thursday and Friday. 
 But, I mean, overall, it's playing a little longer for me. Maybe it's because I didn't hit the ball very good today. 

 Q. I think maybe you made the comment already going into the second round you kind of tried to approached it where the previous days didn't happen; you were kind of starting fresh. Is it hard to approach tomorrow like that when you're in the final group?
 MINDY KIM: It was hard today. You know, I mean, it worked Thursday; it worked Friday; apparently it didn't work today, because I was nervous.
 But I'm human. I mean, it happens to all players who are leading the tournament. So, um, I'm just happy that I'm in this position and a chance to win. 
 MODERATOR: Any more questions? 
 MINDY KIM: Thank you. Thanks, Kelly. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT