NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SENATORS v DUCKS
May 30, 2007
Karl Alzner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PIERRE MCGUIRE:  Karl, come on up.  Karl Alzner, the Calgary Hitmen.  You were No. 27.  Why is that?   
 KARL ALZNER:  That would be my favorite player, Scott Niedermayer.  I love everything he does, how he looks so effortless and you can find him in front of the net, even though he's a defenseman, every now and then.  He's been entertaining for me to watch.  And that's why I have 27.   
 PIERRE MCGUIRE:  Did you get a chance to speak to him today in the Ducks' dressing room.   
 KARL ALZNER:  I met him today real briefly, but actually I talked to him once on the phone after World Juniors.  He called to congratulate me.  So that was the highlight of my life, I think, just talking to him for the first time.   
 PIERRE MCGUIRE:  What did he relay to you about being a defenseman in the NHL and being potentially what it's like to be drafted by an NHL team.   
 KARL ALZNER:  He didn't talk too much about it, but the things he did say is that it can be the best thing you can possibly do.  It's the best job in the world, I think, and that he just wanted me to work hard so that I could realize my dream.   
 PIERRE MCGUIRE:  What's your best memory from Leksand, Sweden, where the World Junior was this year?   
 KARL ALZNER:  Winning the final would be awesome.  That game against the States in the shoot-out, I was so nervous on the bench.  And remembering everybody switching positions after every single goal or missed goal and things like that.  And I think the grilled cheese we got at our hotel, that was a good memory.  (Laughter).   
 PIERRE MCGUIRE:  Team Canada, for those that didn't know, brought their own chef over.  Shows you the priority that the World Junior has in Canada.   
 Ryan Getzlaf is a former teammate of yours and now he plays for Anaheim.  Give us a little Getzlaf story from your days in Calgary together.   
 KARL ALZNER:  I think the best one and the one that describes how important he was to the team and how much everyone looked up to him was we had a video in our bus and he sits at the very back, of course, and he didn't like what it was.  So he called up our general manager and head coach at the time, Kelly Kisio, he said, Kis, I don't like this movie, put a new one in, hangs up the phone.  Couple minutes later out came the movie and there went a new one.   
 So he was top priority when he was there.   
 PIERRE MCGUIRE:  Thank you very much, Karl, best of luck draft day.  We're looking forward to seeing you in Columbus.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT