AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v WHITE SOX
October 4, 2005
Mark Buehrle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Congratulations, Mark.  Take a first question for Mark?
 
MARK BUEHRLE:  Thank you.  
 
Q.  Mark, you've played with David Wells and you've pitched against him too.  Different setting tomorrow.  How do you feel about it?
 
MARK BUEHRLE:  Well, I'm going up against him, it's really not that big of a deal.  Like I said, we've gone out and faced each other previous this season.  I'm sure I'll have some nerves going tomorrow.  I'll just go out there and try to throw 0s.  I know he's going to go out there and do what Boomer does.  Especially in post-season, he's a big game pitcher.  I'll do as much as I can to give our team a chance to win. 
 
Q.  Mark, I'm curious, what team did you grow up rooting for?  When you first came to Chicago, how much did you know about the history of the ball club? 
 
MARK BUEHRLE:  You don't know who I'm a fan of?  Are you serious?  St. Louis Cardinals.  Once I came to Chicago I didn't really know anything about the White Sox.  I could probably only name two guys who played on the team.  I knew about the Cubs being a Cardinal fan, but not the White Sox.  
 
Q.  Mark, a lot is made of Playoff experiences with individuals.  You had a brief taste of it in 2000.  Was that enough to help you or do you feel like a Playoff rookie?
 
MARK BUEHRLE:  I don't think that really helped.  I only had a third of an inning.  We were losing when I came in.  It wasn't that good of a deal.  I've got some experience pitching in big games.  The last couple of games we faced the Indians here, it was a Playoff atmosphere.  The last few games in Cleveland, the crowd was into it.  Obviously the post-season means a little bit more than a regular season game.  We'll go out there and see what happens. 
 
Q.  Mark, you have been your own worst critic about how you pitch against the Red Sox.  Any thoughts about how you can change your style and have more success about them?
 
MARK BUEHRLE:  I got the video of my last two starts against these guys, and I'll sit down and watch it.  Go over with Coop and see if he has any opinions to see if I can pitch these guys different.  I'll go out there pretty much and attack them the same way and hopefully hit my spots. 
 
Q.  Mark, in 2000, you guys had a great regular season and you got swept, and you had another great regular season this year.  Obviously, you must feel this team is better suited for a long run in the Playoffs.  If that's the case, why?
 
MARK BUEHRLE:  We feel our chances are good.  Even though we had the best record in the American League, I think it's all thrown out once you get to the Playoffs.  Everything goes out the window.  It's a whole new season.  We like our chances.  We had a good season.  If we come out and play like we did in the first half and late in the second half, I think we'll be all right. 
 
Q.  Mark, what kind of influence did David Wells have on you in 2001?  Does that relationship continue?
 
MARK BUEHRLE:  I haven't kept in contact too much.  I was talking to him a little bit in batting practice.  Growing up, I watched David Wells pitch.  He's a lefty.  I kind of follow what he does.  When he was on the team, he would take me out, on and off the field, I would sit next to him and learn what he has to say about baseball. 
 
Q.  Mark, were you nervous for the All-Star Game, and what do you think your feelings will be for Game 2 tomorrow?
 
MARK BUEHRLE:  I wasn't nervous for the All-Star.  I thought I would be a lot more nervous than I was.  Facing the Royals and Indians and Yankees, whoever it is, I'm nervous.  Once I get to the field and around the guys, usually I settle down, especially when I get out on the field. 
 
Q.  When you take a look top to bottom at the AL East and AL Central, which division do you think is the tougher division and why?
 
MARK BUEHRLE:  For me, I would probably have to say the AL East because I think their offensive teams are better.  That's who I'm going up against.  I think the American League Central pitching staffs are better.  If you look at Minnesota and Cleveland, also I think we were 1, 2, 3 in pitching.  East is better hitting and Central is better pitching. 
 
Q.  Generally in a game you work so quickly.  Is there any circumstance where you don't work so fast?
 
MARK BUEHRLE:  ESPN games when there was 2:25 between innings, that usually slows me down a little bit.  The umpires joke around, it's an ESPN game or Fox game, I go out there so quick, and I'm ready, and we have to wait for TV.  I'll have to wait a little bit before I go out there. 
 
Q.  Mark, in 2000 when you went to the Playoffs, there was some changes, even up to the day of the roster.  Mark Johnson was taken off, and you made some moves in August.  It seemed like the roster was in flux in September.  This year it was almost the opposite.  All the regulars, all the pitchers have pretty much been here all year.  Is there any kind of a different feeling?  Do you sense any kind of a different feeling in this group?
 
MARK BUEHRLE:  Like I said, in 2000, half a season I was here.  Being a rookie, I kind of didn't really know what was going on.  I was kind of stuck in my little corner and tried not to get in anybody's way.  It's hard to compare 2000 and this year. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT