FRYS.COM OPEN
October 14, 2015
Stephen Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've been playing longer than he has.  How much guidance have you given him?
STEPH CURRY: He's got natural game.  The more he plays, the better he gets.  He's inexperienced out there, but for how little he has played in his life, some of the shots that he can hit is pretty impressive.  He'll keep get being better, and eventually be up there with some of the top guys in the league.
Q. How difficult was it to play basketball last night and be here to play 18 holes of golf?
STEPH CURRY: I wouldn't call it tough because any time you get to play golf, you somehow miraculously get energy.  We have to obviously recharge before tonight.  We've got practice, and we're still obviously focused right now on let's get ready for the season, but this is a nice little breath of fresh air to come out and play and have some fun.
Q. During this part of the season how much do you tend to play?
STEPH CURRY: Probably three or four times a week.  It's been cut a little bit with the couple kids that we have now, which I have no problem putting the sticks away for that, but I try to play -- I mean, I have a very clear-cut golf season myself, from the last game we play, which is hopefully late June, to end of September, so I try and get as much as I can in, maybe take a golf trip or two in the summertime and have fun.
Q. Did you kind of come in with the mindset of wanting to see where your golf game was at, trying to keep up with Justin?
STEPH CURRY: You always like to see what the pros do and what their ball flight is and measure your game to theirs.  I had maybe two drives that may have reached his, but other than that, there was no comparison.  Those guys are unbelievable talent, the way that they can just stay so consistent over the course of an entire year and not have too many missed shots.  Their window of misses is a lot smaller than ours.
Q. Is that the biggest difference?  You're obviously a very good amateur player.
STEPH CURRY: The only real -- the biggest difference, I spray it 40 yards right, 40 yards left when I miss.  Their miss is, oh, I hit the green, but I wasn't inside six feet.  It's all about your expectations.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT