AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2013
Stephen Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Great to have you here, especially after a big year with the Golden State Warriors.   Let's go through your round.   You had about seven or eight points on the front and a big bad nine out of you.  
STEPHEN CURRY:   I missed a lot of putts on the front nine.   This is weird talking golf, by the way.   
I missed a lot of putts on the front nine.   I was hitting it pretty well.   And a few fell on the back nine.   Avoided the double bogey all day.   So that was big.   
   
 Q.   Does your score today give you a little different expectation about what you can do in this tournament, are you a contender now?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   I wouldn't call myself that.   I feel obviously every time I play golf I look back at the shots you left out there.   I think I had like three birdie putts inside of ten feet that I missed.   I feel I could play a little better; but obviously I hit some other great shots, especially on the backside, that allowed me to play a great round today.  
So it's a long event, two more days, hopefully I can back it up.   
   
 Q.   You obviously come from a competitive family, one that's well known in basketball, but who is the best golfer in the family?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   Shoot, my dad is pretty good.   We play even when we go out.   
He's a 5‑4 on the summer series we like to call it.   He's winning right now.  
But if he was here today I definitely would beat him.  
   
 Q.   What have you thought about the moves the Warriors have made this off season, specifically adding Iguodala?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   We kept pace with the whole Western Conference, I think, getting everybody healthy was the first part.  
And then adding Andre, a versatile guy that can play 1 through 4, and give us different looks.   He's a defensive guy that will help us through the course of the season.  
So looking forward to playing with him.   Great guy.   I know him well from the 2010 World Championships, we played together on Team U.S.A. and formed a relationship.  
So looking forward to adding him to the lineup.   Obviously getting Andrew Bogut back healthy for hopefully the full season will make us that much better.  
   
 Q.   You guys made a run at Dwight, too.   How close do you think you were to getting him?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   Who knows, we made a pitch as you should for any free agent like that.   When it came down to it we felt we were in a good position either way with Andrew Bogut being a dominant force like he is when he's healthy, we feel like he can be as good if not better than Dwight.   
So we were in a good spot regardless of what happened with that.   And that move we made with Andre, while all that was going on on the national scene, it was big for our front office.  
   
 Q.   After showing the world what this team was capable of going in this year, going into camp this year, how different is it going to feel?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   Hopefully‑‑ we'll notice a difference I think it will be a lot more attention, a lot more expectation on us.   But I hope that hopefully my leadership and the other captains on the team that we'll try to keep it as normal as possible, like last year we were in the locker room was the only real belief that was had for us.   
Obviously we have the best fans in the NBA, so we have to live up to their expectations, especially after this playoff season.   But we have to do it the same way we approach this season, trying to outwork teams, defensively, and just try to stay as consistent as possible.  
   
 Q.   You're currently tied for fourth with Elway, with‑‑ you're laughing‑‑ you're in the hunt, my man.   You're tied with Roenick and Elway.   Five points back, what do you think your chances are?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   I don't know.   If I could play like I did today, I've done my research on like what the numbers are that the guys that have won.   Last time I was here, I think 2010, I think Billy Joe Tolliver kind of ran away with it with 84, I think.   But kind of that 60, like, hopefully I can find my way in there after two more days.  
   
 Q.   What do you think it was about today?   Do you think it's all that practice that's paid off, or do you think you're just in the zone and kind of not thinking about it?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   Try not to think about it.   I didn't practice much.   I played yesterday and a couple times last week, but I didn't really hammer balls on the range or anything like that.  
Just kind of come out having fun.   I found my tempo today, which was good.   Didn't hit too many bad shots.   So if I can make it the same amount of points I did maybe a few more I should be all right.   But the course is in great shape, if you can find a green, you can try to roll them in.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT