WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 1, 2016
William McGirt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How difficult were the conditions out there, especially kind of coming in on that golf course?
WILLIAM McGIRT: On a scale of 10?  10.  Trying to figure out the wind was impossible.  I thought I hit a perfect tee shot on 16, got it drawing well inside the bunker, and all of a sudden the wind pushes it hard right, and luckily it kicked over the bunker, but the lay-up shot was a cut and it was well right of the bunker, and somehow the wind started pushing it hard left.
The tee shot on 18 I thought we hit perfect, and it just kicked hard left, and proceeded to make a mess of it from there.
Q. Was it crosswinds today?
WILLIAM McGIRT: It was a lot of down off the left with a touch of in off the right.  I mean, who knows.  It was all over the place.  It seemed to be a lot more out of the west, but down, in.  It was hard to figure out.  But even though generally it was out of the west, there was still a lot of east in there at times.
Q. Mentally how do you put an ending to a round like that behind you?
WILLIAM McGIRT: Go home and lay down and take a nap and wake up tomorrow and do it all over again and hope for better conditions.
Q. You're not one to let it fester at all?
WILLIAM McGIRT: Not anymore, no.  Three or four years ago, maybe.  No, I mean, I hit a lot of good shots today that just didn't turn out good.  I hit bad tee shots on 8 and 9, but really it was tough out there.  Like I said, trying to figure out the wind it was borderline impossible.  I looked at Brandon and said it should be in off the left on 18, but who knows where it is, right?  And he said, perfect.  That's the thing, you get out here, and especially with tall trees like this, it just kind of funnels its way and you have no idea.  Just because the trees and the flag are going one way it could be doing something totally different up above them.  We saw that all day.
Q. Are you looking forward to the British?
WILLIAM McGIRT: Very much so.  I've never played links golf before, so I'm looking forward to it.  It'll be a new challenge.  We really don't have any of that golf over here.  I guess Pinehurst No. 2 is about as close as you can get, but it's still not true links golf.
Q. What's your plan schedule-wise?
WILLIAM McGIRT: We're going to take the charter over Sunday, next Sunday.
Q. What charter is that?
WILLIAM McGIRT: The one that was supposed to be from Greenbrier.
Q. It's still leaving?
WILLIAM McGIRT: Yeah, it's going out of Philly now.
Q. What happened three or four years ago that now you're able to get over it?
WILLIAM McGIRT: Grew up a little bit, had two kids, realized that golf isn't everything.  I mean, that's the biggest thing.  It doesn't matter if I shoot 64 or 74.  When I walk in the house they're going to be happy to see me no matter what.  You just kind of take it with a grain of salt and whatever happens happens.  You give it everything you have, and some days it works out and some days it doesn't.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT