SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 7, 2014
William McGirt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This getting up early in this week this working in your favor.   
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Yeah, I'll take the first tee time every day.   I mean, it's a little early, 6:25 Wednesday morning was a bit early, but it was a lot brighter at 6:30 today than it was on Wednesday.   It was a little chilly this morning.   The ball was going nowhere.   But all in all, a pretty solid day.  
   
 Q.   When did you ditch the sweater because I'm impressed you were in short sleeves at the end of the round.   
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Well, I had the sweater on for about 12 or 13 holes, then I switched to the vest, and I took that off on 16 fairway.   Yeah, it was a little chilly, but I was just getting tired of feeling restricted.   I hate sleeves.   I hate playing in any kind of jacket or anything.   That's why a lot of times if it's raining I'll just play and get wet.  
   
 Q.   It felt like the wind was starting to shift.   It's been kind of tricky to manage around here with the breezes.   
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Yeah, the back nine it was kind of all over the place.   I felt like we played 12 straight down and then we turned around and played 13 straight in almost off the left, which would have been pretty much almost a 90‑degree wind change.   Yeah, the whole back nine it was kind of all over the place.   I knew when I pulled in this morning at quarter to 5:00 and the flag was standing straight out, this is not a good sign.   
Golf course is holding up well.   Greens are perfect.   It would be nice if the fairways were a little bit drier, get a little bit more run, but like I said, the golf course is absolutely perfect.  
   
 Q.   Learning about it a little bit, what do you think about 6‑under 36 holes in?  
WILLIAM McGIRT:   I would have to think it would probably be three or four back at the end of the day.   You know, trying to compare this place to Annandale, I think it may be a shot a day tougher simply because you don't have the reachable par‑5s and the par‑3s seem to be a little bit tougher out here.   Seems like you have a few more long, tough par‑4s out here, but Annandale had a great mix of holes.   They're both fun golf courses to play, and they're both always in great shape.   
   
 Q.   Par‑70 here, how pleased are you on a very cold Friday morning?  
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Yeah, it was a little chilly.   The ball seemed to go in where, especially the first 10 or 12 holes.   Yeah, I'm fairly pleased with it.   I missed a six‑footer on 1 for birdie starting out.   I've played okay.   I feel like I've left five or six shots out there.   But all in all a pretty solid start, and I'll take two more solid days like this and maybe try and sneak in a few more putts and be happy.  
   
 Q.   What's the biggest challenge, a new golf course, very cold condition, when you try to just find your way and your tempo in a place you're not familiar with, and again, very cold conditions?  
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Well, I think the hardest thing is keeping your tempo when you get cold.   You tend to want to speed up and get shorter with everything, so you have to kind of consciously slow down and try to make a full shoulder turn.   Muscles aren't quite as loose.   But that's why stretching before the round is important and trying to stay warm.  
   
 Q.   You've been in this spot it seems more and more often through one, two, three rounds.   What have you learned from those opportunities that maybe you might do something a little bit differently on the weekend to get to that winner's circle?  
WILLIAM McGIRT:   I think the big thing is keep the pedal down.   A couple times I've gotten in a situation where I've kind of tried to guide it around.   I think you've just got to let it go and let the chips fall where they may.   It's tough to win out here, but when you're kind of fighting yourself, it's even tougher.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT