JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2014
William McGirt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Seems like the course out there this afternoon playing much tighter than it was this morning.   How does it build the confidence knowing you're only a stroke off?   
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Well, it was a solid round of golf.   The wind was kind of bouncing all over the place there for a little while.   It wasn't a bunch of wind, but it was enough to make you think about it.   It was just a solid round.   I hit it pretty good and made a few putts, so that was nice.   Looking forward to getting some fresh greens in the morning.  
   
 Q.   The putt you had on 15, it seemed that you were baffled that didn't fall?   
WILLIAM McGIRT:   I had no idea how it missed.   I thought if it was going to miss, it was going to miss right.   It hit something and kicked it a little bit left and just caught the edge.   I didn't know what to say.   It never looked like it was going to miss.  
   
 Q.   Your low first round of the year.   How do you feel that Opens you up for the rest of the tournament?   
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Well, it would be nice tomorrow not to be playing from behind.   It seems for the last month and a half or two or even three months I've struggled getting off to a decent start the first day.   Seems like I'm having to battle to make the cut.   Hopefully I won't go out there too relaxed tomorrow, but just keep the hammer down and keep going.  
   
 Q.   Take advantage of the morning tomorrow and the fresh greens building up to tonight, how do you take advantage of those fresh greens?   
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Well, they'll be a little smoother and probably a little faster.   We all got fooled on some putts there especially late in the day with some speed.   But you've got to hit good iron shots and make some putts.   I mean, that's the name of the game out here.  
   
 Q.   William McGirt, 7‑under 64 in the first round, only one shot off the lead.   Pretty nice day?  
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Yeah, I was very pleased with it.   I hit it pretty solid today and made a few putts, so a recipe for a good number.  
   
 Q.   You made quite a few putts.   Only 24 putts, that's a pretty good day.   
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Yeah, especially for the first round for me.   It seems the last couple months I've struggled to get off to a good start, and it's nice to play pretty good the first round and not be playing from behind the 8‑ball starting the second day.  
   
 Q.   Lot of people were talking about the rough today or before the tournament started as far as how difficult it might be.   Were you in it?   If you were, did you have any problems with it?   
WILLIAM McGIRT:   I'm trying to think how many fairways I missed.   I think I missed two in the first cut.   Only one I missed in the deep stuff was in the real deep stuff on two.   You can get some good lies, you can get some bad lies, I mean, it is what it is.   It's not like a place like Congressional where everything's just completely penalized, and it's not a place like Harbour Town where everything's very playable.   I mean, it's kind of hard to predict, and you just hope for the best when you walk up there.  
   
 Q.   You were cruising along pretty good when you got to 18, and you had a sprinkler head near the green.   It was a pretty simple procedure.   You made your drop and everything, but does that psychologically do anything to you especially toward the end of the round?   
WILLIAM McGIRT:   No, not really.   I was standing on an irrigation control box, but where my nearest point of relief would be would be right behind the sprinkler head.   I was asking if I'm taking relief from one or both, how exactly I was supposed to do it.   You get out there, and I know what the rule is, but when you're out there, you're not thinking too clearly about stuff like that.   That's why those guys are here.   You always double check.  
   
 Q.   You don't want to take the chance?   
WILLIAM McGIRT:   No.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT