RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2012
William McGirt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   We welcome William McGirt into the interview room.   He got a 4‑under 66 today.   You're right in the mix.   Tell us your thoughts going into Sunday and the final round. 
WILLIAM McGIRT:   I'm just looking forward to another good day.   Have fun playing well Robert tomorrow.   Love playing golf about with him.   He's one of the most laid‑back guys out here, which helps me a lot because I can get a little bit too into the round.   We were laughing and joking all day and having fun out there.   Looking forward to it.
DOUG MILNE:   We'll take questions. 

Q.   William, you talked earlier in the week about not really being familiar with this position before.   I'm not going to ask you about how you'll think you'll handle tomorrow, but how do you feel you handled today?
WILLIAM McGIRT:   I think I handled it pretty well.   It did help playing with Robert and Scott.   We got out there and just had fun.   We were laughing and joking all day.   Hopefully ‑‑ I know Robert will be laid back tomorrow and we'll probably make fun of Brent, his caddie, all day tomorrow so it gives me something to do.

Q.   So it's going to be a lot easier, do you think, the fact that you'll be paired with him?
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Yeah.   Much easier.   He kind of knows what to say at the right time to me.   He just walked by today, I was a little miffed at not driving it in the fairway.   He walks by and said something funny and I just busted out laughing, kind of takes your mind off of it.

Q.   What would that be?
WILLIAM McGIRT:   What would what be? 

Q.   What did he say?
WILLIAM McGIRT:   I don't even remember.   I just busted out laughing.   I mean Robert being Robert.   So it was fun.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Well, I mean the first one on 4 was a great birdie because I hit a good tee shot and with the wind in our face today I can't get it up top.   It was probably three or four yards short of getting up to the flat just in the first cut.   It was a decent enough lie.   We only had like 245 front, right around 260 hole.   And normally walking up to a lie like that I block it every time, so I was playing for the block and double crossed it, hit a tree and it actually ended up perfect. 
Was in the rough, but I had kind of a good angle to pitch the ball.   Just landed it just short of the green, let it trickle up there and hit a good putt and made it.   And the drivable par‑4 I hit it in the grass bunker left of the green, had the entire green to work with, hit a great pitch in there about six or eight feet.   Kind of misread it.   We thought it was turning left and it was pretty much dead straight, still snuck in the right side.
Then hit a great 4‑iron into 6 and snuck about a 20‑footer in there. 

Q.   (Inaudible).   On 17 the first chip you had right of the green?
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Yeah.

Q.   What was that?
WILLIAM McGIRT:   It was a terrible lie, and we completely misjudged the lie.   We thought I could get more club on it, and I was trying to hit a low, kind of scooting shot and just run it back there.   And the clump right behind the ball was a lot spongier, and it was much softer than we thought. 
All the practice swings I took it was pretty firm.   I wish I'd have had the lie for the first shot that I had on the second shot because you could just go ahead and hit it.   And that was actually one of the best up‑and‑downs I've had all week, because it was a really thick lie, and to have that much green and to hit it to three feet was pretty darn good.

Q.   William, are you sensing you're going to see the best of this golf course tomorrow?   Is it going to get a little bit firmer do you figure, especially the greens?
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Well, the greens definitely firmed up today.   You didn't really see anybody ripping wedges back off greens today.   So you're starting to get a decent first bounce on some holes. 
There were a couple of times where we were playing for a softer bounce, kind of flying it to the number.   And watched it release.   My 4‑iron on 6 released probably 20 or 25 feet.   It hit just short of hole high and almost released through.   So yesterday that ball would have probably released maybe five, six feet.

Q.   Visually you like what you're looking at out there?
WILLIAM McGIRT:   I do.   I love old traditional style golf courses, and this is definitely old.   Donald Ross is my favorite architect, and this has a lot of Ross characteristics to it. 

Q.   With what you've done this week and last week, probably a silly question, but do you ever wonder where that switch was back in February of 2008 or whatever, why now?
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Yeah, and the funny thing is, it's not like I'm playing a whole lot better than I did the previous five weeks, or four weeks, however many ‑‑ going back to Hartford.   I played well at Hartford.   I just didn't make any putts.   I played well at congressional.   I couldn't get it close to the hole and I was playing defense all week. 
I played pretty well at Greenbrier and everything burned the edge.   Same thing at John Deere.   So it's not like I played that much better the last two weeks than I have the last five or six.   It's just that putts are kind of going in now instead of burning edges.
I'm hitting a few shots around close now, but the main thing is, knock on wood, the putter has decided to show up.
But to answer the other question, yeah, I wish I'd have found that switch back about six or eight years ago.
DOUG MILNE:   Anything else?   William, we appreciate your time.   Thanks for coming in.
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Thanks to everybody for coming. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT