RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2012
William McGirt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about that round? 
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Well, compared to yesterday, everything seems like a million.   But it was a pretty solid round.   Only bogey I made was probably the best swing I've made all week.   Little cut 7‑iron right over the top of the pin, took a huge hop, and ended up in a terrible lie back there.   But I hit the shot exactly like I wanted to. 
Yesterday it seemed like I hit a lot of really good iron shots.   I did hit a couple close today, but I wasn't quite as close yesterday, so it was a little tougher to make putts.   But I did sneak it by them on 8 in the front of the green, so it was a bonus.   All in all it was pretty solid.   Hit a lot of fairways and greens, and fortunately I made some putts.

Q.   Seems like fairways and greens are the key around here?
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Yeah, this rough has really popped with the moisture.   You can get some spurly lies in there.   I hit it just over the bunker on 17, and it was all I could do to hit 8‑iron about 140 yards.   It was a terrible lie. 
But the key out here is to drive it in play, and if you're not comfortable with driver, dial it back to a 3‑wood, or hit a 5‑wood just to get it in play.   Because really and truly, what is difference between hitting 8‑iron or 7‑iron?   It's not a whole lot‑‑
Q.As a potential 36‑hole leader, what is your approach tomorrow or the weekend? 
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Yeah, I still play the same game.   Fairways and greens, and take advantage of the opportunities when you get them.   I'm not going to sit there and try to change what I'm doing.

Q.   Do you anticipate this course getting tougher on the weekend if the sunshine comes in and dries it up a little bit? 
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Absolutely.   The greens were pretty soft on Monday.   Tuesday they burned up a little bit and we got a little bit of rain.   So I think if the sun stays out and the wind kicks up, I think it will dry out and be pretty good.

Q.   Does that change your game plan there? 
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Not really.   I'd like to see them firm up because I've spun a couple of wedges off the green.   But I don't think it changes the game plan at all.   There could be a couple of corner pins you can't really get at, but it's not that big a deal.

Q.   Are you excited about the opportunity that presents itself here now? 
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Absolutely, absolutely.   I've never been in this position out here.   I was in the next to last group at Tampa this year.   It was a lot of fun.   I'm looking forward to it.

Q.   Do you think it's one of those things where you do it more often, you become more comfortable with it? 
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Absolutely.   It took me a while just to make my first cut out here.   I played two events before I got my card.   Missed the cut both times.   Missed the first three cuts last year.   Once you kind of get over that hump, it's a lot easier to know what to expect and how your body's going to react.   I haven't been in this position before, but I've been in a similar situation early this year. 
All the years on the Mini Tours, just kind of try to remember what you did back then, and most importantly, stick with the game plan.

Q.   All those years on the Mini Tours, do you have a bigger sense of appreciation of what's going on out here now? 
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Absolutely.   All those years where you're playing for basically less than your full entry fee, yeah, you kind of learn to appreciation everything that comes with being on the PGA TOUR.   You have so many people that volunteer to help us for a week.   Whereas you show up for a Mini Tour event, and it's like you're an intruder.   People don't want you there. 
So, yeah, I understand what we have out here, and trust me, I don't want to go anywhere else.

Q.   If you won this tournament, the check you'd get, would that be bigger than your career, money? 
WILLIAM McGIRT:   Just slightly, just slightly.   I mean, considering I made my largest check last week ever, yeah.   It would be a little bit bigger.

Q.   Will this be the longest 24 hours you've spent waiting for a golf round? 
WILLIAM McGIRT:   I don't think so.   I mean, my problem is I tend to wake up between 5:30 and 6:00 every morning, so it's kind of hard for me when I get those 2:00 tee times on Thursday and Friday.   But I kind of know what's going on.   I'll try to sleep in a little bit more, stay up a little later, so hopefully I can sleep in. 
Like I said, there are still 36 holes left, and there is a lot of golf left. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT