NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HURRICANES v PENGUINS
May 25, 2009
Tim Gleason
Chad LaRose
Cam Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TIM GLEASON: Who are they? Everybody knows who they are. And they're obviously doing a heck of a job over there. We've got to figure them out. We've just got to beat them tonight obviously. Do our best to shut those guys down, and it's going to take a full team effort.  
  
  Q. How do you go from saying yeah, we believe we can win to knowing this can happen?   
 TIM GLEASON: I think it's just we have so much character in here. There's so many we have unhidden talent. It's a talent play, maybe you didn't notice. But we have guys that can compete. They can't compete anymore.   
 Going into a battle like tomorrow night is a positive feeling. We have to stay positive. We're even willing to shave these beards off. We'll see what happens. I don't know.   
  
  Q. With Cam Ward in the last couple of games he's taken quite a beating. Have you talked to him about what he can do to help clean up some of the stuff?   
 TIM GLEASON: I don't think it's his fault at all. There are six of us in front of him we have to play better hockey in our own zone. He's played well all year. There shouldn't be added pressure on him at all. He's competed all year long, and the pressure should be on all six of us back there shutting them guys down and doing our job.   
  
  Q. Talk about when you're out there facing it, are they faster than average teams? When Malkin and Crosby get that going?   
 CHAD LaROSE: No, not necessarily. It's more about us, you know. It's where our speed is, and the back pressure, and taking away the middle of the ice and stuff like that. Can't be mesmerized by the number on the back of the jersey no matter who it is.   
 They're obviously great players. But the speed, they do a lot of east and west, so it's not as much faster than any other team we've seen.  
  
  Q. You're doing a great job of scoring. But is there anything you can do, do you think, to get under Malkin's skin?   
 CHAD LaROSE: Yeah, you've just got to finish him every chance you get. I mean, I don't think players like that, I mean, they tend to be pretty focused anyway. But we've just got to make sure we're quick to pucks, and quick on to him when he gets the puck.  
  
  Q. It do you feel like you guys are being counted out of the series?   
 CHAD LaROSE: I hope so. I hope they're counting us out. But you know, it's not over. So we're excited about tomorrow night's game. You know, we'll just take it one game at a time.  
  
  Q. Do you guys use that as personal motivation here in the room? Any discussion about that? Surprising people?   
 CHAD LaROSE: I think just getting to the Stanley Cup finals is enough motivation in this room for us.   
 But you know, we've got to take it one game at a time, and just worry about tomorrow night and worry about ourselves.  
  
  Q. A lot of people say you might be a little tired and the team, anything to that?   
 CHAD LaROSE: We've got no excuses in here. They've played a seven-game series as well. So no excuses at this end. We've just got to be better.   
  
  Q. More than a week ago you guys were on that high having beaten Boston. And almost in a blink of the eye you're down 3-0 facing the rim nation. Are you surprised to be in this situation?   
 CHAD LaROSE: I mean surprised? We put ourselves here, you know. So we've just got to -- we know what we've got to do. We've got to dig ourselves out, take it one game at a time. Just be excited to play. Know what's at stake, and the opportunity we have in front of us.  
  
  Q. The biggest challenge is to make sure that his players are going to believe that it's possible?   
 CAM WARD: Yeah, well we're only done if we think we're done. We've got to believe, like Mo said. If I had to pick a team to come back from a 3-0 deficit in the third round of the playoffs, this would be the team to do it. We were confident that we're able to get up there. Our only focus is on Game 4 and what we need to do there.   
 Our backs are against the call. We've got to face elimination now and just bring it out to the rink and lay it all out there.   
  
  Q. Why your team and not the others?   
 CAM WARD: I think over time we've shown that we can find a way to win. When people count us out, we've been able to rise to the occasion. I believe that we can do that again. We've got a great character team in here with a lot of skill. We've shown that we've been able to rise up when things don't work our way. And that all begins tomorrow night.   
  
  Q. Your Coach said yesterday this is a different offensive machine. So obviously it's an adjustment. How much do you think that situation plays?   
 CAM WARD: Well, everybody can play better. We've got one tough challenge against the Penguins. They've got such an offensive punch that it's very tough to keep the chances down. We know that they're going to be getting opportunities. You can say all you want, and they're looking to get chances just because they're that good.   
 As a team, you just want those quality chances. The on-line rushes, the breakaways. You just playing simpler is almost better. It's almost like we're trying too much. It's almost like do less. Just keep it more simple and get it over in the zone and get it in.   
  
  Q. What is the peace of mind for you personally?   
 CAM WARD: I mean, I feel like I've made some saves. But at the same time it's not about the saves you make, it's about the goals you let in.   
 I think just like everybody else in here will tell you, I can play better. We all can play better as a team. But what's happened in the first three games is very over and done with. I'd like to change it, everybody would like to change it. But at the end of the day, we can't. We just have to move on and take care of business tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Have you ever seen two elite players playing at the level that Crosby and Malkin are playing?   
 CAM WARD: You can see clearly they've taken their game to another level. And that's what the playoffs is all about. Taking their game to that next level, and continuing to get better and better each round. They've put up a very tough challenge for our team.   
 But, you know we've played against guys like that. We had Friesen in the first round, Savard in the second round. You've just got to make life difficult for them. Whether that's taking away time and space and creativity. Because if you give them space, they're going to do some damage.   
 You know, it's tough. But we've got the guys in defense to do it. We can do the job.  
  
  Q. It's unfair to put the pressure on you to say you have to be perfect in Game 4?  
 CAM WARD: I'm the goaltender. That's why I signed up for the position I did. I want to be that guy to come up and perform at a hard level. And show the team if we do make mistakes I'm going to be there to bail us out. I like to do that.  
  
  Q. Some people wonder if it creates a little fire in your belly. Are you that type of guy?   
 CAM WARD: Yeah, I mean, a lot of people are counting us out of the series right now. I think it just opens a door for an opportunity to show people what we really can do. Like I said, this is just another opportunity for this team to show that we can get through this. I believe in the tame. And I'm sure that everybody in here believes that we can do it. But you've got to continue to take it one game at a time, and throw it all out there tomorrow night.  
  
  Q. Have you been unfairly criticized in this series?   
 CAM WARD: I don't know. What have you been saying about me (laughing)? Who has been talking the trash?   
  
  Q. Is it fair to put that at your feet?   
 CAM WARD: I'll take it. I mean, I can hold myself just like everybody else here. I know that I can perform better in this series. I mean, they've got a lot of skill. They've got two possible MVPs in the league on their team. You know, they can make you pay. But, I'd like to think that I'm one of the leaders on this team, and I can lead by example, and if people want to put the heat on me, put the heat on me. I'll take it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT