ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2014
Ryan Deitrich
Chris Pollard
Drew Van Orden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Duke: 6
  Georgia Tech: 0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Joining me on the dais are Head Coach, Chris Pollard, Ryan Deitrich and Drew Van Orden.   Coach?   
COACH POLLARD:   Told the kids after the ballgame I thought they picked a great time to play the most complete ballgame of the year we got an unbelievable start from Drew Van Orden.   And we got very timely hitting, we were very good with our situational hitting.   I thought our approach was very good.   Especially a day after I didn't think our approach was very good.   I thought our guys really responded.   We had one of the most dialed in rounds of BP today I can remember us having, and guys worked hard to make adjustments.   I think it carried over on the field with 14 hits.   We did a great job with our situational hitting but really the story is the job by Van Orden.   He pitched an incredible ballgame.   
   
 Q.   Drew, what was going for you today?   
DREW VAN ORDEN:   Just everything.   We had a really good plan having seen them earlier in the year.   Coach See put together really good pitches, and we were able to get ahead with the fastball and slider and just work from there.   
   
 Q.   The Georgia Tech coach mentioned a lot of what you were doing is getting outs on breaking pitches, not on the fastball.   
DREW VAN ORDEN:   Yeah, I had better command of that than the fastball today so I was able to go to that with runners in scoring position and runners on base, I was able to use it.   
   
 Q.   The last couple of innings they got guys on base there, and what were your thoughts about finishing it off and how important was that for you?   
DREW VAN ORDEN:   It was really important.   Being a senior and being here for the first time and I was just trying to get the ball over the plate, keep throwing my pitches, keep doing what I've been doing.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
DREW VAN ORDEN:   Coach See came out and said don't give in here, try to get back in the count.   Both times he came out I was struggling with command a little bit and he was able to settle me down and give me a little break out there on the mound.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
RYAN DEITRICH:   Like Coach said, working on our approach during batting practice, and a couple of weeks ago made adjustments to the swing, shortened my stride and getting the bat up, really helped.   
   
 Q.   Drew, were you aware of the wind situation?   
DREW VAN ORDEN:   Not really, I think just try to do the same thing.   
   
 Q.   Is this your first career shut out?   Good time to have it, saving the best for last, since you are a senior?   
DREW VAN ORDEN:   Couldn't have come at a better time.   I struggled the last two weeks a little bit so it was good to try and come back and give the team everything I had and give 'em a chance to win.   It was great out there, the defense played great behind me and the Coach called great pitches so everything was working.   
   
 Q.   Coach, in trying to encapsulate building a program, talk about the game on Saturday against Miami.   
COACH POLLARD:   I think it's big for a lot of reasons.   As I told folks, we'll look back on the historical perspective of it and the season in general after the year is over with, but we'll spend the next 48 hours trying to put together a good plan, forty hours, trying to put together a good plan for Miami.   
I thought we played 'em tough, I thought Trent Swart pitched well against them.   I think it's a good match‑up.   He comes back fully rested and we will get an opportunity to watch them here tonight and use that tomorrow.   We will practice, we will get in a workout in the weight room and use that tomorrow to try to carry forward into Saturday, and go out there and compete one pitch at a time.   
   
 Q.   Ryan, is there anything you remember about the series down at Miami that you might want to look at heading into this game on Saturday?   
RYAN DEITRICH:   Yeah, they have a lot of good left‑handed pitchers.   We've seen a couple of good lefties already this week, and we need to do a good job of keeping our approach, try to hit the ball to right field, and they're going to stay away from us and they're going to have a good plan to pitch us and we need to just get lost in the process as Coach likes to say a lot.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, guys.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT