ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2018
Chris Pollard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS POLLARD: Well, I'll first start by saying I'm proud of our club.  We've had what is in a lot of ways an historic season.  I think we've played some of our best baseball down the stretch, and excited to be a part of this great tournament and also very excited that it's back here in Durham.
Q. I wanted to ask you about your pitching plans, who you think you're going to start Thursday and Friday and then going into the weekend?
CHRIS POLLARD: Sure.  Well, not to be coy, but we're actually going to wait and make a final decision about who throws which day after we watch and study the game between Louisville and Wake on Wednesday.  So we'll have both Mitch Stallings and Ryan Day prepared to go Thursday and Friday, and we'll make a decision as to which guy which day after we get a chance to watch those two teams play on Wednesday.
Q. Both those guys didn't pitch as well last week as they did previously this season at Georgia Tech.  What did you take from their work down there, and are they healthy?  Is there anything you saw in that way?
CHRIS POLLARD: No, they both feel good.  They're both healthy.  You know, honestly, I give a lot of credit to Georgia Tech.  They swung the bats really well, particularly on Saturday.  I thought -- and I told Coach Hall this, and he'll be on the line here shortly, I thought that was the best offensive team that we had played all year.  They played very inspired baseball, and just did a good job of extending at-bats.  They had a lot of two-strike hits, and they did a good job of extending innings.  A lot of it came with two outs when we were a pitch away from getting off the field.  So they deserve a lot of credit for what happened down there this weekend, but I've got a lot of confidence in both of those guys moving forward.
Q. Facing Wake Forest this weekend, what in particular do they do that gives you some concerns for your game?
CHRIS POLLARD: Sure.  Well, Wake Forest has got three really good power arms, and obviously a guy that's going to be one of the top draft picks in this year's upcoming MLB amateur draft this June in Griffin Roberts.  Produces a ton of swings and misses.  He's a first-rounder.
And then Colin Peluse, who's an underclassman, is another future potential first-rounder.  He's a guy that's going to be drafted really high.  They're both guys that feature low to mid 90s fastballs and really good secondary stuff.
And then they've got some guys at the back end of that bullpen in Rayne Supple and now with Chris Farish back that they can make the game really short.  They've got a lot of power arms, and you've got to be ready to hit velocity, and you've got to be ready to hit right-handed slider.
And then obviously offensively, they've got some guys with some thump.  They've got some young guys with a lot of power, and Johnny Aiello is one of the premier players in this league.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT