ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2021
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Here with Ariya Jutanugarn.  You know, so close there on 18, but almost holing out as well.  Take us through the shots on 18.
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Well, I have like 189 to the pin, and to me, like I'm thinking about like hit hard with 6, but it's better to hit like normal 5.  So actually I don't really have -- I'm not really have good commitment so I missed the shot.
 I thought it's going in the water for sure.  Pretty lucky that shot pretty close.
 Q. And despite a little bit of that miss, four-footer on 18, you still had a spectacular round being able to go bogey-free and keep yourself in contention.  What's it been like preparing for this major this week, the first major of the season?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   For me it's pretty tough because like I just start my first tournament last week and I feel like everything is kind of like new because I haven't play for so long.  So I just feel like I just want to get better and better, improve, improve my game.
 Last week I know I did not have that good commitment, so I want to work on that.  So this week getting better.
 Q. I was going to say, what have you been working on specifically as we get ready for an onslaught of events coming up?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I will say mostly on my commitment.  When I stop for too long I kind of not have really good commitment, and I didn't play golf that much in the off-season.
 Q. Really?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Yeah.
 Q. What did you do in the off-season?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Eat.  Yeah.  Yes, that.
 Q. Were you back in Thailand?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Yeah.
 Q. When did you come back over to the U.S.?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   In Thailand almost like whole off-season.  I just got back maybe two weeks ago.
 Q. What does that do for your confidence, being able to put the clubs down and get back into the competitive zone in your own time?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I would say I don't have confidence at all last week because so tough, but I'm pretty chilling because I know it's just first week and this only second week, so I give like time to myself.
 Q. And your sister is also doing well today.  You're both wearing orange shirts.  Did you plan this?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   We did not plan for it, but like she always prepares her shirt like the night before so she said she picked orange before me.  But I thought I pick before her, so...
 Q. What is there to work on?  What will you be thinking as we get ready for the second round tomorrow?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I still have so much thing to work on.  I still felt like I can improve so much.  Not about the score, but about my commitment.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT