CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 2017
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: The big smile on your face there says it all.  We're here with two-time this year LPGA winner Ariya Jutanugarn.  Birdied, as she just proudly reminded me, 17 and 18 to win the 2017 CME Group Tour Championship.   
Ariya, I was silting in here watching that putt on 18 holding my breath for you.  What were you thinking standing over that putt?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually, I didn't know like the leader is 14-under until I got on the green.  Actually my caddie tried to tell me, Okay, don't look at the leaderboard.  Just make some putts and be done.   
As soon as he say that I turn around and look at the leaderboard.  I'm like, Wow, I better make this one.   
And I walk to the green, and to be honest, I want to make it, but I'm not really expect that much.  I mean, like I just really want to have a great memory before the off-season and I want to have a good putt.   
No matter I'm going to make it, I'm really proud of myself this week and this year.   
THE MODERATOR: This has been a wonderful year for you with your win at ManuLife and reaching world No. 1; some struggles after that and your shoulder and everything.   
How proud of yourself do you feel for the way you've been able to come back from the mid-season slump?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to say I'm really, really proud of myself, not because I win the tournament, but I have more confident after this week.  I'm really, really happy on what going on this year.   
Even I play so bad last few month, but I learn a lot and I'm growing up a lot and I'm really ready to have fun next year.   
THE MODERATOR: You always have fun.   
Open it up for questions.   
 Q.  I that a putt that you would've made two years ago, the putt on 18?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Two year ago?   
THE MODERATOR: If you think back to two years ago, would you have made that putt?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I might make second putt, but I'm not going to make the first putt.  I'm pretty sure sooner or later I'm going to make it.   
 Q.  I guess you said you were obviously concentrating on your own game.  Did you hear what happened to Lexi on 18?  If so, can you relate to that type of disappointment?  It was a tough thing to miss that short putt.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: To be honest, I didn't know anything.  I really just see the scoreboard.  I know all the player can have like some mistake or maybe some time they have really upset about something.   
But I'm really, really happy and proud of her on this year, what she been doing, especially last tournament of the year.  She have like amazing every tournament and she's great.   
 Q.  How does this change your outlook going into next season?  I mean, obviously you're going to have a strong week regardless.  But actually winning for a second time, how does that change how you view 2018?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: My next year goal is not change.  Same last few month, so I know what I been working on.   
Honestly, I don't have any outcome at all, like expectation about the outcome, like what I want to be.  Like no.   
I know and I learn that last few month it's not help me to be a better golfer.  Right now I know what I have to do to be a better golfer.   
I better focus on the thing I have in control and don't think about the outcome.   
 Q.  Can you go through the emotions that you were feeling on 18 when you saw the putt fall.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Wow.  I was cry, because I think I can't make that one because I'm so nervous and my hand was shaking.  I feel like, just putt and make sure I go out of here.   
I really happy about that, not because I make the putt, but I know I hit a good putt.   
THE MODERATOR: Anything further for our champion?   
 Q.  Your tee ball on the 1st hole today.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I almost missed the ball.  I hit like this far behind and this deep.   
 Q.  I'm just wondering if you could walk us through the mental recovery of that.  That was very impressive.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm pretty lucky.  My I caddie was help me a lot.  After that shot he's like, Come on.  It's okay.  We just going to go out, have fun, and do every shot like the best you can do.  That was help me a lot.   
Honestly, I forgot already until you say that.  Oh, I did it today.  I hit maybe 150 yard off the tee with my 2-iron, yeah.   
 Q.  You may struggle, you may go through these periods where you get down, but you bounce back so ferociously.  What is it about you that enables you to do that?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I just set my new goal last few month after I start to play really bad.  I just told my caddie, You know what?  I think like think about the like ranking, No. 1 is not going to help me at all.  It's not going to help me to be a better golfer.   
Right now -- so I talk to him.  Okay, so what I want to be?  I want everybody to see me and see, Oh, this girl, she really feeling on the course.  She can be really happy on the course and she can do anything she want to do.   
That my new goal.  I'm like, okay I'm just going to go out and have fun and stay with myself and enjoy myself.   
Just whatever I can do, I'm just going to accept it and just go have fun.   
 Q.  Real quickly, that was a 2-iron of the first tee?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yes.   
 Q.  To follow up on your answer, it sounds like in a way that's getting you back to where you were two years ago after first talking with Pia and Lynn about having fun and smiling before shots.  Is it a sort of the recommitment to that attitude?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I feel that way, too.  When I look back, I'm like, Okay, so why I keep changing?  So I just like keep the same like my goal and my attitude.  That help me to have fun and be able to have a good golf.   
THE MODERATOR: Anything else?  How do you plan to spend your off-season?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I plan to do nothing, so I'm going to go back to Thailand on Tuesday.  I'm pretty happy this year because I'm going to spend my birthday in Thailand with my family because they're going to go back with me.  Yep.   
THE MODERATOR: Well we look forward to seeing you next year.  Enjoy your trophy.  Have a happy Thanksgiving.   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Thank you.  You too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT