RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2017
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN CALLANDER: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.  We have the defending champion, Ariya Jutanugarn, this afternoon.  Welcome.
Being back here in the U.K. must bring back lots of very good memories?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I have great memory of last year.  But I mean, this week, going to be like totally different than last year, different course, and you know, the weather we can get.
COLIN CALLANDER: You've obviously had a chance to see the course in very bad conditions.  What's your first thoughts about the golf course?  Do you like it?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I really like the course.  Really challenge, and I think it's going to be really tough one and depending on like how the wind also, if the wind picks up, I think it's going to be very hard.
Q. Have you thought about how many drivers you're going to use this weekend at all?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: No, I didn't use that last year and not this week.
Q. Not even in the bag?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: No.  In my locker.
Q. How is your health?  First of all, how's your shoulder, and are you sick on top of that?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I'm sick.  My shoulder getting better but last week I start to hurt a little bit.  I hit a few bad shots, lots of bad shots.  So my shoulder start to hurt but it's getting better.
Q. How are you treating it?  Have you gotten a cortisone shot?  What's your treatment for your shoulder?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It's been the same thing.  I have like surgery before, so when I sometimes hit bad shots, I hurt my shoulder and I have my personal physio so that he can do the same thing, so we're going with the same stuff.
Q. What part of your game do you think will help you stand out from the rest of the week and ultimately prevail in this tournament and win?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think it's going to be really tough one, especially if it's windy and some greens, we really need to be like aggressive.  Like some holes is pretty hard.
I think if I just make sure to keep the ball in the fairway and hit all the greens and make sure I 2-putt, so it should be good.
Q. I wonder what is your experience of links golf, and how you adjust to it.  Have you played a lot of links golf in the past, and what about the unpredictability of the bounce and the run of the ball and the wind?  Is it an unknown package for you?  Do you find it difficult because you haven't played much?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I haven't made much at all.  I think this one is my third time, and it's really hard for me to totally defend on what I did before.
I have to do a lot of things I never do before, so I have to make sure to keep the ball low and had to aim like 50 yards right or 40 yards left, it's really tough for me.
Q. Did you come here knowing you didn't need to use your driver?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I mean, yes and no.  I think I know I'm not going to use driver, especially when it's windy.  I feel it's pretty hard to control my driver.
Q. Is that 2-iron or 3-iron that you used most?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think this week I'm going to use more 3-wood and 2-iron.
Q. You have a lot going on in the last couple of months, from thinking you're No. 1, finding out you weren't No. 1, to winning to getting to No. 1, to getting hurt a little bit to maybe not being at your best form.  Can you just talk about you're dealing with all of these challenges the last couple months?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I mean, a lot of things happened to me the last few months.  But you know, I think when I won the tournament and become No. 1, I didn't expect that like I'm going to win the tournament and become No. 1.
But after that, I didn't have a good week after that, and I start to hurt a little bit and you know, like we can -- we know we can get sometimes we're not going to have a good week and it's happened to me last month but I just never give up.  Keep working on the same stuff.  I know what I've been working on.
The last few tournaments, I've just not really had a good tournament and I know what I have to work on.  Just keep working and I'm still growing and I'm still learning every day.
Q. Can you tell us why you smile before you hit a shot and sometimes how over a putt you smile, can you talk us through why you do that?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I just really want to stay positive and I just have to say something to myself and make me smile before the shot.  It's pretty tough last week that it's windy, so not much patience.
Q. How big a story was it in Thailand nationally when you won here last year?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It's really big.  They are very happy about that and I'm very proud to represent Thailand and make them proud of me.
Q. You seem a bit sick.  Is it hayfever or what exactly is wrong with you?  It is an allergy or cold?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think it's cold.  It's not allergy.
Q. Has your cold become worse last week?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, it start like Saturday, and Sunday is not very good.
Q. So difficult to smile when you're not --
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I mean, it's difficult to smile because the wind.
Q. For people from Thailand and Korea and some Asian countries where golf is a relatively new phenomena, becoming No. 1 is something that it seems to be you're doing for your whole country; versus in America if an American is No. 1, it seems like all of America is on their back it seems like.  How challenging is that to be No. 1 knowing that your entire country takes special pride in that and is intensity interested in that?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It's very challenge for me.  Like what I did, I just feel like when I play golf, of course I want to have fun.  I want to be happy.  I want to do it for myself.  But besides that, I really want to do it for Thailand.
It's really challenge not to be No. 1, but it's even harder when a lot of people expect me to play good.  It's going to be harder for me to have fun and go enjoy my golf game.  I know all the Thai people are going to give my full support no matter what, even my World Ranking right now is not No. 1 or two or anything, but they still give me full support.  They are not worried about the outcome.  They are worried about like, they want me to be healthy and that is all they ask for.
Q. What is your thought process, what do you think about when you hit a bad shot, especially on a course like this in Scotland?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I really have to let it go, because even when I hit good shots, it might not going to end up in a good place, so I have to let it go and just go hit next shot and do my best.
Q. How did your life change after you won this championship last year?  What impact did it have on your life?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It changed it a lot.  I mean, more people know me and I can inspire some other kids in Thailand, and my life was changed a lot.
Q. Is this your first visit to St. Andrews?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: My first time, yeah.
Q. Have you walked to the Old Course?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, we went on Sunday.  Because the course is close, yeah, so we walk and my sister, she played St. Andrews before, so she bring me around on 17 and 18 and take a picture.
Q. Is it as special a place as you thought it would be?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, it's very special.  It's really cool to be there.  The fairway on 18, a lot of story, a lot of history.
Q. Did you take a picture on the Swilken Bridge?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I did.
Q. Did you receive any special recognition, any special awards in Thailand when you won last year, and secondly, why do Asian women do so well on the world stage when Asian men struggle to make a mark?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think Athlete of the Year or something I received in Thailand.  I'm not quite sure the name in English.
Q. Why do Asian women play better than Asian men?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think they work hard for it and they are strong.  I don't know.  But I think even like Asian, like on the PGA, Europe, we have really good thigh golfer on The European Tour and they are all great.
COLIN CALLANDER: Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT