THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 5, 2017
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome to the media center world No. 2 Ariya Jutanugarn.  How are you this fine day?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm good.   
THE MODERATOR: What are your impressions of the golf course so far?  What do you think about Thornberry Creek.   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: The course is in great shape and it's a very good course, very challenging, and I feel like the first three holes are like different than other holes, and it feels like two courses here, because like some holes have lots of trees and some holes just like no trees.   
THE MODERATOR: Have you played in Wisconsin before, or is this the first time for you?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think it's my first time here.  I'm not sure.   
THE MODERATOR: Obviously you don't want to miss a cut ever, but did that give you some time to work on some stuff, and if so, what did you practice?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I had lots of time last week.  I know I had a bad day on Thursday, but I just like had a really good day on Friday, and I'm really proud of myself to be like trying to do my best and play better golf on Friday and be working on the same things.  Just like last week, I didn't really have good commitment, so this week just work on like trying to have a better commitment.   
THE MODERATOR: You and your sister rank first and second in birdies.  You have one more birdie than her on the whole season.  How cool has it been to see her playing at such a high level and you both playing so well?  How cool is that?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm really, really happy for her because she's a really good player, and she keeps playing so good.  She works so hard, and she deserves to play good.  Maybe she played one more tournament more than me.  I still beat her with birdies, though, so that's a good thing.   
 Q.  Ariya, now that you've seen the course, can you figure out what a winning score might be on this course, or do you have to play it in tournament play to figure that out?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think it depends on the course conditions because I don't know if it's going to rain or not.  But I think the scores are going to be pretty low this week.   
 Q.  What have you been working on in your game recently?  Anything in particular you're focusing on?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Right now I think my game was okay.  It's just about like my commitment, and sometimes I just worry about the outcome too much, so I have to get back and focus on the things that I can control and don't think about the outcome too much and work on my commitment.   
 Q.  Is that something that Pia and Lynne really stress for you?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I've been talking to them late last week, and I told them what's going on in the course last week.   
 Q.  There are a few players making their Tour debut this week.  What advice would you give to those girls for the next four days as far as trying to find any success out here?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I know it's going to be really exciting, but just go out and have fun, enjoy every hole, liken joy with other players you get to play with.   
 Q.  Could you just talk about how competitive the Tour has been this year?  I think this is the 18th event and you've had 16 different winners this season.  It just seems like every week you never know.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think this year is really, really competitive.  Even when I played great golf in a few weeks, I still finish second or third.  But it's fun.  It's more fun because a lot of girls start to play so good and they become amazing golfers.   
 Q.  You're one of those winners, as well; can you take us back to when you won at Manulife and doing it to become the No. 1 player in the world and how great that was?  What was the reception like for you back in Thailand?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I mean, after I won, I didn't expect to win that tournament because I didn't feel like, oh, this one I'm going to play good.  I just was, oh, go out and have fun, and obviously winning the tournament is great for me.  All the Thai people, they gave me great support, even if I play bad or play good, and they're really excited about that.  I'm pretty sure they love to see my World Ranking to be really good, but also if not, I know they're going to give me full support.   
 Q.  Now that you're No. 2, how important is it to get back to No. 1 in the world for you?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: To me it's not that important because of course everybody wants to be world No. 1, but I think the most important right now is just like go out and have fun and be happy on the course and make sure I have a really good commitment.   
 Q.  Does this course require driver for you or no?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Maybe not.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT