ANA INSPIRATION
March 29, 2017
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRISTINA LANCE: We are here in the media center of the ANA Inspiration.  We have with us world No. 2 Ariya Jutanugarn, our reigning Rolex Player of the Year, Race to the CME Globe Champion.  You earned five wins last year, including the RICOH Women's British Open and you're playing in your fifth ANA Inspiration.
You've played in six events so far.  You've made six cuts, four Top-10s, two runners-up.  It seems like you're playing pretty well coming into the tournament.  How do you feel.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I made four cuts, Thailand -- yeah, it's really good, you know, not because I did Top-10 in a few tournaments.  So I work on my commitment in getting (ph) LPGA tournament, so I feel pretty good now.
CHRISTINA LANCE: I know you work a lot with Vision 54 and you started working with them last year.  How has that helped you get your game together?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to say after this tournament last year, I learn a lot from this tournament, like I know how to play under the pressure and really happy, helped me for one year.  They help me a lot.  Sometimes you have that day that still you can have something good that day.
CHRISTINA LANCE: Clearly it's working for you very well.  And you're playing this afternoon, but you were out yesterday.  Tell us your thoughts on the golf course.  How is it looking out there?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: To me this course is always really hard, really challenging.  It's really tight but I love the course.  It's really challenging.
CHRISTINA LANCE: Do you think you play well when it's challenging out there?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I wish I can play well.
CHRISTINA LANCE: Your Vision 54 is helping with you that.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah.
Q. You carry a relic; you are the only player that carries a 2-iron.  I have one collecting dust in my basement.  What is it about the 2-iron that gives you so much confidence, and when did you start playing it, and why?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I start with my 2-iron like two years ago, because like when I have problem -- like I don't really like wood off the tee and I have 3-iron for a long time.  My caddie told me, okay, if you really like to hit the iron, how about we try something that's longer than 3-iron.  So that's why we try find something longer, so we happy with the 2-iron.  I really like it because I feel like I can control that really good.  Like sometime I want to hit in the fairway and I feel really comfortable with my 2-iron.
Q. Is it the fact that you're hitting down on that with that club, does that make a difference; the fact that you hit down on the 2-iron?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I don't know like how I hit down something.  But I just hit like my normal iron.
Q. I have to ask if you're going to hit driver this week?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to not hit driver this week.
Q. I was talking to T.A. yesterday, and he said that he walked the back nine with you yesterday, and kind of got to the closing hole -- about last year, can you tell us about what you learned, what you talked about from last year?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: We talk about the last few hole a lot because sometimes I do have a bad memories of last year.  But to me it's not that hard anymore.  Like let's say on the 18th, like yesterday let me do the shot -- if I'm really nervous or excited, I don't only have one shot to hit to the fairway.  I can hit like fade, draw to the fairway.
Q. So you and Moriya, you're first and second on Tour in rounds in the 60s, and you've travelled together.  How is it on the road to be with your sister?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I feel really lucky to have her because I don't have to (ph) she always give me good advice.  And like my mom and her together make me feel really confident to play because I feel like no matter what can happen, they are going to give me support.
Q. A lot of players struggled like you did last year on Sunday, and they didn't really recover from it for a long period of time.  How did you rebound so quickly, or did you just not worry about it?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I didn't worry about it.  I always feel like I can learn every tournament I play, even if I do really bad.  I think I'm really lucky that last year -- like I'm never going to win my first tournament, I'm never going to win my first major last year and I feel really happy that happened last year.
Q. You won the first tournament and then four in a row.  That has to be an amazing feeling for you?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: After that tournament, I just said, okay, just go have fun.
Q. When you say your back nine for the first time this week, what were your feelings given last year?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I feel like -- because last year, I feel Sunday, I feel like last three holes, not that hard anymore, and I have really good memories after that.
Q. You've said before that this is your favorite major championship.  Is this your favorite major?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: This one is one of my favorites I've played.  I have really good memory here.  My first time playing here -- I love this tournament.  I don't know what's going to happen after next week but I love to come here.
Q. Winning usually takes care of everything, but curious what attention you give to the Rolex No. 1 ranking?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to say, it's not important because when I play, I really want to have fun.  I really want to be happy on the course, and whatever happens, be really happy and have fun, that's my goal.
CHRISTINA LANCE: Playing here as a junior and with your sister on the bag, and we have so many juniors and amateurs here this week, what sort of advice do you have for them as they are out there on the golf course.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I know they are going to be really excited.  I want them to be really enjoy every shot that they have a chance to play in the first major of the year and make sure they learn something.
CHRISTINA LANCE: What do you remember?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to remember with my sister -- I want to do something to have fun.
Q. Since you've been back with Les -- why are you a good fit, the two of you?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Sometimes we fight.  Like most of the time actually.  But I mean, he know my game pretty well and we are good friend.  I can trust him on the course and he can make me happy and have fun on the course.  That is just like the most important for me.
CHRISTINA LANCE: Thank you, Ariya.  Great to have you and we'll see you out there on the golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT