HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 1, 2017
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MATT HAAS: We are happy joined in the media centre at the HSBC Women's Champions by world No. 2 Ariya Jutanugarn.  You are coming off an event in Thailand, your hometown Top-10 finish.  How is your game?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I feel kind of pretty, have more confidence after last week.  Playing in Thailand, all the pressure on, and this week is good, especially this course also.   
MATT HAAS: It's the first time playing on this new course.  What are your thoughts on it?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I like the course a lot.  It's pretty wide open for me tee shot, so I like it.  But the greens are pretty tough.  It's really firm and it's really hard to aim your shot.   
MATT HAAS: I think you know the follow-up:  With it being so wide open, is the driver in the bag this week?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: No (laughs).   
 Q.  How often does your driver get an outing?  Does it come out more times than not?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Last year I used it full-time, but this course, still some courses I use it and I know what I'm looking for.   
 Q.  When you're between the shots you play, are you focused on the next shot, or are you just kind of in your own world?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Oh, after I hit the shot, I focus on the next shot.  I just like do something else, sing a song or something, and until it's really time to hit the next shot, then I think about that.   
 Q.  Do you have one song that sort of goes through your head all the time, or do you have a lot of songs?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I have a lot of songs, but I stick with one song.   
 Q.  Can we know what song it is?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It's just Thai.   
 Q.  Can we ask you to sing it?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Better not (laughter).   
 Q.  Having played the new course, what are your thoughts on the course and how confident are you heading into this championship?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to say I'm really confident in my game.  I'm not going to be confident in what the outcome is going to be.  I'm just going to focus on commitment.  That's the most important thing for me.   
 Q.  Your success last year, how can you follow that this year?  Is there pressure on yourself to follow that success?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: To me it's no pressure because I'm not going to compare myself this year and last year.  So I have my goal that I'm going to work on my commitment and I want to have fun and be happy on the course.   
 Q.  World No. 1, is that something that you have in your-sight?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think when I play golf, I don't feel about the ranking, I don't feel like I want to be world No. 1 or anything because to me, have fun is the most important for me.   
 Q.  Can you talk about what you're working on with Pia  Nilsson at the moment?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: On the course, I work with them more like self-talk, because they don't want me to be too negative.  So if I'm feeling nervous, start to do something else, not think about all the negative.  Just like here, having your routine, we play some Thai music and then just have routine to worry about.  To win the tournament, I just sometimes I have my self-talk, like really negative.  So they are just trying to let me have something like positive, like if I'm nervous or something, I can start to sing a song or do something else.   
 Q.  What has changed after last year's success?  Do you think you're a different player now in terms of the levels of confidence or the way you approach?  Are you the same player?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think I'm the same player, but I just learn from my mistake last year.  I just change my focus, so I just want to focus all the good things.  So when I hit the bad shot or anything, I'm not really feel upset or complain about that.  So try to focus more on positive thing.   
MATT HAAS: Thanks, Ariya.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT