REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
September 29, 2016
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Terrific opening round.  Do you know how many birdies out there today?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: (Indiscernible.)   
 Q.  It definitely was ten.  Is that a personal best for you?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, yeah, very happy for this year also.  Yeah, ten birdies.   
 Q.  Beautifully played, but you seemed a little bit unhappy with how you were striking some of your irons.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, today I think today my iron was not that good.  Was okay.  Just have to work on my iron a little bit today.   
 Q.  Ball striking generally was effective, even if you weren't satisfied with it.  How are you enjoying your time here in Beijing?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually my first time here.  I really enjoy it.  I like everything here.  I really looking forward to play this tournament.   
 Q.  Can you just tell us what's the secret and magic to hitting a really good 2-iron?  Not many people play with a 2-iron in their bag.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I miss few time today 2-iron.  I don't know.  I just keep hit like normal iron.  Yeah.   
 Q.  (Questions through translation.)  First round 65 for the day, so what's the key to today?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Today I really like want to have fun and enjoy in the course and just like make sure I do like focus on like what's under my control.  Not worry about the outcome, the result.   
 Q.  Two wins in a row.  You're winning a lot this year thus far in 2016.  You must be happy.  Just talk about are you happy with the way you're winning like this two weeks in a row, three weeks in a row?  If you win again this week, are you going to win again next week?  (Translated:  How have you felt about your winning streaks this year.)  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Feel good, because like this year the only goal I want to do is I want to win my first tournament, so I did.  So after I won my first tournament on tour I really want to win a major, and I did.   
So right now just have fun and enjoy on the course.   
 Q.  How much rivalry do you have for the player the year for 2016?  Your points are very tight.  Just talk about it.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Of course, I mean, all the player really want to win the award like player of the year.  I really want to, but right now I think I'm not really worry I'm going to win.  I think I just have to be like just keep play like this and have fun on the course.   
I think that's the most important, so I'm not worry about like player of the year.   
 Q.  You won the first time on LPGA and first major championship this year.  You don't care about the vote for the player of the year.  What's the goal for the rest of the year, this season?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Just try to win more tournament.   
 Q.  That's it?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT