MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
August 31, 2016
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Welcome into the media center, the world No. 2 player, Ariya Jutanugarn, fresh off of her fifth win, which leads the LPGA this year.  Tell me a little bit about the win last week and what it means to be leading the Tour right now.   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: After the win last week, so I feel more confident.  After winning five tournaments, I know I'm going to win more and I know other players are going to win more.  To me, I'm really happy about this position.   
 Q.  Have you felt like -- I guess you talk about playing happy and how that influenced your game, why do you think that helps you so much?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Because like when I only focus on the course, I really want to be happy on the course, it just make me not forget about the outcome.  So I'm not scared I'm going to make the cut, I'm not scared I have to make this putt to win the tournament.  The only key I want to be is really happy on the course.   
 Q.  You also mentioned last week how big of an influence your sister is on you.  Can you talk about your relationship with her?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: We are very close.  We like are more than sisters.  She help me with everything.  When I have something, so I can ask her and she like help me.   
 Q.  How do you feel about this course this week?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually, I played only nine holes yesterday, but I have played here last year.  I really like the course, because I think this tournament is going to be very challenging for me because I'm going to try to bring my driver out this week.   
 Q.  That's the first time in a while, right?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I think our 13th.   
 Q.  Two questions for you.  Number one, a lot of the Korean players on the Tour all look back and say Se Ri Pak was their idol, their influence.  You being from Thailand, what was your influences to get into the game of golf and become the great player that you have become?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: When I was young, I look at (indiscernible), because she played on Tour before.  And I think she's the first or second one to play on the LPGA.  When I grow up and she always played, I really liked her.   
 Q.  Just talked about your sister, I believe in 2013 you hurt your shoulder, kind of derailed your career for a little bit.  I'm not clear, you were chasing your sister on the course or how did that injury happen?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I did, yeah.  I run on the course, I tried to chase her and I fall.   
 Q.  I was just curious, why did you sideline the driver?  I know you didn't really need it last week because the course wasn't that long, however, on the par-5s, it didn't seem to bother you to hit that 2-iron close to 300 yards on a couple occasions.  What's motivated you to bring the driver out and I'm curious about what your mindset was in leaving it in the bag last week and why you want to bring it out this week?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually, I try to bring it out every week, but some course I can't hit my driver.  But this course, I feel like it's wide enough to hit driver.  My distance, I'm not going to get me to have a problem.  All the trouble is not in my driver this week.   
 Q.  As we all know, you have had one of the most successful years in LPGA Tour history.  What are your goals for the rest of this year?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Of course, I want to be No. 1, but on top of that obviously I really want to be happy on the course.  And as long as I can have fun and enjoy when I play golf, that's enough for me.   
 Q.  A bit of rivalry set with Lydia, Lydia Ko, in your mind is that a rivalry or is that goal for you, have you set your sights on taking over the No. 1 spot in the world?  Do you see yourself facing Lydia's game?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think I feel about being No. 1, I'm not really worry who I'm going to play, who I have to beat.  The only thing, I want to be happy on the course.  And if I can be that, I think the outcome is going to be great.   
 Q.  Specifically about your knee, we saw you withdraw at the Olympics and then last week on Tuesday and Wednesday, it was a game-time decision whether you were going to play last week and then you go on to win.  Can you talk about specifically what is going on with your knee and if that is still an issue going into this week?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: The Olympics -- actually, I start the pain after the second round and I went to see the doctor and they say it is really tight with my muscle, so that's why my tender is like -- actually, it's really hard for me to explain in English, but I know what's wrong with it.   
After that my doctor just tell me to rest and work out more to make it stronger and have to strength more because it got really tight here.   
 Q.  What is the biggest reason for your good play this year, as opposed to last year?  Last year at this time you were 50-something in the world.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Last year I really strained when I played golf, when I grab my driver or grab my other club, I don't want to keep the golf ball anymore.  I started really scared last year.   
But this year to me, I really happy to play golf right now and really enjoy it.  I can't wait for tomorrow to tee off with Brooke Henderson.  I know we're going to have fun on the course.  I think that's the main reason right now because I really enjoy playing golf.   
 Q.  With that, I'm told before every putt you like to smile, is that correct?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Over every putt and every shot, that is my routine, yeah.   
 Q.  How did that start?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Because I start to work with (indiscernible), and they taught me like -- because to me the main thing, I really want to be happy.  And they taught me how to be happy before the shot.  That's going to make me feel happy and go hit the golf ball after that.   
 Q.  Is it difficult to smile if you are having a bad hole?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It's different because that hole doesn't mean every shot is bad.  It might be only one bad shot.  It's not that hard for me right now because I learn everybody can have a mistake.   
.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT