OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 17, 2016
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KRAIG KANN: 6‑under, 65 today. Let's get some opening comments, you played terrific golf today. 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I feel pretty good with my game today, because like I have one double on No. 4 and after that I just feel like, okay, I really want to play like my game and not worry about like how my scores are going to be. 
KRAIG KANN: What specifically was working today for you? You didn't hit driver, right? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: No. 
KRAIG KANN: So what was working specifically? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think my putting is pretty good today and my iron was pretty good, also, today. 
KRAIG KANN: Last question from me. You came in here coming off of a major championship. Probably nobody feeling better about themselves than you. Were your expectations high? Does today surprise you at all? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually my expectation, of course I want to go medal, but on top of it, I want to have fun. I really want to enjoy every round of golf, that's all I want this week.

Q. What happened on the double bogey at 4, and how important was it to come back with the eagle? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I had to hit 6‑iron. Like my caddie, we talk, if I hit 6‑iron, but I feel like I want to hit 7, and we pull left, and it's too far left, so I have double on that hole. 
I'm not really worried about that because I feel like, it's just one bad hole. And the next hole, have par 5, I have chance to make birdie or eagle, it's very important to me because I'm very happy going to that; okay, let's make more birdies. 

Q. What club did you hit into the fifth? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I hit 6‑iron. 

Q. Talk about your celebration when you went back home to Thailand after winning the RICOH Women's British Open. What was that like, that experience? The pictures were amazing. 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm really excited. When I land in Thailand, all the people coming, all the medias come and all my sponsors are there. They got really excited and I really proud of myself to represent Thailand and to be the first one to win a major. 

Q. So you were not surprised that everybody was there? Or were you surprised when you got off the plane?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I was really surprised when I got off the plane, because I think it's only going to be my friends pick me up. 

Q. If you were to have a medal week this week, specifically a Gold Medal, what would that be like going back home? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think I'm going to be really excited, because of course when we play for Thailand, like represent Thailand, we want to be the best and have Gold Medal for Thailand. I think it's going to be great if I have it. 

Q. Did you hit driver off 18? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: No. 3‑wood.

Q. Were you in Thailand for the last two weeks? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yes. 

Q. With so much attention, was it hard to sort of practice for this event because there's so much attention on you? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually really bad only one week, and I give like three days to do all the media. And after that, I practice like full three days. 

Q. Since you've been here this week, have you experienced anything in the village? Tell us about the experiences you've had. 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I like it a lot. First time before I come here, I have no idea what it's going to be like. When I got here, I get in the village, I like it. I love it a lot. I'm a roommate with the badminton players from Thailand and I have a chance to watch them play a few matches, pretty good. 

Q. Have they come to you to ask you about golf? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Not really. I think we really concentrate what we have to do, so we're not really talk about other sport. But of course, I went to watch them and I think somebody going to come and watch us, also. 

Q. Thailand has four medals and Thailand has 29 medals in the history of the Summer Olympics, all in weightlifting and boxing. What would it mean to get another medal for your country? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It means a lot, because like when I got here, when I play here, I feel like the only thing I want to do is make Thai people proud and be happy with me, and I really want to represent Thailand. 
KRAIG KANN: Great round of golf, congratulations, best of luck tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT