RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2016
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN CALLANDER: We have our new champion, Ariya Jutanugarn, who shot 16-under par to win her first-ever major championship, first time-to win a major.
Congratulations.  How do you feel after that great victory?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Feels great.  After my first tournament on Tour, my goal is I really want to win a major, and I did, so I'm very proud of myself.
COLIN CALLANDER: You had a setback earlier in the year at the ANA Inspiration tournament, do you think that helped you to cope with the pressures today?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Before today, I think it's helped me a lot, but after ANA, I'm still really nervous.  But I'm pretty sure I learned a lot from that, also, because like after I feel nervous, I know what I have to do.  Like last few holes, I tried to be patient and to commit to my shots.
Q. With reference to what happened at the ANA Inspiration, you actually said that next time it would be fun.  Was it fun, this next time?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, actually it's so much fun.  Especially after I make double, I just feel like I really want to make putts.
Q. And specifically after that double, what were you thinking?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think I got mad after that hole (laughter).
My caddie helped me a lot.  He tried to calm me down, slow me down.  And after I make double, my fairway iron so good.   I went -- I have more confidence because I commit and it come out really good.
Q. And what do you think about Mirim's play, especially when she made that recovery on 16?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: So at first she made that putt and I'm like, wow, this is going to be really hard to win this tournament, because I think she has a chance to make birdie on 17 and 18, also, and her putting is just getting a lot better after the front nine.
Q. What reaction do you think there will be in Thailand?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Right now?  I think they (inaudible) what I did.
Q. Will it inspire younger golfers to take up the sport and get involved?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: My sister -- (inaudible) -- to play on Tour and try to be better, so I hope I can inspire somebody in Thai.
Q. When was the last time you played a round of golf, competitive round, with your driver in the bag?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Not this week.  Not last week.  No, U.S. Open.
Q. Did the driver come with you to the U.K.?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It had to.  I fly so it's with me, so it's in my locker.  Hope nobody steal it.  But I think it's in my locker.
Q. Your mother is here.  What did she say to you?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: She just say, like, I'm really proud of you, and she say the same thing when I won my first tournament.  She say thank you.
Q. Has your father been informed?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Oh, I haven't talked to my dad yet, so maybe after this.
Q. But presumably your mother will have told him by now, will she?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't think so.  Maybe she really nervous and excited.  Like nobody can contact her right now.
Q. When you left here last year, that was your tenth-straight missed the cut.  When you look back to what it was like then -- (laughter) --
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Sorry.  (Laughter).
Q. When you look back to this event last year, and kind of what you were going through, and where you are now, what do you think and how do you explain this journey?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think everything in the past is good for me, because I learned a lot from that and especially when I miss like ten cuts in a row, I know how to come back.  I know how to be like patient.  Feels like everybody going to have like bad times in their life and I think I have that already.
I think that when I have that, I'm pretty young.  I'm 19, so I have a lot of chance to be better and I have a lot of time to work on that.  I think I'm lucky.
Q. Can you take us through your plans on what you will do to get ready for Rio?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: To me right now, I play four week in a row already, so I really want to rest, and maybe practise.  I still want to practise, because I really want to play good in Rio.
Q. You'll go back to Thailand?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yes, eight days.
Q. I'm just curious, the smiling before you hit a shot, when did that first start this year?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think after ANA, yeah.  I just try do nothing -- inaudible -- keep the ball, go do next shot.  I want to have a really good routine so when I good get really excited or nervous, I know what I have to do.
Q. You're one of the few players that sits down during a round and sort of detaches.  What does that do for you?  Do you kind of space a little bit when you do that?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually if I do that is when I'm really tired, because I did that a lot.  So when I'm tired, I feel like I have to sit down.
Q. The aircraft flying over in the first few holes, and you seemed to be watching it, was that correct; that you seemed to follow the aircraft flying over.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Oh, I did.  I like to watch something like up there.  Just like don't make my head like look down.
Q. And your caddie, is he caddying much?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, he is.
Q. And how long have you been with him?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Second week.
Q. And could you just tell us how he helped you today?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: He's helped me a lot.  I mean, he slow me down, calm me down.  Like when I start to yell something, when I hit bad shot, he talks to me about something else, like I forgot to -- good things.
Q. Today when you hit one shot, he smiled, almost like he was trying to get you smiling.  Was that one of the tactics he's used?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: He tried to make me -- like make joke with me and try to tell me something really funny, yeah.
Q. What's his name?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Peter Godfrey.
Q. What's your earliest memory of playing golf?  What do you first remember, when you first took up your game?  Your dad taught you, right?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, my dad taught me.  Actually my mom played golf, also.  I remember like when we was like five or something, they went to play golf and they leave us with caddie to take care of us.  So that's how they played golf.  Yeah, they leave me with caddie.
Q. Do you think there will be any celebration, dinner with friends?  What will you do to celebrate back in Thailand --
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I hope my friends come to me and celebrate with me.
Q. Will you get recognised when you go out to eat in Thailand?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, right now, a little bit better, but not like everybody.
COLIN CALLANDER: Congratulations, well done.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT