RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2016
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Smacking that 2-iron off the tee, only once out of position at 13.  How comfortable did you feel in that round on this course?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I feel a lot more comfortable, like especially today, because I didn't hit my iron good, but I still make some birdies.   
 Q.  Now we think back a few months ago to the ANA Inspiration, you were in good form going into the last round of that major and it didn't come right for you then.  What did you learn from that day that you think you can correct here tomorrow?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think I know how to play under pressure.  I know like what I have to focus and the only thing I have to is like focus on what is under my control.   
 Q.  And one thing we have noticed, I know that you put a smile into your pre-shot routine.  Why, and how does it help?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I really want to try to be like relaxed before the shot, and I just really -- I feel like whatever is going to make me happy and easy one is like smile.   
 Q.  6-under today, a two-shot lead going into Sunday and a chance to win your first major championship; does that excite you or does that put on some more pressure?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think it's no pressure for me because only thing I want to is have fun, so one more day, I want to have fun.   
 Q.  You're known to be one of the strongest players on the LPGA Tour.  You don't put the driver in the bag so much now and the golf course is playing particularly short.  Have you been able to adapt your game very well to the conditions this week?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I like when I have more driver in my bag because I feel more comfortable, I can hit 2-iron and 3-wood off all the tee.   
 Q.  You have this lovely nickname by your family, May, having won three times in the month of May -- will July work, also?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: My new nickname, yeah, July.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT