U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2016
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Ariya Jutanugarn to the media center.  Ariya is playing in her 4th U.S. Women's Open this year.  Last year, ten consecutive missed cuts.  But this year, great first half of the year, three consecutive victories, all right in a row in May.  And two top-5s in the Major Championships to start the year.
What clicked for you late last year, leading into this year that has your game really in top form?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think last year when I had really like bad time and I was scared to hit the ball.  After that I just changed my focus.  So I try to focus on what I can control, what is under my control, not worry about the result, what's going to be, am I going to make the cut or miss the cut.  So just keep focus on what I can do to make it through.
MODERATOR: It's been a great first half of the year for you.  This year you're top-10 in driving distance, but you recorded one of your victories without a driver.  And you did that a few other events this season, as well.  Is the driver in the bag this week?  And if so, how often do you plan to use it?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: We come here on Sunday, so I play nine hole and I play here yesterday nine hole.  We plan to use driver before, like after Sunday.  But right now we might not going to use driver, because I need my 4-iron and 3-iron in the bag, because have a lot of long par-3 and I need it.  And I think I am not going to use driver this week again.
MODERATOR: It seems as though you're very close to your sister, Moriya, Mo.  In a week like this, a major championship, how much time do you spend with her?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: This week we stay together, like same room.  So we spend time together all the time.  Because this week we have the same tee time in practice round, so we practice together for four days this week, so a lot.
Q. Do you have a friendly competition with her?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Not yet.  Maybe tomorrow.
Q. And you've seen the course a little bit.  You went out to play.  What do you think of CordeValle, having seen it for a few times?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think the course pretty long, even for me still long, because they have some hole have to hit like long iron to the green.  And I also not going to use driver, so I'm going to have longer iron to the green.  And the green is pretty challenging.  I think USGA always make it very tough and very hard.  Right now, to me, it isn't really very hard, but of course the USGA can make it harder and a challenge.
Q. Do you feel like this is, in a way, a different U.S. Open for you, because you haven't had a whole lot of success here, but you're coming in with a totally different mindset, having won several events this year?  Do you feel like this is a fresh perspective for you here?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I feel more confident anytime I play U.S. Open because I never made the cut in the U.S. Open yet.  And this week I just want to have fun, enjoy.  I feel better.  I feel more confident than anytime I play U.S. Open before.
Q. It's been a couple of months now since you won those three straight tournaments.  Has your life changed to any degree since you had that great stretch?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Not really.  After I won first tournament, I went back to Thailand and come back here.  So I don't think my life changed, no.
MODERATOR: I'll ask about the Olympics, another event this summer.  Right now you're sitting in 7th place.  How would you feel about potentially representing your country at the Olympic Games in Rio this summer?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I can't wait for Olympics, because it's going to be my first tournament play like represent Thailand.  And I really want to play that tournament, because I can represent Thailand and I'm really excited about that.
Q. In your opinion why has the women's Tour become such a young person's game?  Seems like every week you have somebody under 25 winning the tournament?  Why do you think there are so many good, young players right now?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't know, but I just feel like maybe they started golf early, not like before.  And they have, all the young golfers have talent and they work hard and try any way to be better and try to play on the LPGA, and I think that why.
Q. When do you first remember watching Michelle Wie play and what was your first impression of her?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't remember like first time I saw she played.  I can't remember.  But I know first time I saw her, I love her swing.  She's the only one person that I keep looking and watch her swing all the time.  If she on the driving range, I always watch her swing, yeah.
Q. Was she someone that you looked up to when you were younger and she was out here?  Did she inspire you at all when you were younger?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, she inspire me a lot because she won majors pretty young and she won U.S. Open, as well.
MODERATOR: Ariya Jutanugarn.  8:28 off the first tee on Thursday.  Good luck to you.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT