KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 12, 2016
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had quite a return your last four starts.  How pleased are you with your performance this afternoon?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Today I played really good.   
 Q.  Not a win for you this week, but your last month or so, your last four starts have been incredible.  How proud are you?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm very proud and getting a lot more confident.   
 Q.  When you came in today you may not have been one of the favorites to win this golf tournament.  But you put yourself in the running for it.  What did it mean to you to come out here today and shoot the number you did?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I was just really proud of myself, especially today, the major, I really want to play and finish higher.   
 Q.  To be up there with Lydia and Brooke, and some of the youngest greats of the game right now, how happy are you to be included in that group?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm really happy.   
 Q.  At ANA Sunday was difficult for you.  Since then you've certainly turned things up.  What have you improved on the most as far as your confidence?  What have those experiences taught you about your confidence levels?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: After ANA I feel I have to get back hope.   
 Q.  Coming down the back nine, did you -- were you and your caddie talking at all?  What was your game plan?  To try to get as many birdies?  What was your thought process?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I didn't feel like I try to catch the leader, because I feel like maybe fire at the green and just try every hole to make birdie.   
 Q.  Were you looking at the leader board and you thought I could actually do this, did you look at all?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I saw and I want to play good.  I want to try to make birdie.  And I saw Lydia make birdie on almost every hole.   
 Q.  Can you talk about this stretch of golf?  What's next for you?  What is there to improve, if anything?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: To me like I really, really want to win a major one time in my life, I think that would be great.  I don't know when.  I'm going to try to work hard to win my major.   
 Q.  I see Brooke and Lydia go into a playoff.  You said so cool.  You're in that young pack now.  How great is this for the game of golf to see young players like you guys up there?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: They've got talent.  They hit it good.  It's really excited when you saw they getting younger every time.  Last year is not like this year.  And this year is like 17, 18.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT