KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 21, 2016
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6-under; really good day.  Not that many low scores.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: 9-under.   
 Q.  Well, one 9-under and one 7-under, but besides that, were conditions tough?  Obviously the greens were slower.  Tell me about conditions.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think today they move a lot like forward.  They move the par-5, they move like some par-4s, so like to me I think it's not like that far, so the condition is good.  So it's like a little bit wet and we can clean the ball, and the greens are very good, still fast, still good.   
 Q.  Are they drying out a little bit by the time you guys were coming through?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think so, yeah.   
 Q.  They weren't that slow?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Uh-huh, because when I play I didn't feel it was wet, the greens.  I think the greens were fine.   
 Q.  Did you expect them to be a lot worse?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yes.  I did.   
 Q.  Well, you're tied for the lead going into tomorrow.  How much will you play off of two weeks ago, being in contention and that experience?  How much will that experience help you tomorrow?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Normally if I'm tied for the lead or one shot behind, I get a little bit excited, but today I'm not.  I just keep playing my game and have fun and enjoy it with every shot.   
 Q.  You're more comfortable now do you think?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  What do you think tomorrow?  What's it going to take do you think?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think tomorrow is going to be so much fun because rain, play with the weather, and tough conditions.  Just have fun, enjoy, because I just want to do my best.  Like whatever happens, I really want to have fun because right now, everything is good for me.   
 Q.  How do you think you play in the rain?  How are rainy conditions for you?  Do you usually just let go and it doesn't bother you?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think it's going to bother me, of course, because rain and -- but I have like this before in Japan like in final round, but I can still play good.  So just be patient, be more patient.   
 Q.  Now, the chance to go back-to-back wins, I know it's a lot of golf to be played, but how special would that be, just to get two right away?  I know the first one was very special, but to get another one again, how cool would that be?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It's nice, but actually I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow.  But it's good enough for me to be right here.   
 Q.  It's always good to be a long hitter, but when the weather is like this, when the conditions are like this, is it even more important?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: To me, today I didn't hit driver that much.  I hit only three holes, and 3-wood is enough for me.   
 Q.  When you saw someone shot a 9-under today --  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Oh, yes, In Gee, she is a great player, but right now I don't really care like who else is going to play, I just really want to focus on my game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT