ANA INSPIRATION
April 4, 2015
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How much does your length help you on this golf course?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I don't have a lot of length with my driver.  But today my driver is pretty good, and it helped me a lot because I have like strength to go to par-5s and have like pretty short, like irons, 3-irons.Q. If there's one thing that you need to work on or focus on for Sunday, what would that be?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually my putting is pretty good.  Everything is pretty good.  But I missed some of my irons, so I pulled to the left like two or three times today.Q. What does it mean to you to be in this position at a championship with so much history?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It's really exciting because it's my first major on Tour, and last year I just missed the cut, and it made me have a pretty hard time.  But right now it's pretty good.Q. What was working today and how did those first two birdies at the start help everything else?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, you know, today I played pretty good.  Even on the first hole I missed my tee shot and I still made birdie, so it made me feel more confident.  And after that I still have some birdies, and today my putting is pretty good, I just have like some missed shots, like my irons missed to the left.Q. With the rough being so high, was that difficult to hit out of the rough?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: You know, this week the course is pretty tight and rough is really long, so I really want to make sure I hit to the fairway.Q. Where is your game at right now compared to before the surgery?  How close are you?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It's pretty the same right now.Q. That's a big deal because for a long time you didn't have your game, right?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, for like eight months.Q. What about your confidence?  How close is your confidence now to where it was?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I mean, actually right now I'm pretty confident.  After Australia, after the week in Thailand, last week made me feel a little bit better because at my first tournament I missed the cut last week, but right now get more confident.  Today I played pretty good.Q. Pretty neat seeing you and your sister on the leaderboard together?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, it's very nice because like yesterday just complain everything, I shot 1-over, and she said, keep focused, maybe be patient, and that helped me a lot.Q. Before the injury it seemed like every time you teed it up in an LPGA event you were finishing fourth, fifth, you were right there.  At that time did you feel like you could win an LPGA event at that time?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: You mean the last two years?Q. Yeah.ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually the last two years I felt really, really confident.  Before the third round of the tournament, I felt like I'm going to win this one, and yeah.Q. Do you feel that way now?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Not that much, but it's getting a lot better than last year.Q. How big was today for your confidence?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I feel pretty good because I have no bogeys today.  I mean, my putting has helped me a lot today, so that's why I have like a chance to make birdie, and I make it.Q. Do you hit the fall as far right now as you did before you hurt your shoulder?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think so.Q. Because you weren't for a while, right?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah.Q. I know your swing, you went from I think hitting a draw to a fade.  Are you still sticking with the fade?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually right now I can hit both, but if I'm going to miss, I'm going to pull left because sometimes my swing still has like steep.Q. When you're trying to hit the ball far, are you hitting a draw or are you hitting a fade?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: When I hit far, I hit draw.Q. What was the best shot today?ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Today?  Actually on No. 14 putting.  I hit not really good, but I made the putt.  But that hole I don't really like it because in the first round I had a bogey, I pulled it well left in the bunker, so that hole, when I hit the tee shot, I felt like I wanted to make par, and I had birdie today.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT