HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 26, 2015
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Ariya, congratulations.   Very solid opening round.   What a good start with birdies early on.   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Yeah, like four hole have three birdie, but after that I had two bogey, so make my feel like, Wow.   Because after like three birdie you feel like, Oh, today going to be like 6‑ or 7‑under or seven under.   
After I have two bogeys, it's like, It's okay.   Don't forget score.   Just keep going what I had to do.  
   
 Q.   You are playing such good golf at the moment.   The starts you've had on the LPGA, two Top 10s already, a great finish in Australia.   How much confidence have you got being back home in Thailand?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Like last week in final round I lost confident because my putting so bad.   So like when I get here Monday morning I tell my caddie I'm going to (indiscernible) my putter.   It's not because of my putter but because of me, but after I feel like more confidence.  
   
 Q.   So many people are following you around the fairways.   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Yeah, have a good like memory here isn't bad thing.   After (indiscernible)I make it.   
   
 Q.   It was a very smart play.   You got onto the back part the green.   That was good.   67 going into tomorrow.   I imagine it was very nice playing with Yani Tseng.   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   First time playing with Yani Tseng.   So much fun today.   Looking forward for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   5‑under.   Happy with the score like that after day one?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Yeah.   You know, because like my tee shot today is pretty good.   Other than that my irons help me a lot, too.   My putting get a lot better last week.   
   
 Q.   What happened with your putting last week in Australia?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I don't know, but it made me like lost confident because I feel I miss every single putt.   I don't know what happened, but I just (indiscernible) my putter this week.  
   
 Q.   You are a superstar here in Thailand.   You've done so well to start the season.   Do you relish in the support that the thigh people give you here?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Of course.   First time come here I feel like I have pressure, but after that I feel like everybody here just really want to see all Thai players so made me feel better.  
   
 Q.   Round two tomorrow.   What are you going to do from now until then?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Actually today I made some like irons.   Pull to the left, so I work on it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT