THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 4, 2019
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 7-under is a good round.  Tell me how you feel coming off the course.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Feel really good.  I hit lots good shot but also missed a lot of tee shot.  So I didn't hit much fairway today.
Q. Okay.  With a course like this, I have to ask, do you need a driver on it?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Of course not.  I mean, because pretty windy also, especially in the afternoon, especially tomorrow, and it's not that long to use driver.
Q. What are your thoughts on the scoring here?  Some of the numbers we've seen, it's fun I would think for the fans and maybe for you guys.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It's so much fun, but every time after I finish the round, like, okay, did I do something wrong?  Do I need to shoot better?  I finish 7-under, made lots of good putt and some par-5; I should make more birdie on par-5.
Overall my round is pretty good, but when I look at the scoreboard I'm like, Must be something wrong with me.  I can do better.
Of course so happy for them.  Especially you saw some 9-under, and of course I think this course you're going to see somebody shot 10-under.
Q. Really?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah.
Q. You think it's out there?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah.
Q. Even with some rain coming?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think so, yeah.
Q. Yeah?  I want to change gears real quick and ask you about that exhibition that was just announced that you're playing in in Korea, the event with Se Ri and Lorena.  How did that come together?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I will say I have three weeks off.  I told my manager I want to rest.  I don't want to do anything.  Then they ask me like you going to play the team that play Hall of Famer.  Like, okay, yes.  Don't have to think.  Don't have to wait.  Whoever.
Then I saw the name, like Annika, Lorena, Se Ri Pak, and Juli, I'm like, I have to play.  Even they let me I'm going to beg them like can I play.  I say yes to play that one and I know it's going to be such a great experience.
Lorena and Annika is two of my idol and I never ever play a tournament with them.  And also Se Ri, but I have chance to play with Se Ri and Juli on LPGA sometime, so it's going to be so much fun.  It's going to be like so much joy for me to play with them?
Q. What's it going to be like representing this generation with Sung Hyun and Minjee and Lexi?  That's different, too.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I know it is.  Four of us are really competitive and they are the best player.  Lexi is really dominate, Minjee keep playing so well, and Sung Hyun of course she No 1.
It's going to be so much fun to play together against with like, you know, Hall of Fame.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT