LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 17, 2013
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Ariya Jutanugarn, our current leader, into the interview room.   Congratulations.   8‑under par, tying the course record.   Pretty competitive day out there. 
Take me through it.   What a great front nine for you.   How did you keep the birdies coming? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   You know, I have like really good front nine, but I just want to like make more birdies because my record is 8‑under, so I want to be lower. 
When I have bogey on No. 10 I feel not very confident with my putting.   So when I have eagle, it make me like more confidence.
MODERATOR:   You talk about 8‑under being your own record.   When you shoot 30 on the front nine, are you thinking a really low number in your head, that you could go pretty low? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I don't think how low score going to be, I just want to beat my record.   But maybe try next day. (Laughter.) 
MODERATOR:   You qualified for this event on Sunday by coming out here and shooting 68.   What confidence did that give you in playing in the qualifier and earning your spot to how you're going to play this week?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   You know, really confident, because when I qualify I play really good.   I still miss some like short putts, so it make me like work hard in my putting.   It's getting a lot better, but still miss some like short putts.
MODERATOR:   I know you recently are coming off a win on the LET.   You're a rookie on the Ladies European Tour.   What did that victory mean to you, and how much has that helped your game going forward, having that professional win? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   First professional career like winning.   I have chance in Honda but I lose it, so when I have like ‑‑ when winning one in Morocco it make me confident.   It give me like stronger.   Like I tell myself I can win, you know. 
MODERATOR:   I know immediately after we were getting done with your interviews you were checking to see how your sister, Moriya, is doing.   I know you're very close.   What's it like playing with her in the same event and being able to talk to reach other about the golf course and also hang out? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   You know, I don't play with her for a lot tournaments.   When I play with her like she help me everything.   But sometimes when I play not very good I tell her what wrong and she try to figure it out and teach me how to do that. 
So when I play with her it's very happy and so fun because she help me a lot about everything.
MODERATOR:   I was asking Hyo Joo about this, too, but you guys had a very your pairing.   You and Hyo Joo are both 17; Lydia is 15.   How much fun is it to play with people around your age and what were you talking about today?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I feel like it's very fun today because everybody are young and they so good.   It's very fun because we are friends.   I play with them before. 
MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   What is it about Ko Olina that you like so much?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   You know, I like the fairways.   I mean, it's made me confident with my driver.   I like the fairway. 
The course very nice, too. 

Q.   You only made one long putt today, huh? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Only one long putt. 

Q.   About how long was that one? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   20 feet. 

Q.   Everything else was inside 10, yeah? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Yeah. 

Q.   Have you ever played in Hawaii before or been to Hawaii?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Never.   My first time be here. 

Q.   How come it's so easy for you and everybody else is struggling? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   You know, I just play really confident when I qualify, and just make me like really confident today.   You know my shot, everything is come like‑‑ you know, it's not very hard to be shot like under because I'm really confident with my game today. 

Q.   On the 14th, 15th hole, what was the eagle?
MODERATOR:   Talk about the eagle.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I hot my 5‑wood, 217, about like 10 feet, and I make it. 
MODERATOR:   Not a bad way to make eagle.   Short little putt. 
Of all the parts of your game today, what was working best for you? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Oh, I think my iron help me a lot today because I hit it very close my second shot.   But my driver is make me like confident about the second shot.

Q.   Can you tell me about your rivalry with Hyo Joo Kim and Lydia Ko?   I think you outdrive them.   How long is your driving?
MODERATOR:   You were outdriving Hyo Joo and Lydia.   How far do you think you were hitting it today, your driver?   And can you talk about your rivalry with those two, kind of how you guys are all so young and so good.   Does it make it competitive between the three of you to see who can go lower and play better? 
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   You know, I play with them like before, so it's so fun to play with them.   Front nine it's like we try to beat each?   Other all the time because we go lower and lower.   It's so fun. 
MODERATOR:   Anymore questions for Ariya?   Thank you very much.   Best of luck the rest of the week.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT