KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2019
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Now we're here with Ariya Jutanugarn, who shot a 4-under, 68 today.  She is looking for her 11th LPGA win and third Major.  Has wins at 2016 AIG Women's British Open and the 2018 U.S. Women's Open.
You had birdies at 3, 4, 7, 8, 15 and 17.  That's a pretty good day for you.  Can you tell us about just your overall day today?  Seemed like a pretty strong performance for you.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I start to make the putt today so especially on my front-9 I have a lot better commitment.  I felt like today I hit my irons so well.  I missed a few tee shot.
The first one was pretty tough.  Hit in the bunker, second shot in the bunker, putt and got up and down.  So, after I made par on the first hole, okay, let's play golf.
THE MODERATOR: Let's play golf, and all of those birdies.  Tell us about, if you don't mind starting at No. 3, what you had there and then we'll go on, if you can remember.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Par 5?
THE MODERATOR: Sure.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I hit 3-wood, 7-iron layup and pitching.  I had 133 to the pin and I have 15 feet uphill and made the putt.
THE MODERATOR: You went right out the next hole with another birdie at No. 4.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: That is pretty tough which I'm thinking 8-iron or 7-iron into and have 157 to the pin and half swing with 7-iron and ten feet, make the putt.
THE MODERATOR: Then back to back again at 7 and 8.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Par 5.  So I hit 3 wood and I have 200 yards to the pin downwind.  Hit 5-iron past the pin, two-putt.
And No. 8, I hit perfect 9-iron so I hit half swing, land it pin high.  Go past it and pretty tough putt and made the putt on that one.
THE MODERATOR: We'll wrap it up with your birdies at 15 and 17.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: What is 15?  Par 5?
THE MODERATOR: I'm putting you on the spot here.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I hit 3-wood.  I have 235 to the pin.  Little bit down.  I would hit 3-iron pin high and two-putt.
THE MODERATOR: Great.  Now, 18 you had a chance maybe for birdie there and it would have been a big swing.
Did you know where things stood there on 18, where the score was with you and Hannah?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Of course.  I play with her, so I know.  The thing about that, the last three days I'm really happy about how I play last three days because like I feel so free.  I'm not thinking about outcome.  I feel I have my own game.
I just go out and want to feel free.  I want to have good commitment, fight and I keep doing that until last hole and I did every shot I can today.
THE MODERATOR: We certainly noticed you with the smile before so that means your commitment is on when we see that smile?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yes.
THE MODERATOR: Open it up for questions.
Q. You came out playing so well and putting a lot of pressure on Hannah early in the front-9, like she didn't blink.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I can't put any pressure on her.  She make every putt.
Q. That's what I was going to ask you what you thought because she wasn't blinking.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually when we play today, especially front-9, I felt like Match Play.  I made birdie, she made birdie.  I hit closer, she made longer putt and I missed the short putt and so much fun.
Really enjoyed the way she played, especially she not short at all, bust driver and make all the putt.  Her speeds is like perfect.  I love how she play golf.
Q. What was the thinking on 16, did you just push that shot in the water or take a bad line?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I missed the shot.  I take good line.  I know where I have to go.  I just missed right.
THE MODERATOR: You mentioned Match Play.  Hannah said the exact same thing, saying it was like Match Play.  She really enjoyed her round with you.
What were the last few hours like for you and Hannah?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It is Major and big week.  I felt like I'm so enjoy to be here, to play with her today and to see such amazing golf.  If you knew she played front-9 like unbelievable, up and down, long putt.  It's amazing how she played.
Q. When have you not felt free on the golf course?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: First hole.  Somehow just excited and I missed the shot to the right.  Second shot in the bunker.  Okay.
Q. Why do you think that was, that you felt that way?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Just maybe first shot of the day and I missed the shot and just pretty tough to make par after I missed the shot.
Q. Would you say this is the happiest that you've been on the golf course so far this year?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yes, I am happy.
Q. That's what it looks likes.
THE MODERATOR: What's making you happy?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I felt last year I have great year but I keep thinking about the outcome, especially after you become No. 1 and you come back and play this season.  I just feel like a lot of expectation not from others but myself.
It's so tough for me to be happy.  I felt like I have to say that golf is life because every time when I play bad I start to be unhappy.  I start to like be disappoint and I have to learn and know that golf and life is different.
Even if I play bad, I still have the best family.  My sister is always going to support me, my mom is going to always support me.
And when I know that, everything is just so happy.  I just have to do my best even if I play not well, I still can be happy because I have the best support.
Q. Tomorrow being Sunday, will you think at all about the outcome at any point?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Of course I'm thinking but I know that does not help me.  I know that when I'm thinking about that in the last five months I'm not happy, I'm not playing well and I just going to stop thinking about that and go out, have fun.
And one thing I know is just like the outcome is not under my control.
Q. In the five years you've been on the LPGA, have you ever played with anyone who made you nervous?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Of course.  I can be nervous with whoever I play with.  I'm very sensitive (laughter).  I can be nervous whoever -- I play with my sister I still can be nervous.  That's the kind of person I am.
Q. Who makes you the most nervous?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I forgot but it's going to be -- I think Hyo Joo Kim in playoff last year.  I feel like I didn't give it -- but I felt it's her day.  I felt like she's going to win this and very nervous at that time.
Q. If it's Match Play like today, what kind of mental advantage does it give you to be able to hit your irons and 3-wood 30 yards past the other person's driver?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I would say my distance, my line doesn't help me.  I hit maybe 10, 20 past her but she still make every putt.  She hit irons so well.
Q. When did you realize that golf and life are different and did it come to you slowly or did you realize it very quickly?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I would say I talk to Pia "Lind" the last few months almost everyday because I feel like I lost like who I am or who I want to be and last few months I realize that life and golf is different, you know.  I would say the last few months I learn a lot and especially this year, this season.
Q. The fact that you have experienced closing out a Major on Sunday, how much of an advantage do you think that gives you tomorrow?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: To be honest, I don't know and I don't really think about it.  I know what going on in my life right now, I know what I want to work on.
I know tomorrow I want to play my own game.  So I don't know it's going to help me, might not going to help.  You never know.  Yeah.
Q. Although you're playing your own game, psychologically, do you feel like you put heat on your opponents with your ability to out-drive them?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't think so.  She do -- she did it so well today.  I don't feel like she have pressure or anything today.
Q. When you're disappointed with the results, is it driven more from what you want or from what you think others are expecting from you?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I would say both.  I think this season I didn't worry much about people expect on me but this season I put it on myself.  I feel like to compare myself to last year or to like 2016 -- and one thing I know is everything is going to be different.  Ever year is going to be different.  I'm always learning something new everyday.  So, it can't be the same.
THE MODERATOR: Anything further?  Thank you so much.  Great round.  Get some rest.  See you tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT