HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
February 26, 2019
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KRISTEN YOON: Welcome back to the media centre here at the HSBC Women's World Championship, here with world No. 1, Ariya Jutanugarn.   
You had a busy week last week in Thailand.  What was it like playing in your home country.   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It was so much fun, like during the week, like really excited and nervous because knew I haven't played well yet in the first two tournaments, so just really excited about that and grateful to be play in Thailand because lots of people come and support us.   
KRISTEN YOON: Do you think the confidence and just feeling nervous, was that because of the pressure that you felt having to play in front of your fans at home or is it just early-season jitters?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to say both, because I mean, like, I play only once in Thailand, so lots of people come out and hopefully I can play a little in front of my fans.   
Also, because I didn't play the first few tournaments, so I feel like I need some time to work on a lot of things.   
KRISTEN YOON: This is your fifth appearance here in Singapore.  You have two top 5s and a runner-up finish.  How does this course suit your game?  How do you like it here?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: First, I love to be here.  I love Singapore so much.  Every time I'm looking forward to coming back here.   
I'm going to say the course is always tough, a real challenge, but maybe I keep playing well because I just love Singapore.   
 Q.  I have a question for you, with your second-class honours with the honour of -- sorry, I can't pronounce it.  You got a special from your country -- it's like being made a Dame or a Lady here.  What are your duties?  What do you have to do when you have this handsome rib done around your neck?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm just really appreciate and really honoured to receive that.   
 Q.  Is it purely for your golf or is it -- you do stuff with children, don't you have a children's academy?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually, give, you know, they basically give, actually for inspire all the athletes, because you know we representing Thailand and we do our best to represent Thailand.  So that's how it started, to give out to athletes for representing Thailand.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your goals this week?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to say I feel good after last week because I feel like right now I have no pressure and I feel like my game -- I struggle my first two tournaments, and last week, I thought it was going to be worse because I'm so nervous, lots of people expect me to play well.   
But actually last week I play a lot better, so this week, I feel a lot more comfortable and feel like no pressure anymore.   
 Q.  I hear you're going to the Masters this year.  You're going to Augusta.  What's happening there?  Are you going to cheer on Kiradech Aphibarnrat?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I receive the award, so I'm going to go there and of course I'm going to watch Kiradech and root for him because he's been playing well and he inspire me so well.  I just love to hang out with him.  He's one of the nicest people.   
 Q.  Will you caddie for him?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I will ask him, I wish he will let me do it again, but I think Moriya would love to do it.  But I hope he pick me.   
 Q.  Are you sharing a room with your sister this week?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yes, I am.   
 Q.  She says you're messy in the bedroom.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I am.  Like getting better?  We fight, even last week, we room together and we fight so bad before the tournament.  We not talk to each other before we go to bed, and then we woke up and we not talk to each other again.  I thought this year, going to be so tough.  But now the first tee, she talks to me, so I talk to her.   
So wish we not do that again each week, but my mom coming, should be okay.  My mom coming on Friday.   
 Q.  Will she clean up your half of the room?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: She will.  She have do it for Mo, not for me.   
 Q.  You worked with Gareth Raflewski on your short game?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yes.   
 Q.  And he has a drill whereby he gets you to putt, but also to put the ball on a ruler.  Can you tell us more about that drill and how it helps you?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually with my putting, I already use too much wrist.  So he just try to like stop using wrist.  So he just try to have something that you know, going to help me, especially putt with the ruler help me a lot, so I'm getting a lot better, because I start with that same play last year.   
 Q.  Why are you so good at reading greens?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm not good!   
 Q.  You are.  You led the Tour in putts in regulation last year.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't think I'm that good.  I don't know because my caddie help me all the time.  I'm not that good at all because every time I have to ask my sister -- on Sunday, when I miss a putt and she's like, you definitely read it wrong.  Like not even close.   
After the round I talk to her, I'm like, I see right-to-left and she said, no, left-to-right.  She teach me all the time and I feel I'm getting better, but definitely I'm not good reading at all.   
 Q.  In terms of asking other players to each you, you asked your sister and I overheard you say to Amy Yang after she won last week, can you teach me, but you are the No. 1 player in the world.  How do you manage to keep learning from others, but also keeping focused on your own game?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually, every time when I play every round of golf, I feel like I learn something all the time.  Like especially in the last week when I play with my sister, I haven't played with her for like so long.  I saw her game and I feel like, you're such an amazing golfer.  She hit 40 yards behind me and shot better than me.  I feel like it's going to be something that she do really well, so I just want to learn from her.   
Every time when I play with like some amazing shot, I feel like if it's me, I can't do that.  So I want to learn that.  And especially when I watch the guys play, I feel like we have so much room to improve.  When I watch Kiradech, I'm like, can you teach me everything because I still think I can get a lot better.   
 Q.  Obviously last year, you had a very good season.  You won a second major, LPGA Golfer of the Year and you are world No. 1.  So how much has last year changed you as a golfer, and do you have a different kind of target for this season?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I feel like it's not change me much.  The only thing changed is my ranking, really, like No. 2 and No. 1.  Nothing much changed.  I still have to work on the same stuff.  I still have to focus on the same stuff.  You know, because I didn't feel like last year was playing my best year, because I always felt like 2016 was my best year.   
So I talk -- I just feel like I want to go back to 2016 play, no fear, and not worry about the outcome.   
 Q.  2016 for you --  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to say outcome, it might not be that good as last year but I'm not worried about the outcome and I'm not scared anything.  When I play golf, I have so much fun.  I'm so happy to be on the golf course.  But I don't have that feeling for two years already, so now I just really want to have that feeling again.   
 Q.  Can you just tell us your thoughts on the new flat stick rule?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I love it, actually.  I don't have to wait for other players.  Because like after I chip, I feel like I just finish it.  I don't have to wait for my caddie to pull the pin out.   
 Q.  Will you put with the flagstick in on shorter putts?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I did it with tap-in, so four feet --   
 Q.  And just a question on behalf of the golf event.  Where do you like to play golf in your downtime and why?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: In the off-season, I'm away in Thailand, so I just play around in Thailand.  Like not because I'm Thai but I feel like we have the best golf course in Thailand, so play golf in Thailand.   
 Q.  What do you feel you've changed since you started working with Pia Nilsson and Lynn Marriott, because we concentrate on you, as well as your golf, don't they.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Like maybe before, I want to win a tournament, I want to become like top ten in the world, and I only focus on the, I'm going to say my goal is like the outcome.  So I only focus on my outcome, but I notice when I work with them, I know that's not going to help.   
What I have to focus is that I have to come back to process and stick with it and only focus on the things you can control.  Because to be able to win the tournament, even you play so well, it doesn't mean you're going to win the tournament, if other player play better than you.  So I just have to come back to myself and really focus on being in control.  That what I learned from them.   
 Q.  I know your sister, they got her to try a drill releasing the club through on the range where she literally was letting go of the golf club for a sense of being free.  
 Are there any drills or different experiments that they have got you to try that are a little bit different?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I tried that before but my club went backward, so they don't let me try anymore.   
 Q.  You went all the way back?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I don't know how to throw the club and follow me, so my club go like that.  So it's not safe for anyone so I stop doing that.   
I think the one I really like and they let me do is close my eye and hit the ball.  Like especially right now, I'm starting thinking a lot.  Like maybe something wrong with my swing or should I do that, that.  So I have to close my eye and feel it, what I want to do.  Same with my putting.  They help me to close my eye and putt.   
 Q.  Do you do that the morning that you're playing?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I do every day with my swing, yeah, before the round.   
 Q.  Never during your round, you haven't --  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Not on the course.   
 Q.  Do you think you've got a chance to shoot 59?  You have the type of game that's long and you're not afraid to shoot a low score.  When do you think we'll see a 59 on the LPGA?  Do you think you've got the game to do that?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think everyone got the game to do that, and I wish I can do that.  You know, I feel like all the top player, like you see like last week, Minjee shot 9-under in the final round and I shot 2-under.  So to me, I think everybody has a chance to do that.   
KRISTEN YOON: If you can share with us some of your goals for the season?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: To be honest I feel I just want to be the best I can, and in the last few years, I feel I'm getting a lot better but I still can get better.  It's not about the ranking.  If I can be the best I can, maybe my ranking be like 15, I don't know, but I just want to improve every day and be the best I can.   
 Q.  Best thing you've bought with all the prize money, $2.7 million you made last year.  Huge amount of money.  What was your biggest treat?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I didn't get anything for myself.  I get bag for my mom and I get her earrings.  Yeah, I didn't get anything for myself yet.   
KRISTEN YOON: Thank you so much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT