U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN
December 12, 2020
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Tough conditions out there today, talk us through what it was like.
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Even more tough when I play with my sister, so.  Actually it's a pretty tough day today.  Especially the course is pretty wet and we got a lot of mud on the ball, so it was pretty tough to control the ball flight.
 Q. Do you feel like you still have a chance and what will it take?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I would say just maybe forget about the leaderboard any more, because U.S. Open is always going to be tough and I have to focus on my own game.  Because today I missed a lot of shot, I missed some short putts and missed my tee shot also.
 Q. Should it have been lift, clean and place do you think?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   That would help.
 Q. You've always, you've played with Mo many times in competition, but in a situation like this where the conditions are so tough, do you find you get distracted because you're pulling for her or is it still something that you can focus on your own game?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Yeah, she's been playing so well today, her game is really solid.  Every time after I hit my tee shot, I look back, she like 30 behind, but she hit closer.  And then when I hit on the green, she make the putt and I miss the putt.  So it's kind of made me feel like I have to work on a lot of things, I have to improve my game after I play with her.
 Q. Is it fun to play with her because you push each other in situations like this?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   It's so much fun, especially I'm pretty stressed today, because I didn't hit the ball that good, but also I played with my sister and I'm rooting for her and I'm really happy about her game, like it's just -- she just made 6 on number 17, but before that her game was like amazing.
 Q. As a major champion, how thrilling would it be to have her as a major champion as well?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I've been waiting and keep telling her, like every time when we play major, I'm just like, she won her first tournament already and I really looking forward to see her win her major.
 Q. Do you feel like you can play aggressively tomorrow to make up ground or what's the strategy tomorrow?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Actually I tried to be really aggressive today, but I just like hit it everywhere, so it's going to be tough.  Tomorrow, just not focus, like try to be aggressive or anything, just focus on my own game and making sure I have good commitment with every shot.
 Q. Were the conditions especially with mud balls and such, was that an issue out there today?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Today?  Yes.  But I also make myself have a problem also.  So because like the condition is pretty tough and when I hit the ball it's an a lot of shot have mud on it, so it's even like more tough.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT