CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 2018
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  For $1 million you certainly didn't play or look like you were thinking about $1 million.  You made it look pretty easy.  How did it feel out there?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Feel great today.  I'm really proud myself, because like first three round I can't play golf at all because thinking about everything too much.   
Today I didn't think about that, like never, so I did a pretty good job today.   
 Q.  Made two bogeys and came right back and made the birdies.  The birdie on the last hole, you know that that broke your record for a single season of your birdie production?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Really?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Because like, before I putt just feel like just make it.  I want to have good feeling before I have the off-season.   
 Q.  What's it mean to you, I guess the big picture, clean sweep, to get them all?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually it's mean so much to me because like to be honest, after 2016 I never expect anything.  I feel like I achieve like too much already in my life, so I never think I can do anything more than that.   
So this year just like unbelievable to me because it's a lot to me.  I feel like what I want to work on I improve a lot, so that one I really proud of myself.   
 Q.  What about just the money, the $1 million?  What are you going to do?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't have any plan yet.  Pretty sure we going to have big celebrate, especially on my birthday.   
 Q.  What did you do last time?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I went to Disney World.   
 Q.  With $1 million.  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, and pay for all my family and my friend.   
 Q.  You talked about you're proud of having improved what you wanted to improve on.  Do you think you can improve more even?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I been talking with Pia and Lynn before this week, before the tournament, and I told them like, What should I do?  They plan everything to me, and when I check everything, actually I can improve so much.  I have a lot of thing to improve.   
What I said this year my goal is I want to have good self-talk, but I didn't have every tournament.  Maybe half of it I have good self-talk, but half of it not.  I feel like I really want to have better commitment.  I didn't do 100% this year, so I have so much to improve next year.   
 Q.  What are you most proud of this year?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: This year?  I got the same feeling like last year.  I'm was nervous, scared, but I fight with it and I never let it go.   
I'm really proud, because like even I have bad self-talk, but not that bad.  I still come back and focus on the thing that I can control.  I never think about I'm going to miss like ten cut again.  I didn't think that way.   
I'm thinking only what I'm going to work on to make myself feel better.  That is all I'm thinking about.  So way better than last year.   
 Q.  Are you off for the rest of the year?  Any other tournaments anywhere else?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually going to have one tournament in Thailand between Thai and Japan.  They call it Friendship Cup on 21st to 24, December.  It's a team event:  12 Thai and 12 Japan; play 6 lady and 6 guy.   
 Q.  Mo is in there, too, right?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, Mo is in there, but I'm not play with her because we have to team with the guy.   
 Q.  So other than that competition you'll be doing sponsor stuff and trying to rest a little bit?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah.  Actually I'm going to rest next week.  Only one week I have, and then December I have like full schedule.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT