CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 13, 2018
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Welcome back, everyone.  We're here with world No. 1 Ariya Jutanugarn.  Ariya is first in the reset points for the Race to the CME Globe; winner at Kingsmill Championship, U.S. Women's Open, Aberdeen Standard Investment, Ladies Scottish Open.  Here and what I'm going to read.  She clinched the Rolex Player of the Year Award already, as well as the 2018 money title and the leaders top 10 competition with 16 top 10 finishes.
She leads the LPGA birdies, rounds under par, rounds in the 60s, and scoring average.
I know you're going to saying anything can change day to day, but what does it mean to you to have such a great season?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It's mean so much to me, especially this year because I felt like I work so hard.  But everything I achieve I feel like is my (indiscernible) in my life.  Like only my goal I just want to improve myself everyday because I know I have so much room for improve.
THE MODERATOR: Speaking of room for improvement, I saw you working hard outside with Lynn and Pia and your coaches.  Of you talk a lot about what they do for you.  You've clearly got the physical side of the game; help you grow on the mental side.  How much do you rely on them and their help, Lynn and Pia, to help you out?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: You know, like every time when I go out and play always have some different situation.  Sometime I worry.  Sometime I'm scared.  Sometime I feel so confident to play golf.
But even I have a bad feeling they help me to be able to not -- not have to play well but be able to play golf.  You know, just not really bad like last year or two years ago.
THE MODERATOR: And you've talked about how last year when you reached world No. 1 you struggled.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yep.
THE MODERATOR: This year you haven't seemed to have that.  Is that part of working with them.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yes, it is.  It's main thing this year, because like I told them I don't like to play under the pressure, but I can't really go away from that.  I'm just going to keep playing on LPGA, so of course I'm going to have pressure.  How I'm going to deal with it?
So this year I feel like growing up a lot.  I feel a lot better.  It's not because I won three tournament this year already, but because I feel like I improve a lot.
THE MODERATOR: Do you think this is some of the best golf you've ever played?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think this one of the toughest one I ever play.
THE MODERATOR: Really?  Why?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Why?  Because the fairway pretty narrow, the greens really tough, so everything is hard.
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up to questions.
Q. People in every profession, ever walk of life, deal with fear, anxiety, and pressure.  You've been very open about dealing with it as well.  How did you overcome it?  What do you do?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually it's not easy at all.  I mean, I know when I nervous, when I scares, I worry because I think about the outcome, because I want to play well, I want to hit this shot good because I care about other people, what they're going to thinking about me.
But then I have to come back to myself and know that other people expectation is not my expectation.  I have to know what is my expectation, because I expect to have a good commitment with every shot.  I expect myself to have fun, enjoy, and feel free on the course.
So I have to come back and work on that stuff.
Q. Along those lines, there was a Top 5 highlights of your season with birdie shots and eagle shots and long putts.  There is hardly any emotion.  I'm wondering two things.  One, is that to stay even keel?  Are you truly enjoying the journey?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I really enjoy.  I mean, I feel great but I just feel like I don't know what I should act.  I feel great.  I really proud of myself every time I make long putt, every time make eagle, I feel great.
Q. I was wondering how it's different for you not having a swing coach at the moment.  When you have something in your swing, are you able to figure out on your own what you need to tweak?  Do you see any advantage to taking ownership of your swing like that?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to say I didn't like not have my swing coach, so I start to see Chris Mason like after British Open.  I didn't see him much.  I see him maybe like twice already.  So he just tell me something to work on and I just keep work on that so I don't really need to see him much.
He's not here this week.
Q. I'm sorry, as a follow-up, how you or do you even tweak your swing during the week as needed?  What if you figure out you're missing in one direction; are you able to figure out on your own what you're doing?  Do you watch video?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think maybe after the round I just like let me caddie see my swing and then I look at it.  Sometime I can fix it but sometime I can't.
I just feel like every time it's not because of my swing.  Sometimes I feel like it's just because I'm not commit, I'm scared, I'm worry, so that cause a problem with my swing.  So I just have to go back and check everything.
So if I have good commitment and not scared, then of course going to be something wrong with my swing.  But if I didn't have good commitment, I'm still worried, I'm still scared, I'm not going to have good swing anyway.  So I kind of had to shake everything.
Q. The first time you won Player of the Year everything sort of came really fast.  How did it feel different maybe the second time around?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Totally different because like when I got my first time like Player of the Year I feel like one award in my life I really want to get is Player of the Year.
After that I didn't expect to be able to won it twice because to me I feel it's so tough.  So totally different.  So when I play this year I never focus about that and I actually win, so it's feel even better.
Q. And if I can ask a follow-up.  When you look back to the U.S. Open and that final round, that final nine and then some, how much do you think that Sunday helps set the stage for the rest of your year?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: When I look back, like every tournament I won I feel I didn't learn anything much.  I learn, but not that much.
At the U.S. Open I feel like I learn so much.  I feel great on what happen in my life on that day.  I feel great about that because I learn so much.  That day help me a lot.  It's make me feel like I don't have to play well to be able to win a tournament, but I have to know what I been doing and focus on the thing in my control.
Because especially on the back nine, the only think I feel like, Oh, I'm 7 shot ahead.  What should I do to win the tournament?  Actually I shouldn't think that way.  I should come back to myself and see what should I do to hit this shot good in front of me.
Q. How about last year here in Naples.  Did that create a nice carryover heading into this season here?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to say last year this tournament one of -- I feel really proud of myself, even more than I won major.  Especially last year after I won in Canada, ManuLife, I play so like bad; I'm struggle.
I'm thinking just like, You know what?  I might play a few more years and I might not going to play anymore because I feel like it's so tough.
But after that I just keep work on it.  I work hard.  I never give up.  I fight in every tournament and I come back, won this tournament.  Just like very proud of myself.
Q. What circumstances would have to exist, whether it's the setup of a course or a tournament conditions, for you to use your driver?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Have to be really wide open.  (Laughter.)  That's the first thing.
You know, actually, I don't really mind how the course look like to hit driver, but it's only like when I feel great I can hit driver so well.
But when I didn't feel good, no matter how wide the course is, I can't hit it.  So it's depend like what I feel.  I just have to work on it and face it.
THE MODERATOR: You told me last week no driver this week.  Still the same?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: No driver.
THE MODERATOR: It's on the record twice now.
Q. As far as you're doing things that no one in your country has ever done before, and you talked earlier about expectations.  Is it a double-edged sword where people are cheering for you so much but also expecting you to do this and this and this?  Do you feel pressure?  A lot of support?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I feel pressure before, like last year or two years ago when I start to play well.  Because like myself I just want to be representing Thailand.  I want to do the best I can.  I want to make them happy about like if I win the tournament.
But right now I feel -- I didn't feel the pressure at all because I know they just going to give my full support no matter what, no matter what happened.  Even I play well, even I play not good, they just going to give me the best support anyway.
I just have to go out and do my job.  That's all I'm thinking about right now.
Q. You said that last year toward the end of the year you weren't sure how long you were going to play.  What are you thinking now in terms of the long-term outlook on your career?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: What I'm thinking right now, I felt like no matter going to happen in my career, even I'm going to have bad day, good day, I'm going to have struggle for one month or anything, I'm just going to fight for it because I know I can come back.  I know what I have to do and what I have to deal with it.
So I'm not really scared anymore because I know I have the best team I ever ask for.  I know everybody going to give me the best support.  If I never give up, one day I'm going to get back.
Right now I'm not worry about my career so I don't know like what going to happen.  I don't know how long going to play because I didn't think about the future that much.
Q. And how is your speech coming along for Player of the Year?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: My speech?  I need to have speech?
Q. Perfect answer.  (Laughter.)
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I have to?
THE MODERATOR: If you had like to.  You've got to tell us your thoughts on winning.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Okay.  I go work on it.  Sorry, but thank you.
Q. Hitting driver easier than a speech?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I give them Thai.
THE MODERATOR: You can just say thank you very much and...
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: That's all I have to say.
Q. Shortest speech.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, mom, and walk off.
Q. What is your level of interest in the Phil-Tiger match a week from Friday?
THE MODERATOR: Are you going to watch Phil and Tiger's one-on-one match?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: When is it?
THE MODERATOR: Next week.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: On Friday?
THE MODERATOR: Yes.  It's going to be on TV.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: My birthday.  Yeah, next Friday you mean?  It's my birthday, so I don't have time to watch, sorry.  But I would love to.
Q. Would you pay $19.99 to watch any two golfers play?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I haven't.  No I didn't.
Q. No?
THE MODERATOR: Girl has her priorities right here.
Q. With it being your birthday in about a week and a half, will you get reflective of all of everything you accomplished or just another day?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think it's going to be another day, because like I never like look back on my birthday, but I always look back whenever I achieve something.  I look back and I just feel great because I know how hard I work on.  So don't have to be my birthday, but every time I just look back and appreciate on what happened in my life.
Q. With all that you've accomplished this year, where did your sister's win rank for your favorite days of the year?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think it's No. 1, because like -- after she win I feel like she the one that's always work hard, never give up.  I told her like if it happen to me I might not even try anymore, so...
THE MODERATOR: It's so much fun for all of us to watch the two of you out there.  What's it like being out there with your sister, your best friend?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually the golf course only place she always be nice to me.  That's the only one place.  Because other than golf course she never be nice to me.  We fight all the time.  Last week I struggle with my putting and I call Mo.  Mo, can you help me?  Look at my stroke.  What should I do?
She start to be like, I think you put the ball too far forward; I think you use too much wrist on the backswing; I think you shouldn't stand like that.  I'm like, Mo, it's okay.  It's way too much for me, but thank you.
She yell at me, she like, You ask me to do it.  But that way too much for me, but thank you so much.  She start to get mad.  But she really helpful.  She try to help me.
THE MODERATOR: Two last questions from me.  When you and Mo were little girls out driving in your car around as amateurs, did you think that future was the cards for you?  Did you think about that?  Did you think you could both get to this place in your lives?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Is always a goal to play on LPGA.  We think about that because like we want to get here.  We want to play on LPGA.  It's my fourth year already, but what I know it's just feel great to be here.
I mean, I appreciate everything has happened, especially all the staff who work hard to have a tournament for us.  It's just a great place to be and I love to be here.
THE MODERATOR: We love having you.
Q. Did you have any inspiration growing up?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to say my dad, because like what I learn from him is he never ever give up on us no matter what happened.  If he not reach his goal he never give up, keep trying, keep finding a way to reach his goal.
That's how I'm growing and up, and then when I play golf I feel like he's my inspiration.  I never going to give up.  I just going to try to find a way.
Q. Where will you spend your birthday?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: When?
Q. Where.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Normally we went to the one foundation that like they have like -- so this foundation have a school for like poor kid.  So we go there almost like every year and we give some kid, you know, like for them to study.  Like maybe 20 kids a year.  That what we did.
Q. On your birthday?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yes.
THE MODERATOR: That's back in Thailand?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yes.
Q. If you were to win the $1 million, what would you do with it?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to go eat.  Eat a lot.  No, you know, like, I mean, I never think about money because like when I go out here I think the best place I can be is here.  I never think about money, how much I make.  Just going to keep doing what I love to do.  I love to support the kid in Thailand.  Just going to keep doing that no matter how much I make anyway.
Q. You could buy a lot of birthday gifts for those kids with a $1 million.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I can.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you so much.  Have a great week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT