BLUE BAY LPGA
November 8, 2018
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So, birdie, birdie.  That's a good way to finish.  Got to feel good coming off the golf course.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, feel great.  Felt like I make lots of birdie because this course so tough.  That why I feel like I make a lot of birdie.
Q. Tell me about your start.  You started with back-to-back bogeys.  How were you feeling early?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I feel okay.  I just miss like some short putt.  It's always is tough when you miss the green to get up and up and down and then make two bogey early in the day.
After that I just still be patient and do the dame thing, keep doing that.
Q. You followed the back-to-back bogeys with three birdies in a row.  What's going through your mind?  I know you say one shot at a time.  What's going through your mind when you have such different swings in your game?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually, like I hit the perfect shot on par-3, No. 7; made birdie.  So that make me have lots of confident.  Especially par-5 I feel I have more chance to make birdie.
Q. And tell me about your birdies at 17 and 18.  I know you put it in close on 17.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Both hole really lucky.  I mean, I didn't did a good job at all on 17.  I think I hit pretty good shot; that pin is so tough to hit it close, and I hit like one foot.
On 18 I miss my third shot and putt off the green and that putt is pretty lucky; I make it.
Q. How long was that putt?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think 15 feet.
Q. Okay.  From off the green to make your birdie on 18?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yep.
Q. You're probably going to be in the last group with your sister tomorrow.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Not good.
Q. Not good?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: (Laughter.)  Actually good.
Q. What's it like playing with your sister?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I haven't played with her for so long, like together same group.  We have so much fun.  At the same time we didn't talk much when he play, because especially when three player in the group.  I just feel like if we talk maybe other player going to feel bad or something, so we didn't talk much at all.
Q. What if you're playing in the last group on Saturday?  Have you ever played together in a final round?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think we play final round but not last group.
Q. Thinking ahead, what if it were the last group with the trophy on the line?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think going to be so much fun.  We stay together this week.  We sleep same bed and we woke up same time like both day already.  We walk to the course together.  Even playing together in the last group going to be so much fun.
Q. Do you two ever fight?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: We did.  We always fight.  Actually fight every day, all the time.
Q. What is your relationship like when you're not at the golf course?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think we very nice to each other when we're on the golf course, but off the golf course I think we not nice to each other.  We just try to fight as much as we can.
Q. You seem like you have very different personalities.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yep, we are.
Q. Describe the difference.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: You know, she really professional; she like to live everything like in order, so her room so clean.
I throw everything.  She yell at me every day, like every day.  But I'm not do anything better.
Q. Do you ever go and mess up her room?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I did.  I did all the time, because in our house my room is just like messy, like so bad, and her room just like she did her bed every day after she woke up, so I just go there and throw everything because I don't like to see when it's look too good.
Q. And going back to the golf course real quick, you already have three wins this year.  There are two rounds to go; four-stroke lead here.  What has gotten into your game this year?  What has changed in your game this year?  You seem so free.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I did not feel free some time.  I still have to work a lot harder, because like last year when I got world No. 1 I can't play golf.  I feel like it's too much pressure on me.  This year I feel a lot better, because like going to be the same.  I just have to come back and really focus on the thing that I'm in control.
Sometime it's just so tough when you in contention like lots of award, tournament, you keep playing well.  It's so hard to only focus on the thing in front of you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT