THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
October 22, 2020
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. All right, I know it was a little difficult there on 18 finding the water.  Other than that, a stellar round, one of your best rounds of the year so far.  How are you feeling coming off the course?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Feel great, because, you know, didn't expect to shoot it low at all, because like soon as I saw the course I feel like this course going to be tough.  We play pretty long and the green is pretty tough, so when you play without expectations, you know...
Q. You have a lot of smiles on your face right now.  I can tell you feel a little relieved coming off the course there.  What was it like when you first got here and what were your first impressions of Lake Reynolds?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I would say I love here.  Like the weather is like perfect to play golf the golf course is like the most beautiful I ever see.  Just have to the thank the LPGA put everything together and have chance to come here.  Soon as we got here we rent a house and my sister say, I think we should move here.  They love here to much.
When I play around this nice golf course just make me so joy, so happy, and can't be better.
Q. I was going to say, when you have these kind of views it's really nice out there.  What do you think was the best part of your game going forward with all the birdies that you put together today?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I would say I don't know was the best part today because of course I still miss the shot, don't really have a good commitment some shot.
So overall I think I would say everything is okay because I still have so much thing I have to improve.
Q. What are some of the things you're looking to improve as the week goes on, and what are some of the things you've been working on leading into this event?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I would say with my commitment, because like most of the time I can hit a tee shot very good when I have good commit, but also when I don't have a good commit I can miss the shot.
It's kind of like every shot I need to do better commitment.
Q. One of the things you used to do a lot last year is you used to smile before every shot.  Do you still do that?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I still try to do that because like when I smile not only like got up and smile, but I have to create some good feeling.  So it's pretty tough right now when you don't really have that much confident and don't feel like you can have good commitment sometimes.
So it's pretty tough to have good feeling and smile.
Q. What are you going to work on tonight?  Will you focus in anything or is it just about getting rest before tomorrow morning?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Actually I just have to work on my commitment, because like what I said before.  I can do everything good, but when I have good commitment.  So I just have to keep working on that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT