THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
October 23, 2020
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Ariya, being able to save your day, especially after the opening holes, what you did tell yourself after the double and the bogey in the beginning to really drive some momentum into your round?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Pretty tough start.  You know, like actually 1st hole I make bogey I feel like it's can happen because like long par-4.
 So but 2nd hole I think almost everybody going to think one of the easiest hole on the course.  I have like easy shot and hit behind, went in the water, and make 6.
 After that first two holes I felt like I just making sure I have good commitment.  To be honest, after first two hole I feel like make cut going to be good enough for me this week.
 It's just so much fun to be able to come back and make some birdies.
 Q. What were those birdies like for you?  You were talking to me yesterday about the commitment, how much you've been keeping with that.  How typical is it to keep on thinking, commitment, commitment, commitment after those two opening holes?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   You know, like especially after the first two hole I feel like I thinking about outcome.  I might miss the cut, play bad, or whatever.  So I just tell myself like just making sure I have good commit even going to miss the cut or if the outcome going to be not the way I want.
 But I want to making sure I have good commitment.  So after that I just only focus on that and not think about the outcome.
 Q. You're way ahead of the cut line right now, especially after those birdies.  What is there to think about heading into tomorrow?  What will you work on before Saturday?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I will still working on the same thing because like the first two hole I keep thinking about the outcome and I don't have good commitment at all.
 After first two hole everything getting much, much better, so I just going to keep working on that.
 Q. I know our junior reporter Ophelia has a question for you.
 OPHELIA BUNUEL:   Hi.  My name is Ophelia Bunuel.  I'm ten years old and I'm from Girls Golf Miami, and my question is:  As a professional golfer you've traveled to a lot of different places.  Is there a certain food you like to have when you arrive?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   What's that mean?
 OPHELIA BUNUEL:   Is there certain food you like to have or snack?
 Q. You get to travel all over the world.  Is there a certain place with the best food that you get to go?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   Oh, the best food.  I would say L.A. because they have like Thai Town, Korean Town, so I love L.A.
 Q. One more question.  Take us through the eagle on No. 2 that you had that really helped jump start your round.  What was looking good out there on No. 2 that you thought would be reachable?
 ARIYA JUTANUGARN:   I hit pretty good tee shot and I have like 195 and it's like downwind, so I hit 6-iron and I have 20 feet and make the putt.
 On that hole I feel like I have good commitment with every shot I hit.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT