CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2018
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're here with world No. 2, Ariya Jutanugarn, just absolutely blitzing the LPGA Tour this year with three wins in 2018, 13 Top 10s, winner of the 2016 CP Women's Open in Calgary.  Welcome back to Canada, Ariya.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Thank you.
THE MODERATOR: It's been an incredible year for you.  How do you feel as you make your return to a tournament that you've already won?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Feel great.  You know, like this tournament, like they keep changing the golf course every year.  I wish they should play two years ago course.  I love that course.
It's so exciting.  I love to be back in Canada.  I love everything here.  The tournament treat athlete so well.  I miss this event.  Every time I finish I'm just looking forward to come back here again.
THE MODERATOR: Talk about the challenge of playing a different course every year.  We do that here, the U.S. Women's Open, the British Women's Open.
What is that like to go to a different course every year and have to prepare for a different course?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think it's so much fun because like we get to know more golf course in Canada of course.  Like every course different game plan, everything has to change all-time.  I come this week so I play today.  Like I play 12 hole.  I saw the course and I'm like, Wow, this one going to be tough.
THE MODERATOR: Yeah?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah.
THE MODERATOR: What about this course is going to be tough?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: For me I think everything.  I think the fairway is pretty narrow and the greens pretty small.  But the green is like perfect.  The green is like rolling really good.
THE MODERATOR: And then you have just been, as you said, on fire this year, leading the LPGA in so many statistics:  birdies, scoring.  You smile and you blush every time we say that so I won't list them.
What is just clicking?  Why are you playing so well this year?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think starting the year I feel like I don't want to think about the outcome.  I mean, of course I want to win.  I want to play well.  I want to finish top 10 every tournament if I can.
When I think about that it's never help me to be a better golfer.  One of my goal this year is how I'm going to have fun under the pressure.  Because especially when you start it play well, you start to win the tournament, a lots of people going to expect you to play well every week.
But that thing not going to happen.
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions.
Q. Welcome to Canada.  Last year you missed the cut at this tournament.  What facet of your game is going to need to be at your best if you're going to have success this week and perhaps win this tournament?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I mean, I didn't think about win the tournament, but like of course I know I missed the cut last year.  I have been playing okay seems like last few month, and I don't really think about like I missed the cut.
So I just focus on like what I want to work on this week, what I want to get better, what I want to improve, and how the course, like what should I play on this course.
THE MODERATOR: What about your game do you want to get better this week?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually, I feel I really want to putt better.  Last few month I didn't putt good at all.
Q. So you've won this tournament.  You won the ManuLife as well, which is in Canada, and you have a Canadian short game coach in Gareth Raflewski.  What is it about Canada and Canadians that seems to get along well with you?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think I love Canada; I love Canadians.  Like my short game coach been helping me a lot since like three years ago.  I have a great memory in Canada.  I don't know why, but even like five, six years ago when I play junior golf I won Canadian Open, I think.  Like long times ago.
Q. You just mentioned you wanted to work on putting a little bit more.  What specifically have you and Gareth been working on?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Like when I putt I like to do everything.  I want to have feeling like free when I putt, and when I'm thinking about the outcome it's make they feel I'm very tight, and I'm very stress about that.  Just so we just work on my feeling to get back to like what I feel before.
Q. This is the first time a tournament like this has been held in Saskatchewan.  What's it like to come to a tournament like this?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I like it a lot.  Even like first time I saw the course today, but I feel like this course really tricky.  Going to be really challenge for all the player, especially for me.
Q. I'm out there walking on the course and Brooke Henderson is the star.  What do you think it does for golf when a Canadian woman comes out and draws big crowds?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: You know, like I'm on the putting green and I saw Brooke on the first tee.  I'm like, Wow, she got a lots of fans.  Like all the Canadians come and support like not even Canadian players, but all the LPGA players.  I feel grateful every time I come here.
I think Brooke going to inspire all the kid in Canada a lot.
Q. Have you played with her, in a group with Brooke?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, I did.
Q. What's it like playing with her when you have this big crowd around?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think I played with her two years ago in Canada and it was amazing.  You know, even for two round have a lots of people come and watch Brooke, not me.  So much fun.  They come and support Brooke and it's amazing.
Q. You do have a coach that specifies [sic] in helping you in Canada, but is there anything specific for Saskatchewan you're focusing on?
THE MODERATOR: Anything specific to this golf course or Saskatchewan you're working on in your game?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: You know, I been working on my putting, and of course I -- you know, when I saw the course and I saw the fairway I feel like the most important thing is I have to put the ball in the fairway.
It's tough, because sometime the fairway narrow but the course short so I can't hit 2-iron, 3-iron.  This course not short at all and it's still narrow, so I have to hit 3-wood pretty good to hit in the fairway.
THE MODERATOR: Will we see driver at all?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: No chances.
THE MODERATOR: No chance.  You had the driver last week, though.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I did, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: No chance, though?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: No.  Not here.
THE MODERATOR: You heard that here.  Anything further?  Thanks so much.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT