ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 29, 2018
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TOM BENBOW: Welcome to the Aberdeen Standard Investments Ladies Scottish Open Media Centre.   
Congratulations on your victory.  It moves you to world No. 1 and it's your third victory of the season.  You're actually top of the Order of Merit and your final score was 13-under par.   
Tell me a bit about that round.  It was up-and-down against Minjee.  You were playing against her.  Did it kind of turn into match play at the end there?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, especially the back nine, especially make par the same hole and birdie the same hole.  I feel like she been playing so good, she hit it really solid.  Every time I watch she play, I'm like, wow.  She has a bigger chance to win this tournament than what I feel.   
TOM BENBOW: It's your first win on a links course and first win in Scotland, the Home of Golf.  What does that mean to you?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It means a lot to me because I mean, before, I never think I can win on a links course but you know, I don't know why, I just got up to this week and I told my caddie, I really want to win on a links course, even one time on my life, that's enough.   
He told me, he's like, yeah, you have two weeks, like pretty good chance.   
I thought, okay, I'll do my best.   
TOM BENBOW: 22, you've already ticked that off the list.  Looking ahead to next week at Royal Lytham, another good test of golf and a famous golf course.  How are you feeling going into that.   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I feel pretty good on my game right now but I know I still have something I want to improve, like my short game.  But I feel a lot better to links course, so I hope I'm going to be able to bring my A Game next week.   
TOM BENBOW: It looked like out there, you were holing a lot of crucial putts, a lot of five-foot putts for pars and birdies and you were going toe-to-toe with Minjee.  Is there any one shot that sticks in your mind.   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually, I missed a lot of putts yesterday.  Maybe you didn't watch.  I did make a few putts today and you know, like I have no choice.  I just have to do my best.  I just have to let go and make the putt because I know Minjee going to play good.  She's going to make everything.   
 Q.  Could you tell me what was going through your head at the 18th hole, because after Minjee hit her second shot, you were struggling to make par.  What was going through your head?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I did miss my first shot because like, I just didn't commit to my first shot.  I feel I don't want to miss right and I miss left.   
After I saw her second shot, I'm like, okay, I can't really do anything.  I just really have to hit next shot like good, good one and that's it.  Then I feel like I just want to put myself in a good chance to even go to playoff, that's what I feel.   
 Q.  The chip, it was a lovely chip in the circumstances, the pressure, was that as good a chip as any?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: That shot I didn't feel the pressure.  To be honest I feel like she's going to make that putt and I feel like, am I going to make bogey, then make just I get ready for next week.   
 Q.  Was the No. 1 ranking in your head as you were going around?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Not at all.  I didn't check anything, and just after I make last putt and people start to tell me that I move to No. 1, but you never know.  We have to wait for tomorrow anyway.   
 Q.  And you must be confident now going into next week.  Do you think you can win another major?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I don't know because I feel like I'm pretty lucky this week and I don't know about next week.  I know it's going to be tough next week and especially a major, so just need to work on the same stuff.   
 Q.  You're only 22 years old but you've now won ten professional titles.  How does that feel, ten titles?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: It feels good to be able to win the tournament, but also, I feel like I have so much fun because this game is really a challenge to me and I still can improve myself every day, no matter how many tournaments I won.   
TOM BENBOW: Thanks very much for coming in.  Best of luck next week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT