U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 2, 2018
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You are in a really good position right now.  What worked so well today?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I mean, my second round is -- I mean, because I think about the outcome, so I try to play good and it's not work.
Today I feel like I'm just going to go out and have fun and make sure I have very good command and I did.
Q. Did you feel like you had little bit of advantage having played this morning so many holes and you could continue in your groove?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Not really.  Because I feel more tired.
Q. 5-under.  Take us through your round.  What was the highlight?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: My putting been working pretty good.  I mean, I didn't hit the tee shot that good.  But my iron was pretty good.  Start to make some putt in the back nine.
Q. How was it playing with Sarah Jane?  It looked you were having fun?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: We had so much fun.  I feel like I played with one of the two nicest players on tour.  We have been rooting for each other every hole.
Q. Do you think your win at Kingsmill propelled you to a new level of confidence?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm not going to say because I win at Kingsmill but because I feel like -- I'm proud of myself at Kingsmill, no matter I'm going to win or not.  I feel I improve every day.  I feel pretty good with my game right now.
Q. From the 11th hole, can you take us through that hole where it looked you were going back with clubs?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I hit 3-wood.  So basically they moved the tee so we can risk second shot par-5.  I need to carry the 180.  I normally hit 5-iron 185.  I really want to hit 5-iron but my caddie is better to hit 4-iron and make sure to carry everything.
Q. That is a tough shot.  How important was that you and how did that make you feel for the rest of the round there?  That was a tough shot in there.  That hole is a tough hole.  How important was the shot to the rest of your round?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually, it's tough but it's not like that hard because they moved the tee and I can risk second shot pretty easy.  After that hole, I don't know, I just start to make some putts.
Q. What do you think it's going to be like tonight going to sleep with a four-shot lead in a U.S. Women's Open?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think I'm going to sleep pretty well.  I didn't sleep much last night and I'm so tired right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT