U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 2, 2018
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We are here with Ariya Jutanugarn, who is our 54 hole leader.  Ariya the course played a lot tougher today.  Clearly not for you.  What was working?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to say I have pretty tough 2nd Round because I've been thinking about like try to make birdie, try to play good.  It's not really worked.
So this round I just feel I am going to go out and make sure I have like good things on every shot and not the outcome.  My caddy help me because first few holes, of course, I tried to like make some birdie or play good but he's just like just, "Go, do your best.  That's all you can do."
THE MODERATOR: Your success so far this year, do you think that helps prepare you for tomorrow?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I hope so.  I wish.
THE MODERATOR: You played 27 holes today.  I know you just mentioned in flash you're exhausted.  How were you able to maintain your focus?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I really feel tired after my ten hole this morning but just like I rest a lot so I sit down a lot, so I drink lots of water and make sure I have some food.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Ariya.
Q. You seem more confident now than you ever have.  Is that something that you've worked on or is it just something that has come as a result of the success that you've had?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'm going to say last few months so I've been working on -- you know, I try to be proud of myself everyday and sometime when I get worry I just quit doing something I supposed to do but last few months I feel like I'm just going to do this because I want to be proud of myself, not be like win the tournament I can be proud but I want to be proud everyday.
Q. You were just described by Sarah Jane as having the whole package, meaning she doesn't see any weaknesses in your game.
Do you feel like you have any weaknesses?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think of course, I think everybody have, yeah.
Q. What are they?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I mean I have -- wait.  I'm thinking.  I'm not sure what but I'm pretty sure I have, yup.
Q. Also, do you think it might be a blessing in disguise that you had to get up at 4:00 a.m. today so you might sleep well on the lead better than if you weren't tired?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I think I'm going to sleep pretty well today because I didn't sleep much last night and I'm so tired right now.
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions?
Q. What are you most proud of today?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I be in fight every shot and you know, of course, I'm really scared and there's a risk.  But I do something, I make sure I get ready before the shot and I take action on my shot.
Q. Did you feel that those two early birdies kind of gave you some momentum and kind of put the pressure on Sarah Jane a little bit to kind of maintain -- did you feel the momentum shift right there?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Honestly, I don't know about her.  Maybe, you know, it's golf, might have good day and we might not going to have good day.  We never know.  I don't know.
To me I just go out and have fun and -- did -- I didn't have birdie on second one, right?
Q. 1st and 3rd.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah.  Sorry.
Q. You've won most of your tournaments holding a 54 hole lead.  How are you able to close tournaments so well and what's the most important thing about playing with a big lead?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I haven't had this situation for awhile so I don't know but I'm pretty sure tomorrow going to be good day, even like I don't know what outcome going to be but I know what I'm going to take action on.  I know what I'm going to do tomorrow.
Did I answer your question?  No.
Q. Yes.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I'll go this way.  Sorry.
Q. You were saying that you were feeling nervous out there.  Do you feel nervous like during the whole round?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I feel nervous my front-9.
Q. Like what kind of things do you do to help yourself when you start to feel nervous?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: You know, I have self-talk so I'm thinking if this one go long, if I miss this one, what am I going to have?  Just come back, stay patient and just sing a song, make sure my head not go too far ahead.
Q. Can you walk us through the second shot at 11, you changed clubs I think three times.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Two.  Only two times.  Actually my second shot I have to carry water like 180 and normally my 5-iron carry like 185 if I hit a good one.  And I really want to hit 5-iron but my caddie make sure we get over everything.  So, 4-iron.  I hit it pretty good.
Q. This is your 6th U.S. Women's Open but only the second time you've made the cut.  What is it about Shoal Creek that maybe works for you or why are you so comfortable this week?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Why?  Because I don't have expectation at all, because, you know, my golf bag didn't come Monday, I didn't practice much.  I didn't have the expectation.
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions?  Thank you.  Get some rest and best of luck.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT