NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS v CAVALIERS
May 19, 2016
DeMar DeRozan
Kyle Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Cleveland - 108, Toronto - 89   
 Q.  Kyle, you went for 43 against them in the regular season and hit the game-winner.  Have you noticed that they've paid more attention to you defensively in this series maybe based on what you did to them?  
KYLE LOWRY: Of course.  I think that's one thing teams have done throughout the postseason with me and DeMar is try to take the ball out of our hands.  I found ways.  We've got a chance to.  I've got a game on Saturday, and to turn around and be more effective, and I know I can be more effective,  that I will be more effective on Saturday.   
 Q.  Is it more their defense or are you just missing some shots?  
KYLE LOWRY: I'm missing some shots, and give credit to their defense, they're showing hard, they're rotating, and they're being active.  But I'm getting some good looks that I've missed, and I don't think I'll be missing many more of those.   
 Q.  Kyle, when you went to the locker room with like two-and-a-half minutes left in the first half, what was the reasoning behind that?  
KYLE LOWRY: Just to kind of decompress, get back there, kind of relax my body and relax my mind and knowing that we had a chance to kind of make some things, and I wanted to get myself going and get my teammates going and get the team going.  It was nothing more than just kind of to decompress, breathe, get back out.   
 Q.  Have you ever done that before?  
KYLE LOWRY: Yeah, I've done it plenty of times.  Just now the magnitude of the situation it shows a little bit more.   
 Q.  DeMar, how important is it getting home?  You've had very competitive first quarters and then you've not been able to as a team hang on.  What kind of energy, what kind of opportunity does going home represent to you?  
DeMAR DeROZAN: We've just got to go home and try to protect home court, just like they did, give ourselves a chance to keep this thing going.  We play well at home, once we get the energy of our crowd behind us, and like I said, take advantage of Saturday, see what we can do Saturday, and hopefully Monday we can tie this thing up.   
 Q.  Kyle, early in the Miami series, you weren't looking to shoot, and then Game 2 you really tried to shoot your way back into it and the slump kind of broke in Game 3.  You could see the confidence coming back.  Where is your confidence right now?  
KYLE LOWRY: I'm super confident.  I missed countless threes that I thought were good and that I made last series.  That's why I'm not down on myself.  I'm not like down -- I'm really like, listen, we've got a game on Saturday, and I know I'm going to be much more effective on Saturday.  Simple as that.   
 Q.  It was tied 46-46; what happened from that point forward?  How did the game turn in their favor after that point?  
DeMAR DeROZAN: We kind of got stagnant offensively.  We put them on the free-throw line a lot, and they kind of got rolling from there.  The ball kept stopping in their favor, shooting free throws, and continued to build for them, and we couldn't really get going offensively.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT