NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2016
DeMar DeRozan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  On the shooting guard position:  
DEMAR DEROZAN: These days you look around the league and there are so many great two guards that are capable of doing anything and everything on the court.  It just shows you how much the game has evolved and being really guard dominant.  Even now with the bigs, they just shoot.  You play four guards out there or five, so it's definitely changed.   
 Q.  For years the Dunk Contest had been the centerpiece of All-Star Saturday night.  You've done it a couple of times.  With the way the league is changing and now especially with all the great shooters, Kyle [Lowry] included in the Three-Point Contest, are we seeing the shift where the Three-Point Contest is the marquee?  
DEMAR DEROZAN: Yeah, I think so.  Look at all the shooters that are in it.  They can do incredible things.  The excitement of that is definitely crazy.  You've got to respect that.  It's just the game has evolved so much, that that's kind of where it is.   
 Q.  Why do you think the stars don't want to be in the Dunk Contest?  
DEMAR DEROZAN: I'm not sure.  For me , being in the league so much, you play so many minutes that it gets tough when you go out there and try to do dunks that you might have been able to do early on.  It gets a lot harder.   
 Q.  You've got probably the best shoe game in the league.  What goes into that?  
DEMAR DEROZAN: Just being different.  I think these days everybody's so into kicks.  I'm into kicks.  I just try to let my shoes stand out whenever I play in them, just for the world to see.  Everybody loves shoes, kids love shoes, older people love shoes.  The way you rock your shoes, it stands out when you play.   
 Q.  Do you know what your shoes look like tomorrow?  
DEMAR DEROZAN: I've got a couple today.  I'm not even sure.  I won't know until tomorrow before the game.   
 Q.  You rock Kobes, and this is his last time playing.  Is there any tribute you'll have with your shoes?  
DEMAR DEROZAN: Probably.  I'll see what my options are tomorrow and I'll see what I can throw on.   
 Q.  What's he meant to you?  
DEMAR DEROZAN: He meant everything.  Growing up in L.A. and watching the Lakers and being a Lakers fan.  Watching him grow into the player he is now when I was a kid, now playing in his last All-Star Game and seeing it in person, it's definitely crazy.   
 Q.  Heard you got in trouble telling people this is the coldest weekend of the year.  Nobody believes you?  
DEMAR DEROZAN: No, nobody believes me.  They think it's cold like this all the time.  But that's not the truth.  You've got to take the good with the bad.  We've got an All-Star Weekend here, everything's here, we can't complain.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT