NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
DeMar DeRozan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Are you in a tall task playing as host this weekend?
DeMAR DeROZAN: Yeah, which is fun.  A lot of people rarely get this opportunity, and we just try to take advantage of it and have fun.
Q. How did you and Kyle [Lowry] become such good friends coming from such different backgrounds and paths?  How did that happen?
DeMAR DeROZAN: I have no clue how we became cool or how we got cool or anything.  I think it just came about.  It was genuine, and that's my man.  That's my man.
Q. How excited are you to have the All-Star Game here in Toronto and what it means for you and the city?
DeMAR DeROZAN: For me, it means a lot.  But how far I've been with this organization, from watching it grow year in and year out, to now having the All-Star Game here, it's definitely big.  I think the whole city is loving it.  The country deserves it, and I think the world gets a chance now to really recognize Toronto.
Q. This is your first time doing something like this.  What's it like for you to walk around with these guys and soak this in?
DeMAR DeROZAN: It's been great.  It's been great.  We're only a day in.  I think as the weekend goes on, it can't do anything but get better.
Q. What will it be like to step on the floor on Sunday with Kobe in his final All-Star Game?  Kind of his last big hurrah?
DeMAR DeROZAN: It's going to be big for me personally.  Going out in something that's going to be in the history books and being a part of it in your hometown, it's definitely going to be big.
Q. What's he meant for you in your career?  Just a Kobe memory?
DeMAR DeROZAN: I grew up watching the Lakers.  I grew up watching him his whole career and getting a chance to have a relationship with him and kind of, you know, patterned my game after him so to speak, so definitely speaks volumes.
Q. How different is this year versus two years ago with your whole progression career-wise?
DeMAR DeROZAN: Just everything's different.  Just everything's different in the sense of I'm more experienced and feel like I've been here before.  I mean, I felt like I put in the time and deserve it, that's all.
Q. How different is it going to be or how special is it going to be, I should say, for you and Kyle to be going up against the Splash Brothers on the other side?
DeMAR DeROZAN: That's always fun.  To have two guys on the same team in your own city representing the organization is going to be great.
Q. What do you think of Drake getting the key to the city tonight?
DeMAR DeROZAN: That's big, that's big.  He deserves it.  He deserves it.  I support him.  That's big.
Q. What is your favorite Drake song?
DeMAR DeROZAN: Started from the Bottom.
Q. There is a report that comes out tomorrow with Marc Stein from ESPN talking about the interview he had with you, talking about how tough it would be to leave Toronto.  Can you just comment about what's ahead for you at the end of the season?
DeMAR DeROZAN: I mean, you know, you go through adversity with anything in life.  It brings you closer to a situation.  I just feel like I'm close to the situation.  I've been through so much here and my mindset has never been anywhere else.  So that was the whole reason of that conversation.
I don't think otherwise, until I'm questioned about it or people bring it up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT