NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2009
DeMar DeRozan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Athleticism is superb and I know the other parts of your game you need to work on -- can you elaborate on those parts, and second question, are you looking forward to be contesting in the slam dunk contest against LeBron?  
 DEMAR DEROZAN: What I need to work on is what I have been working on since I got out of college, ball handling, shooting, defense, I want to work on everything so at the end of the day I can be the all-around player that I need to be and everything. Definitely.   
 I've got one more victory in me to do the dunk contest, everything, so it will be great to go up against LeBron James.   
  
  Q. Quick question for you: Just talk about the process a little bit about when did you think you were maybe going to Toronto, there was a lot of talk obviously in Toronto about some other options; I know you came in for an individual work out. Just take us through the process.   
 DEMAR DEROZAN: Toronto showed a lot of interest and everything, so I try to stay open-minded and everything and might go before, might wait till Toronto. But I really felt that they really wanted me and I'm glad that I went right to the Toronto Raptors.   
  
  Q. The other thing is sort of in terms of the style of play; are you familiar with how the Raptors played towards the end of last season; where do you see where you are receive fitting into that system?  
 DEMAR DEROZAN: You know, I think I can fit in great. I can bring a lot to the team on both ends. Probably be defense and offense, that's my thing I try to bring and just get the team going again. Just try to do the little things that need to be done that wasn't done this year and make the team better.   
  
  Q. You may be happy going to Toronto, but is your agent happy? The Canadian tax system is pretty onerous.   
 DEMAR DEROZAN: He's glad for me to go to a team like this. I think this is one of the best situations for me everything and at the end of the day, that's something we are figuring out about the tax system and everything, so right now I am just enjoying.   
  
  Q. Are you going to save all the receipts?  
 DEMAR DEROZAN: Definitely, I've got to save all the receipts. That's one thing I'm going to do.   
  
  Q. Quick question just in terms of the city itself; did you get much time to spend looking around when you were up last time?  
 DEMAR DEROZAN: Definitely, I was up there about a day and a half, great town, ate, seen the city and it was beautiful. It reminded me of a mini-New York, a lot of people walking around, a big city. It was great.   
  
  Q. Going to Toronto and playing with Chris Bosh, this is a team that expects to be in the playoffs next year, how do you feel like you'll contribute?   
 DEMAR DEROZAN: Going in and giving my all on both ends, go out there and try to win every game and never slack a bit. Coming in, you know, might be able to have a chance to come in and try to make an impact and that's one of my main goals is try to get us to that point.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT