NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2017
DeMar DeRozan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You get a new one now with Ibaka.  What's he going to do for your roster and a chance to play with him in the second half?
DeMAR DeROZAN: I think he's going to do a lot.  His capability of going out there, protect the rim, space the floor, change the game in many ways with the skill set.  It's something we've been missing in that four spot since Chris Bosh left.
Q. I know you can't pick and choose anybody, but is he almost a perfect fit for you guys to stretch out and shoot but also playing defense?
DeMAR DeROZAN: Yes.  You look around the league and, sure, he's been known to be a shot blocker.  The main thing he'll do now is stretch out the floor.  Everything he can do is definitely something we need.
Q. And the expectations on the team.  When this thing went down, what does it do to your guys in the locker room?  What did you guys talk about?
DeMAR DeROZAN: We've got 25 games left to be able to turn this thing around.  We were struggling last month.  It's someone we definitely needed for our team, and we're going to figure it out from there.
Q. It feels like yesterday you were robbed of your dunk title.  Can you believe seven years have already passed?  How do you take it all in?  How do you let it all settle in, this great job you have?
DeMAR DeROZAN: It flies by.  It makes you feel like yesterday when I was a kid.  I was excited to do that.  Nowadays, I don't think I could do half the dunks that I tried then.  It's definitely a cool thing to look back on and say I did it.  Just to appreciate these moments like today.
Q. When you look around the league and you look at who would be league MVP, do you think that Kawhi Leonard can bring his team to The Finals?
DeMAR DeROZAN: Yes, he's winning.  (No microphone) he's definitely going to put them in there.
Q. You had an impressive performance at the beginning of the season and you were leading the scoring.  What's happened the next half of the season?  (No microphone).
DeMAR DeROZAN: We've got to continue to play at a high level.  It's getting down to the critical parts of the season to where we've got to push through these last 25 games and get ready for the playoffs.
Q. How have things been for you and for Lowry turning Toronto around?
DeMAR DeROZAN: It's everything.  That's something me and Kyle discuss all the time in the summertime, when we're on vacation.  Whenever we're doing anything, ways we can make this team and this organization better.  To see both of us here for the second time in a row, winning a gold medal, helping our team win, now having a new opportunity with a new teammate the second half of the season, it's definitely a great opportunity.
Q. Can you describe the atmosphere to be an All-Star once again?
DeMAR DeROZAN: It's one of a kind, sure.  It's a dream come true.  Something you dream about as a kid, growing up watching all your favorite players participate in it.  Now when you look around and make it to All-Star, it means a lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT