USA BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
June 27, 2016
DeMar DeRozan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q. What is the difference? 
DeMAR DeROZAN: (No Microphone) usually with the NBA ball, you sweat and the NBA ball is more sticky. With the (No Microphone) ball, you the more you sweat, so you just adjust. 

Q. How do you get used to it? 
DeMAR DeROZAN: Just repetition. How the ball feels (No Microphone) the feeling of the ball. 

Q. Have you started yet? 
DeMAR DeROZAN: Just as soon as I get home, I will. 

Q. In a couple weeks you'll just be used to it? How does it affect shooting? Do you like shooting one way? 
DeMAR DeROZAN: The way I shoot is kind of like I grip the ball the way I shoot. I have control, so a lot of times I can't grip the ball because it's slick. 

Q. So you like the NBA ball better? 
DeMAR DeROZAN: Oh, yeah, I like the NBA ball. There's nothing better than the NBA ball. 

Q. How much of an honor is it to represent your country at the Olympics? 
DeMAR DeROZAN: Words cannot put it into context because to sit here with the USA on our chest, 12 of the best basketball players in the world, to go out there and compete for our whole country that's going to be watching us, the whole world is going to be watching us, it's amazing. 

Q. Has it hit you yet? 
DeMAR DeROZAN: Not really. No, I think it's really going to hit me hard once we get this thing wrapped up and going and playing. When you start hearing it from the outside world, you're watching it out there, and that's when it will really kick in. 

Q. What do you think are the biggest strengths of this team? 
DeMAR DeROZAN: The adversity, being able to play small, being able to play big, being able to have so many guys out here who can create for other guys, create their own shots, get to the basket. We've got a big man in DeMarcus who is the most dominant big man in the NBA. So I feel like he's the most dominant player in the world coming into this once we go over there and get started. So we've got so many angles. We've got tag teams, and it's going to be fun. 

Q. Are there any teammates on this team that you're looking forward to playing with? 
DeMAR DeROZAN: I have a great relationship with all the guys. It's just great to come together again for something so big that's going to be a part of us for a lifetime. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT