ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 29, 2019
Ugo Humbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. DIMITROV/U. Humbert
4-6, 6-1, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. Were you tired today, with all your victories back to back?
UGO HUMBERT: Yes, I was tired today. I could hold one set. I tried to find more footwork, a better rhythm, but I didn't manage to find it.
Q. For several weeks now you've been on the tour without any coach. I'm sure you don't want the situation to drag on.
UGO HUMBERT: I'm not without a coach. I'm not on my own. I'm with Cyril Brechbuhl. We've been working for five years. He's been with me on the tour since Orleans. We are going to last at least until Milan.
Q. He's not a coach. He's a fitness trainer.
UGO HUMBERT: He's a fitness trainer, but he's coaching me as well.
Q. We saw Eric Winogradsky in the box.
UGO HUMBERT: I will not talk about it. For the moment, I'm with Cyril Brechbuhl until the end of the season.
Q. Apart from the Paris Masters, you went to Rennes and the lab of Caroline Martin. What is your assessment of this experience? Would you like to continue with this?
UGO HUMBERT: I did not have the results yet, but I think it's very interesting to find some extra percentages to be -- to have a better performance, because I think I can do better.
I loved it. It was great. I do not have the results yet. I will know it later.
Q. What kind of assessments can you do about this season overall?
UGO HUMBERT: In January last year, I was 380. I won Futures. I performed well in Challengers tournaments. I'm part of the 100 now. I'm on the ATP tour. I've gained experience. I could play on great courts facing wonderful players, top 20 players. I also missed opportunities.
But overall, it's a positive result. I feel that I am on a roll. I still have one tournament left.
Q. Milan is still a wonderful challenge. How do you anticipate it?
UGO HUMBERT: I'm very curious to see how things will turn out because the rules are different, at least regarding sets on arbitration. I'm rather curious.
And it's good to play against very good players. There are a lot of talented players. I will do my utmost. And I'm happy to be there already.
Q. Can you give us an overview of the rules?
UGO HUMBERT: I talked about it with Tiafoe and he said it's quite weird. There's no alley. There's no line umpire. It's the Hawk-Eye which announces balls when they are in or out. It's the best of three sets, with four-game sets. The ball boy is not allowed to give the players towels. And there's coaching which is possible. It's different rules.
I didn't forget anything, I think.
Q. I'm going back to the experience you had in Rennes. You have wanted to do such a scientific test for a long time. Even though you don't have the results, did you have anything specific in mind as to where you would want to improve your serves, for instance?
UGO HUMBERT: Cyril suggested the idea, and I thought it was interesting. And I said, as soon as we have a bit of time, we should go. I went there before going to Mouilleron le Captif. And, of course, I wanted to work on serving higher, more above my head.
I really want to know how it can turn out, yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT