U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2012
Brad Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We're here with Brad Bryant.   2 under par today.   Walk us through your round a little bit, please?   
BRAD BRYANT:   Oh, gosh, I'm not sure I can even remember my round.  
   
 Q.   Just go through the high points.   
BRAD BRYANT:   Played pretty well.   I shot even par on the back nine, which is a bit more difficult of the nine.   Felt like, when I made the turn, I had a chance to shoot a good score.   Birdied 1 and 2, and just played real solid golf up until the 6th hole.   Made a bogey and actually played a good hole.   
It's just the conditions are such that everyone's going to make some bogeys.   So you just have to try to manage and get the ball below the hole as often as you can and get as many good birdie putts.  
   
 Q.   It's a unique golf course.   Are you starting to get comfortable with it in those regards?   
BRAD BRYANT:   I don't know about comfortable with it.   I've hit a lot of drives where I feel like I've hit good drives, and the ball's ended up in the rough.   I think that's kind of happening to everyone.   
So from the standpoint of managing your tee shots, basically what I'm doing is I'm just trying to hit the ball, make a full swing, and try to hit the ball far.   So far, it's working out pretty good.   I've been fairly successful.  
   
 Q.   As far as your goals maybe for the first two days, are you on track with what you wanted to be doing?   Better today than the first day in terms of score.   
BRAD BRYANT:   Yeah, better today.   Actually, I really did well except for I just got off to a bad start yesterday.   I was 2 over after four holes yesterday, and those were the easy holes.   I've been kind of fighting my way back ever since.   
Yeah, you just keep after it.   Being a USGA event, the thing is that you always play safe and you never quit.  
   
 Q.   Thank you very much.   
BRAD BRYANT:   Thanks a lot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT