U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2007
Brad Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Do you feel like you're right back in it with the way the wind is picking up and everything.   
 BRAD BRYANT:  I don't know.  I didn't even look at the scoreboard.  I know that -- I felt like if I could get a birdie coming down the stretch I would be close to the lead at the end of the day.  And I didn't.  And then I bogeyed 18.   
 So I got to believe I'll be five back starting tomorrow.  That's my guess.  Pretty far back.   
  
  Q.  Are you unhappy with your position?   
 BRAD BRYANT:  No, no, I mean my goal every week is to be close enough to the lead that if I shoot my very best round, I win.  And so that's, we're right there.  If I shoot my very best round tomorrow, we win.   
 On this golf course, shooting my very best round is going to be almost impossible though.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 BRAD BRYANT:  I got a really good bounce off of 17 and I bogeyed 18.  So I don't know that I could call that a hiccup, without a hiccup.  Those holes are playing real tough.   
 The 17th hole, I played the hole nicely and hit a real -- it was just kind of I hit a putt that was, I hit it way too hard.  It hit the flag and stopped and I tapped it in.  So I was lucky enough to make four there.   
 Then the last hole I felt like I was a little unlucky not to make a four or have a good putt for birdie.  So it all evens out.   
  
  Q.  How far was that first putt?  Maybe 40 feet?   
 BRAD BRYANT:  Too far.  A long putt.  It was a long putt.  And on these greens, you kind of expect the ball to take off a lot of times and it doesn't.  It's hard to get the ball all the way to the hole without hitting it eight feet by on those long putts.  So I have left, today I left a lot of putts short right on line.   
  
  Q.  Just the nature of the grass?   
 BRAD BRYANT:  Well, I think it's just -- I don't think the greens are quite as fast as they look.  It's hard to get a real feel for them.  There's so much slope and all that out there that, gosh, you never know whether you're putting -- a lot of times you feel like you're putting downhill when you're really flat.  That's kind of the way I feel about it.   
  
  Q.  Still 1-under, even par would be holding serve, that might actually move up in this stuff, right so under par is pretty good?   
 BRAD BRYANT:  Any time you shoot under par in a U.S. Open you've done well.  I mean that's, I don't care where you are.  So I'm not at all unhappy with the way I played.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT