MONTREAL CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2012
Brad Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVE SENKO:   Brad, thanks for joining us today.   65 today, let's get your birdies. 
BRAD BRYANT:   A 65 today, that wedge shot on one, that was what got me going.   Nice putt on 2 and then 3 and 4 I hit wedges to about four inches from the hole, just tap‑ins there. 
5, I made a nice 4‑footer for birdie.   The par3, I hit a really nice shot about 12 feet and made a birdie there.   I don't even remember what holes‑‑ the holes kind of all look alike to me.   At my age it's hard to remember each one. 
Then I birdied 7 and 9.   I don't remember what I did on the 7th hole.   But 9, I hit a really nice shot on 9.   Hit a 9‑iron about six or eight feet. 
Bogeyed 10.   Made a mistake off the tee there.   We sort of miss‑read the wind, at least I did.   We hit the wrong club. 
Birdied 11.   Hit a bad second shot but hit a really nice putt there coming down the hill.   Probably about a 12‑footer.   Made a real nice putt there.   Bogey at the par3 No. 13.   I hit a beautiful 5‑iron there, and the greens were very firm and my ball just trickled off the back of the green into a little hole. 
I was only a foot and a half off the green, and I took a pretty healthy swing at it.   I don't think I could have swung any harder.   Only moved it about eight feet.   Got it on the green and hit a real nice putt.   Sometimes you make bogey. 
I birdied 16 and 18 coming in.   16, the par5, I hit it just off the back edge of the green in two and chipped it down to two feet.   18 I hit a really good shot out of the left rough just to the back fringe and made kind of a long putt there, probably a 20‑footer to finish with a birdie on 18. 

Q.   When you made your birdie on 9, did you know that you had moved into a tie for the lead at that point with Calc?   Did you look at the leaderboard at all? 
BRAD BRYANT:   We saw a leaderboard, and I knew that I was tied with‑‑ I think there were two or three guys.   10‑under was not going to win.   We knew it would take‑‑ I thought that 12 to 14‑under might have a chance to win and I got to 12 and so I'm very happy about it. 
But you know, at that point, you just‑‑ I played such a good front nine.   I got myself into the tournament, and then it was a matter of trying to stay there on the back nine, make a few more birdies. 
Calc is such a great frontrunner that you kind of know that he gets his momentum going, and he's really hard to catch.   I made nine birdies today and I'll bet he made more than I did.   So it's hard to know.   He's amazing that way.   I know he eagled 16; he makes birdies and eagles. 
Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT