MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
May 1, 2010
Brad Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Brad, just like David, you have a second straight 68. You're in a three-way tie heading into the final round. 
 Couple general thoughts about your round, and then we'll go through your birdies and your bogey.
 BRAD BRYANT: Well, both rounds have been real good. I've hit the ball pretty good, for the most part. 
 I've got a new driver that seems to be working just kind of like we were hoping it would. I'm driving the ball just a little bit lower, so in the wind that's kind of helping me a little bit, I think. 
 For the most part, I feel like I played pretty well today.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: You want to run through the round real quick.
 BRAD BRYANT: Let's see, I birdied 1. I hit it right up near the green and hit kind of a lousy pitch and a really good putt.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: How far was the birdie? 
 BRAD BRYANT: Oh, 12 feet. 
 Birdied the 4th hole. Hit a gap wedge to about three or four feet. 
 Then I made birdie on the par-5. I actually drove it in a fairway bunker and had to lay it up. That was like the easiest hole of the day there. Just hit a really good wedge shot about five or six feet, maybe three feet. 
 And then just made a really stupid bogey on the 7th hole. That was just a brain cramp. 
 Then made an absolute -- made it all the way across the green on 9, longest putt I've made of the year, about a 35-, 40-footer. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: What did you do at 7? 
 BRAD BRYANT: 7? I had a brain cramp. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: That was it?
 BRAD BRYANT: Yeah. I hit a 3-iron in the bunker and laid it up. There was a couple fairway bunkers that are just really ridiculous, and I got in one of 'em and I paid the price. 
 Birdied the 11th hole. Hit it up about 12 feet with a gap wedge. Made a nice kind of a long-ish putt on the 14th hole probably from close to 20 feet there for a two. 
 And then had good birdie putts on 15 and 16 and just didn't -- excuse me, on 16 and 17. In fact, I had good birdie putts coming in on those three holes, 15, 16, and 17. Just couldn't make one, and then bogeyed 18.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: What did you hit into 14?
 BRAD BRYANT: 8-iron. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: What was the second shot into 18? 
 BRAD BRYANT: 5-iron. 

 Q. How long was the putt on 9? Is that the one you said went all the way across? 
 BRAD BRYANT: Long. I don't know. It was 30, 40 -- it might have been 40 feet. It was a long putt. Might have been longer than that. I don't know. I didn't step it off.

 Q. What's the particulars on your new driver?
 BRAD BRYANT: It's actually an old driver. It's one of the old Callaways. We reshafted it with this, I don't know, I don't even though how to pronounce it. It's some Japanese shaft. It's just seemed to fit me pretty well. 
 I'm hitting the ball a little lower on it, and it's maybe a little flatter than the old driver I was playing with a little less loft. 

 Q. It seemed like David had a good round. Ya'll were playing together. Is that one of those things you're feeding off each other and getting a lot of momentum? 
 BRAD BRYANT: I don't -- in the wind like this, it's not so much about momentum as it is about just patience and control. You know, that happens a lot when the weather is nice, you know, you get to feeding off somebody else and generally all the guys in the group get on a roll. 
 Tom really struggled on the greens today. David and Tom are both great guys to play with. I don't know that we really -- I don't think we really fed off of each other today nearly as much as we just -- it just requires a lot of patience, especially on the greens. You have to be pretty careful in wind like this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT