MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
April 30, 2010
Brad Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Brad, not everybody is gonna birdie the last hole, but you had a great round?
 BRAD BRYANT: I did. I had a good round today. I felt like I played well. I had two bogeys, but the sad part is both of the bogeys I had three-putts. I just had a little bit of trouble gauging some of the speed on some of the downhill putts. 
 These greens are so big you're gonna have some long putts.

 Q. The front side: 4 birdies in a good stretch. 
 BRAD BRYANT: Yeah, I played well all day. You know, I made, what, two birdies on the back? Just had the misfortune of three-putting a couple times, but I played well all day.

 Q. I'm gonna look back and say, you know what, the harder the golf course the better you play. So is it fair to say that Fallen Oak is a pretty difficult place?
 BRAD BRYANT: Well, I think that the first year we play here it's probably not nearly as difficult as it might could be. They tend to be a little conservative the first year we play at a place just to get a good feel for it. 
 I think that there were several flags out there today that we could really attack. So if you really were patient and chose your spots, you could make some birdies today.

 Q. Were you being a little conservative on the first hole? 
 BRAD BRYANT: I went from the green in two and hit it in the bushes and made a nice par, so...

 Q. What else happened to you out there? Was the putter good? The driver good? 
 BRAD BRYANT: Well, I just played well all over. I made some nice putts kind of through the middle of the round. I think any time you're gonna shoot in the 60s you're gonna have to make a few putts. 
 I hit the ball well. I hit a par-5 in two and had it just off the green on another Par-5. 
 So it was just sort of a steady day.

 Q. If I'm looking at things, the weatherman says having an early time is probably good, too. 
 BRAD BRYANT: Oh, yeah. Always having an early time is good until the weekend.

 Q. You said about the greens, not only the size, but in terms of difficulty, speed, undulations, so on and so forth, where do they compare with the rest of the golf courses you play? 
 BRAD BRYANT: They compare -- I would say that these might have a little more slope than most greens. I think there are places where Tom sort of overdid it. I would like to see the greens have a little different slope than what they have, a little less slope. That way we could go head and play the course a little longer. 
 But it's a beautiful golf course. 
 Couple great places out there to set up deer blinds. I would love to be here in the fall. 

 Q. Some deer out there, I'm sure. 
 BRAD BRYANT: I imagine so. It's a beautiful place. 

 Q. Thank you. Brad. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT