U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2009
Brad Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BRAD BRYANT: I finished 1-under, for the day, 5-under for the tournament. 

 Q. Course conditions? 
 BRAD BRYANT: More difficult today. We had a little bit of a breeze. They got a touch bumpy which is normal for a Friday afternoon, although I thought they were probably as good as we've seen in a long, long time in any type of major. 
 You put that many people across the greens and they rolled pretty good today. I think Don had one putt that definitely, you know, it hit something and bounced off line, it was a bad break, but, other than that, un, the ball rolled pretty good. 

 Q. How about your ball striking for today compared to yesterday? 
 BRAD BRYANT: Struck the ball real well today. I hit either 15 or 16 clean greens; I missed a couple. One par 5 I hit a bad second shot, and the ball hit the cart path and went up into the trees and bushes where no one has been before, probably, so I missed that green, but made a nice 5, actually. 
 For the most part I hit the ball well today. I didn't putt well. Starting out I had lots of good birdie looks on the front 9 and never got the speed up, left a lot of putts short. So, all in all, I felt like it was a good day. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 BRAD BRYANT: Yeah, Joey and I are the last guys and I'm not carrying one this week because of the high grass or bent grass, whatever we're playing on.
 I usually play with a 5-wood, an 18-degree, Adams hybrid, and I actually hit it on the green on one of the par 5s today, on No. 11. Because of the type of the course this is, you need the height rather than being able to run the ball down the fairway with the 1-iron. Plus, the 18th hole here is a fade which for my 1-iron that's not my forte; I would rather hook the ball; it's easier to do that with a 3-wood or a hybrid. 

 Q. As a USGA champion, what do you think about that two-time amateur that's in the lead? 
 BRAD BRYANT: I think it's wonderful; this is what golf is all about. This is what is cool about having the national championship the way we do with the qualifying system, and you get a young guy like him, 50 years old, just -- I think it's wonderful. I'm glad to see that that's what's happening. 
 On our Tour, in the Champions Tour there's been a real change and you can feel that senior golf is getting more and more competitive not only among the professional ranks but among the amateur ranks. 
 I think people have realized that you reach a point in life that you can play golf and have fun and be competitive and enjoy yourself, and I think that's what we're seeing. 
 The last couple of years we've seen the scores come down on our Tour and the guys are getting better and better every week. Not just the guys coming off the PGA Tour but, every now and then we see someone come out of the amateur ranks that is just really good, you know? John Harris was that way, Jay Siegel and looks like we might have somebody else coming that way this week. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 BRAD BRYANT: I just need to play the way I'm playing. I need to make a couple more putts tomorrow. I mean, I was just a few inches short of having a really good round today with my putter. If I had had 6 more inches on some of my putts I would have made 5 or 6 birdies. So I can't worry about those guys. I'm in a perfect position right now, I would like to be closer to the lead by one or two more shots but where I'm at I'm happy. 

 Q. Thanks, Brad. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT