U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2009
Brad Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good scoring conditions, obviously?
 BRAD BRYANT: Yep, great scoring conditions. The golf course is in just fantastic shape. I think that the guys have set the golf course up just wonderfully. We're hearing some yelling out there and it's "yea" instead of "ooh". 
 I think that -- I think the guys ought to be really commended on the way they address the golf course this week. It's tremendous. It's going to bring back some excitement into an Open, which I really like. 
 I think it's time that we --you know, when the great players play great on a great golf course, they shoot good scores. I think today was a great example of that. 
 I think it will -- I think that the people that were here today, on site, there's a feeling and an expectation of low scores, which is real different than an U.S. Open. People are excited to watch some birdies. It's pretty cool.

 Q. This town doesn't have a lot of golf tournaments, whenever they have one, they're very into it. This is a golf star town. Seem like you it kind of helps the atmosphere; there's a lot of the people out there?
 BRAD BRYANT: I think so. I think they're -- you know, the people here don't see lot of professional golf on their you own turf. Indianapolis is a great town. Obviously, you can see from the crowds we have today, the people are ready for us to be here. I think they're getting to see some really outstanding golf. I mean, they're getting to see, you know, some of the greatest players ever. 
 I mean, it seems like a lot of guys that are great names are really playing right as well. Hopefully, Tom will go out this afternoon and shoot a really good score and these people will get to see the legends of the game really play the game only they can play.

 Q. First tee of the Senior Open easier for you now because you've won this thing?
 BRAD BRYANT: Absolutely. Yeah the first tee of the Senior Open is actually pretty cool now. It's kind of fun. 
 It use to be kind of, you know, you always dreaded it, I think. Now at, at least me, I look forward to it; so it's pretty nice. 
 Although that 10th hole was a pretty tough shot. [Laughter]. I was glad to get it on the fairway today off that hole.

 Q. How long before you don't get goose bumps anymore on the first tee when they say "Senior Open Champion"?
 BRAD BRYANT: The thing is that most of the time they announce me as the 2007 U.S. Senior Open Champion, second best player in my family [laughter], so that takes the goose bumps off. 
 But this week, you know, it's really neat. It was nice to play with Allen and Don today. I enjoy playing with those guys so much. And it was really fun. 
 You know, they announced Don first, and he won, what, five years ago or four years ago. Then Allen won two years in a row. Then I won. So it was a Senior Open Champions group. It was pretty cool.

 Q. Probably wasn't an accident pairing you all up. Inched out Tom though, coincidentally, Tom Watson. 
 BRAD BRYANT: Right. Well, let me tell you the mark -- if you want to be the greatest player in the world, it doesn't -- yes, you have a win a lot of tournaments, but the mark of a great player is how many seconds and thirds do you have; that's the thing that Tiger does not have yet over Jack Nicklaus. 
 Jack has a whole lot more seconds, I think, than Tiger has at this point. And so, you know, Tiger has a little ways to go to be the greatest player ever, but he's certainly getting there. At the moment there's no one that can stay with him when he plays good. He is the best. 

 Q. Tees kind of set up to play to your strength emphasizing ball strike and driving?
 BRAD BRYANT: This course?

 Q. Well this kind of set-ups?
 BRAD BRYANT: This particular course, this set-up is, I would say, somewhat to my strength because it's fairly wide off the tee. 
 This course isn't as good for me as Whistling Straits was. Whistling Straits was right down my alley. But I like this golf course from the standpoint of the way that my game fits it; so it's nice that way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT