ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 19, 2012
Peter Cooke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Congratulations on your round today, how did it feel out there?  
PETER COOKE:   Yeah, it was nice.   Just took advantage of the nice conditions.   Wasn't much breeze this morning.   So just perfect for playing golf and just a nice morning in general.   
   
 Q.   How much did the breeze play a factor yesterday?  
PETER COOKE:   It's pretty tough because it can get a little bit swirly and because there's so many sort of protected pockets, it can be tricky to sort of work out where it's coming from.   When there's no breeze around, you can fire at the stick and if you hit a good shot it goes where you want, so it's great.  
   
 Q.   You're right up there on the leaderboard, we'll see at the end of the day how close you are, how does it feel to be right up there?  
PETER COOKE:   Yeah, it's nice.   Beginning of the day, I wasn't really thinking about it.   I was trying to not worry about the cut so much and just play some good golf.   It wasn't until about three or four holes to go that I saw my name sneak up there and you've just got to try not to worry about it too much and just play your golf.   
Yeah, feels good to be around the top.   
   
 Q.   And just looking at your previous career, what is the best sort of finish that you've had, the best tournament that you've played in till now?  
PETER COOKE:   I lost in a playoff to Peter O'Malley in the New South Wales Open, that was in 2010, a good week.   
Till now, nothing real special.   That was a good week.   I ended it.   Hopefully I can go a bit better this week.  
   
 Q.   If you can get a Top‑5 or Top‑10, would this be the biggest result for your career?  
PETER COOKE:   Easily.   This is a pretty big tournament in terms of Australian golf and prize money.   So Top‑5 here would take the cake president I easy.  
   
 Q.   Can I ask about your eagle?   Is that a slam dunk?   What did you hit?   
PETER COOKE:   I had 100 meters in.   Hit a full sand iron and the ball didn't touch any ground.   It just went straight in the hole, so slam dunk, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Heard did you some damage to the hole.   
PETER COOKE:   Took a pretty decent chunk of the lip out.   Had to do some repair work.   Might to become a green keeper.   Did a pretty good job.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever had a slam dunk before?  
PETER COOKE:   Do you it in practice quite a bit when you're hitting wedges and things like that.   It's not a pretty common thing.   I think the week before in China, I had one bounce and it went in and actually went back in.   
   
 Q.   Can I just hear your thoughts on the greens?   A lot of players are missing putts, guys like Casey, Schwartzel; how do you find it, pretty fast?  
PETER COOKE:   Yeah, I putted well today, so any time you play well and putt well, you're going to say the greens are great.   But they are rolling nicely but there are some subtle, tricky breaks that if you get on the wrong side of the hole, you can have some big, breaking putts and they are tricky to hole.   
On the 6th hole, which was about my 15th, I holed about a 15‑footer.   It broke about six feet.   I was on the side of a slope and that was a really big momentum‑keeper that one.   That was a really nice putt to hole, save for par.   Hit a terrible shot in.   I was under a tree and I chipped it out sideways pretty much just anywhere on the green to have a 2‑putt bogey.  
   
 Q.   In the NBA when a player slam dunks, they show a bit of attitude; what does a golfer do?  
PETER COOKE:   Probably mutters a few words under his breath and says thank, something, for that.   But yeah, you can't get too excited.   You've just got to be happy and go to the next.   
   
 Q.   Your year ahead, not only end of this year but looking ahead to next year, what's the plan for you?   
PETER COOKE:   Yeah, at this stage, I've been playing the Australian Tour and OneAsia Tour, just try to keep my card here and there and I'll probably play there.   Depending on how much money you can save and make, I'll start looking at other q schools as far as America and Europe.   Just try to get this season done and finish and I'll make plans in January.  
   
 Q.   Financially is it tough getting tournament to tournament?  
PETER COOKE:   I've been working full‑time at the airport in Adelaide this year, so I think this is my third tournament for the year, so actually pretty much just work to save my money.   
So financially not great just because I've got to work.   You know, a good season over the next month and a half can change all that.   
   
 Q.   What do you do at the airport?  
PETER COOKE:   I work for Australian Air Express.   They are a cargo company, so basically load aircrafts for freight, mail, that sort of thing.  
   
 Q.   So only three tournaments this year?  
PETER COOKE:   Yeah, my first one in March in the New Zealand pa, played my second to last week in China and this is my third.  
   
 Q.   So how can you do this today?   This is unbelievable.   
PETER COOKE:   About four weeks ago, I thought I'd better start practicing and getting ready for these things.   Just sometimes you just have a good run.   I think when you don't think about it so much and because I've been working, you don't try so hard.   
You can actually sometimes relax a little bit more and yesterday I made a double‑bogey on 9.   Normally, you start losing it a bit, but I just for some reason, it didn't bother me and I thought, well, go to the next and see what happens.   Just easing the pressure off a little.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT