VIZIO FIESTA BOWL: BOISE STATE v ARIZONA
December 27, 2014
Grant Hedrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   How much do you enter this game as a proving ground?
GRANT HEDRICK:   I don't know whether we're the underdog or the favorite.   We're going to go into this game with the same mindset we've had all year, trying to focus on us, what we can control.   Our mindset was going 1‑0 each week.   So I think we're going to try to take that same mindset.   Whatever happens happens, as long as we prepare the best we can and control what we can control. 
All the teams in college football have changed quite a bit from week one to now.   Especially us, with the new coaching staff, offensive and defensive schemes, especially as a team, we've grown closer. 
It's great to be here.   A fun spot to be here.   Especially as a senior, to go out like this is very special.   I think we're definitely a different team from week one. 

Q.   What has gone into the winning streak for you guys?
GRANT HEDRICK:   I think having our backs against the wall.   We lost two early in September.   To match our goal of winning a conference championship, we had to win out.   Having our backs against the wall, focusing each week on being 1‑0, not looking too far ahead, was a mindset we had.   I think it worked for us. 
Obviously we won a few games in a row there.   It was the attitude of staying aggressive, focusing on what's at hand. 

Q.   With a change in coaching staff, was there a lot of change for you in the offense?
GRANT HEDRICK:   Yeah, a little bit.   I think the big thing was the energy, kind of the different energy.   I think a program needs that every once in a while.   With a young, energetic coaching staff we brought in, it was huge for our program getting that springboarded. 
As an offense, a lot of different good ideas.   Coach Harsin was an offensive coordinator.   This is his offense.   It's a lot of fun being back in it.   I know all the guys on offense are excited about it. 

Q.   Any major changes?
GRANT HEDRICK:   A little bit.   All the concepts are fairly similar.   I was pretty familiar with it because he recruited me my first year, then he went to Texas after my redshirt year.   I was familiar with the system and really enjoyed playing in the short time I had. 
But it definitely is nice being somewhat familiar with the terminology, the different formations and stuff. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
GRANT HEDRICK:   That was crazy.   A lot of schools are going to coaching changes.   It's hard.   The big thing is the unknown factor.   You don't know what's coming next, who you're going to get, what's going to happen to the program. 
We're fortunate we have a guy that's familiar with what our program is, what it stands for.   Coach Harsin, he's a Boise guy.   For us to get him, it's very good for our program.   He knows what we expect, we know what he expects. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT