NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2009
Hasheem Thabeet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Offensively, we all know that your defensive skills are definitely NBA-ready but offensively what are you going to be working on?   
 HASHEEM THABEET: I'm trying to get as many post games as I can. The whole season I spent out working on my offense and working with so many different people and to me this is a great opportunity to come out here and go play. I'm looking forward and I talk to the guys in Memphis every day, you know, Rudy and all of the guys are pretty good friends of mine, and finally I was chosen to go out there. So I'm happy and excited.   
  
  Q. A big man is only as good as his point guard; have you had a chance to talk to Mike Conley and what do you think of playing with Mike?  
 HASHEEM THABEET: I haven't had a chance to talk to him. He's a cool player. It's a young team and I'm looking forward to going out there and going with them. It should be interesting. I usually watch a lot of NBA games and I got to catch his game and it's pretty good.   
 I look forward to being a part of the Grizzlies organization.   
  
  Q. You had to leave home; what does it mean to share this with your family?  
 HASHEEM THABEET: It's a blessing. The first five years I didn't get to see my family and then got to see -- I used to speak to them on the phone every two or three weeks, and now they are here and get to experience this with me. I don't even know how to explain that. It's just a great feeling and I'm happy that she was there to experience it.   
  
  Q. Did Memphis give you an indication they were going to take you or were you surprised?  
 HASHEEM THABEET: I was surprised. They used to -- they was calling my agent, all of these teams, they was all calling my agent. I was waiting to hear, you know, what's going to happen. I ended up in Memphis, so I'm happy.   
 I was going to be happy wherever I ended up. This for me, again, is a great opportunity for me to go out there and play ball and have fun.   
  
  Q. Did you have in your mind when you came to the United States that maybe you would be the No. 2 pick in the Draft? How I improbable is this?   
 HASHEEM THABEET: Wow, when I came in, I never thought, first of all, I would be able to make it to Division I basketball. Ended up at UCONN, and when I got to UCONN, I got to be coached by Jim Calhoun. He pushed me since day one.  
 I had to believe in myself that I can definitely do it. After my freshman year, I was young and I had to grow up and he prepared me mentally pretty well for me to be, you know, believe in myself. He challenged me and I can challenge myself to be man enough to go out there and play ball, and I ended up believing in myself since my freshman year, if you remember, everybody was asking if I'm believing on that. My sophomore year, it was more financially a decision and I had to talk to a lot of people. I remember Coach Calhoun told me after my freshman year, if you leave after this year, it's going to be the worst mistake in your life. I had to believe in him and trust him and told my family they can wait for a couple of years for me to be in the NBA and go out there and play ball and put myself out there. To me, this is a blessing.  
  
  Q. Memphis is known for great music, great food, pro basketball, not so much. How much do you know about the City of Memphis and are you concerned about a franchise that has been a colossal failure?   
 HASHEEM THABEET: Again, to me, I was going to be good wherever I ended up. I was born and raised in Tanzania and lived in Mississippi, went to UCONN and now Memphis. So it's another lesson that I have to learn. I've been dealing with different kinds of culture.  
 I'll just go out there and have fun and be happy. Wherever I be, I know I'll be good. I was able to adapt and overcome a lot of stuff since I got to the U.S. at the age of 14, so I believe this is not going to be as hard as a lot of people think.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT