IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2017
Allen Lazard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Iowa State - 31, Texas Tech - 13   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
ALLEN LAZARD: Like I said, during the OU game, that's just Kyle's demeanor.  He's always been like that ever since he joined the team two Januarys ago.  He's just always been a very calm, cool, collected guy.   
Seeing his composure I think keeps the rest of the offense very composed as well, knowing we can trust him.  He made a mistake.  We all make mistakes out there.  I didn't play a perfect game.  No one else did either.  We just know we got our trust in him and we'll be fine.   
 Q.  There was a fourth-and-one situation when you were on your own 34.  What kind confidence (indiscernible) to get you guys going a little bit to see that type of play happen?  
ALLEN LAZARD: Yeah, they have a really good and talented front seven.  To be able to get that push, get that first down, gave us a lot of confidence knowing we would be able to move the ball when we needed to.  Not turning the ball over there was huge for our defense.  I think that was when I scored, the first drive.  It was a huge play, helped string the momentum for the offense.   
 Q.  Is there a different attitude from this team when it comes to late-game situation?  
ALLEN LAZARD: Yeah, I think ever since that win at Oklahoma, our confidence is crazy now.  We trust each other.  We trust what the coaches are doing.  We trust ourselves that we'll be able to go out there and make plays when the time matters.   
Just knowing that we can rely on each other, it helps us keep our poise and be able to go out there and execute in critical situations every day.   
 Q.  You've been around Iowa State football your whole life.  You more than anyone can speak to how special is this right now?  
ALLEN LAZARD: Yeah, (indiscernible) it's very great.  Things we've been wanting to do for the past three, four years.  We have to go out there and focus on the next game, make our corrections on this game.  The offense didn't score in the second half, which is unacceptable, especially versus our opponent next week, and the rest of the Big 12 we have left.  We have to go out there and make our corrections, keep playing hard.   
 Q.  You're one game away from becoming bowl eligible.  What does that mean to you?  
ALLEN LAZARD: It's awesome.  Obviously this is the most wins I've had in a season.  Like I said, we have to go out there and focus on the next game.  Can't look at the bigger picture too much.  We have to focus on our goal right now.  If we focus on the task at hand, the rest will take care of itself.   
 Q.  How much has that bigger picture thing changed (indiscernible)?  
ALLEN LAZARD: Yeah, I think we just go out every week, we don't worry about what happened the week before, whether it was a win or loss.  We just go out there and make sure we're playing our hardest, staying as disciplined as we can.  I think that's what is leading to our success.  We're very detailed and discipline oriented.   
 Q.  Where is your confidence in this defense after the last several weeks?  
ALLEN LAZARD: Oh, I mean, it's unbelievable.  Even though we don't get a score or whatever, if we're just able to drive the ball, push them back up into our territory, we feel a lot more comfortable knowing their offense has to drive the ball the whole length of the field.   
Our defense has played great the past two, three games, not being able to give up big plays, making the offense earn every single point they have.   
 Q.  When did you feel like the confidence started building?  
ALLEN LAZARD: I think when Trevor scored versus Oklahoma.  We realized this is the No. 3 team in the nation.  They've had all this history.  Definitely way more talented than us.  If we just stick together, play 11 as 1, we can play with any team in the country.   
 Q.  What was it about that play that made it a turning point?  
ALLEN LAZARD: Just the way we were able to come back in the second half down 8, maybe 14 or something like that, 11.  It was two scores, whatever.  Just being able to come back, our defense being able to hold them, being able to take the lead in Norman, it was just huge.   
 Q.  What would your definition of team football be?  
ALLEN LAZARD: Everyone doing their assignments.  If it's me making a block, stealing the outside so I can make a running lane for David to go get, running a route where I'm setting a little rub, trying to open up the gap for someone else to come get the ball, our O-line playing outstanding.  They've had great games ever since the Texas game.  Maybe gave up a couple sacks, but nothing too dramatic for them.  Just being very assignment sound.   
 Q.  What has it meant to have Matt as a wide receiver?  
ALLEN LAZARD: Yeah, I firmly believe we have one of the best wide receiver corps in the country, just from our size, our ability to spread out the defense with our big guys.  Also having the inside guys like Trevor and Deshaunte (indiscernible) defense.  Being able to block on the outside is our biggest strength.   
 Q.  Is this the first time you did the double stack?  
ALLEN LAZARD: No, we done it before.  We just did it this week, thought it would help to our advantage.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT