IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 10, 2015
Allen Lazard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Iowa State - 31
  Texas Tech - 66 
 Q.  When the defense struggled at times to get stops, that put some more pressure on you guys offensively to produce quickly?  
ALLEN LAZARD: Yeah, you know, I think we just struggled, you know, offensively today.  We couldn't get really anything going.  I think it actually put more stress on our defense, knowing that they had a lot of pressure on them knowing that they had to get stops for us to have a chance, and we've just got to produce offensively and take the pressure off the defense.   
 Q.  What did Coach tell you guys when you got together outside the locker room?  
ALLEN LAZARD: That we've just got to stick together.  There's still a lot of games left to the season.  We can't just hang our heads on this game because these next few weeks we're playing just as good opponents and stuff.  We've just got to get back to work tomorrow, evaluate ourselves and try and get better.   
 Q.  How is the mood of this team right now?  
ALLEN LAZARD: I think everybody is just very frustrated and disappointed in themselves because they know that we could have played a lot better and that, I mean, we lost to a good team today, but we also didn't play as well to our potential.   
 Q.  What was it that was not clicking with the offense?  
ALLEN LAZARD: You know, I think Sam just got pressured a lot today, and so he had to speed up his reads, and the passing game and stuff.  But I think he had over 200 yards today, so he did amazing.  If he wasn't rolling then I think we would have really struggled today.  But it was good to see him going, and that'll definitely help in the future for our passing game.   
 Q.  Mike set the freshman rushing record for Iowa State for five games.  What's the key to that?  
ALLEN LAZARD: I think every week our offensive line has just improved a little bit, and also we're just starting to get a lot of bigger blocks on the perimeter.  I mean, not to take away from Mike or not to take away from the blocking, but Mike is just making plays out there.  He's just shaking guys, making guys miss in holes, and then just put on the burners and running away from them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT