DUBAI OPEN
December 18, 2014
Kalem Richardson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That sounded like a special day.   
    KALEM RICHARDSON:   Yeah, I mean, I played pretty solid.   I was playing with one of my best mates.   It was a pretty crazy day for me.   Playing golf in Dubai, it's amazing really, you just look around and see the scenery and you're just enjoying yourself no matter what happens, and feeling pretty relaxed being the last event of the year and Christmas being next week.   Yeah, it was a very crazy day for me.  
   
 Q.   What was the key to the day?  
    KALEM RICHARDSON:   Just holing some putts really.   That's really what it was, a few 15‑, 20‑footers, and that's the difference between a couple under and 6‑under.  
   
 Q.   Is this a reflection of how you've been playing the last few weeks?  
    KALEM RICHARDSON:   Yeah, I've been playing solid, just the last couple weeks I've been a bit tired and this week I've taken a different approach and basically haven't done anything for three days.   I hadn't actually seen the course, so I was playing blind today.  
   
 Q.   Oh, really?  
    KALEM RICHARDSON:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Have you been taking in the sites of Dubai then?  
    KALEM RICHARDSON:   Yeah, we went last night and had a bit of a look around and had a look at all the buildings and all the scenery and had some good food.   Yeah, it's been an amazing week.   I'm taking to kind of relax this week, but it would also be nice to contend again.  
   
 Q.   You've had a few opportunities this season.   How do you reflect on the last 10, 11 months on the Asian Tour?  
    KALEM RICHARDSON:   My last six weeks have been really solid.   I had a couple of top 5s and that's the key with my card.   I've been getting‑‑ I feel like I've been getting more confident as the weeks go on.   When I miss a green I don't panic anymore because I know how to get up‑and‑down.   Yeah, it's just been a learning curve, and really excited for next season.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT