AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 4, 2019
Haylee Harford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How crazy is it knowing the next two days you can play Augusta National?  Can you describe what's going through your mind?  
HAYLEE HARFORD: Yeah, I'm a little shocked right now.  I don't think it's ever something I imagined being able to have the opportunity to do, so coming off that last green and just setting in and my dad being there on the bag and just taking in the moment to realize that I'm going to be going to Augusta, I feel so blessed.  I'm so excited.   
 Q.  Are you going to have him caddie on both days or don't you know yet?  
HAYLEE HARFORD: We haven't determined yet.  I might get an Augusta caddie just because I've never been there before, so somebody who is more familiar with the course, and obviously we'll have somebody out there with us tomorrow.  So that will be helpful.   
But it's kind of a game-time decision, I guess.   
 Q.  How cool is it to have three girls from Furman?  Has that made it easier?  
HAYLEE HARFORD: Yeah, it feels comfortable just having my teammates here and my coaches here and everybody here supporting us.  It's just a fun time.  I think it says a lot about our program, as well.   
 Q.  Because the program almost wasn't existing, right, up till a few years ago.  Did that program come back to life with Brad Faxon?  
HAYLEE HARFORD: That was the men's program.  But I mean, it was awhile there that our program was struggling and then my coach was here now and Kelley Hester, who is the head coach at Clemson, they came in and they turned it around and I was one of their first recruits.  Being there the past four years with them has been a huge blessing and has helped my game develop so much.   
 Q.  Seeing all the college bags, did that make it feel like a college tournament almost to an extent?  
HAYLEE HARFORD: Yeah, a little bit.  I think definitely there's a lot of familiar faces.  There's a lot of girls that I play against, but also just the way that this tournament has been ran, it does feel like it's above and beyond any college event.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT