SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 3, 2020
Ryann O'Toole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. You said the other day that being patient has really been key for you, especially this week.  Did you feel it out there today, that you had to really be patient?
RYANN O'TOOLE:   Yes, I think between the last two days, yesterday I shot even.  You know, I think after shooting 7-under it's hard to back that up per se, and then day to day you always feel a little.
So I just did what I could.  Finished at level.  Didn't get any back.  And then today I started off strong; I was 2-under after three holes and made a couple bogeys, a three-putt, so that kind of stung.
I told my caddie I just have to be patient.  They're a little more bumpy than they were the first day.  I waited and waited and still a couple coming down.  So I had 7 birdies today.  If I can just minimize the couple bogeys going into tomorrow I think that'll be key.
Q. I was going to say, there is nothing really better than finishing with a birdie down No. 18.
RYANN O'TOOLE:   Yeah.
Q. What kind of putt was that?
RYANN O'TOOLE:   You know, it was actually -- like, I mean, coming into 18 it was between a 5-wood and a rescue.  I'm sitting there going, Rescue might cover front; 5-wood is going to be close to pin.  It's Saturday.  Might as well be aggressive.
Then I tugged the 5-wood and ended up in that bunker.  You know, I don't mind those kind of like a chunk-and-run bunker shot, so I was fine with that.
The putt was actually fairly straight.  It was like inside right, so I was just hoping I read it right and nothing bounced out of the way.
So it was good.
Q. I know you said also that this week you feel like your game is back.  Dis you feel it back today as well?  I know a couple bogeys, but still did you feel...
RYANN O'TOOLE:   You know, even this whole week, yeah, 7 felt amazing.  I would love to be able to shoot 7-under every round, but I feel like all of us strive for that and it doesn't happen.
Just seeing the consistency this week and it wasn't just a fluke of the first round feels good.  I see it consist-wise as far as irons, giving myself birdie opportunities.  Starting to putt on my lines.
So, yeah, I feel like I'm in a good place.  Like I said, just trying to get into next week as best as I can.  I guess keep myself in position.
Q. What's the game plan for tonight?  Anything else to work on before heading up and relaxing for the evening?
RYANN O'TOOLE:   I think I'm going to go hit a couple more drives.  After I got some food.  I'm starving.
But, no, just hit some more putts, see it going in, seeing it hit its line, that's key.  Hit some drives to feel confident with it.  I think that's the only part that I feel not as good as Thursday.
So do some of that and rest up and go hang out with pie dog and relax.
Q. Your dog is here?
RYANN O'TOOLE:   Yeah, Hank.  So a little English Bulldog.  He's amazing.  First time I brought him out here, so I don't know, I might be starting a bad trend.
Q. Is he going to be your good luck charm?
RYANN O'TOOLE:   That's what I'm wondering.  He's been a nice distraction.  Just having a dog is like having a kid on the road.  I get done here and I'm like, I got to go rescue him now.
But it's just been one of those things.  I wake up and have to add that into my routine in the morning, take him to the bathroom and walk him a little bit.  I feel like it's kind of kept my mind from sitting there in silence just thinking about golf.
It's been a nice distraction.  Yeah, that's also been a question my parents have asked.  Is he coming with you every week now?  I'm like, Oh, man, I don't know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT