BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2018
Ryann O'Toole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kind of I guess walk us through it.  What was working, all that sort of thing.
RYANN O'TOOLE: Today was just -- I mean, I stayed patient, because yesterday I think I got a little annoyed.  There are a lot of birdies out there, and if you let opportunities go it's easy to just get frustrated.
So today my goal was to just stay patient.  I bogeyed my 2nd hole, the par-5, and that was the first challenge.  I think it helped to keep that mindset, because just started turning around.
Q. Do you always have the green glove?
RYANN O'TOOLE: No, that was just today.  I have colored gloves.  Yesterday was blue; day before was pink.  Today was green for St. Patrick's day.  Maybe I need to wear green more often.  I hate green.
Q. Not a big green fan?
RYANN O'TOOLE: No.  Green and orange are not my thing.
Q. But today...
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yeah, today.
Q. What was the highlight of the round?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Highlight of the round was -- I mean, it's just birdieing some holes that you don't expect to birdie.  I think that kind of went into what my goal was today.  I bogeyed a par-5, which you feel like you're always giving something away when you do that.
But if you can birdie one of the tougher par-3s you feel like you gained a shot on the field.  I think the highlight of my round of my attitude.
Q. Nice.  What does this do to sort of put you back in the spot where you can go chase something tomorrow?
RYANN O'TOOLE: You know, it's like yesterday I didn't play well; almost missed the cut.
At the same time, you stay patient.  I just want to play well on the weekend and get that momentum going.  Sometimes I feel like you can play well at the beginning and kind of nothing on the weekend.  It's nice to kind of flip it.
Michelle Wie did it in Singapore.  We'll see what I can do tomorrow.
Q. Is it nice having your family here?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yeah, it's really nice.  I mean, I live ten minutes away from here, so it's also nice to be home.  It's different since we're used to being on the road, so it's a kind of weird, different routine.  It's always nice to have family.
We got a couple events coming up in the west coast swing that feel like home to me, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT