U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 14, 2017
Ryann O'Toole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RYANN O'TOOLE: It was -- I'd rather have 10, 20 minutes, obviously.  So mentally, coming back out when it's -- it's gross.  You have to sort of turn things around.
Q. How do you do that?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Last week I played in Thornberry and I shot 3-under and the cut was 3-under going to the second day.  I figured I could do it here.  Granted, that course had a lot of birdie opportunities.  This course definitely challenged me.  It played long today.
I felt like I hit 5 and 6 irons all day and I tried to stay patient, tried not to get frustrated.  I think yesterday I started off really well and then made a couple bogies and I let it kind of get to me, keeping that fighting mentality.
I think my challenge now is how do I turn what I can turn on when I need to take myself out of a hole versus letting myself kind of fall into it.
Q. (Inaudible).
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yesterday, no.  Today, yeah.  Today it helps.  Sometimes you just stick to yourself and you're playing the golf course.  I mean she made some great par saves, she made some great putts, stuck it really good.
I think that's where she capitalized this week, whenever she got in trouble, laid it up and gave herself inside five feet.  Really made it easy on herself.
But I'm just hoping that I'll be able to play on the weekend and that I didn't have the harder draw.  But, so be it.  Now I can have the same draw as everybody else and get after it.
Q. Did you ask her about the 6 in her name?
RYANN O'TOOLE: She is the 6th out of 6 girls that all have the same name.  It's based on age, to be honest.
Q. That's why she's the 6th.
RYANN O'TOOLE: That's why she's the 6th.  That's the only way to tell them, all of them apart.  Even on the board it says 6th.  Pretty funny.
Q. You're looking at it --
RYANN O'TOOLE: Standard bearer, yes.  It's funny to see 6.  What are you going to do?
Q. There's a special guest coming this afternoon.
RYANN O'TOOLE: Is he still coming today?  I'm really curious.  We all woke up 20 minutes earlier to be here and go through what was supposed to be the checkpoint, nightmare.  Kind of like heck, I could have been 15 more minutes to slept.
Q. He tweeted he's on his way.
RYANN O'TOOLE: I'm glad we all know.  Hey, I'm glad to be done before he shows up.  I think anytime a president shows up at any venue, golf tournament or not, it's going to be chaotic, whether it be the choppers that come flying in or the Secret Service or the excitement of the crowd.  I'm glad that I can now sit back and watch and --
Q. He's probably going to come in the weekend, too.
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT