CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 2016
Ryann O'Toole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You said you didn't feel like you had an A Game, so that like B plus, A minus?
RYANN O'TOOLE: I would call it B plus.  There is always different aspects of your game.  You got the putting, the chipping, the iron play, driving off the tee.
So I think usually my drives are my strong point.  Right now I'm hitting these little cuts that aren't going as far as they could.  Definitely could give me shorter irons in.
But I'm striking my irons well, putting myself in position, and I'm making work.  If that's the case I have to take the rest of the week, then so be it.  I mean, I've gotten it done so far.
Q. Do you have a couple highlights on your putts as far as couple longs ones that you knocked down?
RYANN O'TOOLE: You know, let's see, on 4 today I made one from off the green.  I was probably three yards off the green, so about a 30-yard putt I made off the green.  The new PXG putter is working great.  I love it.
Come 2017 I'm going to have all the clubs in the bag, so watch out.
Q. Yes.  Besides 4, any other long ones?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Let's see, that was a long one.  No, I mean, I was kind of playing a game with myself to see how many shots I could get inside 20 feet.  Yesterday I had eight.  Today I tied it with eight again.  I think that one off the green was a sneaker that I got.
Other than that, no, there were no bombs where I can say, Oh, I dropped a 50-footer or anything like that I think that was a highlight.  Otherwise, you know, you're going to sneak a 20-footer here or a 15-footer there.  I think the goal is to stick it close.  Get a couple steals that way.
Q. Here you shoot two sub-70 rounds and you're three shots back of Lydia.
RYANN O'TOOLE: What did she finish, 11 or 12?
Q. 12.
RYANN O'TOOLE: That's okay.  I think if we were in a running match I think I could outrun her.  I'm giving her a head start.
Q. Does it get frustrating to play if well and to be --
RYANN O'TOOLE: No.  To be honest, she's playing good.  It's how well we can play the golf course.  I'm not looking at the whole field and comparing myself to any of them that gets you in trouble.
I think it's, Okay, what can I do better tomorrow?  I definitely every day left some out there.  That's a good thing.  Definitely keeps me chasing.
Like I said, there are 36 holes left.  Anything can happen.  Three shots is three birdies right off the bat.  It's how well can I play the golf course.  It's not Sunday tomorrow.  It's Saturday.  If I can keep myself in position, that would be grace.
Q. Said you don't mind chasing.  Why is that?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Competitive side of me.  You know, it's just that determination.  You see someone up at the top and you go, Okay, I can do it.  I'm not going to let them beat me kind of thing.
If you're playing well and the game is there, it's a lot easier to have that mentality.  Sometimes chasing can kill you if you're not striking it well or anything like that.  Then you're getting a head of yourself.
No, I mean, the main focus is just one shot at time as good as I can and take it from there.
Q. Have you ever played with Lydia?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Funny last tournament of the year and we're, I guess, probably paired together, I assume.
Q. Is that something you're looking forward to then?
RYANN O'TOOLE: I could care either way.  Yeah.
Maybe it'll be good.  I know I'll outdrive her, so at least I have that advantage.
Just, yeah, still stick to my own game plan.  She's going to make birdies.  I don't doubt that.  She might take it deep again.  Just going to be what it is.
At the end of the day, I can't underestimate.  I can't underestimate Shanshan Feng who's 5-under.  She's been playing great the last couple months and she's known to put that third round together.
Q. I suppose it probably doesn't surprise you that Lydia is at this spot.
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yeah, this is comfortable zone for her.  At the same time, who is more hungry?  I think I'm going to kind of go with that.  Who wants it?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT