HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 23, 2017
Ryann O'Toole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Looked like you had 4 birdies in a row, but you started on the other side.  Talk to us about momentum during the round.  
RYANN O'TOOLE: The momentum in the beginning was great.  I mean, I stuck 'em close.  I think after two holes I'm like, I haven't had a putt outside two feet.   
So it's always a great way to start off, but I think the biggest thing keeping myself in the moment.   
 Q.  How easy is that on a golf course like this, especially on day one when people are shooting lights out?  
RYANN O'TOOLE: I think you got to expect that out here.  I think always day one people go low.  It's hard not to get the mentality of chase or, say, you don't go low you have to now chase.   
Now that I'm up there, it's can I keep the momentum going?   
 Q.  What kind of player do you think the golf course sets up for?  You're quite a long bomber; Ariya Jutanugarn also in the mix.  Do you think it really rewards long hitters?  
RYANN O'TOOLE: I'm short compared to her, so, yes, it does reward the longer hitters.  Carlota was in a practice round behind me the other day and she was in places that I wasn't sniffing.  You can cut a lot of corners and avoid a lot of bunkers.   
Having a little shorter club into some of the greens is key.  The biggest secret, or not secret but challenge, is really finding out which quadrant and saying, Hey, the pin might be here but our shot is ten paces on, even though the pin is maybe 15.   
Just put yourself into the quadrants and go from there.   
 Q.  Definitely a course for course management.  
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yes.   
 Q.  You've got a new caddie on the bag this year.  Tell us about how this relationship started.  
RYANN O'TOOLE: Mark and I, we met out at Scottsdale National, and right off the bat -- like usually I would never take a country club caddie, but he's played the mini tours and so he had a lot of background in golf.   
Him and I just read greens really well.  We read greens very well.  I think we read very similar, so that communication was key.  Then I just love his drive and passion.  Like we sat down yesterday and talked about what's our game plan.  I think, to be honest, it's nice to have that team feel and kind of know that, Okay, he wants it just as much as I do.   
 Q.  Obviously on the same page out there today.  Good job.  
RYANN O'TOOLE: Thank you.  Appreciate it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT