JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 18, 2016
Ryann O'Toole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So getting it to 10 under, talk through the round.  What was working for you out there?
RYANN O'TOOLE: My putter was working.  Today I started off the round, I didn't feel like my swing was -- I just felt like I was all over the place.  Timing was a little bit of an issue.  Got off to just -- like a hit it and find it start.
But I settled into the round and got the putter working.  And then my back nine was good.  I didn't realize how many birdies I made until I came into the scoring tent.
Q. You mentioned that "hit it and find it" start.  Was there a moment where things started to click?  Was there one shot in particular that stuck out that kind of got you going?
RYANN O'TOOLE: No, there wasn't -- it honestly was literally I just started having my caddie line me up because I felt like I was aimed way too far right.  So everything was kind of a pull draw.  That's what I think was causing me to be out of sync.  And had him line me up and started hitting a few shots.  That got me back on target.  Then I think that confidence came back, and I was able to start capitalizing.
It helps with par 5s out here, to get some birdies under your belt helped, and I think a couple short wedge shots in and kind of get things rolling again.
Q. How rare is that for you to have Matt line you up for some shots?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Usually, sometimes if he does, it's usually in a funky lie or in a practice round or something where you feel like you started creeping too far right.  But not often do I ever have him line me up in a round.  I'm not one of those that usually particularly likes it.  But when you think you're aiming one place and really aiming the other place, you kind of need it.
Q. So 10 under now, course has been going kind of low so far.  What are your thoughts on the condition?  And do you think 10 can hold?
RYANN O'TOOLE: No, I don't think 10 is going to hold at all.  Half the field hasn't gone out, especially girls that took it low yesterday.  I'm just trying to keep up.  So I figured, if I post a good round, continue posting good rounds, and put four solid rounds together, then that's my best bet.  I don't want to get caught up in who shot what first day, second day, and I feel like if I can play four good consecutive rounds and keep going every day, then that will be strong enough.
Q. Finally, what's the approach to the weekend?  How will you try and do that?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Going into the approach for the weekend is do what I'm doing now.  Stay patient out here.  There's a lot of birdie opportunities.  Like I said, I turned that 1 over and shot 7 under on the back side.  If I would have got frustrated with 1 over, wouldn't have done what I did on the back side.  I think you just have to stay patient.  There's plenty of birdies out there.  I think Mi Hyang Lee proved that yesterday on the back side with the 9 under.
I just feel like, if you can have that mentality and stay in that moment, I think that's your best bet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT