THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 24, 2011
Ryann O'Toole
Morgan Pressel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What did you enjoy hitting today?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: I enjoyed hitting irons instead of woods into these greens. And Ryann hit I think every drive except the one on 15 right down the middle. I think we only missed one green today, and alternate shot on this golf course is pretty impressive.  
  
  Q. What did you tell Ryann today?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: First thing I told her is we're not losing this match. No matter what happens, we're not going to lose. We hadn't played together before. We hadn't practiced together. But just hit it down the middle, fairways and greens, like you do. She made a great shot on 14, and a great shot on 15.  
  
  Q. Ryann, how are you feeling about the crowds today?   
 RYANN O'TOOLE: The same, actually. I love the feel of the crowds. Of course, you're nervous like any other tournament, especially when the first two (Indiscernible).   
 You've got to love it, live in the moment and rip it down the middle, because that's what you have to do. That's all there is to do.  
  
  Q. Two of the players really are struggling.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I don't know what happened in their match today. But I know yesterday they said Beanie and Azahara played very well. So I don't know what happened today.   
 But they'll get it together and be ready for this afternoon and tomorrow. I know they have probably two really good matches left, and they can still come out and do their best.  
  
  Q. This match was very tough at the end, but you proceeded to win on 16?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, we got off to a good start. Got up early on the first hole, kind of lost it a little bit. But we knew that we had been playing well and we just continued to play well through the rest of the match. Big birdies on 14 and 15 kind of solidified our win.  
  
  Q. How is it to change from Christina Kim to Morgan Pressel yesterday afternoon and this morning, is it different?   
 RYANN O'TOOLE: They're both positive, upbeat people. I mean, both are great players. Christina is very energetic, likes to please the crowd and Morgan as well. But Morgan is a super focused player, great ball striker.   
 I put it on the fairway. She hit it on the green. We just made a good partnership.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: She's crying it was so good. She's so emotional.  
  
  Q. How is it to play with a rookie and her approach?   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Oh, it's fantastic. I really had a great time playing with Ryann today. We had not practiced together before. Rosie came up to me yesterday and said, What do you think about playing with Ryann? I said, Sounds good, put me in.   
 It's probably a strange pairing to what most people would think, but we'll take it.  
  
  Q. What about this 15th hole? It was very important. Do you think that's the key hole of the game?   
 RYANN O'TOOLE: Just like any hole, it's very key. You can't give up a shot. You can't give up a hole. Her and I were just going off momentum, especially after 14 making that putt. We knew that 15 was going to be a birdie hole, and we had to have three solid shots and keep the momentum going.   
 MORGAN PRESSEL: Yeah, I think that 14 was a key hole, having lost 13 with a poor decision and it bouncing back, winning that putt on 14 was amazing. The shot into 15 was fantastic.   
 I always say first one in in match play, and Ryann hit that putt to a foot and a half or that shot on 15 to a foot and a half, and they missed the green. Put a little pressure on them. They hit the green here and then they struggled. So match play you can play like that.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT