HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 23, 2019
Ryann O'Toole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It's got to be nice to play somewhat in your home, or at least what used to be home.  Nice to be back in L.A.?
RYANN O'TOOLE: So nice.  I just said that to my parents.  I'm like, It's kind of nice to be back here.  I miss it.  I lived here for ten years, so it still feels like home.
Q. When you say you lived here for ten years, I know you're from San Clemente.  Were you here in.  L.A.?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yeah, in L.A., so like around UCLA, Brentwood area and even in Marina del Rey, so I was literally in L.A. for ten years.
Q. So it's got to be nice to play in front of friends and family.
RYANN O'TOOLE: Oh, exactly.  And then plus middle ground between my relatives who are up more towards West Lake, Simi Valley, and my parents live in Orange County.  Everyone can meet in the middle.
Q. And you still stay involved with UCLA.
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yeah.
Q. Tell us about the relationship there.  I you know you used to play out here at Wilshire.
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yeah.
Q. You've got to have good memories here?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Oh, 100%.  Used to play here on Wednesdays, Wednesday morning.  But, no, I mean, I still have a relationship with the team.  We have actually a team dinner tonight, so alumni girls and current girls, which is nice and fun.
It's nice to get back in touch with coaches.  They are still the same coach and assistant coach that were there when I was there.  Just to have that team bonding is fun.  There are so many UCLA girls out her on tour.  It's nice just to kind of touch back to our roots and reconnect.
Q. What are some of your best memories from Wilshire from those college days?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Oh, man.  We had to be here at 7:00 a.m..  It was the furthest course for us, so it always like so early driving in the morning.
But, I mean, it's just a great track.  It was always fun to play here.  We were here from 7:00 to noon every week, and, you know, just college days.  I mean, it feels like so long ago.  We would have qualifying out here for tournaments; just there is a lot of memories.
A lot of times that we would play coach just like for coffee or something just to make it interesting and some sort of game or challenge.  I don't know.  It's over ten years ago.
Q. You're not that old.
RYANN O'TOOLE: I'm that old.  Feels very old.
Q. Not that old.  Do you have a favorite hole?
RYANN O'TOOLE: To be honest, they reworked the whole golf course.  They added like, what, a ridiculous amount of bunkers since I went to school here.  Last year when I came back and we played at this event, it's really very different.
Q. Really?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yeah, the main layout is very similar but a lot of holes have changed and tee lines have changed.  Like where our 18th hole is typically the 10th hole at the course, so that was always really fun when you didn't warm up in the morning and had to go tee off on the 10th hole, a par-3.  Ah, this is not going to be good.  Not warm.
Still probably one of my favorite holes.  They reworked that green.  Like I said, they actually made it harder, which is really cool.  For the tournament it's kind of a fun -- I think it's one of our only par-3 finishing holes, which makes it unique.
So probably now like the way the tournament is set up it's probably one of my favorites.
Q. Okay.  How are you feeling coming into the week?
RYANN O'TOOLE: You know, last year I didn't have as good of a showing.  Sometimes I just think as golfers we just have bad weeks.  And even coming off Hawaii where we play in really windy conditions it's tough to get yourself back.
But this last week this Hawaii wasn't too windy, so I don't feel like you'd lose your swing so much.  I actually feel really good.  Practice rounds have been great, so...
Putting aside however last year went, I know the golf course for the most part.  Greens have stayed the same.  Then just being relaxed in my area, so it's nice.
I'm just looking forwards to going out and enjoying myself and knowing that I can post a good score.
Q. And I also want to ask you quickly about DriveOn.
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yeah.
Q. All the work that's going into making sure the next generation is ready for the game and what we can do to help them.  What is your you DriveOn story?  What do you think about when you hear the words "DriveOn"?
RYANN O'TOOLE: To me it's everything that I live by.  I'm the type of person that is a constant grinder on and off on the golf course.  I live to be an athlete, and to me it's like showing that golf is more than just golf.  It's a way of life.  I think it's what grew me up.  It's what made me the person I am today.
I brought I feel like the athletic side to it where I kind of followed Tiger and Annika in that sense, just an athlete that I already was.  But I feel like to drive women today is very important to me.  I think we have a lot to show.  I think we go under-credited, and I feel like the more people that we can reach and show and even just keep building our generation to be strong and not infuriated [sic] and just to express ourselves and show our talent, then people will see that we really can bring a lot to the table.
Q. Absolutely.  I was actually just looking at your Instagram and primal fitness.  How did you get into that?
RYANN O'TOOLE: You know, working out is one of my favorite things.  If I wasn't a golfer I probably would've trained athletes.  That's where one of my passions was and is.
I'm lucky to train with a group of people at PFS who just push me to the next level.  Like I train amongst -- or I train by myself, but they also train UFC fighters, pro basketball players, pro baseball players, football players, so athletes of all realms.  To me it's like?  They treat us all the same.  It's not like, Oh, they're just UFC fighters.  You've got to do these moves.  You're a golfer, you've got to do these moves.
Yeah, there are some things will work better for us, but at the same time we're all doing the same moves and our bodies move the same way.
As athletes, you should be well-balanced.  I think that's where I really pride myself in taking care of my body and staying injury-free, is that I really try to be 100% balanced in all areas and make sure my body is functionally moving properly.
Golf swing is not functionally moving right for the body.
Q. Yeah.  Bends ways it doesn't like.
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yeah, I'm pretty sure your body doesn't like it.  Obviously if you can pay attention and give back...
Otherwise, at the end of the day it feeds my mind.  It's just where I find passion and an outlet, so I'm really excited for that program to come out and be a part of it.  Yeah, I mean, it was nice to be chosen to do it.
Q. What's your favorite workout?
RYANN O'TOOLE: To be honest, I always love when Greg challenges me to just push the limits.  I love doing box jumps.  I love doing like just footwork where he just has me move one direction and I got to move the other way.  Like foot pattern or explosive work.  Sometimes then you add strength in there, so I'm squatting and dropping the ball and then exploding up.
To me, the more he can challenge my mind to work while doing exercises, that's more fun to me.  To me it's like how much quicker and faster can I move?  I don't know, I like that part.
Q. How do you see that translating to the golf course?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Well, golf swing is a very fast burst of energy, right?  So walking, whatever, you literally have a couple seconds you just got to swing a club, that burst of energy.
To me, it's like, to be honest with you, a very explosive move.  It's a quick reaction for that split second, and then you go back to be methodical and relaxed.
To that ying and yang, to have that -- if you look at my routine if you ever watched me work out, the beginning of my workout is movement based.  It's dynamic stretching.  It's getting my body warmed up, but it's all slow and deliberate activation, and then I can go into the strength and explosive work and stuff like that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT