KIA CLASSIC
March 28, 2019
Ryann O'Toole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good day overall?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yeah.
Q. How did you feel about your round?
RYANN O'TOOLE: I mean, good.  I ended on bogey, so that's like...
But, no, otherwise I told myself if I could shoot 4-under every round that would be a contention area.  Happy that I got 4.
Q. Good target.
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yeah, very much.  Just a consistent round.  Not a lot of -- no mistakes.  I got a couple good breaks this time, so felt like it got me back from last week.
Q. Did you look at what the morning leaders were shooting at all?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Yeah, I don't tend to ever watch.  I don't like to do that.  Sometimes it's like, Oh, wow.  Sometimes I know what you need to do out here, and so just try to stay one shot at a time as best I can versus trying to get ahead.  Yeah, do I look at the leaderboard when I'm walking?  Of course.  Until like nine holes left to go it doesn't matter.
Q. What part of your game worked really well for you today?
RYANN O'TOOLE: I think I struck the ball really well and putted well also.  I gave myself a lot of the birdie opportunities.  Greens are bumpy, especially in the afternoon, so I am looking forward to a morning round tomorrow.  Definitely coming down the last couple holes it's bumpy.
So I think if I can just stay patient, I think that's what I did the best today, just waited, and eventually fell.  Look forward to tomorrow.
Q. California is kind of home.
RYANN O'TOOLE: It is.  I grew up in San Clemente just 30 minutes from here, so this still feels like home.  I've only lived in Arizona for three years, L.A. for ten, so I've kind of got like three home-stretch events.
Q. Did you get to go to St. Clemente this week?
RYANN O'TOOLE: I'm staying down there.  My parents still live down there.  I'm just making the drive every day.  It's so nice to be at home and just to visit where you grew up, your roots, so I love it.
Q. What are some of your favorite local spots you need to hit?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Even around here this place called Fish 101.  Great.  I love it there.  Couple good breweries.  Even like there is this tea lavender lounge back in San Clemente that I have to go to on the way in and out.  They've got like a bubble.  A little different.  I love it.
Yeah, just a couple restaurants back at home.  Guicho's, an Italian restaurant.  I think I'll go there tonight.  Just local spots.  Just like beaches and stuff like that.
Q. Do you have other friends and family coming in?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Oh, yeah, my whole family is here.  I've got a lot of family, friends I grew up with and just have been supportive forever, and then just fans that just are local.  So it's really nice to be here and have that support.
Q. Yeah.  Goal for this week?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Goal for this week is definitely to play the best I have in the last years that I've played here.  I definitely feel like I trended more, so obviously think I found my bearings in playing at home.
I would love to just play the best I have at this event yet.  See what that ends up being.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT