SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 28, 2018
Ryann O'Toole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Unreal stretch for you at the end.  You birdied four of your last five, is that right?
RYANN O'TOOLE: Four of the last five, yeah.
Q. What was that like coming?
RYANN O'TOOLE: To be honest, I didn't even realize it until now.  I think on 16, I made a birdie and I said it would be great if I could birdie the next three, putting a little chase out there, and I happened to do it.
I just put myself in position and made putts.  I bogeyed the first hole and I think the best thing I could have done was stay in the moment after that.  I don't know, I think it just shows growth out of myself.  It shows not giving up and it shows patience, and just realize that birdies come at any point.
Q. We talked to you last week about how things are starting to come together.  Looked like maybe a career-best for you this week.  How does that feel?
RYANN O'TOOLE: I'm definitely chiselling at the road to victory.  I think I've just been one of those people that always believed that it's been building blocks and I feel like I've just been laying the breaks slowly, slowly.  And so hopefully that is just something that I can keep building on and growing momentum so that it's not one of those things that just happens randomly once that I win; that it continues.
Like I said, just stay patient.  I think you can get discouraged when you realize how long you've been out here but at the same time, I think everyone peaks differently, and hopefully mine hasn't happened yet.
Q. Is it difficult to think about that sometimes, thinking of being out for so long?
RYANN O'TOOLE: As a kid, I always dreamed of being No. 1 and being someone that could hopefully change the face of women's golf or add to it, being more of an athlete.  You always think that you have it how it's supposed to go and life never works that way.  It's one of those things that I love the sport and I love working hard.  I take a couple weeks off in the off-season and I miss the heck out of it.  I think it's just something that I don't think my time has come yet and I think it's getting close.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT