JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 29, 2008
Phillip Archer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHILLIP ARCHER:  I don't like to say it is easy but it felt very easy with no stress. I hit it close a few times and made a decent 15 footers, three or four of them, and when you hole them and knock you six footers in it feels easy. The iron play was a lot better and gave me chances in the right places with the ball below the hole. I was positioning the iron play a lot better than yesterday and giving myself better chances.   
  
  Q.  Was there any reason the iron play was better?   
 PHILLIP ARCHER:  I went on the range yesterday and found a few key things in the swing, got a little more patient on the top of the swing and struck it lovely today.   
  
  Q.  Are you a quick learner?   
 PHILLIP ARCHER:  17 years as a pro and only the last three years playing well so yeah real quick. Playing with a coach it is easy to correct things and when I miss it I know how to correct it quickly.   
  
  Q.  You have the learn how to play this course quickly?   
 PHILLIP ARCHER:  You have to be straight off the tee and this rough, I have had three or four fliers, so you have to hit the fairways to have a shot into the green. I have driven the ball well today and gave myself chances.   
  
  Q.  You are no stranger to low scores?   
 PHILLIP ARCHER:  It was nice to keep going and get some birdies but it has been a while since a seven or eight under round has come out. I don't usually get going until May time so maybe I will start a bit earlier this year.   
  
  Q.  Right in there?   
 PHILLIP ARCHER:  My swing feels great so right in there.   
  
  Q.  And after such a great year last year, is it a case of pressing on?   
 PHILLIP ARCHER:  From where I have come from through the regions and then to now doing well and then after the Volvo Masters you are back to nothing on the board and that takes a little adjusting to. I have managed to clear the head after Christmas and I am coming back stronger now and keep pushing on.   
  
  Q.  Have your expectations changed now?   
 PHILLIP ARCHER:  I appreciate it a bit more. Having struggled at the Tour School ten times it makes you a bit stronger and I appreciate being out here and loving it. I am loving playing well and competing. And seeing the world. I wouldn't have been seeing the world doing much else and that part of the job I am beginning to enjoy now rather than it being a pain.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT