SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2016
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You played in Malaysia?
IAN POULTER: I did, yeah.
Q. And how is everything with your body?
IAN POULTER: Body is good.  Body is really good.  Feels good.  Flew back on Sunday night.  We got back to Orlando at 10:30 Monday morning.  So it's good.  Got decent amount of sleep and then more importantly I was there in time to see the Dream Flight Kids fly back out of Orlando back to the UK.  So it was nice to get an afternoon with the children, getting packed back away on the airplane, 192 of them, and they took off about 9:00 on Monday night.
Q. And what have you done the last few months with your leg, or your foot?
IAN POULTER: It's my foot.  Just general rehab was rest, some foot exercises, band work and just basically a lot of layers of therapy to get rid of the inflammation.  I didn't want to continue taking anti-inflammatories like I was taking.  So I've been off of them for four months and the body feels good and the foot feels good.
Q. Is there anything they can do surgery wise on something like this?
IAN POULTER: You know what, I didn't want to go down the route of opening up.  I mean arthritis is arthritis.  It's difficult to be able to have surgery on that, but it's all about the inflammation, try and take that away, and we're fine.  So it's managing that and making sure I don't overload the foot.
Q. It feels good now when you're playing?
IAN POULTER: It feels good, yeah.  Great.
Q. How frustrating was it for you especially with Ryder Cup and all that not to be able to play?
IAN POULTER: Oh, of course, frustrating.  I'm a player and I want to play.  So I guess not being able to play and being a vice captain was second best.  And it was a fun week.  Looking at it from the other side as opposed to being a player, you get to understand a lot more about the Ryder Cup from within side.  So it was a good experience.
Q. How about the state of your game now coming here?  Not competing for the last bit except for one tournament in the last five months?
IAN POULTER: I finished 17th last week.  I played well, had a few mistakes each day, which culminated in a couple of dropped shots each day.  So I think my game's in pretty good shape.  I feel good, played very solid, starting to hole some putts.  So overall I'm actually -- I'm pretty happy.
Q. What about playing in this tournament?  You haven't been here before.  Are you trying to play more early or is it just trying to get back in shape?
IAN POULTER: No.  I've only got ten events ish under a medical exemption.  So obviously I need to play my ten events to obviously regain my full status and obviously get myself back into the position I need to.
Q. For somebody that might not understand how important your right foot is in the game of your golf swing?
IAN POULTER: I'm not really sure that it's just the right foot.  Every part of your body is pretty important.  It doesn't matter whether it's your right foot, your left ankle, your right knee, your left shoulder or your hand, I think they're all pretty important.  Everybody has aches and pains, and it's about managing those.  Golf is not a sport really which helps your body.  It puts a lot of strain on various parts of your body.  As we've seen through the years, great players have had lots of injuries, which keeps them out from time to time.  This is the first one that's kept me out, and hopefully if we manage it properly, then hopefully it will be the last one that keeps me out.
Q. When did that -- I mean it's been ongoing for two years pretty much?
IAN POULTER: Couple of years, yeah.
Q. And it just got to the point where you just could not play?
IAN POULTER: Yeah.  I mean just too many Cortisone injections to try and be pain free and still not pain free.  And you know, you've gotta take time off to get it right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT