MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2016
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How about the 16th then. Fun and games for you?  
IAN POULTER: You know what, it was, I was just disappointed I didn't get crystal on 15. I hit a lovely shot, the best shot I've hit all week pretty much and hit it to kind of 10 feet. And we all want a bit of crystal from this golf course. And, yeah, just lipped out there and I said to Terry, man we had a chance of making some crystal as I think I did in 2008 by holing out, the right pin for it, and, yeah, I pulled it, I guess.   
   
 Q. Was it a positive week?  
IAN POULTER: It was and it wasn't. It was a good step forward on Thursday and I probably got too frustrated on Thursday and Friday and then let things get to me. And you can do that on this golf course. Especially not when it's playing as tough as it is. The greens on Tuesday were fast and firm as I've ever seen it, so they kind of had it perfect. I mean, that's the safety of this golf course, I guess, is the weather. We saw it in 2007. And since then guys can really go deep on this golf course. So, I think that Augusta National were very happy with the weather for the first three days and now they have set it up with opportunity today.   
   
 Q. Do you see anybody going deep today?  
IAN POULTER: Yeah, I mean, you saw, I think Kevin Na went out in 32 and you've had, I can't pronounce his name, but someone come home in 31. So, looking at the pins this morning, when I was putting them in my book, if you play a very clean round of golf, you could definitely shoot 7‑ or 8‑under par, which means anyone from 4‑over par has got a chance, if the guys at the front don't do anything special today.   
   
 Q. I think I read somewhere you saying that you needed to start tidying up what you're doing. How do you do that?  
IAN POULTER: How do I do it? Get rid of the distractions. Still not doing a good enough job to get rid of those distractions. Unfortunately, I paid the price yet again. So, I guess I need to be more ruthless and respect my time a bit more and if I do that, then I've got half a chance of playing some good golf.   
   
 Q. Are you suggesting we're part of that or is that some other things?  
IAN POULTER: You can read into it exactly how you would like to read into it, I'm sure you're educated enough to understand. I'm not educated, but you can make up your own mind.   
   
 Q. What about your schedule for the next few weeks, months, going forwards, looking towards the U.S. Open especially?  
IAN POULTER: Well, heading towards U.S. Open I'm not in, right? So, well, of course I can get in, I need to move back in the top‑50. My schedule will be, I'll play it week by week. I'm playing next week Hilton Head, a course that should be good for me. And then the minute ‑‑ well, if I started the season golf course very nicely, I was going to take three weeks off, it's probably not looking like I will take three weeks off. So, I'll just see how we get on next week and literally, if I fancy entering a tournament midway through the week after Hilton Head, then I'll enter. If I feel that I play well enough next week, then I'll take a couple of weeks break and I've worked pretty hard to now to get my game in shape, so this week's really disappointing, I mean really could have been a week that I could have taken it advantage of. I didn't so it hurts.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT