ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 24, 2016
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How happy have you been with your play so far this week?  
IAN POULTER: Yeah, pretty happy.  I think it was nice to get off to a decent week last week, having a bit of fun with the lads.  Match play always gets the juices flowing, doesn't matter who you're playing.  So coming into this week, felt good.  Turned 40, a new era, and hopefully I can play well this afternoon and really run up that board.   
 Q.  Well, they do say life begins at 40.  
IAN POULTER: Apparently so.   
 Q.  Last week, just going back, three out of three personally as well, for yourself, so you've obviously played lovely golf; and with that role that Darren gave you, how much of a confidence boost does that give you going into this Ryder Cup year?  
IAN POULTER: Well, it's certainly nice.  Obviously Darren wanted a bit of experience in the team room.  That's why he picked Lee and myself.  We had fun.  We had fun with the young guys.  Tried to help them out where we could.  Spoke in the team room, so that's always nice.  And yeah, it's always a boost going into this year.   
I'm fit and healthy, apart from a little nick up the finger middle of this week, but at the minute, I don't have any back injuries, which is good, and I feel excited about 2016.  If I play like I've played the first couple of days, putt well, like I have, then you know, things are looking good.   
 Q.  Ian Poulter with the putter working well is always something to marvel at.  Just finally this last round that you're going into, it's very bunched leaderboard, what sort of score do you think it's going to take you to have a chance at winning this one?  
IAN POULTER: Well, the leader is at 12.  He's probably going to shoot four or five this afternoon, so he's going to get to 17.  So I need to shoot a low round of golf.  I need to take advantage of the par 5s and don't make any silly mistakes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT