EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 15, 2016
Ian Poulter
Bernd Wiesberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brilliantly played.  That was a classic case of ham-and-egging it, wasn't it, really.
IAN POULTER: Yeah, it worked out nicely.  I think we for the most part put two balls in play.  When you do that and you have good looks, you don't both have to make it on the same hole and that's exactly what we did.
It was good golf.  We played nice.  It's nice to get it done early, as hot as it is out here right now.
Q. You're looking pretty red.  Are you feeling it?
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, I can feel it.  I have a tendency of getting a bit like this in this heat.  Not like it got to my game, even though at the end of the game, at the end of the match, I was struggling a bit.  But no, I think we did good as a team.  We holed some key putts when we wanted to, and we had our good moments each of us and helped each other out, so it was a good team effort today.
Q. How did the pairing come about?
IAN POULTER: Darren came around with it.  I knew I was playing with Bernd early in the week.  He told me that and I said I'm very happy.  It worked out nice.  You know, what the turning point in this match was around the turn, 10, 11, 12 --
Q. You suddenly got on fire at that point?
IAN POULTER: Holed a couple of putts, which is always handy in this format.  It normally makes the difference.  Those guys really didn't hole anything, and that's the turning point.  If you hole putts from 15, 20 feet, then obviously it makes it very difficult for your opponent.
Q. You were sent out to do the job early on, and you got the blue numbers on the board quite quickly.
IAN POULTER: It's turned out that way.  There's quite a bit of blue on the board.  Obviously Asia are having a late rally there, which is nice.  It looked very blue early.  They are having a rally back and hopefully the boys can keep it blue.
Q. What's the plan now?
IAN POULTER: Rest.
Q. You have the responsibility of going out first; is that the ideal start?
IAN POULTER: Well, it's nice.  I guess when Darren said, listen, go out there first and get it done, that's exactly what we did today.  And we dovetailed nicely.  We put two balls in play for the most part and we kept them under pressure.  Holed a few key putts.  Especially around the turn, 12, 13, were key holes for us, and obviously that was enough to get the job done.
Q. I take it there is a nice sense of team work, as well, isn't there.  It's a new partnership but it seems to have gelled?
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, obviously I learned a lot from Ian today, the way you handle the team on fourballs.  We went off the ninth green and said we need to put down the pedal and got a quick charge in on the back nine, exactly what we needed to, and that was key for us.
Q. I'm sure you're keen to stress it's a team game, but personally it was nice for you, as well, with the lovely start.
IAN POULTER: As you say, it's a team game, so doesn't matter whether someone makes five birdies and the other person doesn't make any.  Bernd holed a couple of very key putts today and it's nice, and it's nice to be able to gel like that when you need to.  Albeit, you need two balls in play, you know, making putts at the right time is what this format needs.  And it was good.  It was great to play with him today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT