BMW MASTERS
November 13, 2015
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on back-to-back rounds of 68 here.
IAN POULTER: Played nicely.  Continuing form from last week where I hit lots of greens in regulation and felt that I was leaving a lot of chances out there.  Started to take a few chances the last couple of days, and I've played some solid golf.
So on reflection, three bogeys today, which two were with kind of wedges in hand, which is a little frustrating.  But apart from that, obviously I'm in position and feel pretty good.
Q. Back nine was pretty sweet, four birdies in succession.
IAN POULTER: Yeah, I can't remember when the last time I had four in a row was but it's obviously nice when you birdie, put in the bank; have another one, put it in the bank, and have another.  It's nice to see a few birdies going in.
Q. In each of the last few events you've played, there's been a particularly good round, maybe a couple like in Hong Kong.  Do you feel that the game is pretty much there?
IAN POULTER: The game is there.  If you're going to hit 61 greens out of 72 in a tournament, then you're playing some good golf.  I know that I'm playing well enough.  I just haven't been holing putts.
I changed something on Sunday morning with the putter, just how I hold it in my right hand.  Shot 5-under on Sunday and obviously the first two rounds today, 8-under.
So the last three rounds that I've changed something with the putter, it's felt a lot better and obviously I'm making a few birdies now.
Q. Is that a change that became pretty natural immediately or are you getting used to it?
IAN POULTER: It feels very awkward but the ball seems to be rolling on the line that I would like.  And when that happens, if you choose the right line, then generally you're going to hole a few putts.  So hopefully that continues and we can have a good weekend.
Q. I take it the fact that you've actually played particularly well here in the past and had the victory chance, that always helps.
IAN POULTER: It's a course I've always played well on and I'm playing well.  So with that mix, you obviously feel pretty good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT