UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 23, 2015
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What are your thoughts on moving to such a sweet position after such two days?
IAN POULTER: It's obviously quite nice.  Got a decent amount of sleep last night, which was always handy.  Wasn't looking forward to, I fell asleep at 7.45 and I wasn't looking forward to what time I was going to wake up but I managed to get through to 4.00.  Done nicely.  Played lovely on the front nine.  Just a shame to give two back on that front side, the first and the ninth.  9 is a tricky par 4 but you know, putting it left off the tee on the first is not a good position to be in.
So all in all, a decent second day and obviously I'm right there in contention.
Q. And there was some lovely out there, as well, even the way you got the birdie at the third, which seemed unlikely circumstances?
IAN POULTER: Yeah, didn't like it, did it.  Didn't hit a very good 3-wood for my second shot.  It was actually a nice yardage to turn one into that green.  I didn't; I hit a low cut but managed to hole a nice 45-footer there to make birdie.
So yeah, there's a lot of good golf in there.  I'm very happy and obviously it's nice to be in that position.
Q. Do you feel totally in tune with the tournament now because you could have been forgiving of just coming here, very last-minute and all a bit haphazard without the preparation?
IAN POULTER: I don't play to take part -- obviously play to win.  Even coming in as late as I did, mind focusing on shooting a good score, obviously yesterday and today, was really key.  And you know, I know this golf course.  I've shot 60 around here before.
So albeit that I had not played a practice round, but I've got good memories on this golf course.  I've had a couple of top 5s in the last five years around here, as well.  So I know the place.  I like it.  And hopefully I can have a good weekend.
Q. We obviously don't know who you're playing with just yet but it could well be Justin Rose come the weekend; that would be nice, wouldn't it?
IAN POULTER: Yeah, could be.  Obviously there's guys to go out this afternoon so obviously they could change that.  But any time you get to play with a mate, and obviously a good one like Justin, is always quite nice.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT