DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 19, 2015
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Super round in an interesting four and five weeks; what are you trending towards?  
IAN POULTER: Ten weeks off.  It's been a long season, and obviously the last five weeks has been difficult on the road, away from the family.  But I've been playing some good golf.  I played well last week and disappointed to miss a short birdie putt at 13 to kind of tie the lead.  Then bogeying two of the last five or two of the last four is not what I wanted.  But I played well today.  Coming out, playing very solid.  I didn't take care of the par 5s today.  Second, I missed a relatively easy birdie putt.  Didn't hole a three-foot birdie putt on 7 and I just missed a putt on the last.   
Although the round was good today, it was 6-under, I'm right up there and I'm walking off the golf course again just a little bit disappointed.   
 Q.  You've been here before playing for everything.  What exactly are you playing for this week, do you think?  
IAN POULTER: World Ranking points, an awful lot of money and some Ryder Cup points.  Some self-pride I think.  Obviously hasn't been a good year.  Been very disappointing and I need to win.  So it's been a difficult five weeks, and I need to get back in the winner's circle and I'm fully aware of that.  I need to improve the World Ranking points.  I want to put Ryder Cup points on the board and to do that I need to win golf tournaments.   
6-under par goes a long way to obviously helping that.   
 Q.  You're talking about lots of money, and the new Chief Executive, Keith Pelley has been making some statements this week about the direction of The European Tour.  A lot of it geared towards people like yourself who play both tours.  What do you feel about where he's taking the Tour?  
IAN POULTER: He's doing a fantastic job right now.  Obviously I'm on the line of Top-50 and obviously the decision this week to change it from 13 to 5, the 5 being outside the World Golf Championships and the majors, is a good decision.   
It doesn't really stop the 13 number, if you're inside the Top-50.  But it definitely helps a few of the guys that might be just on the outside that would like to play a few tournaments.  And what his vision is for the Tour I think is good.   
Obviously I've had some conversations with him.  I'm not going to divulge them straight down the barrel, but I like where he's thinking.  I like where he wants to take the Tour and it's exciting times.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT