UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 22, 2015
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Given it was an unconventional buildup, how good is the 67 for 3-under?  
IAN POULTER: I guess in the circumstances, it was pretty good.  You know, I could have -- had I of nudged a three-footer in on 7 for birdie to get to 3-under, that would have been the start I was looking for.  I didn't; I missed it and then I bogeyed the next two holes to kind of take away the good work I had done in the first few holes.   
Took me awhile to get back to 3, but overall, I've played pretty nicely, on a course which I've had to get to know again pretty quickly.  The greens were a tiny bit slow.  Left a few putts short but I have to be happy with that landing last night.   
 Q.  How is the fact that you are a former champion here, has that helped, that kind of knowledge?  
IAN POULTER: Yeah, definitely.  I like the golf course.  Fanling suits my game.  It's not all about length; it's about position in play off the tee.  I positioned it pretty well around the golf course today.  Didn't miss many fairways and gave myself some opportunities.   
When you've shot low rounds on this golf course in the past, you know your lines, you know where you want to be putting from.  So yeah, it was nice to get back out there on the course.   
 Q.  And you found yourself a caddie, somebody that seems familiar with the place, as well?  
IAN POULTER: Yeah, a local, he actually caddie forward me when Justin and I opened our course over in Mission Hills.  He's now here.  I didn't realise it was him until I got here.  I asked the club if they could just find me someone, and it's nice, Alan's done a good job today.   
 Q.  Walk us through the time line, because this has been unconventional to say the least.  
IAN POULTER: Yeah, I was at the -- Monday morning, I had a text message from Keith Waters to say:  Would like a call, as soon as possible, please.   
SO I called him and he explained the situation.  I then explained the situation that I don't have a passport, as it stands.  So we then find out from the tracking number that it was supposed to arrive on Tuesday morning, first thing, which is good.  He then says he's been talking to Mr. Beem, Rich Beem, which was awfully nice of him to agree to not take his invite.   
So Tuesday, I was at the Dreamflight Hotel where the kids are, Katie, my wife is looking after, chaperoning a couple of the kids for the week.  So I was at hotel -- in fact, I packed my suitcase on Monday night, and then I was at the Dreamflight hotel late Monday night till probably half one in the morning.   
Dash home; woke up at six o'clock, because I was worried about if the FedEx man didn't get me to sign for my passport.  Luckily enough, I phoned the gatehouse and said, call me when the FedEx van gets to the gate house.  7.15 it arrived and I was in a car at 8.00 on the way to Orlando airport to catch a jet to get to New York to catch a Cathay Pacific flight to get me here for 8.00 tonight.   
 Q.  And you have seen Rich Beem in the lobby of the hotel?  
IAN POULTER: Yeah, I saw him in the hotel, so I went over and said, that's awfully kind of him to do that.  He didn't have to but he was nice enough to do that, and yeah, I think thanked him for that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT