WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 8, 2015
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I think something special to get a 65.IAN POULTER: It was pretty good.  I haven't played my best golf in the last couple months.  Got off to a nice start today, just what I needed. I got in some good putting practice last week back at Wofford (phonetic).  Had a swing change two weeks ago.  I was hitting balls at my brother's, and this light coming from behind in the shadow beneath me, I could see that my shoulder was just encroaching too much.  So set that back, done that in my putting stroke as well.  Not only am I hitting it better, I'm actually putting putting better.Q. One or two of the highlights.  The first was pretty special.  You have to take the spin off this one, because there's a lot of slope there?IAN POULTER: Yeah, we did.  We just hit a smooth one.  The other one would have spun too much.  And this thing obviously would just come in and stopped there.Q. Talk about the putting improving.  It's been frustrating, hasn't it, really?IAN POULTER: It has.  Again, you might be able to notice my shoulders are a bit further set back, just allowing the right shoulder to rock through.  And because of that, I'm starting on my line, I'm seeing my line, and I'm hitting a lot of good putts.  When they're not going in, they're shaving the edge.Q. Nice way to finish with a birdie on the 18th hole.IAN POULTER: Hit a healthy drive down there.  Had, again, a nice soft wedge shot.  Had a new set of lines on the back this week.  I only got to play three holes in practice and hit it into about 12, 15 foot.Q. Can you carry a little form into the major next week?IAN POULTER: Yeah, it's coming.  It's been a bit disappointing to me.  That's the best thing about playing a round like today.  Put myself back in contention.  Feeling good. Obviously, 18 holes to go tomorrow.  This hasn't been the best of golf courses for me through the years.  That's why I only played three holes in practice.  So I've done some extra work on the range.  That's paying off.Q. Big round out there.  A lot of guys are struggling to break par.  You shot a 65.  What was your key to your round today?IAN POULTER: Obviously, hitting a lot of shots in there pretty tight.  I started to roll a few putts at the hole.  When you have that combination and you give yourself plenty of looks at birdie, you take a few, and it went up to 65.Q. Minus 4 right now.  What's the game plan for tomorrow?IAN POULTER: Obviously, the guys -- Jim's out there in front.  He's playing some good golf.  He loves this golf course.  If he presses on and birdies a few more, then obviously it's going to be a tough round tomorrow to put some heat on him.  But who knows? The last few holes can play pretty tricky.  If that happens, then obviously we're going to be in with a chance.  I just need to play some golf tomorrow like I played today.Q. Obviously, there's still work to do tomorrow.  The game is looking pretty strong going into next week.  And now Rory is going to be there to join you.  Not to get too far ahead, but are you excited for Whistling Straits?IAN POULTER: I'm excited about tomorrow more than anything else.  Whistling Straits is obviously next week.  Focus for me is obviously to play well tomorrow.  I haven't played my best golf over the last couple of months.  Whistling Straits will be on my mind when I get there next week.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT