RBC HERITAGE
April 16, 2015
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Not quite a links golf course, but links conditions it felt like today, Ian.   Considering the weather and how you had to face it, how good was that number that you posted?  
IAN POULTER:   I think that it was very good.   Last night's storm dropped a lot of rain, but it didn't seem to soften up the greens too much.   The wind I think has dried them out slightly.   There was a strong breeze today, exposed on the back nine.   A few holes coming in played real, real tricky.   Even 18 was moved 45 yards up and it was still driver, 3‑iron.  
So those holes are tricky.   Made a couple of‑‑ hit a couple of decent shots, made a bogey from that position on the back nine, and then all of a sudden I hit some great shots, and obviously convert a few birdie putts and 2‑under par is a decent round today.   
   
 Q.   Those who have been following you have noticed that you are trending in a positive direction.   Can you just give me an account of where you think your game is right now.   
IAN POULTER:   Obviously my game is good.   82 percent of greens last week was considerably better than the field.   I changed my putter grip coming into this week.   I felt I putted nicely, but it just hasn't quite happened.  
So the second I start to hole those putts, I think with the percentage of greens that I've been hitting‑‑ this week is exceptional because the greens are so small, and you're not going to hit 82 percent around this golf course.   So as long as you leave it in the right spot around this place and you find you're able to make up‑and‑downs.   
But my game's good.   I didn't up and down as much as I wanted to last week from the few greens that I did miss, I didn't hole enough putts.   But if I get very comfortable with the putter, then I think I'm in a good position.  
   
 Q.   Ian, well played out there today.   Nice finish there at nine.   Four birdies, two bogeys, how did the golf course play?  
IAN POULTER:   It played difficult today.   The wind picked up there on our front nine, which was the back nine.   The back nine played a lot more difficult than the front side.   Some key holes were on the back nine, which were very tricky in that strong wind.   
So it was good to make a couple of birdies there coming in after a couple of frustrating mistakes on that front side.   But it's in position.   The good players are continuing and we'll see.   
   
 Q.   The key to your round today?  
IAN POULTER:   Staying patient.   I don't feel a hundred percent.   A little under the weather after last week, picked up a little virus.   But I was patient and just put it in position.   So I think patience over everything else is working.  
   
 Q.   A nice finish over the weekend last week, top 10.   Is this a nice respite after last week?  
IAN POULTER:   I don't think it's a respite, no.   This golf course has played more difficult than Augusta.   I don't see 8‑under par leading this event after day 1 and I don't see 15‑under leading after day 2.   So who knows, actually.   
But, no, it's playing more difficult.   This golf course isn't easy.   It's one you have to concentrate.   Fairways aren't good enough; you have to hit left and right side of fairways to have any kind shot to some of these greens and timing.   So picking the wind direction and getting it right is also very tough.   So I mean, this course in these conditions are proving to be a bit of test.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT