VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2015
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How would you assess your performance here on Friday?  
IAN POULTER:   I would say I was very happy with the back-9.   My front-9 and obviously the wind started to pick up with 9 holes to play, playing that front side which again can get tricky in a strong wind which was exactly what it was.   I made two soft bogies, one with a sand iron, the other one with a 9-iron.  
So, I little bit frustrated with those two soft bogies but, all in all, it's in a decent position on the board.   I just need to play this weekend without making so many bogies.  
   
 Q.   What are the biggest challenges that you see the weather change from the 1st round?  
IAN POULTER:   Wind direction.   It swirls around this golf course.   A lot of holes surrounded by trees.   There's some elevation change.   One minute you feel the wind straight down, the next time it's left to right.   You can get a quick 45-degree angle change and all of a sudden the ball comes up short or goes flying through the green, especially as the greens are pretty small.   It's definitely challenging but it's playing tough.  
   
 Q.   Good chance to win the Honda a couple weeks ago.   How satisfying is it to be right back in the mix halfway home here?  
IAN POULTER:   I feel very happy with my game.   
You know, I wanted to get straight back on the course.   I was always playing four in a row from Honda so, you know, to come up a couple short or one short with the playoff there to, you know, play last week was a little frustrating knowing I really probably don't have a chance against the big hitters but this week I do have a great chance.   
It's a positional golf course, a course that you can't overpower.   Put it in position and I'm in position come the weekend.   So, I'm very happy.  
   
 Q.   Midway through the round, the wind kick up a bit?  
IAN POULTER:   18th hole, our 9th hole of the day, pretty much when the forecast said it was going to pick up it did.   Played it rather challenging.   
It was a great test, to be honest, on that front-9.   But just two soft bogies, one with a sand iron, the other with a 9-iron and that's really annoying to make two soft bogies when some of the other holes were playing 3-iron, 4 hybrids, I'm playing those holes nicely and two real soft bogies.  
   
 Q.   How do you adjust to the wind when it happens like this in mid-round?  
IAN POULTER:   Same way as anyone would.   Just obviously hit more club or take one less club.  
   
 Q.   That sounds easy.  
IAN POULTER:   Well, it is.   It's an equation, isn't it?   If there was a 5-yard wind earlier on the front-9, all of a sudden you think it's 20-yard wind, then probably take two clubs off if it's downwind.  
   
 Q.   Does it affect your putting?  
IAN POULTER:   The wind certainly can affect putts.   I felt one of the par putts I had from ten feet was breaking in the middle of the hole and caught a gust of wind and kept from it breaking.   
Yeah, definitely on these greens as quick as they can be, you definitely getting the ball that's going to move with the wind.  
   
 Q.   Just one more thing.   Since it's been a few years, do the memories of this course come back to you now?   Do you remember everything about this place?  
IAN POULTER:   Been a few years.   It's a golf course I've only played three rounds I guess, now, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.   I would still have to think of a couple holes but, obviously, you know, the more you play the golf course the more you remember it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT