TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORT
November 16, 2014
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was the difference in the back nine compared to the front? 
IAN POULTER:   Missed a couple of opportunities coming in.   That was the difference, a couple of putts there, 15, 17, 18.   I can look back and add them up and there was plenty.   Damage was Saturday.   I played some good golf this week.   And to play a bad round on Saturday is a bit inexexcusable and that's what happened.   There's good players out here week‑in, week‑out and you need to play well for four rounds of golf. 

Q.   Are you going to take the positives out of here? 
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, of course.   I mean, I'm playing great.   So to come into the back end of the year, as bad as 2014's been, the last two weeks has been pretty good.   So for me to play well over this stretch of tournaments right here with new equipment in the bag for me is very pleasing.   That was potentially a worry going into the last four, sitting at 44 in the world, is not the best scenario to be in.   But to know that I've played well with the new equipment, I can't be any happier than that.

Q.   The final hole, can you talk us through?
IAN POULTER:   I needed to get an extra five yards out of a 3‑hybrid and I tried to hit a raking draw and I just pushed it.   Hit a decent bunker shot ‑‑ and you know, it was probably a bad thing that I actually stood there and watched Westy's put, because I think he pushed it slightly and it fell in the right edge.   I knew my putt was going to break right‑to‑left.   I hit it, what I thought was right edge on a decent pace and it broke across the hole. 
So I don't know whether he pushed his too much or whether I read way too much in that but it might have been better had I hit my putt first. 

Q.   What is the verdict? 
IAN POULTER:   Disappointing is the outcome.   I think hats off to a great round today, and obviously he's played some superb golf there.   Damage was done on Saturday.   That, for me, is really disappointing; to have played three great rounds of golf, and just one blip on Saturday, which is a real shame. 
So you know, it's frustrating, is what it is.   There's no other word for it.   Yes, I'm going to be angry.   I'll be angry for a good few days.   But that's fine.   I'll keep myself in my own little room and have a little chat with myself and come out and win next week. 

Q.   I appreciate it's probably the wrong time to look at the positives but there are so many over these two weeks, aren't there? 
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, I mean, there's an awful lot.   I mean, 44 in the world coming into a stretch of tournaments with brand new equipment in the bag is potentially dangerous.   But you know what, it's actually worked out fantastic.   I couldn't be happier with Titleist.   The equipment's been really good.   I'm so happy.
Happy to play well last week and really angry I didn't finish that one off, and I've done the same this week.   Two weeks where I know I probably could have won, had I hit a couple different shots at different times.   So I have to take plenty away from this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT