THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 28, 2015
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice 64.  
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, this is a difficult golf course.   Obviously a slightly soft end course makes it play a little bit easier but obviously the conditions, tricky, windy.   And obviously we got a bit of rain coming in and out.   
So obviously it was a good start yesterday, and you know, I played pretty solid today.   Had a few chances.   One silly 3‑putt but I'm happy with the round.  
   
 Q.   What you saw of the golf course when you came back out today, what do you expect this afternoon?  
IAN POULTER:   Soft.   There's the occasional little mud ball which we're picking up in the fairway, which makes it tricky because there's a lot of water hazards around this golf course.   Predicting some of that is going to be interesting.   
And hopefully, the storm blows away and we can get a lot of golf in today.   It would be a shame to be stop, start this afternoon.   Not sure what the cell is looking like right now.   
   
 Q.   Rounds like these, a little bit of luck always helps; the shot at 4 was an energizer.   
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, it's obviously always a little lucky to go in.   But you're aiming to get it close, you have sand iron in hand and occasionally they go in.   
   
 Q.   What were the keys to keeping the momentum going this morning?  
IAN POULTER:   Patience.   It was obviously going to be tricky out there.   It's wet and the fairways are picking up just a tiny bit of mud, so predicting a couple of those coming into some of the greens that are surrounded by water is obviously tricky, and the wind started to pick up today.   
The hybrid that I put in before the round yesterday is obviously going to come out with the winds picking up the way they are and I putted nicely as well.   One silly 3‑putt but apart from that, pleased with how I played.   
   
 Q.   We talked earlier this week in the fact that last month you started doing AimPoint.   Are you feeling more and more comfortable?   
IAN POULTER:   I'm doing a bit of both.   I've had a number of straight putts and obviously if you've got a separate put you don't really need to do the AimPoint.   So I'm kind of blending the two.   Right now it's working pretty good.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit on 4?   
IAN POULTER:   I hit 56 sand wedge, 116.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us about how you feel about the general state of your game?   I know it's early but as far as where your game is at and if you think you can win?  
IAN POULTER:   Sure.   If I play half as good as I've obviously played today round two, then I'm going to have a chance come Sunday.   I mean, this golf course, we've seen through the years, a stretch of holes of taking people from in contention, out of contention very quickly.   The way I feel about my game, I'm hitting good shots.   I'm holing a few putts and obviously if you're going to do that, then you've got half a chance.   
My mental side, I feel confident, provided I keep doing the right things, I keep working on straightening those areas that are weaker than my strengths and if I do that, then obviously I'm hoping I can improve.  
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT