TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORT
November 13, 2014
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You said after your second round last week that it was the best you played all year.   How does that one compare?
IAN POULTER:   I'd say that might just top it.   It was good golf today. 
Obviously teeing off on the 10th hole, you have to make a quick start, knowing you've got some opportunities coming up before you've reached the stretch of 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, which you can slip up on. 
The five par 5s, I took care of them really nicely today.   6‑under on the par 5s, which is always a key to scoring well, especially when you've got five of them.   You're going to have to do that well this week, play under par to have a chance to win.

Q.   Last week despite a good finish, you weren't particularly happy with your putting, and I saw you working for hours on your putting yesterday.   You must have found something. 
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, switched back to my old putter.   I changed last week to a softer insert, felt really good on the quick greens but I kept leaving them a couple inches short.
And it was kind of funny, as I go on to hole a 40‑footer for eagle on the first par 5 and just start laughing‑‑ on the second par 5, start laughing to Terry.   He says, "Don't say it, don't say it, don't say it."
The old putter is back in the bag.   I started to hit some good shots and I started to roll the putts in that I would expect to hole, and then it adds up to 8‑under par.

Q.   We often see players struggle when they change equipment, and you seem to have taken to this like a duck to water. 
IAN POULTER:   I'm really happy.   The new driver is working exceptionally well.   I've got a lot of confidence with that.   The 3‑wood that I put in play at The Ryder Cup is also working very well, and that means I can attack the par 5s.   The 3‑hybrid for me flies a bit longer, so I'm carrying that 235. 
Again, the par 5s, it's key.   So if I can hit a good tee shot and then open up the fives with a 3‑hybrid or even a 3‑wood, then I'm going to have chances at making birdie.   That's something my statistics say I don't do an awful lot of, take care of the par 5s, and that's the key to today is making sure I do that well. 
But the transition from obviously the old clubs to the new clubs is pretty quick.   They have only been in the bag a few weeks but I'm really happy.

Q.   You mentioned the word "confidence."   How quickly does your confidence return?   This year has not been your best and you've been frustrated by injury.   How quickly did you think, I'm going to be right back where I need to be?
IAN POULTER:   I'm right there.   So within a space of a couple of weeks, I feel really good about myself.   The injuries, I don't have any aches or pains, which is really nice. 
Cornell has done a great job since The Open Championship, started working with him on my body doing rehab.   So I feel strong, and that means I can practice.   And when I practice and start holing some putts, then I'm going to be full of confidence like I am right now.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT