TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORT
November 14, 2014
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Must have been a frustrating day when you're playing pretty well out there  
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, I guess so.   You know, playing nicely, and to be on the top of the leaderboard is always nice.   Would have been nice to finish the round off.   But I guess it wasn't meant to be today.   
So I guess we'll have to wait this one out, see what the weather is going to be like.   It's supposed to be pretty bad tonight and first thing in the morning.   Hopefully we can get round two finished at some stage tomorrow and obviously get cracking on round three.  
   
 Q.   Give us an indication of what the weather was like out there for you, because it was lovely first thing.   
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, it was perfect for a while until we kind of got onto 11th green and then things changed quite significantly.   The wind switched 180 degrees and really started to blow 20, 30 miles‑an‑hour.   It was tricky for probably two holes and then obviously the storm come in pretty quick from there and obviously off the course.  
   
 Q.   And was your bogey as a result of the changing conditions?   
IAN POULTER:   It was a 3‑putt from 40 feet which just happened to be on one of the toughest par 4s on the course.   I hit two lovely shots on the green.   Rushed my first putt slightly past.   It was into the wind and I thought it was going to be slow, and it wasn't and obviously missed.   
   
 Q.   Otherwise you were making birdies nicely.   
IAN POULTER:   I'm playing great, so it's obviously a great feeling to be on the golf course when you're playing like that, and making birdies is always fun.   Right now I'm pretty happy.   
   
 Q.   Your assessment of your play considering the conditions?  
IAN POULTER:   The weather wasn't like this for the first 12 holes.   We had it pretty good.   So therefore, we could take advantage of some of the holes out there, which is exactly what I did.   
And then all of a sudden we had a wind switch around 11, and it started to gust and that changes the golf course dramatically.   I think all of us were hoping the electricity was going to come in pretty quick because I don't think any of us wanted to be on this golf course in a 30‑mile‑an‑hour wind.   It's not conducive.   
There's a lot of tricky holes which could catch you out.   We got called off; we thought we was going to go again.   We went back out, hit a few more balls and then obviously the storm rolled in yet again.   
So it's a shame that we're not back out there finishing the round of golf but I don't think anybody wants to play in a 30‑mile‑an‑hour wind and obviously plus the lightning.   
   
 Q.   Considering how you're playing, are you disappointed that you're drug off the golf course by Mother Nature, even though you can't control it?   
IAN POULTER:   Well, I've got a couple of opportunities coming in.   I'd rather probably take those opportunities in slightly calmer weather.   I could get to 18 if the wind obviously dies off tomorrow morning.   I definitely can't get to 18 if the wind stays the way it is right now.   It's possibly in my advantage if we get back out on the course tomorrow without any wind.  
   
 Q.   You're not playing many more holes than 18; you're going to play 22 holes tomorrow but you still prepare just like a regular round, or do you have to be mentally prepared it's going to be a bit of a longer day?  
IAN POULTER:   It's just going to be a longer day.   So rest up tonight, get to bed nice and early, come out tomorrow.   As I said, I've got some chances coming back in right now and obviously going straight back out on the course after that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT