THE RYDER CUP
September 28, 2014
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Can you describe your emotions now?  IAN POULTER: Absolutely sensational.  The team have done an incredible job.  They come out as hard -- exactly like we thought they would do and the boys did good.  Looking at the board, Rosey was down early and he managed to turn that match; G-Mac, as well.  So the guys dug in real deep today and it was just incredible.   Q.  Tell us about the captain.  People have already spoken about how prepared he was and how well he's done his job, but give us your perspective?  IAN POULTER: He was absolutely brilliant, from start to finish; from the pictures on the walls, from how he spoke to how he treated everybody in that team room, everyone was the same.  I think he's done an absolutely sensational job and I can't wait to see him lift that trophy later.   Q.  Stephen Gallacher didn't manage to pull off a point, but the other rookies have been immense.  IAN POULTER: Absolutely immense, as you said.  Victor, playing with G-Mac, played incredible, and Jamie, absolutely sensational out there today.  You know, closing his match out nice and early and taking the pressure off the boys.   Q.  A word for Rory McIlroy, a lot of expectation and pressure as world's No. 1; he's expected to go out there and win points, not an easy thing to do.  IAN POULTER: Absolutely not, and the way he done it today is very impressive.  He led from the front and just kept pressing it home.   Q.  We know the caddies play an enormous part in it; have a word for them?  IAN POULTER: You can't just have a word.  The caddies that we have in Europe are absolutely sensational.  The job that they do, and the camaraderie that we have in that team room, it goes deep.  And Paul said it the other day in his speech, he singled them out and rightly so, the boys are awesome.   Q.  You had one tremendous moment and a turning point where the boys said momentum was going America's way; that pitch, as big a buzz as ever, I suppose?  IAN POULTER: It was nice.  There wasn't enough in them in my opinion coming out of me this week, I would have liked to have had a few more, but it's not about that.  It's about the team things that happened.  That was a nice time to chip-in, to turn that match and hold that match off, really. But everybody, you look at the way some of the guys were down and then they turned it to grab a half a point, and as we know, those half-points add up at the end of the week.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT