DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2014
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 15 of 18 greens, you have to be pleased with that?IAN POULTER: Yeah, I'm pleased.  It's been an interesting nine months, shall we say, eight months.  But the body is feeling a lot stronger.  I'm able to get more practice in.  I'm doing the right things in the gym.  And I'm starting to feel a little stronger than what I was for the first eight months of the year.  It's been frustrating, and I just need to continue to work out on the right things and everything will turn around nicely.Q. Strength of your game is your putting, it always has been.  And today I thought the putter was really, really good.  You hit a long one at 8, that was a long bomb at 8.IAN POULTER: Yeah, I haven't holed one quite that long for some time.  I actually put the old putter back in the bag today.  And it worked pretty well.  So I also went home to Orlando for a couple of days, as well.  I didn't arrive until very late on Thursday afternoon.  I didn't play the Pro Am yesterday.  This golf course has been frustrating one for me through the years.  So I decided to stay away and just keep like a short week, and kind of do my job and leave.Q. We talked to Webb and Brandt and the Americans about the Ryder Cup.  Obviously you're always in that conversation, as well.  How do you approach the Ryder Cup playing well this week, coming back from injury?  Obviously your game is trending in the upward direction?IAN POULTER: I'm not thinking anything else right now, apart from playing golf this week.  I've got to motivate myself to make sure I play well this week, to play next week, to play the week after.  And I'm not thinking about Ryder Cup.  It's in a few weeks' time.  Obviously it's on everyone's radar, because everyone wants to play in it.  And I want to play in it as well.  So I'll have to wait and see.  We'll have to wait and see.Q. The putter you putt back in the bag, which one was it?IAN POULTER: It was the one that I used, first used at the Open last year.  So it's the one that I used for 11 months last year.  The one I used at the back end of last year.Q. I know you're trying to stay in the present, but we've got to ask you about the Ryder Cup.IAN POULTER: You don't need to because I'm not going to give you any -- it's like I am solely focused on being ruthless on this week, that's it.  I can't do anything about Ryder Cup.  It's in someone else's hands.  I am going to do my job this week, and I'm going to move forward to next week.  And I'm going to do my job next week, and make the TOUR  Championship, have a week off and we'll see.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT