DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN
July 4, 2019
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 66, how are you feeling about that?
IAN POULTER: I feel very happy finishing with three birdies.  It's always nice when you do that.  I was kind of hanging around, you know, 1-under par for a long time.  Hitting decent shots.  Hitting a few decent putts.  Nothing really happening apart from just some good, solid golf.  To close out with three birdies like that is always nice.  Dinner is going to taste a bit better tonight.
Q. How would you describe the challenge of this course from the first time you played it?
IAN POULTER: A number of tricky tee shots and there's a couple of tricky holes, 4 and 5.  You know, notably can't see the green.  You kind of play them blind, which is quite interesting.  And then the course opens up a bit.  Only two par 5s, so obviously par 70, you feel like you're expecting one to come along and it doesn't come along until you get to the back nine.  You definitely feel you can make some inroads but it's not until late in the round.
Q. Just describe the atmosphere, playing with Pádraig?
IAN POULTER: Yeah, Paddy got off to a fast start and they were obviously loud like they should be for Paddy, and wearing these colors, it's quite nice.  We had great crowds.  They loved some good golf and it was pretty enjoyable.
Q. Finished really strong with three birdies.  Tell us about it.
IAN POULTER: It was nice.  I played very solid golf today.  Didn't miss too many fairways and obviously didn't miss too many greens.  When you do that, obviously you know, you're going to be very, very steady and to close out with three birdies, I had to kind of press a little bit to try and force the issue.  Nothing really was happening, but I got my rewards at the end.  It's nice when you do finish up a round like that, and you're going back out first thing in the morning.  You know, food will taste good tonight.
Q. You say nothing much has happened for a while.  What part of your game was tested most out there today?
IAN POULTER: To be honest it was a very relaxed round of golf.  Seeing as I've only played two tournament rounds in the last five weeks, which is not a lot, I do everything well.  Drove it well.  Hit my irons well.  Gave myself plenty of chances.  Just one of those rounds where you have to be patient and I was patient, and obviously the rewards were at the end.
Q. Game plan going into tomorrow?
IAN POULTER: Have fun.  Simple.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT