THE RYDER CUP
September 25, 2014
Stephen Gallacher
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Excitement levels?  IAN POULTER: Absolutely buzzing, playing with Stevie G, home course, in Scotland, first Ryder Cup.  It's going to be amazing. So playing against two good rookies, two great players, and I can't wait now to walk through that tunnel.  The last picture we are going to see is Seve as we walk out the other end, walk on the tee to a loud, rapturous applause, and I can't wait to smash it down the middle.   STEPHEN GALLACHER: Yeah, for my first Ryder Cup, having it in Scotland, couldn't have done better than to play with Poults.  Epitome of The Ryder Cup, the passion, everything it involves and he's been there and knows what to do.  He will be a calming influence, as well.  Similar players, so just going to go out there and enjoy it and hopefully lots of birdies.   Q.  How good was that reception in the Opening Ceremony?  STEPHEN GALLACHER: Bizarre.  It's one of these ones, isn't it.  It's such a big event to be the only Scot in your home country is massive.  Got to give the fans something to see, something to cheer about.   Q.  What can we expect tomorrow on the first tee?  IAN POULTER: I can expect him to hit it straight down the middle of the fairway like he's done in practise.  It's a big week, very big week being in Scotland obviously for Stevie and it's going to be amazing to see the crowd pulling, and that's the energy you need out there in The Ryder Cup.  You need to feed from them.  You need to enjoy it and you need to embrace it, and you need to play with passion.   Q.  And you spoke about your opponents, but two rookies, bit of an unknown factor?  IAN POULTER: No, I think we've all played enough with them and I think we all know exactly who they are.  Great players, both of them pretty accomplished early on in their careers.  So I think we have to sit back, have a look at it.  We need to play smart.  We need to play some great golf.  And that's what we'll have to do.   Q.  You going to sleep all right tonight?  STEPHEN GALLACHER: Hope so.  Yeah, I'm planning on having a full night's kip and up early, do some stretches and go through the same routine.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT