MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2014
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  IAN POULTER:   4‑under for the day and cruising.   And 4‑under for the day should have been a couple more, as well.   Made a couple of mistakes.   I didn't take advantage of the par‑5s on the back nine from perfect position. 
So I'm disgusted with my round of golf.   70, the way I played yesterday was really disappointing.   And I think I'm even more disappointed today.
As good as it is on the leaderboard and I've got a chance tomorrow, I'm not very happy.

Q.   We kind of saw you down there, I mean the frustration level‑‑
IAN POULTER:   I'm pissed.   I'm really pissed and I should be pissed.   4‑under par out there on the golf course, I'm playing some phenomenal golf.   Anyone would be pissed.

Q.   You tweeted about Thursday's round, how disappointed you were with that, hoping to come back and play better on Friday, which obviously you did to make the cut.   When you came in this morning what were you thinking that you could do to get‑‑ your behind Bubba, but certainly 36 holes‑‑
IAN POULTER:   Depending on pin locations today, before going out, there were birdie opportunities.   They gave us the opportunity today.   They definitely put a ton of water on the greens, which, I think, was needed.   So the guys that were going to go out there in the morning definitely had the chance to make inroads into Bubba.   And that's why I'm so angry.
Looking where they put those pin positions, they wanted guys to move forward.   And guys certainly are going to move forward today from the back of the pack.   There's only a few guys that have done that because the greens dry out very quickly and they get really, really fast.
So it's easy to make mistakes.   And it's just really disappointing when you've played so well as you have to walk off 2‑under par.   It's just not right.

Q.   Just one kind of odd hole location, it seemed like No. 4 was a very difficult hole location today. 
IAN POULTER:   No, not really.   Whenever that pin location is in that front left, hit it in the left down bunker.

Q.   Is that what you ended up doing?
IAN POULTER:   Yeah. 

Q.   And got up and down?
IAN POULTER:   Yeah.   I mean you can't be right at that pin and you certainly can't go long of that pin and if you are you're going to have a treacherous birdie putt downhill and can run it six, eight foot past.
So we know when the pin is in that position, if you can keep it on the left edge of the green, okay.   If not, if it drops in the bunker, it's fine.

Q.   You obviously are hitting the ball well, so you don't really need to be going to the range to be doing anything. 
IAN POULTER:   I'm going to the range to hit some shots to‑‑

Q.   Calm down?
IAN POULTER:   Yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT