MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   What was the story today?
IAN POULTER:   Made a couple of bogeys.   I actually didn't do a whole lot wrong today.   I played quite nice, struck it very nice. 
Birdied 2, which was a nice start. 
Got unfortunate at 8, to be honest.   Hit a root for my second shot and kicked it way right in the trees. 
When I missed greens, I hit pretty good recovery shots to about eight feet.   And if you got eight feet from above the hole, they're pretty slick, it's easy to miss a couple of those and get your self slightly out of position. 
So 4‑over par is a little frustrating right now.

Q.   There's a sort of expectation that the course would be quite soft after all of that rain earlier in the week, but people seem to be suggesting that it's as slick as everyone the greens. 
IAN POULTER:   I think that the course was receptive, I got to be honest.   It was fairly soft, but obviously the greens run very, very fast on this golf course. 
Some of the pin locations today were very hard to keep it under the hole, so you find yourself on key holes around this golf course where you're putting downhill.   When you do that, it's very easy to get out of position, it's easy to roll it five feet past, and you'll see guys 3‑putting and getting themselves slightly out of position. 

Q.   So now you've been in this sort of position many, many times, you've got the experience, what is the approach now?
IAN POULTER:   Play golf tomorrow, but don't make as many mistakes. 

Q.   Easier said than done. 
IAN POULTER:   It's easier said than done, but that's what I have to do.   So it is actually simple, when you look at it that way.   So that's what I need to do. 
I don't need to make a couple of silly errors and if I do that, then I'll be just fine.   I'm playing good enough, so I have to stay positive, because I'm actually hitting the ball really nicely.   My scores are not reflecting that. 
So as frustrating as it is, I need to stay focused and do what I know I can do around this golf course and do that over the next three days.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT