ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 20, 2014
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  IAN POULTER:   I finally started hitting a lot of greens and fairways and giving myself chances.   If I look back at the round of golf, making a three‑putt bogey, very disappointing.   Missing kind of like a 5‑foot birdie putt on 11.   Apart from that it was pretty solid stuff.

Q.   You drove the ball really well today. 
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, I'm putting it back in play.   I haven't been doing it the first three months of the year which has been really frustrating.   I've worked hard to find what was missing, and hopefully I've now got it.

Q.   Now that you live in Orlando, is this special for you, this tournament?
IAN POULTER:   It's nice to be able to get in the car, drive home, sleep in your own bed, have a barbecue and have friends over and just relax.   It's always nice to be able to play and sleep in your own bed.

Q.   Looking forward to the rest of the week?
IAN POULTER:   It's great.   It sets up good.   I feel really good after posting 4‑under today.   And hopefully we can continue to play good the next couple of days.
Hitting fairways and hitting greens, which I haven't been doing for the first three months of the year.   I've been tinkering, trying to find some stuff. 
It's funny last night I went in the simulator back home just for half an hour with Joshua, my little two year old, I was hitting some shots.   And made a slight change set up‑wise, and feels really good.
When you get on the golf course and know you can go at it pretty hard and put it in the fairway and have plenty of looks for birdies, you're normally pretty happy. 

Q.   When you see Adam do what we did this morning, does that change your approach at all?   Or maybe give you an outlook that this golf course is gettable when you get up at the tee?
IAN POULTER:   When anybody posts 10‑under par or 9‑under par on day one, and nobody is really that close to him, it's‑‑ you have to keep on your game.   It's easy to start going at pins.   Bay Hill is a difficult golf course.   There's plenty of holes out there that you can come up proper. 
You've got to pace yourself.   Take your chances when they come along.   Know that obviously it's always kind of hard to back up a 62 the following day.   There are not many people that go 62‑62.   And if he does it, every credit.   He's going to have a huge lead.   That is a superb round of golf.   And it doesn't happen too often around this place.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT