DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2013
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You've given everything in the last little while to try and win this Race to Dubai, you're going to come up just short, some consolation presumably to come up second against inspired golf?
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, I have to take my hat off to him.   Unbelievable.   I've tried to run him down as hard as I possibly could.   He's been in incredible form the last six months, and even with a sore wrist, he's managed to continue to press on and even today in the wind, he kept his head down and pressed on through.   I just couldn't get close enough.   So impressive work from Henrik over the last six months.

Q.   When you were birdieing 13 and going five behind, we were thinking, your five birdies at The Ryder Cup, Rory's five birdies here last year.   Were you? 
IAN POULTER:   It was really windy.   Henrik has not made a mistake all year, and could I see him making quite a few more?   Probably not. 
I had to get in the house, make sure I took care of second place and obviously put valuable Ryder Cup points on the board, and it will be turkey on the dinner table for Christmas. 

Q.   Talking about how well you've been playing, you said you've been playing the best golf of your life, feeling the most confident.   How excited about the next few months? 
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, very excited.   I've got two tournaments left, or one real tournament with any World Ranking points.   That will be Tiger's event, and then I'm having a bit of fun with Westwood at the Shark Shootout. 
So I'll take probably five weeks off after that, do the same kind of practise that I've done to get ready for these back end of the year tournaments and hopefully come out the at start of the year firing.

Q.   You've lost your hundred dollar bet to Henrik Stenson.   What do you expect him to say when you hand it over?
IAN POULTER:   I would expect him to be rather relieved to be honest with you, because I've thrown a lot at him in the last four weeks, I've given him so much stick and so have you guys, which is brilliant.   So I'm sure he's a relieved man.   He's had an incredible back end of the year, and you know, best player on the planet right now. 

Q.   Are you proud of your achievement in battling so close?
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, I'm pretty proud.   You know, it's been a good four weeks trying to make sure I had a big push to the back end of the year.   I've done that really nicely. 
Would have expected with my form to have won at least one of these last four events with as many birdies as I've made.   I mean, you know, I've come up against some stiff opposition in the last four weeks and guys have beat me fair and square. 
So there's not a lot you can do about that but pleased with the form I'm in.

Q.   Your standard has been terrific and I heard you say yesterday this is some of the best fun you've had in any recent time. 
IAN POULTER:   It's always fun when you're having a bit of laugh and a joke with other players, and plenty of laughs and banter we've had in the past few weeks.   It's been good fun and I think it's inspired a few of us to play well.

Q.   Give us an appreciation of a man who now has an extra hundred dollars of your cash. 
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, thanks, like he needs it at the minute.   He's played exceptional golf the back end of the year, simply incredible, flawless to be honest with you, and could have even been better.   So you know, the guys is the hottest player on the planet right now, and all credit to him. 

Q.   What next for Ian Poulter? 
IAN POULTER:   Keep working really hard and come out playing better in a couple of weeks' time. 

Q.   Fair to say that that was a pretty valiant effort from you, but up against someone who is a man possessed at the moment. 
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, he's beat me fair and square.   I don't know what juice he's drinking at the minute, but I'd like some of that because that obviously seems pretty good. 
The guy is in phenomenal form, has been the last six months of the year, and you have to respect it.   I mean, the guy has worked very hard to get himself from where he was to in a position today where he's probably 3 in the world or right there or thereabouts.   It's really impressive. 
The guy works really hard and I'm very pleased for him.   It's been an enjoyable few weeks trying to chase him down.

Q.   You've enjoyed the chase very much and it's brought some pretty good golf out of you, as well. 
IAN POULTER:   It's brought a lot of good golf.   I knew coming in I needed to play exceptionally well to even get close to him, and I have.   I've got relatively close, but at the last minute he's just gone and put that foot down and pressed away again.

Q.   Knowing how well you've played and seeing the scores he's posted, can you give us an appreciation of just how good of golf we are witnessing from Henrik Stenson? 
IAN POULTER:   You're witnessing the best player on the planet at the minute for sure.   I don't think there's anybody to go up against him.   A few guys threw a lot at him obviously the last couple of weeks and he just managed to keep himself motivated and concentrated enough where he can obviously put in a big finish.

Q.   Your point of view, so many encouraging signs as you head into the closed season so to speak. 
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, I have one tournament left I would like to obviously win.   I would hate to go winless this year, especially in the form I'm in.   So two hard weeks' practise, I'll play Tiger's event, have a bit of fun with Westy just before Christmas in the Shark Shootout and then have probably five weeks off getting myself ready for the start of the year.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT