DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2013
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   On a day when your goal was to go out and put some heat on Henrik Stenson with a low round, how does it feel to do just that?
IAN POULTER:   It feels pretty good.   You know, I'm pressing really hard on this golf course, and it's easy to make mistakes when you're doing that.   And I feel I've done my job today.   I've made plenty of birdies, two bogeys on two par 3s, which is really frustrating but I'm right there.   I can't ask for more than that going into Sunday's round of golf.   I've put myself into position to try to kick his backside tomorrow and we'll see.

Q.   Put into words for us just how much you're up to this. 
IAN POULTER:   I'm up for it. 

Q.   He offered you 10 to 1 when you were 1.1 million dollars behind; what would the odds be now, do you think?
IAN POULTER:   Don't know.   I don't bet with bookmakers, but those odds would be significantly less; I know that for a fact.   I mean, he's just got his nose in there at 16.   He's got two holes to play.   You know, provided he doesn't go crazy on the last couple of holes, then hopefully I can have some fun with him tomorrow. 

Q.   Closing the gap just that little bit there?
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, it was a good day.   I made plenty of birdies.   It was just all 3s and 4s.   You know, it's pretty a good scoring out there.   Just two bogeys today, which were really annoying, two par 3s, which I didn't take care of.   And a couple of missed birdie opportunities there; again, quite close towards the end. 
So I felt like could I have got a bit closer, but I'm in with a shout, and I can't ask for more than that coming into the last day of the year.

Q.   And all the more important together, birdie at the last, make sure that that's a positive finish?
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, it's good.   I'm right there.   I'm hunting.   It's going to be fun tomorrow.   You know, if I can get off to a decent start tomorrow, it's going to be a fun back nine. 

Q.   Got any indication of how low you've got to go?
IAN POULTER:   Just need to beat Henrik.   And obviously there's a couple of others on the board, but, I mean, I think if I shoot 65 tomorrow, it's going to be a nice score. 

Q.   You've gone 68, 66; is 65 realistic?
IAN POULTER:   If I play like I did today, 62 is realistic.   You know, I'm playing great golf and I'm in with a shout. 

Q.   How much are you relishing this hunting of Henrik Stenson right now?
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, it's a bit of fun.   It's the most fun I've had on the golf course for some time to be honest with you, and I'm sure every time he looks at that board, he's wanting me to go the other way, and I'm wanting him to come back a little bit. 
So you know, there's a few other guys on the board right now, but we're having a bit of fun. 

Q.   That was a super round of golf today in all the circumstances, wasn't it?
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, just two blemishes, two bogeys on par 3s where I'd like to have taken care of.   But it's a tricky golf course when you're pressing really, really hard.   I need to make up ground.   I'm being overly aggressive and it's going to catch you a couple of times, but hopefully being aggressive, I can take my fair share of birdie putts.

Q.   I said to you the other day, he's some frontrunner, this Henrik Stenson.   And you said?
IAN POULTER: I said, I'll catch him. 

Q.   And you still feel?
IAN POULTER: Caught him at one stage today.   I'll catch him again tonight, don't worry about that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT