DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2013
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You were in at 33, bogeyed 10 and 12 to drop back to 4‑under and losing ground on the leaders.   What were you thinking and feeling at that stage? 
IAN POULTER:   Was getting a little bit annoyed.   You know, silly bogey at 10.   Just drove it in the left‑hand rough.   That hole, you really should be taking advantage of; pin is in an easy spot back there.   You're only going in with sand iron or wedge.   Didn't come out of the rough very well, and then an annoying bogey at 12, as well. 
So dig deep, try and make birdies whenever you can on those closing holes and obviously nice to pick up three. 

Q.   How important in the context of this event and The Race to Dubai could those three birdies be? 
IAN POULTER:   They could be pretty big.   We'll find out Sunday. 
You know, Henrik is obviously playing great golf again today, and I just need to stay there or thereabouts.   You know, as long as I'm in striking distance come Sunday afternoon, then we might see some fireworks.

Q.   What are your expectations this weekend?   You told us yesterday you've never been more confident and you've never felt better about your game. 
IAN POULTER:   I want to win.   I want to put Henrik under some pressure and I'd like to take him right down to the wire. 

Q.   On the first day you were annoyed basically at the end.   What's the verdict today?
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, I think I was annoyed yesterday afternoon.   I think I was annoyed after bogeying 10 and 12.   I think that was pretty obvious.   But I rallied well and I managed to make a couple of decent birdies coming back in, which has kind of kept me in touch. 
Looking at the board, Henrik is playing some great golf right now, and he's going to take some chasing.   So birdie is a lot better than bogey, and it's obviously nice to birdie the last and try to get a little closer to him.

Q.   And by extension, you are in a decent position going into the weekend, two rounds to play, aren't you? 
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, it's right there or thereabouts.   You can't ask for more than that.   But it would just be nice to keep an eye on Henrik and hopefully stay close enough come back nine on Sunday.

Q.   Have you had to put the towel over your arm just yet? 
IAN POULTER:   No, not yet.   That's not my end of the bargain, that.   So the odds were heavily in his favour, so I won't be needing to pure him any drinks.

Q.   But presumably there's still further banter each evening? 
IAN POULTER:   Oh, yeah, there's plenty, plenty up and down the range, it's all good fun.
DA



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT