DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 12, 2013
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SARAH GWYNN:   Thank you very much for joining us today.   It's been pretty good Final Series for you so far, with a particularly good performance last week.   How would you sum up the last few weeks?   
IAN POULTER:   It's been a nice run so far.   Obviously the last three weeks I made plenty of birdies; first week, plenty of bogeys to go with the birdies, and I've eliminated most of those mistakes over the last couple of week the.   
Just a bit disappointed last week not to convert any of the chances that I had on the back nine, 20 putts on the back nine holes doesn't normally get it done in any tournament.   
So I'm pretty confident for this week.   I love the golf course.   I've played it really well in the past, apart from a Tiddlywink into the first playoff hole.   So if I can do something similar like what I played a couple years ago, then I'm going to be in contention.  
SARAH GWYNN:   And traditionally, you always seem to finish the season quite strongly, and having good experiences here, you must fancy your chances this week.  
IAN POULTER:   I fancy my chances, yeah.   There's a lot   riding on it this week.   Yeah, I'm looking forward to the challenges and having a bit of fun with Stenson and G‑Mac and Rosey over the next four days.   
   
 Q.   Apart from the great fun of making Mr.Stenson your waiter for the evening, how much would it actually mean to finish the year as European No. 1?  
IAN POULTER:   Well, it would mean a lot.   I think the year, as some people have said, it's been a disappointing year.   But I guess I'm slowly turning that around, the back end of the year, which I have done a couple of times before.   
I think if I could win this week and win obviously The Race to Dubai, I think that would be a huge achievement for myself, as a personal goal.   That's something that every player wants to do; you want to win the Order of Merit.   And yeah, it would be another box ticked for 2014, 2013, wherever we are.   
   
 Q.   How much does it take out of the tank to play four weeks on the spin like this, obviously in big events, China, Turkey, here.   
IAN POULTER:   When you're half man‑half‑mattress, it's absolutely fine.   It's no problem.   I sleep plenty.   (Laughter).  
Yeah, there's a reason why I took five weeks off before this back end of the year spell, so I could come out fully charged and ready to go, and I am.   I've still got plenty in the tank.   I feel that even though I've been in contention in the last group a couple of times, it has not‑‑ I don't feel tired at the minute, which is good.   
So it means the fitness work that I did in that off‑period is working; the hard work is paying off.   So I would expect myself to be there right to the end on Sunday.   
   
 Q.   Why do you think it is you always leave the best to last?   
IAN POULTER:   I've always done well under pressure really,   like my school report and school work.   I never handed it in until the last minute.   I always produced my best at the last minute.   Not the first time I've done it.   
It's too easy early in the season, isn't it (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Is there anything that you can do?  
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, there's plenty you can do about it, yeah, which I am doing.   I'm working harder and harder.   
You known, it's not an intentional thing that the year has been okay and then I've had to work really hard.   I've still worked very, very hard.   
It's just I liked having five weeks off to be honest with you and doing a lot of really constructive work in that time period and coming out knowing that I've got a spell of tournaments that I can play; that I can't get home on a Sunday night, and I know I'm away.   So I can't‑‑ my mind‑set is completely different.   That's why I've played generally pretty good in these closing weeks.   
   
 Q.   Curious your thoughts, if it had already ended, we didn't have this to play, who you think Player of the Year would be?  
IAN POULTER:   It hasn't really ended, has it; Stenson.   
   
 Q.   It would seem that there would be that on the table, as well as The Race to Dubai could be decided this week.   
IAN POULTER:   The player of the season, if it ended already, I mean, Stenson.   The year he's had, the amount of World Ranking points he's earned compared to anyone else is phenomenal.   He's comfortably up on World Ranking points.   You'd have to say he's been by far the best player.     
You know, hence, why ing this Order of Merit, and he's already won the Order of Merit in the States.   He's basically done what Rory was doing last year.   
   
 Q.   Given that you're playing all four of The Final Series events, it's quite a silly question but where do you stand on the whole having‑to‑play‑two‑out‑of‑the‑first‑three‑to‑qualify‑for‑this‑one debate?     
IAN POULTER:   Obviously it's been awkward for a few guys.   You know, scheduling is never easy.   You know, it's difficult sometimes to be able to play enough events everywhere to keep everybody happy.   
So you know, I‑‑ where do I stand on it.   The rule was put in place.   They may have got it slightly wrong.   I would think that will be addressed.   Obviously it would be nice to have Ernie in the field and Sergio and Charl.   You know, I'm sure that will be looked at and addressed.   
Everybody makes mistakes.   I think that's just a mistake.   That won't be made again.   
   
 Q.   Do you think it will ends up like the FedExCup the first two years, where it changes‑‑  
IAN POULTER:   Everything needs tweaking, that was something that got put in place that definitely needs tweaking.   It would be a stronger field to have those guys playing, and they are not here.   
So, it's a shame but I don't want to dwell on it too much because I think it will change for next year.   
SARAH GWYNN:   Ian, thanks very much for coming in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT