FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 7, 2013
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  IAN POULTER:   I'm surprised.   I   am.   It's a difficult golf course.   There's only two par-5s.   You know, there's some tricky golf holes out there.   I think, you know, I -- it's one of those types of golf courses.   I think there are some birdie opportunities.   
The greens are in great condition, and if you put yourself on 15 greens a day, you're going to convert some birdies.   Again, there's still a few holes out there on the golf course which can cut you up.  
   
 Q.   Were the conditions more difficult today than they were yesterday?  
IAN POULTER:   No.   I think they were very similar, to be honest.   A little bit of wind this afternoon.   I think the wind yesterday morning -- I think it's been pretty even.  
   
 Q.   Harris has got a pretty good lead at 10-under.   How did he do it?  
IAN POULTER:   He played well.  
   
 Q.   What's your plan for the weekend?   Are you going to try to be a little more aggressive?  
IAN POULTER:   You know, there's no point worrying about anybody else in this golf tournament.   I don't care about anybody else.   I'm just bothered about my golf ball and taking care of that.   I'll let those guys go and play golf and see what happens.   There's a long way to go in this tournament.   I'm a few shots back, and obviously I just need to limit those mistakes and see what happens.   
I got off to a lovely start.   I put myself into a nice position.   Shame to bogey 3 holes coming in there, which is frustrating as good as I've played.   The start of yesterday's round was terrible, and I would say the back of this round -- I mean, I didn't hit too many bad shots, to be honest, but three bogies to finish off the back-9 is a little frustrating.  
   
 Q.   You have a guy like Harris who is up there and Stefani is up there.   Those guys are not used to the pressures that go with leading the tournament.   You're in contention trying to make your way up this weekend.   What's the plan like tomorrow?   I know it's called moving day.   Is it just to go out and see if you can get a 66, 65, because they're obviously out there?  
IAN POULTER:   I don't care who is in front of me.   I've got to take care of my golf ball and play golf.   Simple.   I need to go out there and be bogey-free, try not to make too many mistakes.   And if I can do that, I know the way I'm playing right now I'm making a few birdies.   So I just need to limit the mistakes.   If I do that, I'm going to move up and be in a position for Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Do you see that there are those low scores out there, you keep yourself out of trouble --  
             IAN POULTER:   Sure.   Absolutely.   It's a difficult golf course.   You have to play it well, and if you do play well there's chances.   The greens are perfect.   So, anytime you get 25 feet and in, you really are looking at trying to hole it.   
So, if you play well and hit 15 to 17 greens a day, then you're going to be in a nice position to convert some of those putts.  
   
 Q.   How surprised were you to see a score like Harris put up today, to go 10-under?  
IAN POULTER:   What did he shoot today?  
   
 Q.   64 today.  
IAN POULTER:   I mean, it's irrelevant.   I mean, we're halfway through.   They don't give trophies away on Fridays.   I'm not interested how far in front someone is.   Obviously he's played very nicely.   I'm not taking anything away.   But tournaments aren't over until Sunday and I'm just bothered about myself and trying to put myself in position to try and win.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT