BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2013
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  IAN POULTER:   Joking aside, I'm fine.   It's all good.   Don't you worry about me, I'll be just fine.   I'll be posting some good scores again very shortly.   Got a week off next week, and then I'll play Memphis, get some nice, warm weather.   I'll play Memphis, I'll play Connecticut and week off, French Open, week off, Open, week off, Akron, US PGA.  
   
 Q.   Are you getting to like playing here any more?   
IAN POULTER:   You come out with all the wonderful questions, don't you, when I've just had an absolute nightmare.   You're asking me whether I'm getting to like this place any more, and I've just been out in freezing cold, pissing down the rain and had a mare (laughing).   
There's nothing wrong with this golf course.   Never has been.   
   
 Q.   You never liked it.   
IAN POULTER:   It obviously doesn't suit my eye, does it.   Horses for courses, and I guess this isn't my course.   
   
 Q.   This weather, it's bloody brutal, it's no fun out there.   
IAN POULTER:   No, look at the scores on the board.   It's challenging.   It's not easy, is it.   But I mean, if you play well, you can make a score around this golf course.   The 5s are scorable, certainly the fourth hole, most guys will be taking advantage of that, and obviously 12, you can get up in two; maybe not today into that strong wind, and 17, 18.   So there are tricky holes and there's going to be some easier holes.   But you have to play well.   
   
 Q.   You Tweeted after Sawgrass that you were playing like an octopus.   
IAN POULTER:   It's just a bit of banter for everyone out there.   
   
 Q.   What are you going to Tweet after this?   
IAN POULTER:   I'm going to Tweet what a wonderful weekend in store I've got, Champions League and Monaco.   I'm going to have a fun weekend.   
   
 Q.   What are the weaknesses in your game at the moment?   
IAN POULTER:   The weaknesses, well, I hit 13 of 14 fairways yesterday.   I missed ten greens in regulation.   So I'm obviously not hitting as many greens as I would like.   Therefore, that's putting some pressure on my short game, and I'm not getting up‑and‑down as much as I would like.   
But the fact is, I shouldn't miss‑‑ I shouldn't miss ten greens in regulation yesterday from hitting 13 of 14 fairways.   
   
 Q.   Who does an Arsenal find support in an all‑German Cup final?   
IAN POULTER:   I'm not supporting either side to be honest.   I'm just going to go for the fun of what it is, Champions League.   
   
 Q.   You were doing so well at the Match Play in February and you were talking about the changes that you've made, the tweaks here and there and you're obviously very excited about them.   Can you put down the recent form to them‑‑  
IAN POULTER:   Not very exciting.   Is it.   
   
 Q.   What's happened?   
IAN POULTER:   No idea.   No idea.   The fire's not there right now.   So obviously, you know, I've got to re‑engage or throw some wood in the often and see what happens I guess, see if we can get it to ignite again.   
But obviously playing like that is no fun.   There's nothing to, there's no panics for me.   All is good.   But, I do need to find the fire and get out there and play.   I need to find out what's going to kick start that, which it will.   
Playing like that really pisses you off, so I need to get a grip‑‑ and the funny thing is, I can't work any harder, which is the funny thing.   You take six weeks off, you work really hard; you put new equipment in your bag and you work even harder, and you work hard on your fitness and that's what happened.   So do you go, right, sod it all?   No, just keep going full steam ahead.   So I'm going to keep doing the same things, play through, I'll be fine.   
   
 Q.   Do you think a major might like the fire?   
IAN POULTER:   What, winning one?   (Laughter).  
Well, I mean, if I hit 13 of 14 fairways every day, I just need to sort the iron play out, don't I.   So you know, I just need a few putts to go in and hit a few decent iron shots a little bit.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT