WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2013
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Ian, a really good score, was it smooth sailing out there?
IAN POULTER:   Pretty much.   I've always had a love affair with this 10th hole, and I'm trying to play it well.   I managed to hit driver in the water off the tee as my first shot of the day.   That didn't really go to plan, quick bogey there.   But I started to back it up nicely from then on, made a few nice birdies, and I played very solid.   I mean, it was probably a true reflection of how I played today.   Birdied the two par 5s on the front nine once I got around there.   It was nice to take advantage of those 5s. 

Q.   How does this course suit you? 
IAN POULTER:   I like it.   I think it's got some tricky holes, holes that can definitely catch you out and ruin your scorecard.   And then there's other holes which you have to take advantage of, and if you can take advantage of the 5s, played very sensible it on a couple of the tough par 3s and a couple very tough par 4s, then the golf course opens itself up.   So hopefully you can do that right. 

Q.   We started the show today by talking about this being the start to the rode to Augusta, is that the way to feels to players?   And how do you balance that? 
IAN POULTER:   Well, I've slightly shortened my schedule this year anyway, so I need to do well at every tournament I play.   And the work I do away from the golf course means I can come in fresh, I can come in prepared and ready, and obviously I think most guys are looking towards Augusta right now and looking at their games and seeing what they need to do to be able to compete, and I'm one of those.   I'm happy the way I'm striking the ball right now.   The new irons and shafts are working fantastic, and I'm quite excited the way I'm playing golf now.

Q.   And at 4‑under, where do you think you are in the tournament?
IAN POULTER:   I haven't even looked at the board but I guess it's up there.   You know, I guess a couple of guys could probably get to 6‑under I would think today, but it's right in there.   I mean, it's a decent start to a week which I really want to play well at. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT