WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2013
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  IAN POULTER:   It's been a few years since I've seen snow to be honest with you.   Have a few weeks off at Christmas and relax and come back and kind of makes it feel very Christmasy all of a sudden.   Bizarre.   Pretty amazing, two inches of snow, maybe more.   Incredible. 

Q.   But you're in a good position. 
IAN POULTER:   I'm in a nice position.   It's never over until it's over with match play, so it's head down and try and kick on and obviously win our match.

Q.   Was it good to be out early?
IAN POULTER:   Well, we knew the forecast was potentially coming in at 10:00, 11:00, which is exactly what it does, so it was nice to get some holes done before the storm and get through.   It makes tomorrow a little easier, as well. 

Q.   Have you ever seen anything like this at a top‑level golf tournament before?
IAN POULTER:   No.   I don't think I have to be honest.   It's absolutely remarkable to think one minute we're playing golf, albeit it's a little cool, and then within a space of 25 minutes, it turns from playable to cold drizzle to sleet and to snow.   And within an hour and a half of all that starting, you've got two inches of snow plus on the ground.   It's just bizarre.

Q.   And factor into it the fact that we're in the desert. 
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, factor it in where we actually are.   A couple of years ago we had kind of a flash hailstorm for 20 minutes, but not have we seen two inches plus of snow on a tournament venue before I don't think. 

Q.   You got snowballed then?
IAN POULTER:   I got snowballed by Hanson, yes.   I'm like an elephant; I will not forget. 

Q.   You're in the course of a high‑level match.   How do you keep your concentration in those circumstances as it's turning so rapidly?
IAN POULTER:   Well, you don't.   It's 20 minutes and you're just desperate to get off the golf course to be quite frank.   Your hands are actually losing all color.   They're going‑‑ they're pretty much going white as the snow starts to come down, and you're desperate to get off the course.   It's hard enough to play in some wind and some rain, but when it gets that cold and starts sleeting and snowing, it's just very silly.

Q.   You've played 12 holes and are nicely placed against Stephen Gallacher. 
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, I'm in a nice position, 3‑up, I'm on the 13th green, albeit Stephen has got a 15‑foot birdie putt to win the hole and to probably take it 2‑down.   So I'm in a nice position.   It's always nice to be up in a match, and you don't like to be down.   I'm in the driving seat, I'd like to get out there tomorrow morning, finish the job off and concentrate on the holes I've got to play and see what comes after that.

Q.   And the good thing is the nature of this competition, there's plenty of room to catch up and that sort of thing and get on a roll?
IAN POULTER:   Sure, match play is match play, we've seen it before.   There's plenty of time left if there's time, and I'm not going to take anything for granted.   Stephen is a good player, and I need to concentrate when I get out there on the golf course and try and finish the job off and see what comes around.

Q.   And any plans for Peter Hanson after that snowball?
IAN POULTER:   He will have‑‑ yes, yes.   I can't tell you what they will be, but there'll definitely be something.   Revenge is sweet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT