THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2012
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  IAN POULTER:   Unbelievable.   That was a really tough day.   Webb played pretty solid today.   I didn't have my best early on and I managed to stick in it.   Looking at that leaderboard right now, we have an unbelievable chance.   We have a chance from somewhere we've never been before, and I'm so proud of the guys that have gone out early and managed to secure their points.  
   
 Q.   First time you were up all day was on the 17th?  
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, I just had to take it on.   You know, this Ryder Cup is not for the faint of heart.   Sometimes you just have to buckle up and hit a shot.   You know, it came off on 17 and I just hit a pretty good shot on the last.   
   
 Q.   100 percent record for you, very many congratulations and they all came down to that second shot, battle royal with Webb today?  
IAN POULTER:   It was unbelievable.   I didn't have my best golf earlier on and I made a few mistakes and Webb is a solid player and he was always going to be in the hole.   I was out of the hole a couple of times early, I had to stick it in there.   The boys in the front did exactly what they said they were going to do last night and that's try to bring a point home.   
It was just unbelievable.   It was an unbelievable finish.   It was very tense, and we have got a great chance.  
   
 Q.   Can you quantify, can you describe what happens to you in a Ryder Cup that you can deliver these performances?  
IAN POULTER:   I don't know.   You know, I love this format.   I love the team.   Everything about it.   I just‑‑ I love it.   I've got Seve on my arm, Seve on the bag, we've got Ollie.   It's pretty special.  
   
 Q.   Ten points apiece, how do you view the situation now?   
IAN POULTER:   The boys have just got to somehow come good.   The team spirit last night in that team room was unbelievable.   The buzz, the electricity, I just felt something might be possible today, and you know, we've never done it before.   They have done it to us in '99, and who knows, it could be the greatest turnaround of all‑time for Europe.   
   
 Q.   A great Ryder Cup and a great match today, a tough one?  
IAN POULTER:   It was a tough one.   Webb is a gutsy player, and it was always going to be difficult.   I didn't have my best stuff early.   
But I knew, you know what, if the guys early could pull me through, then we have got a great chance and that's exactly what's happened.   We have got up, we won all those early matches, and we just need Rose to somehow do something come up the last and I tell you what, that board looks very different.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT