THE RYDER CUP
September 29, 2012
Rory McIlroy
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Five birdies in a row, tell us how you do that. 
IAN POULTER:   I don't know.   But I mean, it comes from within.   And you know, if we can do anything to get this trophy in this position, and Seve is looking down on us, then you've got to do what you've got to do.

Q.   What's it like to play alongside him when he's doing stuff like that? 
RORY McILROY:   It's unbelievable.   We needed something to happen, some sort of a spark and I think the birdie on 13 sort of sparked us and gave us a bit of momentum.   Then Ian sort of took over from there.   It was good to be a part of; he was incredible on the way in.     All the credit needs to be put on this man. 

Q.   We know he's one of the most positive golfers we've ever seen.   Will you feed off that positivity? 
RORY McILROY:   For sure.   Even though we were a couple down early on, we were both saying to each other, we can still get it back, and we did that in the end, and you know, thanks to some incredible golf by this man. 

Q.   The Americans obviously came from 10‑6 behind at Brookline; can you do it here away from home? 
IAN POULTER:   We've got a chance and that's all we can do.   It was crucial to get at least two points out of this session for the guys to go out tomorrow.

Q.   Where do you want to play in the singles draw? 
RORY McILROY:   Any one of the 12 positions.   I just want to go out and get a point for the team. 

Q.   My goodness, how is your heart rate?   What a finish. 
IAN POULTER:   It was unbelievable.   Rory started on 13 with a great 18‑feet downhill left‑to‑right putt and from then on, I guess the putter warmed up nicely for us.   It was pretty cold, and then it just went crazy. 

Q.   Until that 13th, your birdie on the 13th, it didn't look too good?
RORY McILROY:   We were just struggling to get anything going.   We just needed a strong, anything, a chip‑in or a holed putt or even a missed putt by them just to get something going.   
Thankfully I was able to make a birdie on 13, and that definitely got this man going, anyway.   He just took over from there. 

Q.   And contributed to 29 on the back nine, so that's pretty tidy.   How was the atmosphere and how are you feeding off that? 
IAN POULTER:   Was tough.   We are in Chicago; they had a few drinks today and they weren't making it easy for you, I'll be honest.   It was brutal.   And I kept saying, and Rory kept saying to me, the only thing we can do is make a birdie to try and keep them a little quiet.     But it was pretty loud there. 

Q.   10‑6, last time at Brookline‑‑
RORY McILROY:   Of course it can be.   We have 12 great players on this team and we just need to go out there tomorrow, believe in ourselves and try as hard as we can to get that point for the team. 

Q.   Europe rolling on the ropes but the last hour has been pretty dramatic for both of you, and both of you helped bring us back into it. 
RORY McILROY:   Yeah, you know, things were not going along that well for the first 12 holes, and we sort of got something going there the last six, at least Ian did, anyway. 
We got it back to 1 after 13, and then this man played some great golf coming in, held some great putts, and birdied the last five holes.   So it was just incredible golf, and it's nice to have such a great partner. 

Q.   Justin Rose was just standing nearby and said you might be playing with the world No. 1, but you're the No. 1 Ryder Cup player for Europe. 
IAN POULTER:   Well, I don't know about that, but I mean, I just love The Ryder Cup.   You just try to get your hands back on the trophy.   It's not about me; it's about the team.   We have kind of recovered a little bit today.   Again it was not looking good. 
We have halved this session and we need to go out there real strong tomorrow and try and get our hands back on this trophy. 

Q.   There are a lot of European fans that are going to see 10‑6 tonight; can you give them relief that there's a chance Europe can win this tomorrow? 
RORY McILROY:   Of course there's a chance.   We have to believe that we are going to go out and win.   We all have to go out there and believe that we are going to win our match.   And it's going to be weird for them, as well, getting split up.   They have had a couple of really strong partnerships and now that they are not playing together anymore, it will be different for them.   Hopefully we can take advantage of them and get a few points on the board early and put them under pressure.

Q.   Do you see yourself as the leader of this team? 
IAN POULTER:   Not leader.   I just love it:   11 other great lads, great captain, vice captains, incredible week, something that you just don't get in normal, regulation golf.   It brings you closer to everybody else, and they are special moments. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT