PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2012
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Not the score you were hunting for today, but how did you play over the two days?
IAN POULTER:   Well, shooting 1‑under par in 35 mile‑an‑hour winds and then to go and shoot 2‑over today is obviously not good.   You know, I got out of position a couple of times and did not make pars, and then kind of the chances I had, easy chance there on 16, simple chip, hit it slightly heavy and don't make birdie.   I could have got it back, but I guess I need to have a run at it today. 

Q.   How do you feel about your chances this afternoon?   You know you can go out there and shoot really low. 
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, I can go out there and make plenty of birdies, so that's what I have to do this afternoon.   Rory is six in front, 4‑under par, so I'm three off of second right now.   I just need to go out there and make a few birdies, don't make those simple mistakes and convert easy birdies, and hopefully we can put ourselves straight in the Ryder Cup side, and who knows, take home the trophy tonight.

Q.   There's a dual agenda for you tonight, Ryder Cup, but it's all about winning, isn't it?
IAN POULTER:   It's winning.   I think I need to go out there this afternoon and play well.   If I can shoot 5‑, 6‑, 7‑under par, then hopefully that's going to play well with the judge. 

Q.   It's not rocket science, is it?
IAN POULTER:   If I play well, I'm in.   If I play well, I'm in.   It's simple, dead simple.

Q.   Why do you think you seem to do well on tough courses in tough conditions?
IAN POULTER:   I don't know.   I mean, it's‑‑ I don't know.   Obviously as crazy as it was Friday, I mean, it was blowing 30, 35 miles an hour, probably the toughest conditions we're going to have or have seen in 10 years, and I hit 15 greens in regulation.   The stats say 13, I'm giving myself two because they were fringe, they were almost putt‑worthy, so 15 greens.   That was an incredible day.   I mean, it was up there amongst one of the best rounds of golf I've ever played. 
And then today and yesterday, get caught out a little bit still in the mindset of Friday, still playing a 10 mile‑an‑hour wind like a 30 mile‑an‑hour wind, and you get caught a couple of shots off line because of that, and you get yourself out of position.   Easy to make bogeys on this golf course, and then frustrating not to convert the easy birdie opportunities. 
It's one of those types of courses if you have an extra 20, 30 yards, the par‑5s become very attractive, i.e., 2, 16 and so on.   It's one of those golf courses if you can carry a couple of those ridges, the par‑5s become almost a par‑4, really.   I'm playing a lot of them as lay‑up par‑5s, and that's tricky.   So when you get a calm day like today from borderline I can't get up, there's no point in having a go, and when you do find yourself having a go at 16, you would have hit short a green, you don't up‑and‑down it, it pisses you off. 

Q.   You're putting nicely, aren't you?
IAN POULTER:   I'm in fine form, fine form.   I've had two top 10s in two of the three majors, I'm just outside top 10 now.   I haven't missed a cut for 11 and a half months.   I'm playing nicely.   You don't do that unless you're playing nice.   It's all there.   I'm playing nice.   Go out this afternoon, and if we can go north of that border, then it's all good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT