PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2012
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round; was that a dream start?   
IAN POULTER:   Sure, I guess it was a dream start, birdieing the first five holes, I certainly saw the first three as great birdie opportunities.   And obviously to birdie 4 and 5 with two great birdies there, hitting 3‑iron in, and just missed birdie on 6.   
And the par 5, 7, was playing short.   They moved the tee up on us today.   It was probably the easiest hole on the golf course today I felt.   So an easy birdie there.   
I put myself in position, which was great.   I mean, I couldn't ask for a better nine holes.   Obviously birdieing 11 and 12, also pretty good, too.   So put myself in position and I guess I run out of a little bit of steam coming around the turn on 13, 14, 15.   I come unstuck right there.   Just disappointing to bogey the last, really.   
It was a great day.   I hit a lot of good golf shots, and it's just a shame I couldn't quite finish it off.   
   
 Q.   Did you press a bit?   
IAN POULTER:   I didn't press at all.   I still felt that I had to get through that stretch.   There was no case of pressing in any way, shape or form.   
I mean, Rory's got holes to play, and there was a couple of holes‑‑ he's obviously got the par5 ,11, which is obviously very playable, very scorable.   And with his length, it's kind of a par 4 for him.   So I just thought I needed not to make any mistakes and unfortunately I made three on the spin which was a real shame, really.   
   
 Q.   Were you watching the leaderboard ‑‑  
IAN POULTER:   Of course.   I'm looking at the board and I want to see where Rory is.   Making six of the first seven, I knew I had a chance to be fairly close and I was fairly close.   I just couldn't get any closer.   
Rory has obviously played some immense golf out there today and when he plays golf like he's playing this week, and obviously the last couple of days, he's very impressive to watch.   
You know, everybody should take note; the guy's pretty good.   
   
 Q.   Did you have a sense about qualifying for The Ryder Cup Team this week‑‑  
IAN POULTER:   All I could do, it was in my hands this week.   This is the last tournament I was going to play for Ryder Cup qualification.   And, you know, I had to play well.   I was just outside the points.   I'm now inside the points.   I don't know how that's going to play out obviously with Gleneagles, but I'm in the points and hopefully that's good enough to obviously get me an automatic spot.   That's what I was after this week.   
I didn't want to rely on the phone call; I've been there.   I've had the phone call once before.   Albeit, it was a nice phone call to receive, because I was on the right side of it.   But by playing well today, obviously took care of a number of things.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever had a better start to a round?  
IAN POULTER:   I've never had a better start.   No.   I mean, I couldn't want to get off to any kind of a better start in a major.   Certainly not when you have to go out there and play well.   I mean, six of the first seven holes, making birdie, I don't think I've done that before.   I'm not sure many have.   
   
 Q.   People here talk about Rory, but it looks like maybe David Lynn is going to finish in second place here, and to a lot of American golf fans, they are not familiar with David Lynn, and he's been a European Tour player for a long time, I imagine you're familiar with him.     
IAN POULTER:   Very familiar with him.   Shared a ram with rim‑‑ where did we share a room‑‑ back in 1999.   I know David really well, really nice player.   Someone who has played pretty consistently on The European Tour.   I don't think in many of the majors or WGCs he's really kind of figured.   
But it's a huge week for him, to post 5‑under to be second place is a fantastic week.   You know, he'll enjoy that.   I've been in that runner's up position before.   It's enjoyable, if you can say that.   Obviously it's a pity that you don't win, but certainly for David, it's a fantastic week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT