ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 7, 2012
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It was a trying day in a lot of ways with the weather, what was the story?  
IAN POULTER:   My round was pretty solid.   It's the best I've played all week.   Drove it very, very nicely.   Yesterday I hit three fairways in regulation which made it really difficult but I managed to scramble.   I actually played pretty much flawless golf, drove it nicely, put myself in a lot of good positions to have a look at a lot of birdie putts and I started to find my stroke.   
   
 Q.   You've been working so hard this year to get to that situation where you're looking forward to everything?  
IAN POULTER:   I've been playing nicely.   I haven't holed the putts for a little while, so I guess today, to get really into my old routine on the putting green and kind of feeling that groove is kind of nice.   It would be nice if a few more had dropped.   I guess it was a tricky day.   The wind, the rain was awkward.   So hopefully I'm not going to be too far back tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday you started a debate which was well received by the organisers about getting the setup of the golf course wrong.   They suggested that it wasn't a deliberate thing, but that the rough lines were the same as they have been but with the weather they have grown.   
IAN POULTER:   The rough lines are not the same lines.   We all know that.   Ask the guys that went out there to scout the course before the week.   We all know they have pinched the fairways in.   I would say on average they have pinched them in four to five yards, albeit not one side or the other; it's kind of two‑on‑one side, two on the other.   
Noticeably a lot of these tee shots have changed.   I've played here enough over the last few years; I know my lines on this golf course, and this is a golf course I've played well.   They haven't kept the same fairways.   They are ‑‑ rightly so, they kind of made the rough thick, and I'm all for having the rough thick, and so are most of the players out on the golf course because that will penalise bad shots.   But they have pinched the fairways and I guess they have had a lot of rain, it's made the course, the rough, very thick, and I think it's slightly unfair   for what, obviously, has proved to be kind of a tough week with the weather.  
   
 Q.   Going back to tomorrow, this is going to be windy.   Do you like that?  
IAN POULTER:   I do, especially the way I played today.   I wouldn't wanted it windy the way I played yesterday, hitting three fairways in regulation.   Today I really feel like I'm striking the ball really well.   I've hit a lot of fairways today.   
So for me, I want it as tough as possible tomorrow.   I want the 25‑mile‑an‑hour wind.   I want it brutally tough to score.   So I can go out there and kind of do my thing.   If it's going to be rough, it's going to be rough, but hopefully I can hole a lot of putts.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT