BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 27, 2012
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us how well you played today?  
IAN POULTER:   Played nice.   You know, slightly different conditions to yesterday.   That was a tough round, 25‑mile‑an‑hour winds, it was a long day.   So it was nice to get out first thing this morning, pretty calm, hit some good golf shots, and started to roll a couple of putts in.   
Took advantage of the par 5s today, which I didn't do yesterday, and I think this is a golf course where you really do have to take advantage of those to put yourself on the board.   So pretty pleased that I've done that today.   
   
 Q.   Still cold first thing but not the fog we expected and it's become a beautiful day?  
IAN POULTER:   No, it's glorious, actually.   You couldn't ask for better scoring conditions right now.   It is very, very playable out there today, and unless they get any kind of a wind this afternoon, you would expect some decent scores.  
   
 Q.   Was there a moment you thought your game was on track to make something today?  
IAN POULTER:   It was on track yesterday.   I was just getting frustrated on the golf course.   It was perfect conditions for me to be able to go out there in tough conditions, and I didn't take advantage of that.   So I had to take advantage today.   Played well today.   Put it in position.   Had a lot of looks for birdie and I managed to take a few of those.   
   
 Q.   Still a difficult track whatever the weather.   
IAN POULTER:   It is tricky.   There's tricky tee shots and a few tricky second shots.   There are some ridges on these greens which make it interesting.   You have to try to hit the right part of the green to give yourself a birdie chance.   
   
 Q.   Fancy you're totally in the mix now?  
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, I'm in the mix.   Yeah, back in the mix.   
   
 Q.   Right position for the weekend?  
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, Westy made it on the number last year and went on to win the golf tournament.   So anybody right now has got a chance who is going to be in here for the weekend.   
   
 Q.   It was a rough day yesterday in tough conditions, but you came out this morning and really played well.   Did you see this coming, because you really had not been holing many putts coming into today?  
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, yesterday was frustrating.   I felt that I had a good chance to be honest in those tough conditions.   I generally played pretty solid golf.   I like it windy which is exactly what we got yesterday and I never took advantage at all.   I hit a couple of poor shots and three, 3‑putts kind of put me 3‑over for the day.   So that was very frustrating, but this morning, flat calm, the sun's out, and you know, it was definitely scorable out there today, and played solid, hit a lot of fairways, put it in position and gave myself plenty of looks at birdie and I managed to take a few.   
   
 Q.   67 is a good score out there today, but it looked like you left a few out there.   Did you feel that way?  
IAN POULTER:   Sure.   I did leave a few.   I holed a couple of nice putts, but I hit a lot of wedge shots pretty close, a couple of tap‑in birdies there.   But you always walk off a round of golf feeling like you've left a couple.   
   
 Q.   Nature of the game.   Now what are you going to do tomorrow?   Are you going to do anything differently being a few behind or do you just go out and try to be patient and hope things work out?  
IAN POULTER:   Well, Westy made the cut on the number last year and went on to win.   So I'm certainly not going to be sitting back.   I need to put birdies in the bag, really.   So I think for me it's about going out there and making as many birdies as I can, and this golf course gives it up on the par 5s, certainly you have to take advantage of those.   There's a couple of other key holes which can play pretty tricky.   Get through those, and I think there's plenty of birdie opportunities.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT