ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 25, 2012
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A low score to win this golf tournament was needed; how would you assess your day considering everything?   
IAN POULTER:   Well, totally different wind from what we have had the last three days on this golf course with a northwesterly wind, it plays very, very difficult.   The pins were in positions which that wind kept you going at a number of those pins.   
So it was always going to be a tricky day.   But, right from the get‑go, you could see guys were going to struggle.   So I would have had to have gone exceptionally low today.   
But, you know, through nine holes, looking at the board, I would have had to go low on the back nine and it wasn't going to happen with the pins and the wind.   Happy enough to come through this week finished third, and feeling a little better about myself.   
   
 Q.   Confidence heading into the first major; I'm sure you're confident, and curious what your plan is from now up until Augusta.   
IAN POULTER:   Just a nice run of practice to be honest next week.   I think looking at my schedule, I've got a nice practice routine Monday through Sunday.   Going to fly up to Augusta on Monday, hopefully be as prepared as I possibly can and hopefully be feeling a little stronger as well.   
   
 Q.   Is this the same as past years?   
IAN POULTER:   It's the same but there's‑‑ at the back of the range at Lake Nona we've got lots of slopey ground to hit lots of shots on and at Augusta National you get a lot of those, downhill wedge shots, ball above your feet shots, obviously 13 ball below your feet on a number of holes.   I think looking at the practice routine, we'll spend a lot of time practicing those shots we don't normally play.   
   
 Q.   Thoughts on Tiger winning?   
IAN POULTER:   Masters 2009 was the last time he won, so for him, for golf, obviously lots of people, it shows that he's been hard at work the last year or so to get himself back to winning ways and obviously to go out there, to shoot under par, he's back in some form.   
He's obviously not as good as he'd like to be, but that's Tiger.   Tiger is always going to say that.   So I think looking ahead to the Masters, it's obviously going to be a fun week.   
   
 Q.   With this victory, how formidable is he going to be?  
IAN POULTER:   Well, I mean, he's always a force to be reckoned with when he's not playing his best golf, and obviously he's playing a lot of good golf right now.  
The shots he's hit, just looking at the highlights, he's got a lot of his game back, and he starts rolling putts in, he's dangerous so he's going to be a force for everybody at Augusta.   
   
 Q.   We talk about eras, obviously we have broken his career in eras, do you think the other adversaries, in this era, it is stronger than four years ago?  
IAN POULTER:   Sure.   Everybody is working harder on every aspect of their game and their fitness.   So it's pushing everybody to work harder and harder, as it's going to continue to do so.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT