UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 3, 2011
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How have things been and how do you reflect on your position now?   
IAN POULTER:   You know, this week, as tough as the course is playing, and the reason it's playing tough is the greens are very firm and they are very fast.   We have had wind the first two days which has kept scores down, but today was scorable.   Even still, the greens are still getting quicker.   
It was very playable out there today.   Made a few mistakes on the front nine, got myself short‑sided a couple of times, made a couple of silly bogeys, but I made a few birdies /*D to.   But I 2‑putted my way in from 10.   I hit it to like 30 feet on 12, the par5, 2‑putted that.   And every putt I had from the 10th pretty much had a look.   
So a bit frustrating not to take a few more chances on the back nine, but it's going to have a chance tomorrow.   So should be a fun Sunday.   
   
 Q.   Elaborate on that because imagine there's plenty of frustrations over the days, and you've moved yourself into a tidy position.   
IAN POULTER:   I like this golf course, and you know, you just have to be patient.   You know, I guess at times, my patience runs fairly thin.   It has been a little bit this week.  
But I've stayed in there.   I concentrate on each shot as normal.   And I've kept that focus.   I just need a few more putts to go in, and we'll be right in there with a shout with a few holes to play tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Clearly we don't know what the leaders are going to achieve just as yet, but scoring is tricky, isn't it?  
IAN POULTER:   It's tricky.   The one protection this golf course has is when the greens get firm and fast and they have certainly achieved that this week.   
I think the golf course is in the best condition we've ever seen it, and you get to see one of the shortest courses we play all year actually play tough.   It's very similar to Hilton Head in the States, one of the shortest courses of the year; the greens get firm and fast and the scoring, it stays relatively low.   
So you know, I would think it would be tough for guys to get at some of those pins on the back nine, so I shouldn't think anyone is going to run away too far.   
   
 Q.   Hazard a guess at what's necessary on the final day?  
IAN POULTER:   Have fun.   That's what I'm going to do really.   Try and put a smile on my face and roll a few putts in, and then I'll be smiling a bit more.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT