UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 30, 2011
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  IAN POULTER:   The golf course is in better condition this year than it actually was last year.   It's in the best condition I've seen it to be honest.   
   
 Q.   Does the change make much of a difference?   
IAN POULTER:   I don't think the change is going to make much difference at all.   If anything, I think the new hole is slightly easier.   
So I think that it might weigh a tiny bit easier for a stroke average during the week‑‑ all I'm going to say is the greens are firmer and they are much faster, so to be honest, that actually takes it the other way.   We all like quick greens and stuff, but the fact that they are quite firm, you won't see the scoring quite as good.   Because you can get a few putts that are going to run a little bit past the pin and you are going to have a really, really quick putt coming back.   
   
 Q.   Law of averages‑‑  
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, I think it might play a couple of shots tougher, which is good, very good.   But the course is in really nice shape.   
   
 Q.   Take the positives from your last round on Sunday, I presume?   
IAN POULTER:   It was nice.   It was nice, because there was not a lot to take out of round one, two and three, other than frustration.   Both of us were getting a little frustrated.   Justin didn't feel quite as good on Saturday.   He had a bit of a cold.   And I think we were flat to be honest.   
But, you know, foursomes Sunday, everything to play for, shoot a low round, you can move up the leaderboard like we did, and we got off to a decent start, 4‑under on that front nine.   
We had a couple of birdies on the back nine, got into a nice position, obviously saw on the board guys were not really going that far forward apart from the Americans, and a little disappointed with the 3‑putt on 14, which kind of halted but to finish the last four holes in 11 shots, birdie, eagle, par, birdie.   
It was good fun.   You've got a sniff and you've got a chance to win a golf tournament, so that's always good to have that positive feeling.   
   
 Q.   What are you doing after Dubai?   
IAN POULTER:   Dubai, Australian Masters and then some time off.   
   
 Q.   Start again in Abu Dhabi?   
IAN POULTER:   Not sure yet.   I haven't decided.   End of January, early February I reckon.   
   
 Q.   Did you watch the match last night?   
IAN POULTER:   No, because it was‑‑ it kicked off at four o'clock in the morning.   So I'm not going to get up at four o'clock in the morning.   
   
 Q.   Do you know the score?   
IAN POULTER:   Not happy.   What can I do.   We lost.   The kids, it's always a good to get a run out, especially against City.   Calling them kids but a pretty senior side, isn't it.   They have done okay.   
   
 Q.   Your caddie won a competition with our paper; how was it?   
IAN POULTER:   It was good fun.   I think he enjoyed it.   I actually had three caddies today which was great.   What a bit of fun that was.   It was nice to give him a little insight into what we do on an inside the rope basis, and hopefully he learnt a few things and had a bit of fun out there.   
   
 Q.   Do you have a few tips for his boys?   
IAN POULTER:   Yeah, I hear his boy plays off plus two, and just give him some words of advice of what I think he should do to try and crack it.   
   
 Q.   Stick to the day job, do you think?   Or is he giving you any good tips on the course?  
IAN POULTER:   It's not about tips, is it.   It's about them having a fun time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT