BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2011
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   IAN POULTER: 3-under par, decent score, very windy conditions early on, obviously stop/start with the rain pretty much most of the day. 3-under par on this golf course is pretty good.   
  
  Q. What part of your game are you most pleased with today?  
 IAN POULTER: I just played well. Drove it nicely, hit a lot golf iron shots, and I holed a few putts.   
  
  Q. Must have been fairly daunting to see Luke go into a seven-stroke lead at the start.   
 IAN POULTER: It's Thursday. You don't win tournaments on Thursday. There's a long way to go. There was nothing daunting. He's played exceptionally good golf, and as I said, it's Thursday.  
  
  Q. A few tweaks to the course, how do you feel it played?  
 IAN POULTER: The course played okay. I mean, you know, there's a lot of pin positions which you can't go at. The greens are firm. It's windy. It difficult. So you have to be very careful.   
  
  Q. You're a big football fan, who do you pip for Saturday night?  
 IAN POULTER: I'm going. I'm going to watch Messi and obviously all the boys. I think it will be a good game of football.  
  
  Q. A bit of banter?   
 IAN POULTER: Obviously there's some banter. I'm going as a neutral. I'm going to stay that way. I'm not going to get into too much of a dogfight with anyone. Let's play some golf, have fun on Saturday night and see what happens Sunday.  
  
  Q. How do you reflect on today?  
 IAN POULTER: Decent round. Obviously windy conditions to start off with, on and off rain. It was going to be a difficult day.   
 So certainly for me, shooting 68 on this golf course is a decent start to the week. I'm not the biggest fan and I haven't played very well around this golf course, so for me, I'm very happy to walk off 3-under par.  
  
  Q. Are you more of a fan since the changes?   
 IAN POULTER: No, I'm not to be honest with you. So I've got to work hard with my brain more than anything else, and if I can override my brain and play good golf, hopefully I can get a result on a course I haven't yet.  
  
  Q. Clearly you're maintaining the form of last Sunday?  
 IAN POULTER: I am, which is nice. I have to play well around this golf course, and you know what, right now, I did.   
 So I'm very happy, and three more days to go. Let's see how we get on over the next three days, if I can keep hitting good golf shots, sure, I'm going to be in position come Sunday.  
  
  Q. Not too weary?  
 IAN POULTER: I'm fine. I had a late Pro-Am time, late first round time and I woke up late on Tuesday. So Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, were all late lie-ins which was happy days.  
  
  Q. The man who is leading this tournament, you beat him handsomely on Sunday; an appreciation for how well he played today?  
 IAN POULTER: That's a great round of golf today on a difficult golf course. I guess when he teed off there wasn't quite as much wind, but he would have played in some of the wind, certainly, for some of his round of golf. And that's a great round of golf. 7-under par, leading by two. He's playing good golf right now.   
  
  Q. Have you ever broken up a professional round of golf to have fish and chips before?  
 IAN POULTER: No, I haven't. But I tell you what, it was one of the longest rounds of golf we are ever going to play. There was a 40-minute wait on the 4th tee. There was four groups on the tee when we got there. It was going to be a long day.   
 I only had kind of protein bars in the bag, and you know what, pit stop, it was 6.00. You know what, that's a perfect dinner time for me so fish and chips it was. That was my dinner done.  
  
  Q. Went down well?  
 IAN POULTER: Went down nicely, washed down with a nice cup of tea.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT