VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2011
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What does it feel like, Volvo World Match Play Champion?  
 IAN POULTER: Pretty special. I had a quick look at the names on the trophy, as I stood on that first tee and I just thought, you know, it's Luke's birthday today.   
 Happy birthday, Luke. He's seven. But I just thought, you know what, it would be pretty special to put my name ON that trophy.  
  
  Q. When you look back, what's the key to this victory?  
 IAN POULTER: I finally started to hole a few putts. It has not happened, bizarrely. I don't know why. And I just stayed with it.   
 You know what, I've been frustrated for a few months, and you know. I just said, what the hell, just put a little bit more practise in, hole a few more putts, and see what happens.   
  
  Q. 108 holes you played in the six matches, and the Pro-Am, as well; harder physically or mentally?   
 IAN POULTER: Mentally. I think we are all fit enough to go as many holes as we are. It's just it's long, obviously it's warm. And it's tiring. You know what, when you've got to play the best players in the world, it's very wearing. You have to keep hitting good shots and good putts all the time.  
  
  Q. What does this win do for you going forward?   
 IAN POULTER: It's a nice boost. You know, there's a lot of questions been asked, obviously over the first five months of the year, why are you playing so poorly.   
 I said, you know what, I played probably the best golf I ever played at Augusta. It just didn't happen. Didn't putt well.   
 I didn't play my best today. I think I managed to hole some putts at the right time today to get away with it, but you know what, in this game, you have to hole putts to win.  
  
  Q. How are you going to celebrate this win?   
 IAN POULTER: It's going to be a quiet one, actually. Me and Luke are actually flying straight back to the U.K. now. There will be a bottle of champagne on the plane. I can't think it's going to take me many glasses to feel quite drunk; a couple of glasses.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT