VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2011
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   IAN POULTER: That was a tough match. Nicolas had the upper hand with length off me, and this golf course lends itself to hitting it quite long off those par 5s. I've played with Nicolas before and he's a good player.   
 I needed to play well. I didn't play my best golf early on during the round but I just kind of hung in there, and you know, we saw yesterday how quickly it can turn around. It happened pretty much on the same two holes, and that's what you need. You just need a bit of momentum.  
  
  Q. How important was experience out there today?   
 IAN POULTER: I think -- I mean, I think it was crucial. I can't reach 18. You know, I've got to hit a great 3-wood to get anywhere near close; it could pitch on the green; it could run back and give me more trouble. I just have to take my medicine, hit it down the right-hand side and trust my short game.   
  
  Q. You've played 91 holes already, adrenaline this afternoon going to get you through?  
 IAN POULTER: 109 including the Pro-Am.   
 It's Luke's birthday. I'm playing Luke this afternoon but it's my boy's birthday today, and I'll give it 100 per cent.  
  
  Q. Talk about playing Luke Donald, he's in fantastic form.   
 IAN POULTER: He's in great form. He's now world No. 1, I guess, however he gets on this afternoon. So yeah, he's a great player, he's in incredible form, so I'm going to have to play well.  
  
  Q. How do you approach it then? Do you play more aggressively than normal?  
 IAN POULTER: I guess you have to. You just look at those pins. But I mean, Luke will be in a similar position off the tee. He's not quite long enough to reach some of those real long par 5s, so it's going to be an interesting match.  
  
  Q. What would it mean to you to win this iconic championship?  
 IAN POULTER: It would be pretty special. There are some nice names on that trophy and I would love to put mine next to them.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT