THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2011
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Have you ever run that fast on the golf course before? 
 IAN POULTER: No not that often. You know, if duty calls, you've got to get to 18, right? Saved us probably a 7:45 restart, I think it is, in the morning, so that's a 5:30 wake-up call. That's four hours in bed. A little 300-yard sprint is well worth four hours in bed.

 Q. Did you discuss that? 
 IAN POULTER: Well, we were waiting on the 16th tee, and Phil was waiting and just came over and said to us, listen, if you have to tee off, just give us a shout. 
 So I think quite a few guys in that situation would have done exactly the same.

 Q. Considering the drive you hit on 18, are you going to do more sprints before? 
 IAN POULTER: I need to. That was pumped. That thing was out there. That was out there. I don't think I've ever hit sand iron into 18 before. So something to be said about adrenaline.

 Q. What did you say to Phil when you got to 18? 
 IAN POULTER: Thank you very much. He said absolute pleasure; I would have done exactly the same.

 Q. How drastic were the condition changes from the morning? 
 IAN POULTER: It was a lot easier, for sure. You could be very aggressive to the pins, and I think that's exactly what the guys, obviously, in the lead would have taken advantage of. Some of those early pin positions they could get out very easy, and it definitely made it a little easier even though the greens were slowing up.

 Q. Did you and Dustin decide who was going to be the one? 
 IAN POULTER: No, I just went for it, so...

 Q. Did you surprise yourself with how little you had to take time to catch your breath or anything? 
 IAN POULTER: No, I mean, it's probably about the same as your heart rate is when you're playing in the Ryder Cup. It's just taking you back a few months.

 Q. Was there part of you that was just happy there was a delay to get those conditions out there? 
 IAN POULTER: We knew when we teed off it was always going to be close. We figured we could get to 17, 18. We were talking about it the whole way around. What is the time, what is the time? How much longer do we have left? Yeah, it was close.

 Q. You saved Dustin four hours tomorrow, too. What does he owe you? 
 IAN POULTER: A beer, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT