DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 28, 2010
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Fourth Round 70. 14-Under. 274 Total.  
   
  Q. Obviously not prepared for it to end like that. Tell us what happened.   
 IAN POULTER: Bizarrely, Terry handed me the ball back and I've gone to mark the ball, and literally the ball slipped from two or three inches above the coin. And it's pitched right on the front of the coin and the coin flipped over. One-shot penalty.  
  
  Q. You confirmed that with Andy McFee?  
 IAN POULTER: I called him over. The coin was one way and the next minutes facing the other way. It's pitched right on the front and flipped over. If it pitches in the middle, the coin doesn't move and it's fine. But it's pitched on the front and it's flipped over.  
  
  Q. Has that ever happened to you in all the time you've played golf?  
 IAN POULTER: No.   
  
  Q. Tell us about what was an incredibly dramatic afternoon and from your perspective, what it was like being out there with such a tight battle with so many guys in with a chance.   
 IAN POULTER: It was good. Looking at the board all the way around, Robert got off to an incredible start, birdie, birdie, eagle. Westy made a late charge. It was good fun the whole way around. I felt good, hit lots of good golf shots. I made a couple of key up-and-downs at the right time. But, you know what, you're left walking away disappointed.  
  
  Q. Massive amount of positives to take out of this week.   
 IAN POULTER: A lot of positives to take away, but right now not really seeing them.   
  
  Q. What was going through your mind after your final putt of your regular round?   
 IAN POULTER: I was disappointed. I felt I hit a very good putt. Six inches short of the hole, I would have probably put my house on it, but it slows down and takes a little bit of grain and misses. Obviously a little disappointed, and it was a shame it's just ended the way it has. Robert has hit a good third shot, and you know what, he stepped up and holed the putts. So every credit.   
  
  Q. With all of the people on the 18th, do you think sometimes we just don't do ourselves any favours as a sport with rules that are that petty?   
 IAN POULTER: It's a strange one. I mean, you know, if it pitches in the middle of the coin, the coin won't move. It's heavy enough. But it just pitched right on the very front and it just flipped itself over. You know, it's one of those rules I guess.   
  
  Q. Were you aware it was a one-shot penalty?  
 IAN POULTER: I had a fairly good idea, yeah. Obviously I needed to clarify.   
  
  Q. And what did Robert say to you?   
 IAN POULTER: I mean, he's made birdie anyway. "Hard luck."   
  
  Q. Did it put you in the right frame of mind --  
 IAN POULTER: No, it's disappointing when you're standing there and you've hit a poor third shot and you've got 30 feet, which you can still hole to kind of put a little bit of pressure on Rob. Yeah, you're a little bit flustered standing over it, but I still had a chance to hole it.   
  
  Q. Absolutely no consolation that Robert made a birdie?  
 IAN POULTER: Not for me, because I felt I had a good chance to hole the putt. It was just online. It was just a little short but, you know, I shouldn't drop my ball on my coin I guess.  
  
  Q. How often has that happened to you?  
 IAN POULTER: Never.   
  
  Q. Have you ever seen it happen to anyone else?   
 IAN POULTER: I've heard of it before, but I just had to clarify it to make sure it was exactly the right rule. Bizarre one, isn't it.   
  
  Q. Strange time to happen.   
 IAN POULTER: Not really, no, a couple of World Ranking points, a couple of dollars. No, probably wasn't the best of timing.  
  
  Q. Was it a couple of millimeters?   
 IAN POULTER: It literally flipped over. It's pitched on the front and it's literally just on one rotation.  
  
  Q. What is the coin?   
 IAN POULTER: Well, it was my lucky coin that I made in the start of the year. It's still going to stay lucky. It's got my kids' names on it. But, hey-ho, I thought it was heavy enough. It's made of platinum. It's just bigger than a quarter size, yeah.   
  
  Q. If you used an ordinary ball marker --  
 IAN POULTER: It would have flipped -- like the one with the little plastic pig on it? Come on. (Laughter) Seriously.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT