UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 17, 2010
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Having played a practise round, how is it out there?
 IAN POULTER: Course is in good shape. Probably the best I've seen it since playing here three or four times. Very much looking forward to it; a golf course that I enjoy. It's positional golf. It's pretty tight. And you know, with that in mind, I think that suits my game.

 Q. Woburn-esque?  
IAN POULTER: A little bit. I mean, positional. It's tight in places, and yet, you know, there's some par 5s which if you get a good tee shot away, there's definitely an eagle chance and should be a guaranteed birdie.

 Q. How is your game?
 IAN POULTER: Game is in shape, very much so.

 Q. So how do you reflect on last week?
 IAN POULTER: Very disappointed. Disappointing week. Really should have capitalised on the good shots I hit. There was no reflection on -- my score was no reflection on how I played. 14 birdie opportunities, after the fourth hole, which was my last birdie; 14, so I had -- I had nine chances in the last 14 holes from inside 18 feet. Not to make one of those is more than disappointing. 
 So sixth place finish is not acceptable in my book.

 Q. When you look back on the earlier stages, it was sparkling, wasn't, it, one round of 63 and all. 
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, that's a short golf course. I think if you're in good form and hit some good golf shots, I think 63 is a very realistic score on that course. What's the name of the proper course -- Serapong, ping-pong. It's a good golf course. It's a tough golf course. There's a lot of tricky tee shots. There's a lot of holes that you can slip up on, but if you play well -- and I felt I actually played well. 
 I hit a couple of poor shots which cost me a couple of shots, but you know, if the last 14 holes, I don't make birdie, I shoot 4-over par, I've had nine birdie opportunities inside 18 feet. I mean, I'm playing great. We'll just bring that into this week and last week is over. It's out of my mind, I'm over it, and move on. 

 Q. What kind of scores should be shot here? Anyone's guess, but there have been some particularly low ones down the years?
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, I've had seven birdies in the Pro-Am today. So you can shoot any score on this golf course, if you really get it going, take advantage of the par 5s that you can reach in two, and also take advantage of some of the short fours, yeah, there's going to be a couple tricky holes. 18 being one; 9 being the other. If you play them well and play the par 5s, then you can shoot low 60s.

 Q. You mentioned about coming here numerous times. Hong Kong is just a good place, isn't it, basically?
 IAN POULTER: Great place. It's nice to stay in the city. There's lots to do. Great restaurants, great shopping. It's a fun place to come. 

 Q. And when you've got the choice of playing golf courses, golf events all around the world, presumably that is something to factor in?
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, it's a nice place to come to. It's on the Asian Swing for me and it's a good golf course. I've always played it well. That to me is my first point; is it a good golf course? Yes. Have I played well there? Yes. So yeah, I mean, it's definitely a factor. Good food in the evenings. Can't beat it.

 Q. Anything we should be asking? Best restaurant in Hong Kong? 
 IAN POULTER: Zuma, where I was in last night. Fantastic restaurant. It's the same chain of restaurants, which there's one in Knightsbridge, London. Fantastic, just the food, it's Japanese cuisine. It's fantastic. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT