THE RYDER CUP
October 3, 2010
Martin Kaymer
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   IAN POULTER: We knew it was going to be tough and they came out at us. The guys played well today and we played fantastic golf. It's truly a special day for European golf. 

 Q. Are you surprised or how do you feel about the fact you managed to convert almost all of them into points? 
 IAN POULTER: It's incredible. It couldn't get any better. We had six blue numbers on the board and if you look at that, it can only go one way. We were slightly cautious of that and knew they would come out firing. They tried. But you know what, we held them off. We hit the right shots at the right time and holed the putts at the right time. 

 Q. You lost the first two sessions, how have you managed to turn it around? How has Colin been in the team room? 
 IAN POULTER: He's been great. You know, I don't think this team needs any self-motivation. The guys were really gutted about being 6-4 down. We have dug in and shown passion and shown how golf can be played. And we had 40,000 spectators to drag us around the golf course. They have filled us full of energy. It's been incredible. 

 Q. You have a commanding lead. Is it enough? 
 IAN POULTER: It's never enough until it's over. You can look back to Brookline. It's never enough. We know they are going to come out hard tomorrow morning. Hopefully everybody can match up and play some great golf, and if everybody concentrates on their game, their game solely, to put a point on the board, I think we'll be in a fantastic position tomorrow night.

 Q. What's mind-set going into tomorrow? 
 IAN POULTER: Mind-set is to win the session. I think if we go out there with that mind-set of actually winning the session, at least six points on the board, then we do the job. I mean, you can't get complacent. We saw what happened at Brookline; that was deeply, you know, depressing, really. 
 So there's no way anybody is going out there with, we have already got this in the bag. We know what happened and we've seen this before. 
 We need to make sure we concentrate on our job and get blue on the board early.

 Q. Very much a team competition but an individual responsibility; get a point and get it for the team. 
 IAN POULTER: Sure, it changes. You've had a partner all week and someone walking with you. Tomorrow it's all spread out and there's 12 matches. There's not vice captains with every single group. So, it's lonely. 
 So therefore, you've got to go out there and do your job, be selfish, and actually go out there and stay positive, hit the right shots and put a point on the board. 

 Q. What would it mean to you personally, and also to the team, USA ahead in the first couple of sessions to turn this around, win it, having been on the team a couple of years ago that was beat. 
 IAN POULTER: Sure, it would be awesome but I don't want to think too much about getting in front before it happens. There's 12 matches to play tomorrow. It will be incredible to be on a winning side, in Europe, and the fans have had a tough week as well as we have had a tough week this week. It's been dragged into Monday. But the spectators have been absolutely incredible. The buzz on the golf course has been special. 

 Q. In your Ryder Cup debut, did you ever think you would be involved in something quite as good as that? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: It was a fantastic day, fantastic day for us. We had 5 1/2 points out of six. It's most important that we don't relax for tomorrow. We have to get -- officially I think we have to get only five points, but I think our attitude is you cannot rely on the other guys. You have to get your own point and then go from there. 

 Q. Huge momentum today in terms of how you must be feeling this evening and how the USA team is feeling. You must be on cloud nine. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Of course, we are very happy and pleased that the Americans might be disappointed with the day. But for us, we just want to keep the momentum going, from when we left last night, the golf course -- we started with birdies straightaway and it was so important to start off well. And yeah, as I said, everybody is playing well, they are a young team, and with their support tomorrow, we can definitely get the trophy. 

 Q. Do you fancy being in a match and having a putt to win it? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: I love it. That's why I'm here. That's why I'm practising so many years. I mean, for me, I'm not -- I would love to have it. To make European golf proud, to make Colin Montgomerie proud, I don't know how I will react, but it will be probably the best feeling of my life. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT