THE RYDER CUP
October 3, 2010
Martin Kaymer
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A fantastic atmosphere, first of all, better than playing at the Arsenal. 
 IAN POULTER: Unbelievable. Great for us to get back out on the golf course today. We opened up early with a couple of early birdies, which got us in front. They come back at us pretty strong, but I mean, just look at this crowd. There's nothing better. The sun's shining, there's 40,000 fans, I've got a great man standing next to me who hit shots at the right time, as well. So just very happy.

 Q. What was the conversation last night when you had the great start, Europe had the lead and wanted to keep all the blue scores on the board, what was the conversation before you came into today? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: Well, the goal was to keep the blue scores on the board. We played well obviously in the afternoon and the evening, so we just had to keep on continuing that. We were playing well. We shouldn't lay back; we should still play good golf and that's what we did. Ian played very, very well the entire round, and yeah, I made some good putts in the end, you know. 

 Q. Who is the loudest player in the team room? 
 MARTIN KAYMER: The loudest, I think Ian is right up there I would say.

 Q. Would you say you have anyone in the team room that can give you a go for being the loudest in the team room? 
 IAN POULTER: I don't know. I think Rory and the boys give it a good go. But look at this; it's awesome. 
 MARTIN KAYMER: It's so much fun. 
 IAN POULTER: It's a great way to finish how they have created the last few holes, and it's just awesome. (Crowd cheering). 

 Q. Singles to come, you must be excited?
 MARTIN KAYMER: We can't wait to go out. I hope that, yeah, the same amount of spectators come out tomorrow to support us. It's just so much fun. To play my first Ryder Cup here, here in Wales, with those fans, it's just so much fun. 
 Obviously we are leading now, so it's a good thing, obviously. And we have great players, young players, everybody wants to come out and play. And then we are going to get the trophy tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT