THE RYDER CUP
October 1, 2010
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. As you came in, one of the spectators shouted, can I get a refund, there's no golf, and you said, "Wasn't my putt at the third worth it." Tell us about it. 
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, that was a nice one, that 77 yard par 3 was playing a little more difficult than in practise. It was a good fire iron and managed to roll a nice putt in from 25 feet. 

 Q. Give us your view on the first tee atmosphere. The other guys were saying it was just electric?
 IAN POULTER: It was awesome. I knew it was going to be, and I truly think it's an amazing experience to be able to be out there to tee off under those conditions. It is difficult getting your ball on the tee but I tell you what, it's an experience you'll remember forever. 

 Q. When do those nerves go away, if at all?
 IAN POULTER: I don't think they really do. You're nervous but excited, so as much as you have the little butterflies, you have so much adrenaline going through your veins which is hard to control. That's the difficult thing, you get so much of a buzz from the crowd, your body cannot take it all in, so it's in there waiting to get out. 
 Hopefully you can play under those conditions and keep that kind of a buzz the whole way around. 

 Q. With that much adrenaline flowing through your veins, you have to really club accordingly. 
 IAN POULTER: Normally we do, but we have a little bit of wet stuff pushing it back down again. So you know, you do have to play for it, but you know, it's wet and the ball is not going very far right now.

 Q. You're out playing against the world No. 1 player Tiger Woods. Give us your thoughts on that challenge. 
 IAN POULTER: When I saw the pairing yesterday sitting on the stage, I was not expecting him to go out No. Three, I thought he would either be out No. 1 or 4. I was pleasantly happy, shall we say. 
 Whenever you have the world's best player and you have to play against him, it's a huge challenge and one that I feel ready for and you know, if we can get out there, there's blue on the board right now, even though it's only two holes, it's nice to have blue on the board and hopefully we can win our match, too. 

 Q. When you get back out there, obviously you have the momentum at the moment, what's the secret to recapturing it and making sure you can push this forward?
 IAN POULTER: Staying patient in these conditions. I think that's going to be most difficult for everybody. The waterproofs are doing a great job right now for us keeping us pretty much dry. Hundreds of towels and just staying patient. There's obviously not going to be any clock today to play quickly. So stay patient, stay dry and commit to every single shot you've got. Give the crowd something to roar about. 

 Q. And the Americans have to go to the merchandise tent and buy new waterproofs because they were leaking, did you enjoy that story?
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, I can see them on right now. Ours are keeping us nice and dry, that's all I'm going to say. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT