BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 10, 2010
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Let's talk about the round. You really didn't give yourself a lot of chances, did you?
 IAN POULTER: I played okay, missed a few greens, hit a few good bunker shots, hit a lot of good chips. A lot of the bunker shots and chips were pretty close to going in. I had a few putts which I left just short in the middle. You know what, reflecting on the day, yeah, I should have been three or four shots better if I'm honest. I missed a silly three-foot par putt on 14, which really I should have holed, straight back up the hill. But apart from that, it was fair playing.

 Q. Did the golf course play any tougher this morning?
 IAN POULTER: No, it played easier. The greens were better. We had the best of the greens. I just didn't hole my fair share of putts. I putted well yesterday, holed a 70-footer, 25-footer. Making eagle on a par-5, that makes a big difference. That's what I didn't do today. I didn't hole the putts. They looked like going in but just stayed out, so that's why I've shot 1-over.

 Q. You hit a bunch of putts right in the jaws; those 25-footers were right there, six inches. 
 IAN POULTER: Yep, they were close but didn't go in.

 Q. So pleased with where you are? I don't think anybody is going to go crazy. 
 IAN POULTER: No, I'm not pleased at all. I shot 1-over par, and I should have shot 3- or 4-under par. So I'm not very pleased. I'm never pleased if I'm shooting over par when I feel like I should be shooting under par. You know, I'll just go out there and do a little bit better tomorrow, shoot under par and see what happens on Sunday afternoon. 

 Q. You had a great afternoon round yesterday. This looked like an opportunity for scoring. Was it really the opportunity that people might have thought?
 IAN POULTER: Well, the scoreboard doesn't say so. There are a lot of front pins today, and it's kind of tricky to get it close. So you're going to leave yourself a lot of 25-footers, and it's kind of hard to hole those. Yesterday a few went in and a 70-footer went in, and I holed a 16-footer for eagle, and that made the difference.
 I made a silly bogey on 14; I missed a three-foot par putt there which I really should knock in and bogeyed the last. I played solid; I just left a few shots out there today.

 Q. Overall then where do you see your position going into the weekend? 
 IAN POULTER: Position is fine. I mean, I don't see anyone going very low this afternoon. If the greens dry up a little bit from now then the front pins are going to stay protected. I'll be in position. It's not where I want to be, but I'm just going to have to do some work over the weekend.

 Q. You talked about how the Ryder Cup is on your mind now as something you were working at. How does that affect your game at this time?
 IAN POULTER: It doesn't affect anything. I'm going to win golf tournaments. I mean, this is the BMW Championship. This is not the Ryder Cup. As much as I'm working towards the Ryder Cup, this is a slightly different tournament. 
 My mindset is to win this golf tournament. I mean, of course I'm getting kind of excited because it's getting close. I don't think it's making any difference in my game.

 Q. Your round today seemed like more of a grinding type round. Do you feel like there's a better score to be had out there? Are the conditions playing tougher than yesterday?
 IAN POULTER: I felt I should have been three or four shots better, so had I done that, I would have shot 3-under par, and I would have been leading by a couple. I didn't do that; I shot 1-over par. I bogeyed 14, 18, and you know what, I missed plenty of chances. Yeah, I missed a few greens today, but I hit a lot of good chip shots which lipped out or just shaved the edge of the hole. I hit a lot of good 25-foot putts, again, which are shaving the hole. If you're not going to hole those putts and you make two bogeys, then you're never going to shoot a very low round of golf. 
 But I think the course will stay very fairly protected. A lot of front pin locations today. They're hard to get at. You don't want to -- you certainly don't want to miss them on the short side, and you don't want to come up short on the greens because there are some runoffs which are going to leave yourself a very tricky chip shot, so I can't see guys going too low. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT