MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2010
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good start?  
 IAN POULTER: It was looking tricky first thing this morning. The weather forecast was that it would be stormy this afternoon. The lightning stayed away, but it was pretty blustery in parts of the course.   
 So for me to shoot 4-under par is a great start. And I'm pleased.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 IAN POULTER: Actually, you have to be patient on this golf course. You don't want to get caught up by the wind so you're just going to have to wait for the right time. If it's blowing just make sure you trust it and just keep hitting the shots that you have chosen. A few people are going to be caught out there. But I managed to make a good par there on 12, but it was pretty good all day.   
  
  Q. Pretty crowded leaderboard. Are you surprised by that? Given how much it was blowing?  
 IAN POULTER: I think a couple of the par-5s played a little easier because the wind was in favor of them so therefore you could hit it down there, hit it in position to go for it in two.   
 I think the guys would have taken advantage of 15 and 13 today. So you had a chance on 8 as well with that being downwind. So that is a key to this golf course, playing the par-5s well.  
  
  Q. What was it like playing in front of Tiger all day long?  
 IAN POULTER: Fine.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 IAN POULTER: I hit a fantastic putt on 15 and six inches out I would have been asking that thing to break and it did and it missed. So it was a shocker for that to miss.   
 But I played well. I up-and-downed well at the right time. Certainly making par on 12 and obviously a par on 18 from missing that green in the wrong spot was very pleasing.   
  
  Q. How important was it to get off to a good start here given it is such a tough course and it's a tournament that you put a lot of pressure on yourself to win?  
 IAN POULTER: Well you can't win this golf tournament on Thursday, but you can certainly put yourself out of it and that's always in your mind when it's blowing 25 miles an hour around that front nine.   
 So you just have to be patient and try and put in a decent score on a Thursday.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like this is one of your better rounds?  
 IAN POULTER: It is my joint lowest round, so, yeah, I'm happy.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT