WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 26, 2010
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well played out there. A little bit of a victory hangover yesterday maybe?  
 IAN POULTER: No, I wish. I haven't actually had -- I had half a beer on Sunday night before getting on a plane. That's all I've had. I've had a busy Monday doing a TV commercial and then rested up on Tuesday, played the pro-am, and yesterday I felt very flat, and it's just about trying to get out there and conserve as much energy as I possibly can and get through today, and I've just managed to come out today and play very well.  
  
  Q. 8-under par, no bogeys, biggest turnaround in your career from one round to the next. Any explanation for it?   
 IAN POULTER: Just staying patient. Yesterday was a tough day, and as I said, I felt very flat on the golf course. It's very hard to get back up, win such a big golf tournament and play well the following week when you are very tired. You know, I'm in good form. Obviously that showed last week, so it was just a case of being able to be patient and just keep hitting the right shots. I hit a lot of good shots today. I was disappointed I didn't take advantage of a couple of the par-5s, but I would have taken 8-under par to start the day for sure.  
  
  Q. What are your impressions of the par-3 16th?  
 IAN POULTER: Well, yesterday I was so flat and so tired, I didn't really pay any attention to it at all. Today there was hardly anybody there. So hopefully by the time I get there tomorrow, it might be a slightly different atmosphere.   
  
  Q. Nice to get it back rolling today. You've got to feel pretty good about your round today.   
 IAN POULTER: Sure, especially after yesterday. I was so tired and exhausted I think more than anything else. Physically I'm fine, but just mentally, obviously last week, 108 holes is going to take its toll, and certainly this week is just about trying to rest up as much as possible and just go out there, hitting the kind of shots I did last week, and I done that today. I played real solid, drove it in play. Even my misses today were still very, very good and put me in good position to make birdie. I took a few chances, and 8-under par is a great score, but I've got to say it could have been a lot lower.  
  
  Q. You're a big fan of Twitter and you "tweet" all the time. After this great round today what will you be "tweeting" to your fans out there?  
 IAN POULTER: You'll have to wait and see, won't you?   
  
  Q. I guess I will. You had said you considered not even playing here. Were you thinking that maybe you shouldn't have yesterday?  
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, absolutely. After nine holes yesterday I was disappointed at myself for allowing myself to play. Yesterday I really struggled. I couldn't see where a birdie was coming from. I really was not with it at all, and I still didn't feel too clever this morning. I didn't sleep well last night. I'm coming down with a bit of a cold. You know, I even booked a plane for takeoff for 3:00 this afternoon. I wasn't feeling good. It's just nice to go out there and hit good golf shots, play well and put myself in a position where I've now put myself into form.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT