CHEVRON WORLD CHALLENGE
December 4, 2009
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Truthfully, not the best start on the front nine, but you turned it around on the back. 
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, I got it back. You know, I'm disappointed to play the front nine the way I did. You know, I felt as if I missed a couple of chances out there on the 5s. And you know, I didn't take advantage of them yesterday on the front nine. I had two three-putts, which was very disappointing. I was 3-under through five, and I had two three-putts on the five, so I should be 5-under through five and flying. 
 Knowing there's more par-5s coming on the Back 9, which if you play them properly, you have very good chances of hitting 5-wood to 30 feet and just lipped out for eagle. So I gave myself a lot of chances around the Back 9. I managed to take three or four of them. 

 Q. Yeah, you took four of them, and you got it to 7-under par. As we speak going into the weekend, two off the lead, but really nicely placed. 
 IAN POULTER: Nicely placed. I'm so happy how I played yesterday. Just frustrated to have three three-putts. I had one out there today, but looking at where I was placed, I'm happy. I'm hitting the ball well.
 I like this golf course. I like the way you don't have to hit driver on all these holes. There's a lot of positional play. It's quite clever with these pin positions. You need to hit it at the right levels because if you don't, you're going to leave yourself some very tricky two-putt 30-footers. 
 That's what I had yesterday. I got caught out with that yesterday, and if you strike the ball well, you can shoot a very good score around this place.

 Q. Says a lot what's happened with your golf game that you're wrapping up your season at the Chevron World Challenge. 
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, I mean this is week six or seven. I'm playing in Greg's tournament next week down in Naples, which will be nice. 
 Then I'll be ready for Christmas. The last six weeks have been pretty tiring, all the long-haul flights, London, Singapore, China, Hong Kong, LA. You know, it's taken its toll, but this is a big tournament. It's good world ranking points this week, and looking how I can move nicely into the Top 10 with a win. 
 I know there's only 18 players playing this week. I just have to beat 17 of them. It's a world-class field, but I want to go out there this week really and try and win this golf tournament.

 Q. Honestly. Are you tired? 
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, I'm tired, but when I get on the golf course, it's time for work, so I'm trying to get as much rest as I can each night, wake up early in the morning because I went to bed so early at night. So adrenaline kicks in on the first tee every day, so I'm managing to get through.

 Q. Hey, final thing. There is room for a little fun, too, though. Are you going to catch a Lakers game, although the Celtics are much better, but are you going to catch a Lakers game?
 IAN POULTER: The Magic are much better. Come on. Don't be silly. Yeah, I'm going to go to a Lakers game tonight. I haven't been to a Boston game for months, since they've started the season. 
 I'm a Magic fan. I've just got four seats, and I haven't been to a game yet, so I've got a friend of mine who's in town from the UK. I haven't seen him for about nine months. So it'll be nice if I can get down there early, we can have a steak. We can have a catch up and go and watch a game of basketball.

 Q. Hey, as always, thanks for your time. 
 IAN POULTER: Pleasure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT