THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2018
Ian Poulter
Tommy Fleetwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Ian, every time we see the European celebrations, and the fans, the atmosphere, does it just keep getting better and better?  
IAN POULTER: Yeah, that one was massive.  Just look at the scenes right now; the buzz on golf course the whole week has been simply incredible.   
I think the fans have been amazing.  You know, this is a special team.  There's a young bunch of kids.  I was fortunate to get a pick as an old man to come and play, and you know what, I helped out a little bit and these boys were assembly incredible.   
To bring this trophy back, to keep that run going the way we have, you know, we're a strong force in Europe.  We knew we were the underdogs and that made us even more determined this week.   
 Q.  What about the kid next to you?  (Tommy Fleetwood)  how good has he been in?  
IAN POULTER: He's different class.  What he's been able to deliver this week has been truly exceptional.  I don't think anyone's won the first four matches as a rookie, and he did it.  It was simply incredible.  He's been great fun to have in the team room and fun to play alongside and he's simply amazing.   
 Q.  Did you imagine it would feel as good as this moment?  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: No, no, but coming to The Ryder Cup, it's all well and good being in it but the goal is to be on a winning Ryder Cup Team.   
You know, I've spent time in a bubble this week with Ryder Cup legends and guys that are playing in it for the first time, and you know, it couldn't have gotten any better.  This is it.  This is as good as it gets right now.   
 Q.  The team spirit for you guys, but the quality of this U.S. side heading in, everybody was putting them as the favourites.  How sweet to get that victory over arguably one of the U.S. sides in Ryder Cup history?  
IAN POULTER: On paper they are incredible.  They are strong, they are gutsy and determined and they were always going to be tough to beat.   
That resilience we showed from going 3-1 down Friday morning, to come back and win that session Friday afternoon 4-0, won the first couple of matches on Saturday morning, as well.  The run right there of a lot of blue definitely helped us be in the position we were in to go out and be super strong in singles.   
The guys have done an absolutely simply incredible job.  The atmosphere has been special.   
 Q.  Does Frankie get an extra big hug tonight, the way you two have performed this week has been something else.  
TOMMY FLEETWOOD: I mean, Frankie's Frankie.  He's unbelievable.  He's gone 5-0 in a Ryder Cup.  I don't know how often that's been done or if it's ever been done, but that guy is one good golfer, and you know, he deserves all the credit he gets and I think it was very fitting that he got the winning shot, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT