THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2009
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SCOTT CROCKETT: Ian, obviously last week you did very well in France, another performance in what's been a very good season. I know there was one incident that happened on the 15th towards the end of your round that has drawn a bit of media attention. If you could start us off with just a comment on that, and then we can move on. 
 IAN POULTER: Sure. It was a good week, coming from 85th after the first day, which was not a great start that I wanted, to get myself back into contention by Sunday afternoon, you know, going through the field pretty nicely, not making a bogey for 55 holes, was pretty good. I was very happy to be playing that kind of golf on that type of golf course where it's easy to slip up and make a mistake.
 It's one of those things, I guess it's a little unfortunate, the timing wasn't quite what I would have liked to have had; a camera gone off on 15 when there's obviously a lot of water on that hole. You know, he was in a position where I could hear him take several shots, like a sequence shot, on my downswing. It was very hard to back off on the way down. 
 Consequently, I felt at the time that that took me straight out of the tournament. Like I said, not making a bogey for 55 holes, I didn't feel with a soft wedge I was going to go and make another bogey. 
 You know, I was looking to hit in there about eight to ten feet, make birdie, move on, have a chance, potentially on the next few holes to make birdie and get in a playoff, if not win the golf tournament. 
 You know, understandably, I walked off the golf course very frustrated, very angry, from a position of 85 after the first day, to be contending; and I honestly felt as if I had a chance to win the golf tournament. I was a little hot-headed, as I am at times when I walk off the course and something doesn't go too well, and obviously I said a few things which probably wouldn't have said on Monday morning in reflection. 
 So, on that, that kind of closes shop for the French Open. And I'm looking forward to playing a good golf course this week, with a very strong field, and you know, getting on to more good rounds of golf. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: As you say, Ian, let's start to look ahead. I'm sure the gentlemen of the photograph fraternity are forewarned to behave this week, and I am sure they will. Now here at the Barclays Scottish Open and The Open next week, two great weeks, and you're looking forward.
 IAN POULTER: Two great weeks. I've had success in the past. It's nice to go French, Loch Lomond and then obviously the British Open. I'm in very good form right now. I've had a lot of success around this golf course, and to be honest, it would be nice to carry the form into the British Open with having another strong week this week. 

 Q. One more question about France --
 IAN POULTER: No, French is finished. French is done. I've said enough. Thank you. 

 Q. How relevant is this week in terms of next week, how much are you using it to fine-tune anything for next week, or are you using it totally as a separate entity?
 IAN POULTER: I will, for instance, I've got 2- and 3-iron which go in the bag for all practice sessions this week, something which I will do pretty much every single British Open. I will take out the utility, take out the 5-wood, replace it with 2- and 3-iron. 
 So this week is a perfect opportunity. The range is great, you know, to get some good practise done before getting to the British, so you don't kind of cram it all into Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday next week.
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Have you played this week yet? 
 IAN POULTER: No. Just flew up, landed this morning, and taking a bit of rest time. I'm just going to hit balls for an hour, two hours today and be ready to play tomorrow. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Is it a course you need to see a lot of? 
 IAN POULTER: This course? I think I've played it enough over the last few years to know the course very well. I don't think they have made any changes to the course. I like it. It sets up to my kind of eye line, so I'm looking forward to going out there. 
 I hit a lot of good tee shots last week that I can feel pretty strong for this week, and generally my whole game has been in shape. So I'm very much looking forward to having a really, really strong three weeks. 

 Q. There's a school of thought that if you have a really good week this week, it doesn't carry on into The Open. Do you look --
 IAN POULTER: Well, if I go one better this week and go one better next week, I'll be pretty happy. 

 Q. You'll be okay with that. Do you think that's an old wives' tale, really?
 IAN POULTER: Listen, if I've got a chance on Sunday afternoon and I need to make three or four down the last, yeah, I'll be trying to make three or four down the last for sure, yeah. I don't believe in all that wives' tale stuff. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: I'm surprised in a Scottish audience, nobody's asked you. I'll ask you: Your range of clothing this week, give us your indication of that and what you're actually looking forward to wearing.
 IAN POULTER: It's going to be nice. It's always nice to come up here and put on the tartan trousers. It's something which I've done every year, and they are quite prominent in my collection. I'll be wearing I think three pairs of tartans this week, and I'll be wearing a few more pairs next week.
 SCOTT CROCKETT: I know you've gone through the tartan authority and through their authorities.
 IAN POULTER: They are all registered with the Scottish Tartans Authority under our name, so there will be many more colours to come and collections to come. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Do they have names? McPoulter? 
 IAN POULTER: No, they don't, no. 

 Q. Are you officially American-based now? Has the pendulum swung; do you and the family spend more time in America?
 IAN POULTER: We are spending I don't know how many months; I would say it's probably six to seven months in the U.S. I think. It works very well with the kids' schooling. I get to see them a lot more often, because the early part of my season will start in the U.S. up until kind of May time when I decide to come back over. 
 And that's great, because that's leading up towards the summer holidays here, and obviously how the FedExCup works, I can then go back and play that, and the kids obviously go back to school in August over there. It works very well at the minute. 

 Q. Is the open the major you think is best suited to your game? I'm guessing because it's your home major, it's the one you probably want to win the moment. As far as your golf game is concerned, do you think The Open suits you better than the American ones?
 IAN POULTER: Very possibly. I enjoy playing links golf. I really enjoy the chances you have to create golf shots out on the golf course, and I think that's what I get excited to do; to be able to use a bit of imagination on the golf course. 
 There's no -- there's no right or wrong way to play a shot into a green. You can run the ball up, you can fly it all the way, you can move it 20, 30 yards right-to-left or left-to-right if you have to, and I think that is what I get excited to do, because it really does test your game, and it's fun golf. 

 Q. And you're not a person that likes policing themselves, anyway, but what happened last summer at Birkdale, did that give you added belief or confidence that you can put your name on the Claret Jug one day?
 IAN POULTER: For sure. I mean, there's a lot that's happened last year which I think has changed my view on how I play golf, has helped me into becoming more consistent, certainly over the last six months of how I've started my season. I've been very, very solid. 
 You know, the British Open last year; The Ryder Cup was a huge turning point, I think, really, career-changing move; and obviously TPC. I think with those tournaments where I've put very good finishes in, then I feel good going into these big tournaments. 

 Q. Getting back to your trousers, John Daly has drawn a lot of comments this season with his new clothing range. What are your views on it?
 IAN POULTER: (Pausing) Not good. (Laughter).
 I'm a John Daly fan, so to be honest, I think whether he's wearing loud trousers or not, it's nice to see him back playing golf to be honest. You know, he's obviously worked hard. He's losing a lot, a lot of weight, and to be honest with you, if he can stay on the right track, it would be great if he can have a bit of his old game back and show us some of that great golf that he's shown us over the years. 

 Q. When you stood over that putt at the 18th at Birkdale, were you imagining that was for The Open? And there's been a bit of a hooha in the women's game about the possibility of using Twitter on the course. You're a mad Tweeter. Would you ever consider doing it in any tournament? 
 IAN POULTER: To answer your first question, yeah, that was one of the putts that takes me back many years to the pro shop days to the putting green outside of the shop: You've got 15, 18 feet to hole, what you think is the winning putt for The Open. I mean, we have all been in that position and for certain tournaments. 
 At the time, I felt if I could post a number, for sure, that would potentially have a chance. I didn't realise Paddy would make three birdies and an eagle in the closing holes to comfortably win. So, yeah, that putt was one that I thought about for many an hour on the putting green. 
 And your second question, I can't even remember it. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Twitter. 
 IAN POULTER: Twitter. We don't need to use it during a round of golf. I mean, I took a picture on the 10th hole of a nice mud ball that I had and I later sent a Tweet in between rounds of golf. 
 I mean, it just gives -- it was at the U.S. Open. It just gives a little insight to people who haven't been there, can't get there, golf fans, and it's something which I mean I quite enjoy sending little messages out there. People are enjoying it and getting a lot of good responses from fans, so I'll keep doing it. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Any more questions, Twitter or not? No, I think we are all done. Ian, thank you very much and good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT