THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2009
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about the tournament and the week. 
 IAN POULTER: Just rattle off? It turned out to be a nice weekend after a bad Saturday. I put myself in position Friday night, very disappointed last night to make a couple of poor swings at the wrong time and not play the par-5s how I would have liked to. 
 But I was in with a big shot today, and hats off to Henrik for putting his foot down and just pressing on past everybody.

 Q. How about that score today, no bogeys? Could you envision something like that? That's pretty impressive. 
 IAN POULTER: It's a hell of a round of golf out there today. Those greens, they were icy quick. I haven't really seen them that color before outside of an Open, to be honest with you. You have to hit it in the right spot certainly at times and you had to take a few pins on today, so if you missed it on the wrong shelf, there was no way you were going to two-putt. 66 is a great round.

 Q. What Open, by the way, British Open or Shinnecock Hills?
 IAN POULTER: British Open. I mean, St. Andrews in 2000, that was as dry and crusty as I've seen them. They were pretty similar there. 

 Q. Were you put on the clock twice?
 IAN POULTER: We got put on the clock halfway up 9 and as we got to the 10th tee, we were waiting to hit our shots into that green. A bit frustrating. We were put on the clock ones.

 Q. There was a lot of drama, 12 players within two shots, four of you guys were tied briefly, and then he just kind of sucked the drama out of it, went ahead by three and then four. Did you feel that yourself?
 IAN POULTER: No, I felt as if I could make birdie on 16, I felt I still had a decent chance because we've seen in the past people make double, triple there, and they can still make a hash at the last. I didn't realize at the time he was a good few in front when I was playing 17, and I just literally went straight at the flag there. I thought if I could knock it stiff, make 2 and birdie the last, I'd still have a chance, but as it happened, Henrik put his foot down too hard.

 Q. Speaking of putting the foot down, Tiger in the last group never fired. How much of a surprise is that to you? 
 IAN POULTER: I'm a little bit surprised, but to be honest, I've watched a little bit of the highlights. He's got a lot out of the golf course this week for certain positions that he's hit it in. We've seen a couple of unbelievable shots on 18, 14. You guys can name them. He's hit it in a couple of spots which if Joe average hits it in there, he's shooting 3, 4, 5-over par on the day. Tiger Woods is not going to do that, he's too good. His short game is too good. He always hangs around. 
 You can't keep doing that every single day. I don't know how he played today, I just know he shot a couple over par. But if he's played the same as he has the last three days, then obviously the golf course is going to catch up with him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT