THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2009
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Well, what do you make of that, then?
 IAN POULTER: Yeah. I'm not out of it. Playing the first few holes to try and get the feel of the golf course. The putting green was rock solid this morning. I figured looking at the pin sheet it's going to be a few tough pin positions. 
 But it was quite easy to see after 3, 4, 5 holes that guys aren't going to make too many birdies out there. It's still in the shout. So I need to not make silly bogeys, i.e. the soft bogey on 8. That was a 99 out of a hundred shot for me. I made a sloppy mistake there. I managed to hit a lob wedge 110 yards, which I can't hit lob wedge 110 yards that long on 9. And soft bogey on 11. If I don't make silly mistakes, my short game is good enough, it's holding me in and around the scores. So we'll have to see.

 Q. There's a man with an ominous name who's appeared up there. 
 IAN POULTER: Mr. Woods. 

 Q. We'll see. 
 IAN POULTER: That's right. We'll see. It's going to be a difficult day for Alex tomorrow. He's playing with Tiger. He's got a five shot lead. He's going to be having dinner tonight thinking 11-under par should be good enough. And if you go out there with that mindset it's going to be difficult. It's going to be a difficult day for him. It would be a nice position to have to have a five shot lead. So it's -- I think it's going to be difficult for him. If he plays the way he plays today then you've got to think it's going to be good enough. 

 Q. Sean O'Hair was a five shot lead, wasn't it, at Bay Hill?
 IAN POULTER: Yep. Five shots sounds great, but it's very -- you could easily let that slip on this place. 

 Q. You looked almost tired or something?
 IAN POULTER: I wasn't tired, I was trying to get into it. It just wasn't a great chip shot. I've had two chip shots today that were just into the grain. The lies are so tight, it's easy not to catch it right.

 Q. (Inaudible.) 
 IAN POULTER: No, I feel fine. I feel absolutely fine, it was just a poor chip shot. It wasn't even -- it was -- come up six feet short. I hit what I thought was a good putt and missed it. And the same again --

 Q. That shot on 11?
 IAN POULTER: The shot into 11, that was a poor shot. It was poor. I'm aiming a little bit left to try to cut it and I overcut it, slightly mis-hit it. And it's on the wind. It's a shame. 

 Q. How do you think he handled the pressure today?
 IAN POULTER: I mean he played pretty good. So I wasn't quite sure how he wanted to layup down 16 and managed to sort of get it right underneath that tree. So that's one way of looking at -- if you're going to play safe, like that, at least give yourself a decent chance to try to make birdie on the par-5s, he didn't do it that on that hole. I was a bit surprised how far he hit it down there. He's playing well. He's driving it well and he's holing a few putts. So he's going to be the man to beat tomorrow for sure.

 Q. If somebody said on Thursday morning I take it you would have taken this on Saturday, then?
 IAN POULTER: I wouldn't have taken to be five behind. If you'd have said would you have taken being tied second, of course I would have said yes, but I wouldn't have expected somebody to be five in front. That's a bit frustrating and careless to let Alex get five shots in front of me today.

 Q. What's your strategy going into tomorrow, what do you have to do, besides the obvious?
 IAN POULTER: Play good. 

 Q. Was there a point where -- you said after four or five holes you knew there weren't going to be a lot of birdies. Was this a day even though the course was short, they moved the tees up --
 IAN POULTER: I feel like the pins -- the type of day it was, was try and take advantage of the par-5s, I didn't do it. That's what's very costly today. Turning two potential birdie chances on 9 and 11 into bogeys is four shots. Four shots difference all of a sudden I'm one behind Alex. That's a very different day tomorrow. But hey-ho, life goes on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT