OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 30, 2008
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts at the end of the week?
 IAN POULTER: Extremely disappointed with the overall position. I think obviously looking at the weekend, we're very happy. We've done what we thought we were capable of doing, but we only done it on Saturday and Sunday. So the first two days is such a shame. 
 We've gone and shot 5-under today, and made two bogeys, silly bogeys, at that, and we could have shot 7- , 8- , 9-under par today. Now, that's seriously good golf in foursomes. We walked with 9-under par yesterday and we were extremely disappointed. We felt we left probably four or five shots on the golf course. 
 So looking at that, we had a chance to putt ourselves in a position. We could have run close issue, but a bad day Thursday, Friday. The overall picture, it's Ross's first World Cup. I thought he was a good partner. It takes a couple of days to get used to someone when you haven't played a whole lot of golf with somebody. It was nice to do it some justice, really.

 Q. At the end of day three, Ross was saying that playing for England and the partnership you have, you ought to be knocking on the door at the very least a Top-10, and at least you've achieved that with a good performance today. 
 IAN POULTER: We should have had a chance to win this golf tournament. That's what we come here for. I would respect Ross as a great golfer, Top-50-in-the-world player. He's been very, very steady this year. I've been in good form this year, and we should have run close. It didn't happen Thursday, Friday, and that's just such a shame to be so far out of the picture. Looking at the scores, we were just so far back, 16 shots back, it's not going to be 16 shots behind the winning score, so you can see what we've done over the weekend. 
 Still disappointed but nice to have good company for the week and enjoy the week.

 Q. I take it you'll be back for another week if you have good company and can enjoy it in the future, because you love representing the country?
 IAN POULTER: I do, I'm always passionate about the format. It's nice to play foursomes and fourballs. It's similar to Ryder Cup, and I just enjoy being under pressure and being out there trying to achieve big things, and that's what it's all about. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT