THE RYDER CUP
September 20, 2008
Robert Karlsson
Graeme McDowell
Ian Poulter
Henrik Stenson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Was that the best 3-footer you've ever holed? 
 IAN POULTER: It's right up there. That was a pretty special moment. What a day, to go out with G-Mac this afternoon and just play, he played awesome. He holed some awesome putts at the right time. I was struggling out there at times, but I managed to hang in there and come up with a couple decent birdies right in the last two. 

 Q. And the other side that have coin, how glad were you to see him hole it? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: He dug deep when he had to. The birdie on 17 was unbelievable, and then obviously what an up-and-down on the last. We had a great time out there backing each other up. And how hard is it to win a point out here, really.

 Q. Do you get the feeling that right now with what's happening, this could be in essence the turning point? 
 IAN POULTER: We knew today we were playing well. It went all their way for a couple of days. We hung in there awesome today and all credit to the guys, this is what European Tour golf is all about here, this is special. Without a shadow of the doubt, unbelievable. 

 Q. Wonderful match and for you to be the last match now, two biggest men, played the biggest part in what is a two-shot deficit but you can make it up tomorrow. 
 HENRIK STENSON: We had a good game and it was enjoyable to play with Robert, he played great. 

 Q. You made some incredible putts and birdies on the back nine. 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I think we were a little bit unlucky, the putt on 17.

 Q. What did you think with you were over that putt on the last for the eagle? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Inside right, and when it started going, it just disappeared into the line but I hit it pretty much where I wanted to.

 Q. And tomorrow? 
 HENRIK STENSON: Hopefully put some blue up on the board early. 
 IAN POULTER: It's been an awesome two days and to have three round with Justin, good friend, it was pretty special. And to go out with G-Mac this afternoon and bring another point was incredible. G-Mac played awesome, holed putts at the right time. I managed to chip-in on the holes I needed to and holed the putts at the right time. 
 It was an incredible day. 

 Q. On the last, you had to get up-and-down and you pulled it off. 
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, I hit a good 5-wood and I just knew I hit it close in there for about 45 yards and hit a great shot and hit it above the hole, not where I wanted. It was pretty quick but it was inside the hole. It was perfect. 

 Q. Ever experienced anything like this before? 
 IAN POULTER: No, this is unbelievable. To go out there, and I've played four games so far so far, to play as well as I've played, I'm speechless about it. I'm so proud to be here more than anything, and for Nick to pick me this week and to go out and play like I've played.

 Q. You must feel a total vindication for his choice, people criticized his picks as they always do and you perhaps felt that pressure but you didn't show it. 
 IAN POULTER: This is emotional. I felt that I had to do something this week and I've given everything. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I was kind of brought up on match play. I think that's got a lot to do with it. When I get in the mix, I just kind of get the old feelings back, you know, and I really played great the last couple of days, really enjoyed the pressure. You know, it's different pressure from having a card on your pocket and another guy hitting shots there, as well. It frees you up and you can be a little more aggressive.

 Q. Talk about the atmosphere today and the whole week. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Obviously the guys are pulling so hard for the U.S. Team, and we've got some great fans in the crowd, as well. I have to say, the atmosphere is electric. There's no problem playing 36 holes out there because the crowd keep you buzzing and going and energy levels, they are just flying around. It really is a fun atmosphere to play golf and we don't get a chance to do it often enough. I love to hear the crowds going crazy and boisterous. It's just a lot of fun. 

 Q. You guys were high-fiving so hard, thought you were going to tear your arms off. 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Had stinging hands a few times but it's okay. 
 We realized that we had to putt some blue on the board, and guys dug deep. We had to get the job done today and guys played great. So back in the mix now I think. 

 Q. Do you feel like you're tightening the noose around the U.S., each match that ends? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I don't know if tightening the noose is just quite right. They have still got the advantage. They are a solid team, 12 guys playing well, same as us. It's going to be a battle tomorrow. Giving them a two-point start, it's very doable.

 Q. For everyone said that Ian was the last to be put on the team, he has been the first in points; what does it say about what he went through to where he is now? 
 GRAEME McDOWELL: It says a lot about the guy. He's an unbelievable competitor. He realized there's a lot of pressure on him to go and perform and he's picking this team to play and he just played four rounds, he's an incredible team player, as well. He's unbelievable in the team room. That's why he got the wildcard pick. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT