THE RYDER CUP
September 20, 2008
Graeme McDowell
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KELLY ELBIN: European Ryder Cup Team members Ian Poulter and Graeme McDowell joining us at the conclusion of the second day of the 37th Ryder Cup in the afternoon fourball matches Ian and Graeme defeated Kenny Perry and Jim Furyk 1-up.   
 Congratulations on the victory. Comments on that match and on the tone of the afternoon. There was a lot of excitement, a lot of noise out there. Either one, please.   
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, there sure was a lot of noise. Where do I start? One thrill to be here, to be honest, to be picked, to play four times before the singles was something I wasn't truly expecting. I guess the hard work the week before is kind of paying off.   
 You know, to be paired up with Justin three times was pretty special. And then to go out this afternoon with G-Mac and with backed up when I needed to be backed up was incredible. He holed putts at the right time, he hit shots at the right time, and it was truly awesome to watch. And I managed to chip in at the right time.   
 On my behalf, it's been an incredible two days. I think we've got momentum back on our side, and I'm very happy.   
 KELLY ELBIN: Graeme, comments, as well, please?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I mean, obviously my first Ryder Cup I have to say it's exceeded all my expectations from a lot of points of view.   
 My play, obviously, the atmosphere, the way 12 guys can pull for each other in a team room, how good Nick has been in the team room; Ollie. It's been just so much fun on the golf course, and to play with Poults this afternoon was an unbelievable match. I've just had three incredible games, and this afternoon was no different.   
 If there was ever any doubt why this guy was given a wildcard pick, he's showed it the last two days. He's an unbelievable team player. I just really enjoyed playing with him this afternoon. He's showing the world why he's on this team.   
 KELLY ELBIN: For the record, Ian's three points to date leads the European team. Graeme has 11/2 points through the two days.   
  
  Q. Ian, could you walk us through the up-and-down on 18, first of all, and then just the sensation of having so many putts all day that seemed like must-putts, and when you make a couple do they kind of feed into the next one, or are they all their own little thing?   
 IAN POULTER: It's all a bit of a blur, actually (laughter). You know, I just managed to pick the right line on every putt today, and when it was needed, I managed to come up with a good. I was digging deep, and I rolled it good when I needed to roll it good, and you have to hole putts in this format. You cannot get away with missing putts.   
 You know, I was fully expecting Jim to hole his putt on 17. You know, I rolled my one in and that was a big putt, but I was fully expecting to go up the last with Jim standing over a 12-footer. That's what Ryder Cup is all about, it's about holing putts at the right time, and it was just great fun to be out there today.   
  
  Q. And the up-and-down on 18?   
 IAN POULTER: Sorry. I hit a terrible 5-wood, but I knew the pin was in a decent position, and to have any chance to up-and-down it, I just -- I tried to keep that ball below the hole. I played a pure chip. It was about 40-odd yards to the pin, pitched it just on the front of the green, didn't check up as much as I would have liked it to, and left me a nasty little three-footer, but I managed to roll it in the middle.   
 KELLY ELBIN: For the record, Ian and Graeme combined for a best ball of 62 today, 31 on each side.   
  
  Q. Ian, have you been motivated by all the criticism of the pick, and do you think you've vindicated the captain these two days?   
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, I've needed to come out this week and perform. You know, as I said, I didn't think I was going to be playing four times. Got off to -- you know, I got off to a nice bit of form early in the week, and I started hitting it good, and when you start to hit it good like that, then I guess it just rolls over.   
 Yeah, I've needed to play well this week for myself and for the team. I've wanted to play well for the team more than anything else, in any tournament anywhere else, than I've ever played before. And they are 11 great guys to be alongside, and they've all been encouraging me all week.   
 You know what, it's a pleasure to be here.   
  
  Q. Question for Graeme: Just the level of your own play, has it exceeded even your best hopes coming into the week?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Yeah, I mean, I certainly wasn't sure what to expect coming in this week. I realized that there was a real pressure-cooker environment. I've never really experienced anything like it before.   
 Yeah, I would say my play has exceeded my expectations, no doubt about it. My level of focus, relaxation, I don't know, just how comfortable I felt in the environment I guess has surprised me a little bit. I've holed some great putts in the last couple days. I've really enjoyed myself. I've had a three great partners and I've really enjoyed every match.   
 I've been down 18 all three times. I've just really enjoyed every match right to the very end. It was great to put some points on the board at last today, though.   
  
  Q. Ian, somebody said today you were the new Colin Montgomerie in terms of the Ryder Cup, in terms of being an inspirational figure. Can that be a mantel you'd be quite pleased to take on?  
 IAN POULTER: Of course it would be an honor to take on his role, a role he's had for so many years and someone that's been successful as he has; I don't know if I'm quite in that position yet.   
 You know, it's nice to be here this week and play like I've played and chip into the team, because that's what it's all about this week, it's about being able to put some points on the board for your team that are trying just as hard as you are. You know, I'm trying pretty hard.   
  
  Q. Ian, playing in all five matches, and I believe you're the only one on your side that will have ended up playing in all five; can you talk to us a little bit about how mentally and physically draining that is, given the intensity of what's going on here?   
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, I don't think I've got any legs under there right now. They've kind of gone numb. It's very, very draining. You know, the physios have been working hard off the golf course this week making sure we've been hydrated, making sure we're eating enough, making sure we're drinking enough.   
 As I said earlier, I didn't think I was going to be in the position to be playing five times. I'm happy now that I have played four times until now, and I just hope I've got a lot left in the tank for tomorrow, because tomorrow is going to be one hell of a day. I'm sure we're all going to give it 110 percent.   
  
  Q. Ian, just following up on an earlier question, for Graeme to say that you showed the world why you're on the team, how does that make you feel, that a teammate is saying that about you?   
 IAN POULTER: It feels very special. You know, you've --  
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I might have exaggerated a little bit, by the way (laughter)... not.   
 IAN POULTER: It's been a difficult week coming in, but the support the guys have given me this week has been incredible.   
 I'm just here to be one of the guys this week, to chip in and try and do as best I can. You know, it's just working pretty good right now, and I'm managing to hole putts at the right time, and I'm playing pretty good. So is the whole team, so I'm stroked with everybody and how everybody has been with me so far.   
  
  Q. Y'all are still two points behind, but watching everything that went on as the matches came to conclusion today, somebody would get the idea that you're actually ahead. Is that the way you feel? I mean, you're talking about momentum and et cetera, et cetera, so can you maybe explain how you feel at this moment going into tomorrow with a deficit? And one last other second part is, do you know the pairings for tomorrow?   
 KELLY ELBIN: No, the pairings have not been announced yet.   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: Obviously the Ryder Cup is all about momentum. You know, it's amazing when the putts start going in for the reds. They tend to keep going in, and vice versa for the blue. We knew we had to come out and put points on the board today. It was hugely important for us, two-point deficit going into tomorrow with 12 points up for grabs, it's wide open. I have to say, coming out of that team room tonight, everyone is pumped up, everyone is feeling really, really good, and we are 110 percent up for this tomorrow.   
 KELLY ELBIN: Ian Poulter, Graeme McDowell, thanks very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT