BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2008
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well played, and in contention. How are you feeling?
   IAN POULTER: Feeling all right. It was a tricky day today. The wind was swirling a little bit. It was a little stronger today than it has been the last couple, and the pins were tucked away today.
   To shoot 3-under par was pretty solid. Made a couple of good saves at the end but you know, it was good and I'm back in contention which is nice. 

   Q. I guess coming into the tournament, this is exactly where you want to be on the Saturday. 
   IAN POULTER: I'd like to be a few shots higher up the leaderboard to be perfectly honest but I'll take it right now. 
   You know, I've played this golf course well over the last five, six years to be honest, and you know, I just like the golf course. So if I can keep doing what I'm doing, keep hitting decent golf shots and rolling a couple of putts in, then I'm going to keep making my way up.

   Q. I can't remember what the injury was that made you pull out of the U.S. Open, but are you completely over that?
   IAN POULTER: Yes, the wrist is fine, and I still strap it every day just in case, but it's all good. 

   Q. There's no sense that you're trying to defend against an injury? 
   IAN POULTER: No, I'm playing golf. I'm happy to be playing. 

   Q. Speaking of injury, one of your contemporaries, Luke Donald had to pull out of next week's Open; can't be a nice situation.
   IAN POULTER: No. He injured his wrist at the U.S. Open as well, and it's obviously quite severe for Luke to pull out of so many tournaments in a row. 
   Hopefully he can have a speedy recovery and obviously come back for the remaining part of the season and obviously he'll be trying to get on The Ryder Cup side as well as everyone else.

   Q. You've got a tournament to contends this weekend, but our thoughts are all heading towards Royal Birkdale next week, very different golf course; how do you make the switch?
   IAN POULTER: Well, I'm at Loch Lomond, so I won't make the switch until I jump in my car and make my way down there. 

   Q. What's the plan, head down on Monday?
   IAN POULTER: I'll be down there Sunday night, settle into the house and get ready and I'll have a couple of practise rounds before Thursday. 
   I'm looking forward to it, and again, another year I'm playing well at Loch Lomond, and I think that's always nice for me to come in and play golf knowing I've played well. I've had four Top-10s out of the last five years, I've played solid and that's always nice going into next week. It's a golf course I don't know. It's a golf course that I'd like to get to know pretty quickly. 
   I will probably not do too much on Monday. Definitely play 18 holes Tuesday, probably nine holes on Wednesday, and maybe walk the other nine with a putter and sand iron in hand. So a couple of days to get used to the golf course, and do as much research as I possibly can over the next few days.

   Q. Mickelson was there last week; was that something you wanted to do or couldn't fit in? 
   IAN POULTER: Couldn't really fit in. After coming back from the U.S. Open, I had obviously that week off and I didn't pick a club up for ten days. It would have been handy, if the wrist was better, quicker, then I might have been able to get up there for a round of golf and, you know, it just didn't fit my schedule. So I've just got a couple of days to get used to it. 

   Q. What is it about this course that brings out the best in you? 
   IAN POULTER: I don't know. I like it. It's a week where I have my family here. It's a nice, relaxed week. It's a good golf course. The I would say it's a good iron-play golf course. You know, the fairways are fairly generous, so you can get away with the odd loose drive but you do have to hit your irons very, very well and I've been doing that for a while now. 
   The greens are good, as well, so you can get the ball rolling at the hole. 

   Q. Any particular shots today that you were proud of, key ones?
   IAN POULTER: I hit my long irons good today. The shot into 16 was a 4-iron which was pure. The shot into 10 also was a really good 4-iron to about eight feet. 
   You know, shots like that, with the wind sort of quartering in off the left and the right are not easy shots and it's easy to make mistakes, so it was tricky with a long iron in hand today.  
  End of FastScripts 
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT