MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2008
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nine straight pars, then the back side you were really striking the ball well.   
 IAN POULTER: Well, I birdied 6, actually, which was nice, rolled one in there from about 30 feet, gave it straight back on 7, then played real solid on the back nine. Didn't take on the 5s, laid up to good numbers, and made a couple coming in.   
  
  Q. What's your approach now heading into the weekend?   
 IAN POULTER: Just do the same as I've done the last couple of nights, have a nice barbecue back at home, chill out and come out and play good golf.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about your position right now? You're right in there, not quite at the top. Do you think you're right in a spot to strike for the rest of the weekend?  
 IAN POULTER: I'm in position, and I think that's key in major golf. You've got to put yourself in position, and that's what I've done today. I've played another solid round of golf, and we're in the hunt for Sunday.   
  
  Q. How are the greens playing?  
 IAN POULTER: They're drying out pretty quickly. They're getting quick.  
  
  Q. Is that why you accounted for your missed putts?  
 IAN POULTER: No, you can hit good putts out here on these greens, and they can slide by pretty quickly. I've played and putted very well today.  
  
  Q. You've exuded a lot of confidence all week long, starting with the practice rounds. Have you ever felt mentally, and in terms of your game, better prepared to win a major?  
 IAN POULTER: It's probably the best position I've been in after two days, so yeah, I feel fresh. I had two weeks off leading in. I've done some good homework on the golf course, and I'm ready to go out there for the weekend feeling very good.   
  
  Q. How about your preparation for this in terms of practice? Did you play a practice round here a few weeks ago?  
 IAN POULTER: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Talk about how much that benefits you.   
 IAN POULTER: That's quite funny because I actually came up with Trevor Immelman and Justin. So it was a nice little three-ball, and I think we're all doing pretty good this week. We chipped and putted around the greens, and the course was playing pretty similar to how it was yesterday, so it was good to see the course set up that way, and it was perfect practice for us.  
  
  Q. A lot of movement on the leaderboard today.   
 IAN POULTER: Yeah, great day. It's coming. We'll see come Sunday.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT