WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2008
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Did the fact that you wanted to watch your beloved Arsenal play football in a very short time inspire that late burst? 
 IAN POULTER:  I don't know.  I'd love to them watch them.  It was nice to get the match over and done with.  It was tight the whole way.  Soren kept hitting good shots.  I hit a lot of good shots just inside him.  I think the turning fact today was probably a 40, 50-foot putt on 15, which he was inside me.  He drained a big one, he missed his, all of a sudden I go 1-up and then he missed like a four-foot putt on the next to go 2-up with three to play. 

 Q.  The pressure is different in this event because it's win or go home? 
 IAN POULTER:  Absolutely.  The adrenaline starts on the first tee, where in stroke play it doesn't kick in quite so early.  You need to get off to a good start in stroke play, but in match play, it's key.  You play your opponent.  You know you have to hit good golf shots to win holes.  Certainly on this golf course birdies -- this course gives out quite a few birdies, and you have to make them to win holes. 

 Q.  You've reached the quarterfinals in this event, you've reached the semifinals in this event.  Fancy you have a chance to go all the way? 
 IAN POULTER:  I'd like to think so.  I done some great work last week at the Titleist center last week and found myself a new driver, which is working great.  I think things are good.  If I keep doing what I'm doing and hitting good golf shots, then it's going to be great. 

 Q.  Very briefly, you broke your driver, didn't you, in practice? 
 IAN POULTER:  I did.  It's quite funny, I found a perfect driver last week, new Cobra driver, was working great.  I was standing on the range, about five or six shots into the driver, and the head comes flying off.  It just snaps.  It's one of those things that happens every couple of years.  So it was a panic on Tuesday afternoon to try to find a driver that's actually going to suit me.  I've managed to do that, which is great. 

 Q.  There you go, watch the Arsenal. 
 IAN POULTER:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT