OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 25, 2007
Ian Poulter
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Just came up short, how would you assess the last day? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  It was a good scoring day.  I don't know, for whatever reason, teams were able to go out there and make some birdies. 
 Today, I think we did very well to shoot what we did considering we made some mistakes out there.  And every time we made a mistake we bounced back brilliantly with a birdie or an eagle but the mistakes proved costly and that was not birdieing the par 5s or making a six.  The first day we were brilliant and today they killed us. 
 IAN POULTER:  Bogeying 3, you know, that was a kick in the teeth.  I hit a poor 3-wood, came up short, left it in the hazard, Justin made a great recovery shot, hits the pin and spins off the green. 
 We bounced back well and shot 5-under for the last ten holes which has come up short.  You know, we didn't birdie the other two par 5s on that back nine.  You know, we could have shot 7-under par for the last ten holes.  Now, had that been, that would have been an unbelievable come back. 

 Q.  Essentially do you feel that you could certainly have been in with a chance at a playoff at the very least. 
 IAN POULTER:  Absolutely.  You know, we probably played very, very well.  I mean, it's just, you know, a couple of putts.  We saw a couple of putts down the edge of the hole yesterday.  We had a couple that didn't go in today. 
 You know, dropped shot on a par 5 which really, you know, bad 3-wood for me.  Yeah, I'm pretty -- 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  The whole week was close but no cigar.  We felt like we played well.  We just didn't get it going at any stage where we really had a great run.  I mean, apart from the last ten holes.  We really dug in and didn't give up. 
 Just can't quite happen the whole week, basically. 

 Q.  I'm sure the two of you would fancy having another crack at it. 
 IAN POULTER:  Yeah. 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  To be honest we knew if we played pretty much half-decent we would be in the hunt this week.  I think we are a great partnership and great pairing.  Yeah, no doubt, if we get the opportunity again, we'd like to take it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT