OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 24, 2007
Ian Poulter
Justin Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Just reflect on the day. 
 IAN POULTER:  A round that probably could have been.  We left a few out there.  You know, I think pretty much the third hole, the par 5, we're looking to pick up a shot there. 
 It was kind of a tricky day.  You know, the pins were tucked away on the front nine and they were kind of hard to get at.  We knew that by looking at the board.  Guys were not moving forward, so we knew it was the day to be patient.  But they just weren't dropping. As you probably saw, you know, 15, 16, 17, we had chances, and they just didn't want to go in.  Yeah, frustrating day, but when you're sitting there thinking that two behind the leaders going into Sunday, we're pretty strong in foursomes, it's definitely not the end of the road. 

 Q.  Frustrating day, backing off with the crowd noise? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Not just today. 
 IAN POULTER:  The thing is that you do expect that. 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Yeah, you do expect it. 

 Q.  Phones and cameras? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  They clearly know.  At the start of the week, I think it's been better as the week's gone along.  It's definitely getting better and better and better.  But they are trying to find sneaky ways to do it.  You can see them sort of like this -- 

 Q.  From the back side of the ropes or inside the ropes? 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Outside the ropes.  The occasional inside the ropes, but it's outside the ropes.  That's part of growing the game in this country.  You have to be patient with it to be honest with you.  It's a new game here and that stuff comes with time. 
 IAN POULTER:  There's cameras going off.  Especially when it's dead quiet, we can hear it; and in the last group, there's a lot of cameras. 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  We hit a lot of shots out there where we're just going through, we're being distracted where you're just going -- we're not backing off every single time.  Otherwise, we would be out there all day.  But clearly there's times you're so distracted, you'd be doing yourself a disservice to go ahead and hit the shot.  But, we are not trying to be too perfect out there.  You do just have to accept the situation.  There's many shots out there that I would have backed off normally. 

 Q.  Interesting leaderboard, the teams that you thought would probably be up there are up there in the foursomes.  There's a lot that can still happen at this stage. 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Yeah, it's a testament to the golf course that the good teams are rising to the top of the leaderboard, or the so-called strong teams are rising to the top of the leaderboard.  Yeah, it's going to be an exciting day tomorrow.  Yeah, there's five or six teams in with a shout that's going to make it exciting. 

 Q.  Playing Scotland, as well. 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  Is it?  I don't think it would be.  It would be France and USA and South Africa and Scotland.  I think they both birdied the last. 

 Q.  So all to play for, that's what you would have wanted at the start of the week. 
 JUSTIN ROSE:  We talked about it all the way around, we don't think we've had our hot round yet.  We've been chipping away nicely and doing okay, but we hope that it comes tomorrow.  That's the plan.  We'll see. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT