RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2018
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
IAN POULTER: A few of those, and yeah, it adds up to 6-under.  Pretty happy.   
 Q.  How would you look at the remainder of the year?  There's so many big events left and so much for you to play for.  
IAN POULTER: I'm looking for tomorrow.  I'm not talking about the back end of the year.  There's a lot of golf between now and the Ryder Cup, which obviously is obviously on my mind, so I'm playing next week in Akron, I'll be playing the PGA, then I'll probably play the first FedEx event and I might skip the second one.  And obviously with that in mind, I know I've got at least four events to try and push my way into the team.   
 Q.  What's been your feedback on the David Feherty interview?  I thought it was terrific.  Have you gotten good feedback?  
IAN POULTER: It's been amazing.  I have to say, it's pretty humbling.  It's pretty nice to sit down with David.  He's a great guy.  He's a fun guy.  He's a little mad, just like us all at times.  But to sit down with him for a few hours, have some fun, answer a few good questions, yeah, the feedback has been amazing.  It's nice to be able to do stuff like that from time to time, take a bit of time out of your normal daily schedule and give him a little insight and just have a great time.  He's a great guy.   
 Q.  Talk about the comedian in the UK who did a bunch of impersonations of you guys.  I thought he had you and Justin and the English guys down pat.  Did you like his 'em percent nations?  
IAN POULTER: Yeah, I'm a fan of all that stuff.  For me, we would say that's banter.  Any type of ripping, any type of needling, any type of fun and games that you can have like that, I think it's healthy.  I think it's fun for the viewership.  The more stuff we get like that, the better, because look, we've all got personalities and everyone is different.  He's picked up on a number of those personalities, and as you say, some of them are very close to realistic, some aren't.  But I think we need more of that stuff.  It's fun.  I love it.  I think the fans love it, and I'm glad that he's got a bit of airtime.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT