U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2007
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Satisfactory? 
 IAN POULTER:  Not really. I played awesome today. I went out there and done the job I wanted to do but unfortunately only converted two birdie putts. I only missed two greens today. Couple of missed fairways, took my punishment and chipped it out to a decent number, hit a good third in to eight or ten feet and missed those. Unfortunately made four bogeys. Hit a nice shot to the last and made birdie. I think the course is playing pretty good today and I think someone could go out there and shoot a score. 

 Q.  Any difficult pins out there? 
 IAN POULTER:  There are a couple. 17th is tricky. The tee box has gone back and guys are laying up down the fairway and it is tough to get it close. It is only four over the carry and tough to stop it. The rest of the golf course the pins are pretty accessible so providing you hit the fairway and leave a good number you can have a lot of birdie putts, especially on that back nine. I think we will see three or four under par around there. 

 Q.  Has the water made a difference on the greens? 
 IAN POULTER:  You can see that on the putting green. You could see they have given them a little douse of water. It is playing very fair, too fair to be honest as I would have liked to have seen it extremely hard the way I played today and hope guys tumbled back but I think a few of the guys up there will stay there. 

 Q.  Justin is up there? 
 IAN POULTER:  He is playing great golf. He is comfortable and happy. He should be. He is playing one in five weeks and playing well when he does play. He is well rested and think he will have a good weekend. 

 Q.  You are wearing Steelers' colours today. 
  POULTER:  It was a little coincidence. "Here we go Steelers, here we go Steelers!" they were chanting everywhere. It was cool. 

 Q.  Thoughts on today? 
 IAN POULTER:  It was a lot easier today than yesterday and there is hardly any wind out there. If it stays like that the back nine you can see a couple of guys shooting two or three under out there. I had a chance to do that today. I think half a dozen guys up there will stay there with a decent round. I will have to shoot a Johnny Miller tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT