PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2006
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Good but could have been lower?
IAN POULTER:  Yeah.
Q.  That was a question.  You're supposed to answer that.
IAN POULTER:  Oh, really?  Yes.
Q.  What about the layout and the conditions have lent themselves to a really bunched leaderboard with the quality names up there?
IAN POULTER:  I think obviously last night the rain is softening the course up because yesterday it was getting fairly firm, the ball was running a lot on the fairways, and a couple of pins it was difficult to get really close.  Today you come out, the ball stayed in the fairway when you hit one slightly off line, and then of course the greens are soft.  So pretty much any pin you can get at with a medium or long iron and still keep it fairly close.  That's why you see scores pretty low today.
Q.  What was out there for you today?
IAN POULTER:  A Mike Weir score.  You know, he's 8 under.  I played great.  I think I missed one fairway and only missed one green.  I can't remember.  I just kept hitting it fairly close all day.  A few putts short because the greens haven't really    they're not as quick as probably they could be, and it catches you.  If you have an uphill putt it's hard sometimes to hit it firm enough to get it to the hole.  Left a few short and then misread a couple.  Still shooting 4 under par, and I've left a few on the golf course.  It could have been a low day.
Q.  What kind of shootout, if the conditions were to stay this soft, would you expect tomorrow?
IAN POULTER:  What kind of numbers do I think the guys are going to score?  You know, someone can come in the pack again like Mike Weir because the greens are soft, even with the pins being tucked tomorrow.  I think you're still going to see guys taking it straight at the pin because you can get out of it.  Someone can come from a few back and shoot 8 under par and post a number.  It's a tricky finish.
Q.  Is it likely to play tougher?
IAN POULTER:  Possibly, yeah.  I mean, there's an awful lot of guys that are capable of shooting a low score, and as you see, the leaderboard is packed full of them.  They're taking advantage of the soft conditions today, 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 under par is being shot on a golf course which really shouldn't be that easy.
Q.  Do you go in thinking that you know the guys at the top are not going to all back up?
IAN POULTER:  Yeah.  You know, it's no surprise, the best golfers in the world are here playing golf, and it's a golf course that's playing receptive.  I think there's a lot of guys out on their game, they're going to shoot, 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 under par.  I know that standing on the first tee, and that's why you try and make sure you hang in there as close as you can, and hopefully it's you that goes out there and shoots 8 under par.
Q.  Are the conditions too easy?
IAN POULTER:  It's not too easy.  Just that rain last night.  It's still a tricky golf course.  You still have to put the ball in play.  That's not easy out there when you do miss a fairway.  If you miss it by a yard, you get penalized more than if you missed it probably by ten yards.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT