WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2006
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Ian, a huge round of 66 for you today, and I thought particularly on the back nine, you played like a man on a mission.
IAN POULTER:  Yeah, I did.  It's a tricky day today.  Obviously we stopped/started all day, on and off rain, and I just tried to hang in there around the back nine.  Obviously, you're not going to be able to catch Tiger when he's playing 18, 6 under par, he took it away from us.  Jim was probably the guy to catch for second place, and Adam's on 18 right now.

So I just wanted to keep making good shot after good shot, and hopefully roll a couple of putts in, and that's what I did do at the right time on the back nine and a great chip on the last, really, to make a nice four.

Stop/starting all day long, it's hard to keep concentrating and to keep focused, and to finish the day off, I was aware that Jim was really the guy to catch for second place.  I just hung in there on the back nine.
Q.  How difficult is it out there when Tiger is playing like he's played the last couple of months?
IAN POULTER:  You know, obviously he got it way clear off a couple of days.  And just kept, obviously, rolling putts in, and you have to do that at the top level.

Yeah, I'm just focused on my job, and if he's five or six clear, obviously next best place is second.  So that's what I was working on.
Q.  It's been a terrific week in many ways.
IAN POULTER:  Yeah, it's obviously close to home, it's only 40 minutes away, and it was a hard day today with the rain.  But I hung in there around the back nine and managed to catch Jim and obviously I couldn't catch Tiger.
Q.  Do you feel, some players might feel with Woods playing so well, that you won the tournament you were playing in; that he was so far ahead he was uncatchable?
IAN POULTER:  I think when he got five or six clear, he was going to be hard to beat.  Obviously he was in control of his game.  So when someone, especially Tiger, being that far in front, you're not going to catch him.

So my goal was really to finish second, just more World Ranking points and try and boost myself, get into the top 40 and hopefully further up than that.
Q.  What does this do for you in terms of the rest of the year?
IAN POULTER:  Schedule is going to stay exactly the same.  I will play dunhill links next week, Volvo Masters, HSBC China, I may add one other tournament but that's about it really.  Time to sit back and relax I think for the rest of the year.
Q.  And of course you can afford a few Christmas presents?
IAN POULTER:  Maybe a couple.  (Laughing).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT