WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 26, 2005
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Kept your mind on your job the same as you did last time?
IAN POULTER:  Yeah, I'm going through these rounds was my game plan and just be focused.  I'm just trying a little harder.
Q.  What do you think of people saying what are you going out there for this weekend?  What do you say to those people?
IAN POULTER:  For the trophy, a five year exemption and a little bit of cash.
Q.  What about the fans who say no Tiger, no Vijay?
IAN POULTER:  Anybody in the top 64 can beat anybody.  Just the fact that Tiger, Vijay have been knocked out doesn't mean suddenly there's no class left in the field.  There are plenty of great players out here that can all play golf, and everybody respects everybody else.
Q.  Did you feel comfortable?
IAN POULTER:  Fairly comfortable.

Nick didn't play fantastic.  I hit a few loose shots out there, but I never felt that I was under immense pressure.  And I could keep pretty much control of the game.  I hit good shots at the right times, missed a couple of silly putts out there.

But that's part and parcel of match play.  It was nice to get it over and done with.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
IAN POULTER:  You can't keep shooting 7 under or 6 under; you can't keep making seven birdies or eight birdies in a day.  You're going to get tired out there.  The 5:00 alarm goes off, you're tired.  But he's still a good friend.
Q.  It wasn't much of a surprise when he birdied 15 and 16?
IAN POULTER:  No surprise whatsoever.  You just    you can't be in the mindset of making par and hopefully that will be good enough; you have to keep focused on making another birdie.  You know if you make birdie you've shot the match out.  If you don't make birdie, there's going to be hope for him.  Players can really take advantage of it sometimes.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
IAN POULTER:  Absolutely every hole is a birdie hole.  Every hole is a birdie hole, and that's the way you've got to look at it.
Q.  Do you think your opponent is going to birdie every hole?
IAN POULTER:  Yeah, you should never expect them to miss the putt, always expect them to hole it.  And if they do hole it, it's no great surprise.  In match play it's never over until it's over, and you can be out the hole and all of a sudden win the hole.  I've taken that every day, exactly that, assume your opponent is going to hole that putt or shot, and it can only put you in good mindset.
Q.  Obviously winning helps?
IAN POULTER:  Absolutely.  Big stakes; there's only a few guys left now and it's got down to the nitty gritty.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT