WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 27, 2005
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
You're one of the rising stars in European golf.  How much fun have you had playing here in the United States?
IAN POULTER:  Great fun.  It's a great place to come and play golf and obviously to further my career and try and obviously get a few more World Ranking points.  I'm going to play a mixture of PGA TOUR and European Tour.  I'll play the majors this year, the WGC's, and then I'll go back home and do a stint back home.
Q.  Everybody over in Europe is wondering, all the European players are coming over here to play pretty regularly.  Do you think that trend is going to continue as the years go on?
IAN POULTER:  I just think the way it's worked out, you've got a few more Europeans getting themselves into the top 50.  And what that does, it just opens the door to come over and play a few more events here in America, and that's what the guys are really doing.  I think most of the guys are still supporting the European Tour and probably should.
Q.  You guys obviously had so much success at Oakland Hills last year; what do you think it is about European golfers that make them play so well in events like that?
IAN POULTER:  I'm not sure.  We just want to win, and I think European guys are getting stronger and stronger.  We really play well as a team, and we want to win as many golf tournaments as we can.
Q.  Having said that, on an individual basis it's been kind of dry for European players to come over here to the PGA TOUR and win.  What do you think it's going to take for you guys, especially the young guys, to come over here and step it up and win?
IAN POULTER:  I think I'm ready to win.  I feel my game is in shape.  I feel happy with my stroke.
Q.  Everybody makes a big deal about your clothes.  Is it as big a deal in Europe as it is over here in the United States?
IAN POULTER:  I don't know, I mean, I'm just having fun with my clothes.  I just try to present myself well on the golf course.
Q.  Before you head off, a little about the match.  Pretty good stuff?
IAN POULTER:  It was a terrible match to watch.  It was just ridiculous.  It was par after par after par after par after par after par.  And then I walked over to my caddie and said, "is it half?"  And I rolled it in.  It's a shame to lose.  It was a great match.  I'm pleased with how I played today.  If someone had asked me where do you want to be for today, I would have probably taken my score today.
Q.  You haven't lost anything
IAN POULTER:  Absolutely.  No, I'm happy with the way I played.  I can't do anything about the opponent; he's going to play as well as he can.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
IAN POULTER:  For the entire match.  I want to be as high up in the World Rankings as I can.
Q.  Was it as much fun to play today as it was to watch?
IAN POULTER:  Good fun.  There wasn't quite as much adrenalin as yesterday, but nevertheless the shot making was still the same.  We were hitting great golf shots and holing great putts, so it was good for people to watch.
Q.  Do you get frustrated when you make four straight birdies and don't pick up anything?
IAN POULTER:  It's funny.  You're playing for lots of World Ranking points, and that's part and parcel.  You plan that Goosen was going for make a few birdies.
Q.  Did you guys joke at all?
IAN POULTER:  It was getting funny out there, he was just making too many birdies.
Q.  The last one, did you think yours was going in?
IAN POULTER:  Yeah, my putt coming down the slope went right to left and I was expecting it to go    slide left to right.  But very well, c'est la vie.
Q.  Talk about the course conditions a little bit as opposed to Thursday and Friday.
IAN POULTER:  Great.  It played fantastic.  The fairways were really good.  6 is probably as good as I could have done.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT