THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2018
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sum up that round.
IAN POULTER: Annoying.  Played lovely on the back nine and very, very steady, a lot of good shots.  And I can accept a bogey on 3.  I pulled 7-iron short left, so completely short-sided.  Very tricky up-and-down from left of that green.  Hit a decent shot to about 12 feet, just missed it.  The other three bogeys were 3-putt bogeys.  They were all kind of 50, 60 feet from the pin, so they were all kind of lengthy 2-putts, but just frustrated, didn't get the pace right on the first putt, left it short.  Pace on the second putt was too long, rolled it five feet past and then to 12 feet short on 8.  So it's disappointing.  Those three 3-putts, take them away, I would expect to 2-putt those, and all of a sudden I'm 5-under par.  So it's a bit frustrating.
Q. (No Microphone.)
IAN POULTER: Yeah, very, very, very.  There was a lot of good stuff in there and a couple of those pin positions obviously trying not to make a mistake and short-side yourself just after I have short-sided myself and give myself decent looks to not make a mistake and then make three in a row.  It's a shame, really, but decent birdie at the last.  Get back in 2-under par, and it's not really a lot to work on, it's not like you go to the putting green and work on 60-foot 2-putts.  I mean, you're more worried about holing it from 12 feet than you really are 3-putting from 60 feet.  So I really don't think I have anything to work on this afternoon.  I think it's time to go to the beach with the kids, chill, come out tomorrow and play the golf that I've played today, because if I do that, I think I can put together a good round.
Q. Will you be a curious observer of Phil and Tiger this afternoon?
IAN POULTER: No.
Q. Heading to the beach?
IAN POULTER: I'm going to the beach.  Did you hear what I said?  I'm going to the beach with the kids.
Q. You can't watch TV at the beach?
IAN POULTER: Do you watch your office?  When you go home after a long day's work do you sit, do you go back to work and sit in the office?
Q. I watch golf after I play.
IAN POULTER: I don't.  No, I know, I'm messing with you, but like, I'm here to play golf.  Last thing I do when I get up at 5:00 a.m. is play five, six hours of golf and then go back and watch golf all afternoon.  That's not my thing.  I'll have a look at the at the end of the day.  I'll check the scores.
Q. Ever been part of an English three-ball in America before?
IAN POULTER: I can't think if I have.
Q. Do you feed off each other?
IAN POULTER: It was nice.  It was a really nice group, actually.  Rosie opened up holing a shot from about 95 yards, which was obviously good to see, and Tommy was rolling a few 35-footers in and I was making a few birdies, so it was nice.  It was just a nice group to go out and play with, chatting about the summer schedule and what everyone's up to.  It was good.
Q. Justin's got the chance to go to world No. 1 this week.  You've known him awhile.
IAN POULTER: Who does?
Q. Justin.
IAN POULTER: Has he?  Okay.
Q. You've known him awhile.  Would you sum up what that would mean to him and English golf?
IAN POULTER: That would be pretty impressive.  No Englishman has won this event, and if he goes to win that and goes to world No. 1, that would be incredible.  He's played very well today.  He hit a couple of loose shots, but apart from that, he played well, he putted well and he scrambled pretty well, as well.  So he's in good form, and you expect him to be on the board week in, week out with the way he swings it and the game that he's got.
Q. You've watched his development over the years.  Can you just talk about the difference he is now to when you first met him on the Challenge Tour and that?
IAN POULTER: I guess I picked him up when he was missing 20-something cuts, and he's a different player.  I mean even back then, even with all of those missed cuts, you could still see that he's going to be brilliant.  It didn't take him a long time to kind of bounce back from that.  He's worked tirelessly hard with his team, fitness and swing wise, nutrition, he's moved to the Bahamas, he's kind of tucked himself away to do his job, and he's doing an impressive job of it.  Very impressive.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT