THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 28, 2004
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
4th green, please describe.
IAN POULTER:  I left myself a tricky putt and it picked up real quickly, and in a bit of frustration, just like that, it slipped out of my hand and went straight in the water.  It was just one of those things.  And do I take a two-shot penalty?  What do I do?

And my physio thankfully was walking around.  He's a great guy, do anything for me, and he come up, and he waded in and picked it out for me.
Q.  Any chance you were going to go in and get it?
IAN POULTER:  No, I was never going to go in there.  I would have taken the two shot-penalty.  I can't believe he went in and got it for me in the first place.  He's a great lad and he's done me a maxi-favor.
Q.  Other than giving him the ball, what do you do for him now?
IAN POULTER:  He'll be rewarded nicely.
Q.  Did you say to him, will you do it?
IAN POULTER:  No, I called for him, Cam.  He knew what I was going to ask him.  And he just took his trainers, his shorts, he got down to his boxer shorts and went in.
Q.  What did you think when the ball was in the air?
IAN POULTER:  It happened so quickly, the second it came out of my hand, I just knew.  I knew it was in trouble.

So I knew what the consequences were going to be, and we just had to get the ball pretty quickly.
Q.  Was that the most interesting par you've had?
IAN POULTER:  Yeah, Shaun Micheel on the 8th, on the 8th, he can't find his ball.  In the space of four holes, you know, we're searching for -- he thinks his ball is in the bunker, can't find it, we lose 15 minutes of time on that hole.  We're searching for the ball and trying to get the right ruling.  It was an amazing day.
Q.  Cam said he was worried when you were marking your ball on 17 because there was an alligator in there?
IAN POULTER:  All of a sudden, probably an alligator in that water there somewhere, but he stayed away.
Q.  Did he find his ball in the bunker?
IAN POULTER:  Yeah, he found it.  You could see roughly where there was a pitch mark, but the sand covered his ball over.  He wanted to know the ruling, whether he could rake the bunker from all the footprints, but he couldn't.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT