BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2018
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CLARE BODEL: Ian, your first tournament on British soil this year.  Looking forward to the week?   
IAN POULTER: I'm looking forward to the week.  It's been a good start to 2018 for me, and yeah, it's kind of set up what's going to be a great summer, being able to come back, spend a good chunk of time in Europe is really nice.   
You know, this golf course this week apparently is in the best condition it's ever been, so I'm looking forward to get out there this afternoon and have a good look at it, and very much, yeah, looking forward to the week.   
I think for me, it's a golf course I haven't had the results on through the years.  It's been extremely disappointing from my side not being able to force a decent finish.   
So with the form I've got right now, I would like to think I'm coming in in the right frame of mind to be able to go out there and play well this week.   
CLARE BODEL: You're form has been pretty impressive in recent months.  Does that bode well, do you think, for this week and for the summer ahead?   
IAN POULTER: I hope so.  You know, I need to attack this golf course in a slightly different way.  I think I need to be more aggressive all around, and yeah, put myself on the board as early as I possibly can and enjoy the fact of being in the U.K. for the relatively short time that I do have here, to be able to go out and have some fun and play some good golf.   
 Q.  We've got a few questions from Facebook live.  Lots of hellos and welcomes.  Jonas wants to know what's the biggest reason for your recent turnaround in form?  
IAN POULTER: Biggest reason:  Hard work, determination, Ryder Cup.   
 Q.  In regards to The Ryder Cup, how do you weigh experience versus rookie quality?  
IAN POULTER: I think The Ryder Cup, rookie is a different word today than what it used to be back in the day when you're talking about Ryder Cup.  I think guys are very well experienced nowadays on the global stage.  So I don't see much in it between a rookie and an experienced player.   
 Q.  Sarah wants to know, other than brown sauce, what's the biggest thing you miss about being back?  
IAN POULTER: I can get HP sauce in America.  I miss the sausages.  I miss the curry.  I miss the bacon.  Miss the sunshine.  I mean, I love being back in the U.K.  It's great.   
 Q.  Impossible, also, to make a proper cup of tea in America.  
IAN POULTER: Yeah, water is not hot enough.  I can make a proper cup of tea at home but on the road, it's difficult.   
 Q.  Getting to the question, you played here last year, after a few years away.  What did you make of the sort of re-changes, as it were, in the course?  
IAN POULTER: Yeah, I thought the redo was a good one.  I think the course sets up well visually.  It's an impressive course.  It always was.  You know, I'm very excited this year from what everyone's been talking about in terms of the condition of the course.   
I've seen on social media a lot of the guys have been out there early, late last week, or even earlier this week, playing and they are raving about it.   
So you know, for me, it's all been a good layout.  Obviously the tweaks and changes, I think have been good ones.  With the added bonus of it being in great condition, it should be a fantastic week.  And we've got the weather forecast for it, as well, so hopefully it's going to be a really impressive week.   
 Q.  You mentioned about The Ryder Cup, of course.  How much motivation do you have to be back out there and what would that mean to you later this year?  
IAN POULTER: I've got quite a bit of motivation to make that team again.  I think Paris will be a fantastic Ryder Cup.  I think the venue's good.  I think the team already is shaping up to be very strong.   
For me to have been vice captain last time around, to enjoy that for what it was, was great from an experience standpoint, but there's nothing like playing.   
So for me, to put myself in a position to be close now, and to have a big push this summer to try and make sure I make that team, it would be great.  I'm looking forward to the challenge.   
 Q.  And also, you're of course a very vocal Arsenal fan.  They have in the last hour announced their successor to Arsène Wenger will be Unai Emery.  What's your reaction to in a?  
IAN POULTER: I don't know an awful lot about him.  I think whoever was going to take that role has got big shoes to fill.  I mean, 22 years and a job well done I think from Arsène.   
You know, the trophy cabinet's been dry for a while, or it's not as full as obviously the fans would like it.  Hopefully his changes will be good ones and hopefully he can strengthen the team in the right areas, and hopefully he brings the results.   
 Q.  You mentioned your European summer, as it were.  What is the actual schedule coming up, and do you think you're more likely to qualify off the European Points list or do you think it will still be a World Points list for you?  
IAN POULTER: Well, I'm closer on the World Points list right now from a ranking points perspective.  I think I'm next man in on that list and I think I'm 900,000 or a million points away on the other list.   
So obviously World Points would be the list to qualify through.  My schedule will be play next week in Italy.  I'll have a week off, go over to the U.S. Open, fly straight back, have a week off.  Play France, have a week off.  Play Scotland, play The Open Championship, and then hop back on a plane and play Canada, play Akron, play US PGA, sleep for a week, and then see if I can -- you know, the goal for me is to play as good of golf as I possibly can to allow me to take a couple of FedEx events off.   
You know, to make the team is important.  For me to be fresh by getting there, I think is also very important.  So that's the big picture plan and hopefully it goes to plan.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT