WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2018
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about how you well you've played so far this week.
IAN POULTER: I feel good.  Obviously this format is obviously changed from the days when I managed to hold this trophy a few years ago.  The round-robin thing is interesting.  Your kind of never really out of it.  If you are in a position that Daniel is in, you are out of it.
Tomorrow is straight match play in the effect that I control my destiny in that group.  Mindset really is just to go out and win.  I know if I do that, obviously I'm going through.
Q. Does the Masters creep in your mind a little bit this week and kind of add something extra to play for?
IAN POULTER: A hundred percent.  I want to play the Masters.  The way I'm driving the golf ball, the way I'm playing, greens in reg numbers are up for me, that obviously lends itself to Augusta National.  Driving it a bit longer off the tee helps around Augusta National.  I know what I need to do to get in.  It's a goal.  It's a target.
When you look at it in front of you on paper, it looks easy but it's not.  I need win five more matches.
Q. Your putting from last week, I now you were frustrated with your putting?
IAN POULTER: I figured out.  I went back to the old faithful from Medinah.  I needed a bit of motivation, a bit of something, a bit of fire in the belly.  That putter has definitely had plenty of fire in the belly.  I brought it out this week.
Didn't feel great yesterday.  But yesterday afternoon on the putting green, it started to feel a bit better.  It felt good out there today.
Q. There is a lot of golf to play, but do you feel like now you have got your game and your mojo and momentum that you had when you won this championship?
IAN POULTER: It's a tough question because match play is -- match play is a funny old game.  I can go out there and shoot 8-under par and lose my match pretty easy.  So you have to stay in the moment.  You can't get too far ahead.  I am in a different position to what the other guys are in tomorrow.  They have to win their match.  I don't have to win my match.  But obviously I need to obviously get something out of that match.  It's a different feeling.
I've never had that before really, that kind of feeling standing on the tee.  But my mindset is go win.  Don't try and think about holding the trophy just yet, as there's a lot of great players that I need to beat.  And hopefully I can do it.
Q. How are the fans treating you over here?
IAN POULTER: Pretty good.  I like Texas.
Q. I's not exactly a Ryder Cup atmosphere?
IAN POULTER: No, sir, it's not.  Nor will it ever be.  There's nothing ever going to touch a Ryder Cup atmosphere.
Q. Do you think the whole atmosphere around the Ryder Cup, you see that talking and bantering --
IAN POULTER: There are some issues, yes, if that's what your alluding to.  I think there were some issues.
Q. Are they growing?
IAN POULTER: There are some issues which probably need addressing.
Q. How would you address them?
IAN POULTER: I don't know.  That's for the powers that be to figure out.  I'm here to perform.  I'll do my job and it's for everyone else to figure out to do whatever it is they need to do.
Q. You didn't get heckled any time, did you?
IAN POULTER: I feel pretty good with red numbers on the board.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT