TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 2, 2017
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was the most pleasing thing, the five birdies or no dropped shots?
IAN POULTER: Probably no dropped shots.  I think whenever you play golf and don't make any mistakes, obviously it makes it easier to have a decent score.  There was a couple of decent par putts in there which were key to holding the round together, and there was a couple of par 5s there, which putts lipped-out when they had opportunities to go in.
It was a nice round of golf.  I'm happy with that.  I didn't hit the ball very well Tuesday afternoon when I was here practicing for six hours on the range.  But you know, just going through old notes and working through the basics of what I need to do to hit the ball well seemed to work on Wednesday, and I hit it great today.
Q. What has been the most pleasing aspect for you today?
IAN POULTER: Just playing solid.  I think playing solid; I need two good weeks.  I want to move up in the World Rankings.  That's something that's going to be quite important to me by the end of the year, and obviously if I can have a big couple of weeks, and then have a big week in Dubai, you know, who knows how far I can move up.
Q. And looking at the nature of this golf course, if you do stray from the fairway, you can get hit with quite a lot of trouble, the amount of trees on this golf course.
IAN POULTER: I haven't seen any.
Q. Shows it's been a good day.
IAN POULTER: The pines, they are like umbrella pines; they trim it all the way until to the top.  Providing you're not stymied, you can have an opportunity to move the ball around them.  So you can get unlucky in there and you can also catch a break, as well.
Q. One of the keys to the round was a birdie late to get within two.  How important was that?
IAN POULTER: That was important.  Nice birdie on the last.  A couple of key par putts today:  A putt from off the fringe from about 15 feet, and then on the par 3 where I run it about ten feet past and hole it coming back; to hole those putts to keep the round clean is obviously what you need.
The par 5s I didn't take care of today.  Had a couple of putts from relatively short distance which lipped-out and then had -- hit it on a back fringe at 15 and then 3-putted that for par.  All in all it was a pretty decent round of golf.  It's quite tricky in places around here to get to some of those pin locations.  But I'm pretty happy.
Q. The turnaround in your ball-striking since Tuesday, what did you find that worked so well today?
IAN POULTER: I just had to go back through my list of keys to try and get it back on track.  I was hitting a horrible cut and that's not very nice.
You know, going over keys that I've worked with Pete, going over keys that I've worked on in the past, making sure that I'm releasing the club earlier on the way down, which straightens up my ball flight and that definitely was a big move from Tuesday.  I wasn't very happy Tuesday on the range but this morning seemed to be pretty good.
Q. You've had success in this area before and finished second in 2014.  Obviously a place you feel comfortable but it just an area that you like?
IAN POULTER: I don't know, really.  I can remember the 6-footer that I missed to get in the playoff with Brooks, and that was a little bit frustrating.  I felt I should have taken a few more opportunities that day to finish that one off.
I'm comfortable at the back end of the year.  I've had quite a bit of success in a number of tournaments late in the season, and hopefully I can continue that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT