TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
October 31, 2017
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've not played this golf course before and you've got to 6 in the rankings which get you here this week.  How much are you looking forward to playing here and towards the end of the season now?
IAN POULTER: Yes, hopefully going to be a good three weeks.  It's always nice to come out this way to play, final stretch is different this year, with obviously South Africa being put in there.  Haven't been to SA for a long time, so I'm looking forward to going down there to play.
Then obviously with a couple of decent weeks, I'll be in Dubai and hopefully we can have a strong week that week and move right up the rankings.
Q. You've spoken a few times this year, particularly in Scotland, about the way the game has been going.  You had a great performance at the British Masters.  Are you still enthused by the way the form is at the moment going into this big three weeks?
IAN POULTER: I feel good.  So there's a lot of positives going to come out of, you know, the summer period that I've had.  Played good golf.  Been on the board a bit.  I've put myself in contention.
So providing I continue to do that, I can tick off some goals.  I can squeeze back in the Top-50 and then look to try to get inside the top 40 and 30 and move back up.  By doing that, obviously it kind of ticks a few boxes that are lying a little empty right now.  I feel good.  My game's in shape and I'm just here to have some fun.
Q. The 16th hole is quite unique; looking forward to that little bit of quirkiness on this golf course?
IAN POULTER: I've seen it.  I haven't obviously -- I haven't hit a shot off there yet.  Yeah, I mean, it's going to be different.  Something new to tee off a roof of a -- I don't even know when it is, whether it's an apartment of whether it's some form of a building.  Yeah, it's new but a tee box is a tee box and it doesn't really matter where it is.
Yeah, it will be a different challenge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT