WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 22, 2018
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations, again, another win.  How tough is this hole location here at 17 today?  
IAN POULTER: It's nasty.  It's tricky with the wind, as well.  It's been moving a little bit about today, so it's hard to tell.  You look at it right now it's downwind.  But standing on the tee it feels straight in and off the left.  Tough hole.  Obviously I didn't play it yesterday in a single wind.  So it was good to get that done.  Obviously that was a nice plug line in the back of that trap, but I guess I shouldn't have hit it there.   
 Q.  You got your work done the first two days, so now you control your own destiny.  I imagine you don't change a thing.  
IAN POULTER: Keep the same mindset.  Daniel was always going to be a tough game today.  He showed how good he is in match play in the Presidents Cup.  He was going to be gritty.  He wasn't going to be giving much.  So obviously I had to take the upper hand today.  Hopefully I'll go out tomorrow and do the same thing.   
 Q.  In control of your destiny, that's great, isn't it, two for two?  
IAN POULTER: It's a great start.  You need to do that in this format.  It's so easy to get complacent.  So, yeah, if you win your matches you're going to go through, and that's the simplicity of this form of match play.  Get the job done.  Win your match.  You will advance.   
 Q.  I saw you come into the car park Tuesday afternoon, I think it was, there seemed to be a skip in your step.  Is this an event you look forward to playing?  
IAN POULTER: I love it for the simple fact your adrenaline is going.  My adrenaline is going right now.  The nerves are going.  It's nice to play under that pressure.  You don't get this very often.  So to get the butterflies, to get the nervousness, to get the excitement, there's nothing like match play.  Yeah, it gets me going.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
IAN POULTER: Yeah, I like match play, let's just put it like that.  I don't know how else to explain it.  I absolutely hate losing with a passion.  In fact it makes me want to vomit.  That's it.  Plain and simple in a nutshell.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT