WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 21, 2018
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well done.  You must be pretty happy with that?  
IAN POULTER: Winning match play is always really pleasing.  Tommy is a great player.  I don't think either of us really holed any putts.  I think I probably played just a little better than he did and obviously got it done.  Yeah, it's nice.   
The simplicity of match play is win your match.  It sounds really easy and it's not.  So level of focus, level of concentration this week.  Be super aggressive, try not to hand too many holes away.   
It's a tricky golf course this week.  It's easy to get out of position and it's easy to hand holes to your guy with not really doing too much wrong.   
I'm happy with the win.  A little practice with this putter, it needs to kick in, needs to warm up a little bit.   
 Q.  It's interesting, though, the whole process of going back to something that you obviously enjoyed such wonderful moments with?  
IAN POULTER: I've had some success with this format in 2010.  I used that to win -- I have been using that putter now for a while but I just don't feel like I'm holing my fair share of putts.   
Rory turned it around last week.  His putting stats were pretty incredible.  Turnaround for doing something very simple.   
I'm trying to do something simple by putting something back in my hands which I know has got a decent track record.  I know at times I've holed great putts with it.  Hopefully I can get the juices going enough to hole a few more putts and have a real solid week here.   
 Q.  It's one of those weeks if you do well, you get into the Masters.  I just wonder about the process of compartmentalizing that, knowing that there are ramifications for success?  
IAN POULTER: I know what I need to do.  It's quite simple.  Win the next number of matches and I won't be doing what you are doing at Augusta National.  I don't want to do that.  I want to play.   
 Q.  It's good fun.  I really enjoy it.  
IAN POULTER: Do you?  You look like it.   
You know, I'm playing some of the best golf I've ever played.  Stats are proving that.  I'm driving it well, putting it in position, hitting a lot of greens in regulation.  So I feel like I'm really close to something good.  That's why I want to make it to the Masters.  I'm driving it a little bit longer than I have in the past, which is very helpful around that golf course.  Hitting lots of greens in regulation is also helpful.  So again, it comes down to the wand.  If I can warm that thing up and play well for the next three days, four days, five, I'll have a chance to obviously make it there.   
If I don't do it this week, then I might look to try to do something in Houston next week.   
 Q.  And the thought of commentating there as a secondary, not Houston, the Masters, how enticing a prospect is that?  
IAN POULTER: It's not at all.  It is Wednesday of the match play week.  If I win my match tomorrow and win Friday, and win Saturday and win Sunday, then it won't be a thought at all.  So it really is as simple as that.  I need to go and execute that.  So I need to do my job.   
None of these matches are going to be easy.  Daniel Berger and Chappell, two good golfers which I need to get -- I need to get past those two first.  So one at a time, let's get through tomorrow's match and then take it from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT