THE 146TH OPEN
July 23, 2017
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








IAN POULTER: The two tough days I played well.  And I found myself in a position where I was right in contention to win.  And I took myself out of contention yesterday.  So there's nothing about this week -- you know, amazing to be back playing some great golf.  But I need a few days to centre before talking to any of you lot because there's nothing about -- there's nothing about this weekend that I've enjoyed from a personal performance.  It's been disappointing.  I expect more from myself than -- I expect more from myself than how I've performed this weekend.
I performed amazing in the wet and wind, and yesterday was terrible.  A day where I should be shooting 5, 6-under par and putting myself with a chance to win.  Last night I was out of contention.  Friday night I was in contention.  So I've had a lousy weekend.  Nothing to be happy about or proud about.  I'm walking away from this tournament feeling extremely disappointed, from a great start.
Q. (Inaudible.)
IAN POULTER: I know I can do it.  I know I can do it.  I know that if I -- if I do good stuff I'll play well enough and still perform with the best players in the world here.  I haven't showed that this weekend.  I haven't showed it at all.  There was no wind.  The greens were soft on Saturday.  I really should have taken advantage of the golf course and I didn't do that.  So that's poor.  That's poor from a good player to leave shots on the golf course, especially in an Open Championship.  It's disappointing.
Q. (Inaudible.)
IAN POULTER: Yeah, I'm sure they have.  But you're catching me after a weekend of, you know, ignore the first two days, let's talk about this weekend.  It was horrific.  Discard from weekend and talk about the first two days, it was amazing, right?  So the two together, unfortunately don't add up to a great result.  I didn't grab an automatic spot for next year, I didn't -- I'm disappointed.  The fans were amazing.  I wish I could have done more for the fans because they carried me around for four days.  They were truly remarkable.
Q. (Inaudible.)
IAN POULTER: Well, of course.  Should have finished better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT