BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
September 27, 2017
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does it feel to be here after finishing up in the U.S.?  
IAN POULTER: Feels good.  Flew in yesterday morning.  Still feeling a tiny bit jaded but it's good to get here.  It's nice, obviously, here at Close House.  Everyone has done a great job.  Lee has done obviously a good job as host this week getting everything prepared, and the guys at Close House have got this place looking pretty good.   
 Q.  From a host point of view, how difficult or easy is it to concentrate on your golf?  
IAN POULTER: It's difficult.  I'm not going to lie.  There's a lot going on as a host, lots of media attention, lots of interview stuff to do.  Obviously from the perspective of just wanting to make sure that everything is 100 per cent spot on, you know, you take a little bit of extra time.   
That does take away a little bit from the golf, but we're professional enough to be able to kind of separate enough of the media stuff away from obviously practise time.  And obviously when tournament stuff gets on the go, Lee will be focusing hard on trying to win like I was obviously trying to win a couple of years ago but it's not easy.   
 Q.  The course this week is different to Woburn.  How do you find it?  
IAN POULTER: I'll let you know in four hours.  I'm going to go out there and play the whole 18.  It is very hilly.  That's one of the challenges this week.   
So from a player and caddie perspective, that's going to be quite hard on the legs.  But nothing we're not used to.  But the course looks good.  I'm looking forward to the challenge this week, and I'm excited to get going.   
 Q.  How is the game coming into this week?  
IAN POULTER: The game feels good.  It's been a busy summer.  You guys know my schedule.  It's been pretty hard core since THE PLAYERS Championship in the middle part of the season.  I came back to Europe.  Played a lot of events, as many as I could play through Europe.  Obviously went back to play the Playoffs, and I feel good.  My game's in shape.  I feel fresh, even though I'm a bit jet-lagged.  Yeah, hopefully I can have a big week this week.   
 Q.  Finally, hoping for some nice support from the Geordies, a good crowd here.  
IAN POULTER: It's always a good crowd.  You know what, the British Masters and SKY Sports, they have done a good job of bringing this event back into the calendar, and you can tell just from today, the amount of people that we'll have out here fans-wise this week is going to be incredible.   
I think moving the event around the country has proved a pretty good one, and it gives everyone the opportunity to come out and watch some great players play some great golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT