ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2017
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 3-under round of 69 to add to yesterday's 67.  How pleased with your day's work?
IAN POULTER: Pretty pleased.  I think I was more balanced in my swing, even though I hit a few loose ones today, which I wasn't very happy about.  I putted nicely, again, which is kind of going in the right direction, which is always nice to see a few putts going in.  Lovely putt on 16 from kind of 40 feet.
So overall assessment, pretty good.  I'd like to just whip to the range in the rain for five minutes to kind of hit five drivers.  I was losing that a little right.  But the rest of the bag felt very good. I felt more balanced in my swing from the changes that I did yesterday, even if it sounds weird to make some changes after shooting 5-under, but they needed to be done.
Q. You mentioned your swing and you've spent much of your career without a coach and Pete Cowen is now on board.  Why?
IAN POULTER: I needed another set of eyes to have a look.  I can't do it all myself all the time, and 18 months ago, Pete come on board and gave me some fresh ideas.  Nothing that I needed to do drastically different, but just, you know, just to keep an eye on it, which is great.  And you know, he's one of the very best.
Q. How excited about the possibilities this weekend of winning a Scottish Open, it would mean a lot, wouldn't it?
IAN POULTER: It would mean a lot.  It would be an even crazier four months if we can pull it off.  I need to get to the range, need to hit a few balls.  I want to start hitting the middle of the fairways, because from that position, I think I can be pretty dangerous.
Q. That round featured some fight, scrambling, character-building.  How would you describe today?
IAN POULTER: Yeah, it was indifferent at times.  I think for the most part, I was very happy with my balance, even though I played really well yesterday, I don't think my balance was quite right, so I worked on that yesterday afternoon.  I worked on them this morning, and you know, it caused a couple of indifferent shots today just because I'm getting used to it.
But links golf the last couple of weeks has knocked my swing about a little bit and I need to get it back on track.  Today I felt much more comfortable hitting shots, even though there was a couple of loose ones out there, but overall, obviously I scrambled well at the right time, cheeky chip-in, and a nice holed 40-footer there on 16.  You need to do that if you're going to stay in contention and obviously I'm pretty happy with my round.
Q. At times recently you've been at odds with your putter.  How much do you see that club coming alive in recent weeks?
IAN POULTER: I'm getting more of a love affair with it as the days go on.  I'm holing a couple of nice putts, which keep me happy.  Putts that you are used to seeing go in a few years ago, all of a sudden from 40 feet, the odd ones drop in, and I feel very comfortable with the putter in hand.
That's a really nice feeling to have, especially in the right time of year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT