VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 21, 2017
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We've got some oohs and ahhs at that shot out of the water protecting the 18th green.  Take us through that hole.  
IAN POULTER: Driver, 3-wood in the hazard.  Knocked it out of the hazard, chipped on, made par.   
 Q.  On the front-9 some colorful scores there but you really regrouped on the back-9.  What was your mindset going into this round knowing the implications?  
IAN POULTER: I made a couple of mistakes on the front-9, 3-putt from 7 which was obviously slightly disappointing.   
I actually played pretty good golf today.  I had plenty of chances around the back-9.  Front I probably -- you know, I would have said 7 really good look at birdie and outside chip-in there on 17, 18.   
 Q.  You mentioned the other day reporters like me have been really hyping up where you're at in terms of your status.  But this round under this belt, what positives would you take away?  
IAN POULTER: What positives do I take away from this week?  Well, it's not -- you know, it's not all bad, right?  I'm healthy, I'm playing golf.  I'm still going to be able to play golf.   
You know, I have the opportunity to have sponsor invitations.  I always have the 125, 150 category.  I also have some events I can play in Europe.   
So, you know, obviously questions have been coming thick and fast and I think it's been slightly overdramatized.  Obviously I'd loved to have finished up and got it done this week.  However, that hasn't happened.   
You know, it doesn't mean to say that the clubs are going to go away and you're never going to see me again.  Obviously means that I've got some work to do and I need to go -- get away and do some work.   
I'm playing with Geoff Ogilvy in New Orleans.  Who knows.  Golf is funny game.  We could easily go out and win with Geoff and things are a little different.   
 Q.  We want the see you again, of course, and you mentioned next week in New Orleans.  After that, with the 126 to 150 category status you have, do you know what your future will hold in terms of what your game plan is?  
IAN POULTER: No.  Who knows, right?  I mean, you know, the way it falls right now is, you know, I don't know whether I'm going to be in tournaments or out of tournaments.   
So what it means and what's the most frustrating thing for the next few months is, you know, I can't plan a schedule.  So, I have to be ready to go any given Monday to go to an event and, you know, obviously I'll try and qualify for U.S. Open, I'll try and qualify for The Open, I'll play some events in Europe.  I'll play some more events over here and obviously I'll do what I need to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT