UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 6, 2016
Ian Poulter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How are you and has this Hong Kong Open come at a good time in your rehabilitation?
IAN POULTER: I think it's come at a good time this year.  It was a little late in the calendar last year, leaving on a Tuesday morning to try and come over.  I'm in good form.  I'm rested.  I feel my game now kind of six events in, feels pretty good.
So it's good to come to a golf course where I've had quite a bit of success.  Quite a few rounds in the 60s on this course and obviously holding that trophy in 2010.  So I'm looking forward to the challenge this week.
Q. Imagine there was a lot of rust in the system after so many months sidelined, but has the game been progressing very neatly?
IAN POULTER: Well, I come out of the gates a little too quick I think, leading after day one of having 5 1/2 months off was not really what I was expecting.  So expectations change pretty quickly.
But I feel my game is there.  I just need to hole a few more putts.  You know, certainly coming to a golf course like this, where you've seen lots of putts going in, hopefully I can do the same this week and obviously put myself in contention.
Q. Does that familiarity, that experience around Fanling help?
IAN POULTER: Yeah, I think it does.  I think a lot of guys play well on certain courses.  This is one of those venues for me where I like the visuals from the tee.  I like that it's positional play.  You know, I've got some good, fond memories.
Q. Are you still as ambitious as ever?  Are you still as confident as ever, or is that diminished because of the break in the age and mellowing?
IAN POULTER: No.  I'm still -- the tank's half-full, shall I say.  The confidence level is always there.  I'm not half-empty guy.  I'm a half-full guy.  So that's never going to leave.  Yeah, I'm as ambitious as I've always been.  I always look to perform well.  I always want to put pressure on myself and I always demand big things.  So that will never change.
Q. What does it take to perform well at Fanling?
IAN POULTER: Well, you're going to have to hole putts.  Simple as that.  You are going to have to putt it in play, but hole putts at the right time is definitely going to be what the winner is going to have to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT