NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SABRES v HURRICANES
May 31, 2006
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You have a team that has Game 7 experience and some guys that don't.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Any time you get experience on your side like that, I think it's an advantage.  But I believe, you know, like I have said before, I believe once the puck drops tomorrow night, it's all about hockey and who plays the best.   
 So I think it's good leading up to the game but ultimately the game will be decided on the ice.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I would assume they are going to be there for everybody.  The anticipation is always, like I was saying yesterday, gets so magnified and the puck drops and it's hockey.  We need to show up and put in a real good effort tomorrow night.   
  Q.  Have you ever been involved in a closer series where you are heading into Game 7, and games are decided by one goal --   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Like I said, I haven't coached for a whole long time, so I like the one seven-game series in Toronto but the games were pretty lopsided.  Actually they were close when we were in Toronto, they were more lopsided when we were in Long Island.  But this has been a pretty even series with one goal games for the most part.  I think that's what probably people are expecting, you get two teams, both have 52 wins and resembling the same style, they are probably expecting a close series.   
  Q.  Two games have been decided by questionable calls.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  There's things out there, like I said, you can go back and look at the tape, that frustrate you as a coach and a team.  The bottom line is we wake up today, there is nothing you can do about it.  You can't change it.  I don't agree with it, but you can't change it.   
 So we need to focus on what we can do and what we can change, and that's moving forward tomorrow in Game 7.  That's the most important thing right now.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Doug has played well for us in this series and in this round.  It was a tough call.  I am sure he's disappointed about the call, disappointed it happened to him.  He's looking forward to tomorrow.  Maybe get some sort of redemption.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  He said in the paper, I am sure Doug is going to have a big game.  He's physical, he's made big plays, he's banging bodies, he's trying to get to the ultimate goal here, so I would expect that he and a lot of other veterans come up with a big one.   
  Q.  How would you rate Cam Ward's performance last night?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  He certainly kept us in there in the first period.  We were real lousy, he was rock solid.  Even the first goal that went in, he made the original save and we didn't tie up the stick in front.  It was a rebound.  He gave us a chance until we got our legs under us in the second and then started to take control a little bit in the third.  You know, he gave us that opportunity to get back in the game.   
  Q.  The fact that the last two games, the way they ended, are you thinking this is the new NHL?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I guess you don't know what is going to be called and what is not going to be called ultimately.  You have got to go out and play and do your best to stay out of the penalty box.  Hope that the calls are made accordingly.   
  Q.  Are you satisfied with the standard though because I know a lot of the guys in the room say, "We don't have a problem with the calling of things in overtime."  It just you know, you go a period and a half without a penalty and next thing you know they are calling everything in overtime.  Is that a little unnerving for a team going into such a big game?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I don't know if we'll be in overtime tomorrow, so I really don't want to talk any more about penalties.  The game is over with.  The focus is on Game 7 and how to prepare for that and how to play.  You are talking about yesterday's news, we have got a big Game 7 coming up.   
  Q.  Can you talk about what Cam Ward has got going for him right now.   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I think fundamentally he's pretty sound.  He seems to be always in control of his net and in his crease.  He's not one of those guys that uses a lot of energy or can find himself out of positions a lot of times.  He's there to make a first save, second save if he has to.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Our team always responds.  They always respond.  We didn't play very well last night.  I think the players know it and I can't think of a time where we haven't responded.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Certainly didn't plan on it, so it's not something that -- it hasn't happened a lot, and it would be uncharacteristic of us to have it happen back to back.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I would say our back is against the wall.  I mean, it is Game 7. I think I said their back's against the wall.  We had Game 6.  We didn't want to get to Game 7.  Regardless of how many games you got, you want to end it and move on.   
 Again, I would expect our team ready to play our style of hockey tomorrow.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I don't think it's a line thing and I don't think it is a system thing.  We got outskated for 20 minutes, pretty solidly outskated.  Like I said, Cam Ward was the reason why it was 1-0 and gave us a chance to come back and make it 1-1 and push it to overtime.  But when we're playing well, we like the lines.   
 We have gotten to this point, there's only three teams left, so things have worked for us.  After tomorrow night there will only be two, so we're comfortable with the line combination that we have had and the power play units that we have had and we scored some power play goals, scored some goals on even strength and we're pretty comfortable with that moving forward.  I really think we just need to play more of our style of hockey, which at times, was really missing last night.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I don't want to hear it.  I don't want to -- there should be some sort of a gag order, honestly.   
  Q.  You guys were laughing -- (inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  So you believe that?  There should be some sort of a gag order honestly.  I don't want to answer any questions on Lindy.  It's a waste --   
  Q.  But you know --   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I am asking you what do you think?  It's a stupid statement by him.  It's stupid to be asked.  It's stupid.   
  Q.  It's not stupid to be asked.   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Well, if you are buying into it.   
  Q.  I am not buying into it.  I am asking you a question.  I am telling you what he told me.   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I have no comments on Lindy.  Get the gag order out.  That's the only comment I have got.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I have coached a Game 7.   
  Q.  In the NHL?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Yes.   
  Q.  Are they any different?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  The loser goes home, the winner goes on.  So, the hockey is still the same.  The game will be decided tomorrow night when the puck drops.   
  Q.  More intense?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  It's not by design, like I don't think they play less of an intensity level in Game 6, or, you know, I don't think so, but it will be intense (inaudible).   
  Q.  Is goaltending even more of a factor in Game 7?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I think it's a factor all the time.  A couple of kids in there playing real well.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I think maybe one in the East Coast League, actually a Game 5, but it was an elimination, maybe one in the American League.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I think it's important from an energy standpoint and a fan standpoint.  Like I said last night, we certainly need our fans here and making as much noise as they can, and we have got a pretty good record at home here, and I think that it's an advantage.  Again, it will be decided on the ice, but to have that energy in the building, I think can push a team.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  He's playing well.  Afinogenov is also a dangerous player; they have got depth up front.  And obviously Briere, but, you know, they scored one and then one was on the power play.  We gave up too many power play chances, I thought, last night.   
  Q.  Mark Recchi was brought here for situations like this.  (Inaudible)?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Again, I think they provide depth to our team, when you mix him in with the likes of a Staal and a Stillman and Whitney and a Brind'Amour, they provide depth and balance.  The other night they -- Weight to Whitney -- I am sorry, Weight to Recchi in front of the net, that was a big goal for us at a big time.  That's what they are here for.  They are here for their leadership, for situations like this, where you know, we expect big games from our big players tomorrow night.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I don't agree with the call.  He's played extremely well for us.  He's blocking shots, he's being physical.  I do expect him to have a big game tomorrow but not to make up for something.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  We haven't been much on meetings.   
  Q.  Him calling --   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Oh, him calling.  I was going to say we meet too much.  I thought it was great timing, great timing, for a team meeting by the players.   
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Again, I think veteran experience is valuable to have on your team.  Ultimately the team that plays the hardest and is most committed to the win will probably get the win.  So I have a lot of confidence that our team can do that and that we can be successful here.  We have won a lot of games in our home building.   
 This team has had a lot of success.  They rely and count on each other, you know, I would expect nothing less.   
 Thank you.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT