NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SABRES v HURRICANES
May 30, 2006
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about emotions there as the game winner goes in, kind of a bounce -- 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Obviously, the emotions are not good.  We are here to win hockey games, here to try to get to the next round.  It didn't happen.  We lost the game, and we'll wake up tomorrow and we'll go back to work. 
 Q.  Is it frustrating that it ended with a power play opportunity with the fact that they hadn't called a penalty for quite some time throughout the game toward the end? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I whole heartily disagreed with the original call, and I whole heartily disagreed with the two missed calls. 
 Q.  The first period was one of your worst periods during the series. 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  We were not very good.  They came out with their back against the wall, they played a real sharp first period, we didn't respond and that was disappointing because we have a lot of veteran players in there.  Everybody tried to take it to the next step, we did not respond well in the first period at all. 
 We're going to have to be a lot sharper than that.  You know, if it weren't for Cam Ward, in that first period, it would have been a lot worse, a lot worse.  And he showed up and played and that's not right.  We had one of the youngest kids on the team being the best player.  That's disappointing.  We responded, but, you know, it cost us a goal in the first period and we pulled one out at the end, but had we showed up and played maybe it's a 1-0 game. 
 Q.  Is it at the point now where as a coach there's no magic words you can say to them, it's just every guy has to look in the mirror and say, how bad did I want Game 7? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Nobody is blind here.  Everybody knows what is at stake, it is a trip to the Finals.  Now our back is up against the wall.  It's in our building, which is where we want it to be, and we're going to be able to use the energy from our building and our fans, we need them there.  We need their energy and we can draw off of that, I am sure that they will be there for us. 
 Q.  Down to essentially four defensemen -- (inaudible)? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Their defense has played well.  So you got to give them credit.  We got to make it a lot tougher on them.  Two nights from now it's got to be about moving it into their end and making them work. 
 Q.  The way things have gone for you guys this season when you did tie it up late in the third there, did you get a sense that that's what you were kind of waiting for? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Yeah, I thought it was -- I thought this was the road that we were supposed to go down and but it's not.  There's another great opportunity now, our backs up against the wall and we got a chance to show up and play after our performance, it wasn't so good.  First period, that wasn't so good anyway. 
 Q.  When you talk about two missed calls, were they in overtime? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Yes, when we were killing.  A hook on Bret Hedican and the tripping on Justin Williams that led to the goal.  Thank you. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT