NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SABRES v HURRICANES
May 28, 2006
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Cam's save on Afinogenov with four minutes to the game?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Big one.  I don't know if it saved the season but certainly saved the game.   
 This was a big game, but again it's a game that both teams really wanted to have, but the season is not over.  We have got our work cut out for us.  But at the time, yeah, it's a big save.   
  Q.  The goalie switch, is that more about the team than at Marty at that point?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  No, I made a change -- it was three goals on 11, 12 shots, whatever it was.  I told you guys before the last time that I didn't think Cam played poorly.  I thought he played well.  I guess I had a hunch about Marty in Game 4 and he played extremely well, and just to try and not change it, but change the game at that point because it wasn't going our way.   
  Q.  Did you sense an immediate response?  Looked like it?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Yeah, I did.  I thought -- it was hard because I don't fault Marty for the third goal.  It was a breakaway and but then we came out after that, you know, Ward was a little slow getting on the ice and down getting the stick, and he went down into the net it, just broke it up, maybe enough to guys just to realize where we were at; we were down 3-1 but we have been here before down 3-1 many times, our team, and many times have we come back.  Had to play hard to get there.   
 I think we used a lot of energy, energy and emotion to get back to tie 3-3 because we seemed to go a little bit flat in the third period, which really isn't typical of us.  And they blocked a lot of shots as well.  I think they blocked nine or ten shots.  Only got one on the net but we took 12 or 14, whatever it was.  But they blocked nine or ten of them.  They are good at it.   
  Q.  Still had a minute and 20 -- (inaudible)?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  We knew we had to get through that.  If we got through that, then it would be anybody's game.  I thought that we did a good job of keeping our feet moving.  Took a penalty, it was a hook.  Cully, almost a reverse penalty from the one that we had to kill, the same thing, scoring opportunities, we just -- we just took a quick time-out just to give everybody a blow.  I think in the third period we had a power play or two, we didn't generate any shots and you got to get something.   
 They do a good job of blocking.  Everybody knows that, and but yet we're a shooting them and they are blocking them, we're looking for something better and what we needed to do was try and find a lane and get somebody in front of the net.  We did that.  Once we got into the power play a little bit, we got some action at the net.  Got a puck through and good things will happen.   
  Q.  From the outside looking in, Cam looks like this is just a fairy tale story, does that feel like that from where you are at?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  You know, it's not a fairy tale story, like he came out of nowhere.  He was a first round pick and he's a young goaltender who is getting his first crack at the Stanley Cup playoffs.  Emotions are high and everybody's stress level goes up a little bit, but he's an excellent goaltender and I think he's getting a chance to shine.  He's making the most of it.   
  Q.  This entire series has gone one game, one game, one game.  Every time one team has got the win, the other team answered the bell.  This game, I mean, Buffalo put everything out there, yet you guys still come out with the win.  Do you feel like you have a team on the ropes now?   
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I don't know if you get that at this point.  I don't know if you get that at this point in the playoffs.  I will guarantee you that Buffalo will give everything they got.  They are not going to take a step backwards from this; they are going to take a step forward.  It will be up to us to make sure that we realize we have got to go into Buffalo and get a win.   
 But I don't think they will put their head in a shell and wait to be beat.  They are going to come out and fight for it.  It should be great hockey.  The energy and the entertainment on the ice was unbelievable.  They will be ready to play and we have got to make sure we are ready to play.  Everybody knows what is at stake now, a trip to the Finals to play for the Cup.  So we'll be ready.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT