NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SABRES v HURRICANES
May 24, 2006
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Well, they scored some goals, so the second period we weren't very good, offensive or defensively or with our discipline. 
 Second period really did us in tonight.  I thought we played a real good road period in the first period and the third period I thought that we got going, but the second period cost us. 
 Q.  Disappointing second period in three games? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Any time you have a poor period in the playoffs you should be disappointed whether it's first, second or third.  There's a lot at stake, so you'd like to think that your best is going to come out every period, but that's just not the case.  A lot of times when one team is playing their game, another team is not at their game, it happens all the time through the playoffs. 
 They had us pinned back in the second period. 
 Q.  You were upset after Game 2  were you upset about the same thing after the first period tonight? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  As far as what? 
 Q.  You didn't mention it but it appeared you were upset about the officiating. 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  You know, I think that there was calls that could have been made in our favor in the third period that were called in the first, but ultimately I think that we're responsible for making our bed and laying in it. 
 We were on the short end of the physical play tonight, on the short end of the skating, and we have got to do a better job, I think. 
 Q.  Drury's goal deflated you guys a little bit at the end of the first? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  That would have been nice to get in there 1-0.  I would have liked to have of thought that being 1-1 in Buffalo, in their building, that we came out.  I don't know if that's why we were deflated but certainly we didn't play very well in the second period. 
 Q.  Talk about Cam Ward's play (inaudible). 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  He made some tremendous saves in the first period, and into the second period and it was just we're going down one road and the building was loud and it was just to try and change the course of the game.  I thought Marty did a good job when he came in, and from that point on it settled down a little bit, the game itself settled down and we climbed back into it. 
 I think the shot -- I don't know what they were, but the shots were dramatically in their favor, 13 to 1 or 14 to 1, and they ended up 16 to 9 or 18 to 9.  We crawled back into that after that point but I don't think it is a reflection of Cam, just more of the play in the game and again trying to take a different avenue than one we were going down because it wasn't very good. 
 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  It looked good to me.  Defender has to have the right to get to the puck and it looked good to me. 
 Q.  Are you going back to Ward for Game 4? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I have no comments on injuries or lineups.  Thank you. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT