NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: PREDATORS VS PENGUINS
May 29, 2017
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach Laviolette.   
 Q.  I know a lot of the discussion amongst us leading up into this series was your top four defense versus their top two centers.  You have two pairs that you are comfortable putting on, whoever the opposition presents.  What goes into that decision as to which pair you put onto which center in this series?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: Well, I think all of our defensemen have done a really good job.  It's more difficult, I think, on the road to maybe get matchups forwards and defensively.  But I know with regard to the top four, they've both played against top lines.  A lot of the teams that we've gone through have had two top lines, two centermen that can draw your attention.  Last round was the same thing.  This round is no different.   
Even in the first series in Chicago, there were two lines we had to really make sure we took care of defensively.   
There's a lot of trust that goes into all of our players, certainly our top four defensemen.   
 Q.  In your view, is there a unique set of pressure and expectations on Pekka compared to his teammates who haven't played in a Cup Final before?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: On just Pekka himself?   
 Q.  Starting goaltender.  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: I think the Stanley Cup brings a little bit of that to everybody.  It's the biggest stage.  It's for the Cup.  There's two teams left.   
I think the team that can move past that the quickest probably gives themselves the best chance to be themselves.  I would say that a goaltender is no different in either net.   
To me, although Pekka has not been in this situation before, he's been in situations where he's played for his country in big games, big moments, always delivered.  I think there's a good confidence inside of our room with our team, with our goaltending, with how we got here, the work that we put in, that we're ready for this.  But certainly I think there's no question that pressure can factor into it.   
 Q.  How about that third defense pairing, how have Weber and Irwin gelled together, what have they given you during this run?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: I think they've been incredible.  Probably the least two defensemen talked about based on the top four being who they are.  But I think they've done an amazing job defensively.  They're a little bit different in style.  Maty is a little bit bigger.  I think he uses his body well.  I think that Weby has the opportunity to jump the net offensively, see if he can't put himself into the rush or the offense a little bit more.   
In my opinion, they've delivered a really solid 200-foot game.  Like I said, at times you'd like to get a matchup or you'd like to get your top four out there against a Crosby or a Malkin, but we have a lot of confidence if that doesn't happen.   
These guys can do the job.  They've done it all year.  You can't always get what you're looking for in those matchups.  There are times it goes the other way.  Yet these guys have delivered in the regular season and the playoffs.   
 Q.  You said yesterday everybody is available.  Does that mean that Fisher and Smith will definitely be in?  How much did it help having Fisher back with the matchups you talked about?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: Just so I can stay consistent, when you ask me tomorrow after Game 1, I'll leave it at those quotes.  Everybody on the trip is available to me.   
 Q.  I know Mike Fisher is the only player on your roster with Stanley Cup Final experience.  Of course, your prior experience in this situation.  How much does experience matter, if at all, once the puck drops tonight?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: We've gotten to this point with who we are as a group.  As I mentioned earlier, I think our guys are comfortable with that.   
We may not have Finals experience, but this group, the majority of it anyway, has grown with experience starting back a couple years ago with having to play Chicago.  We lost all of our experience, if you remember, in the first two games with Fisher and Weber leaving.  We were left with a really young group.   
I thought we played terrific in that series.  We hated the result, but if you went back and looked at the game, the scoring chances, the opportunities, I thought we did a pretty good job against a very good hockey team.   
I think the experience helped us last year winning and losing.  I think you gain experience from both sides of that, getting into Game 7s on both sides.  You mention pressure in the playoffs for a team.  I think those situations give you some experience.   
Going in, I don't feel like we're completely naked and void of experience.  I feel like we have some experience.  I think as you start to grow, you have to take on those new experiences as well.  That's where we are today.   
 Q.  Given that lack of experience and the stage that you're now on, is this the type of game where you say a lot to the guys to try to prepare them for what they see tonight, or does the stage kind of set itself up for what it is?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: I think the stage sets itself up a little bit.  But I can tell you that we've tried to stay consistent from our regular season delivery to the first round delivery to this delivery, on how we prepare the team, what we say, the things we go through, the repetition.   
I think we are creatures of habit in the hockey world.  We're big on repetition, on how we deliver things.  It's been pretty much the same.  But there's no question that everybody knows where we're at and what's at stake.   
 Q.  How much does their speed put pressure on your forwards when your defensemen activate offensively?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: They're a fast team.  I mean, I feel like we've gone through some fast teams.  Chicago makes a living on playing the game fast with skill.  Even Anaheim presents a whole bunch of challenges.  A lot of their forwards have speed, but their defensemen had incredible speed.   
I think the further you go in the playoffs, the more speed becomes one of those things that each team is trying to seek.  It's something we talked about.  I know that's how they play the game.  That's what they talk about, as well.   
Speed definitely factors into it.  It's something we address constantly.   
 Q.  What have you seen specifically from Forsberg's development?  Why has he been so productive in these playoffs?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: Filip is a guy that got his first opportunity my first year here.  Had a terrific first year.  Really that, to us, opened our eyes as to how good of a player he was.   
I think, again, just with opportunity, he's really shown himself as somebody who wants to be the guy on the front of the rope pulling it, a leader.  I think he's a mature kid for his age.  He was back two years ago.  So you get somebody who seems like they've got experience and maturity.  They have a skill set on the ice.  Everybody was impressed with him.   
I think with the opportunities he's gotten through the regular season and through increased playoff experiences, he's really shown he is a leader on this team.  He's a difference-maker on this team, somebody we count on.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.   
PETER LAVIOLETTE: Thank you, guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT