NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: PREDATORS VS PENGUINS
May 29, 2017
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Pittsburgh - 5, Nashville - 3
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for Coach.
Q. Peter, it was seemingly a very strong start for your team, then the disallowed goal.  The momentum completely shifted.  How would you describe the impact of that moment?
PETER LAVIOLETTE: Well, the impact of that moment, then the chain of events that happened after that with the penalty kills I think changed the course of the game.
I thought our guys played well, you know, from start to finish.  Played well.  The third goal was tough.  It's not really even a scoring chance and it goes off of our defenseman, shin guarding in the net.  That pushed the score 3-0.
From the way we started and the way we continued on after that, I thought our guys played great.  I thought we played a good game.  We hate the score.  We hate the result.  But we'll move forward.
Q. We were tracking how many minutes the Penguins were going without a shot on goal.  37 minutes.  Were you aware of how long it was that the Penguins were without a shot on goal?
PETER LAVIOLETTE: I mean, I knew that we were doing a good job defensively.  I didn't know exact times.  They're a good team.  I think, again, it goes back to respecting our opponent.  They're capable of making plays and scoring goals.  That puts us on guard defensively.
I thought we did a pretty good job with our gaps and our stick positions.  Offensively we chipped away at it, were able to climb back in the game.
Q. Coach, is it hard to judge how well your goalie played in a game like this, going 37 minutes without a shot, nearly half of the shots went in?  How would you judge his play in this game?
PETER LAVIOLETTE: I mean, it's tough.  He's been a rock for us.  The five-on-three goal is tough.  It's never easy for anybody five-on-three.  Like I said, the redirect off of our defenseman, there's really no chance at that one.  Might have been a deflection on one of them as well.  It's really difficult.
We have no question about Pekks in net and what he's capable of, and he'll be the backbone of this team.
Q. From your vantage point, could you give us how you saw the tying goal by Gaudreau.  He came off the bench.
PETER LAVIOLETTE: It was right at the end of the penalty kill.  I thought it was a good forecheck to get in there.  Just Waty working hard to come up with that loose puck, and take it from behind the net.  I think Freddy was in the right spot at the right time.  Waty made a great pass to him.  I think it's a quick hit that's tough for goaltenders, where you're looking one way, have to come out, figure out where the shot is coming from, the angle.
That's good for Freddy.  Kid stepping in like that without much NHL experience, being able to jump into a game, a Final game, Game 1 on the road against the Penguins, defending champs.  Pretty good game by him.
Q. Would you say your quickness especially maybe caught the Penguins off guard throughout this game?
PETER LAVIOLETTE: I mean, our guys worked hard.  The Penguins worked hard, too.  Like I said, I think we realize how we have to play in order to be successful.  But, you know, our guys worked hard tonight.
Q. A couple of the Penguins players felt they stole one tonight.  Would you agree with that assessment?
PETER LAVIOLETTE: They won the game.  You know, I'd rather be up 1-0 and having my guys say we stole.  It not about that.  I think that's something for midyear, whether you still want to be playing right.  They got the win tonight.  Just cuts down our opportunities to win four games.  So next game will be important for us.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.
PETER LAVIOLETTE: Thank you, guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT