NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: DUCKS VS PREDATORS
May 18, 2017
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Anaheim - 3, Nashville - 2   
Series tied, 2-2   
 Q.  Your team certainly made this game very interesting as it progressed.  But that first period, what did you see from your team that that lack of attack -- why did you think that happened?  
COACH LAVIOLETTE: Certainly not the period we wanted to play.  We were on our heels.  They were quicker.  They were first everywhere, more physical.  And that usually dictates the play.   
 Q.  How were you able to turn it around?  
COACH LAVIOLETTE: I think that there's -- I think the guys know what we're capable of, and there's a standard to which we measure ourselves and how we need to play, and we weren't close to it.   
So more of a recognition.  We got going in the second period and at least competed better.  We lost the period, but I thought we competed better and started to press more.  And then in the third period we really got going.  But, you know, it's about consistency.  And we could have been better in the first.   
 Q.  What prevented Mike Fisher from playing at the end of the game?  
COACH LAVIOLETTE: Mike left and we're evaluating him now.   
 Q.  What do you tell the guys, what's the mindset have to be as you leave here and head back to Anaheim now?  
COACH LAVIOLETTE: I don't go in after a game.  I haven't talked to the guys yet.   
 Q.  Is it tougher to overcome when you think you kind of have control of the game and you lose it like that, is it tougher than just another loss?  
COACH LAVIOLETTE: I'm not sure I understand the question.  What do you mean when you think you have control of a game?   
 Q.  When you tie a game and you seem to be controlling the play and then to lose --  
COACH LAVIOLETTE: No one should ever assume that when you're playing a team like Anaheim.  I think that would be a mistake.  Our guys came out, we're still competing in the third.  They caught a lucky bounce tonight on the redirect that ended up being a difference maker.   
So we move on.  But I don't think that we went out with different intentions or weren't ready.  It's just a tough break.  Tough bounce.   
 Q.  Do you draw anything from that third period, from the way you're able to battle back?  Or I guess is that something that you've seen before in the Playoffs?  
COACH LAVIOLETTE: That's the norm and the standard.  I think what we could do is learn something about what it takes on a nightly basis from the first period more than anything.   
MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT