NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: DUCKS VS PREDATORS
May 15, 2017
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you think it's possible for the fans to maybe even take it to another level in these next two games?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: That would be great.  They're great during the regular season.  They've been unbelievable in the Playoffs.  As we move on and everything gets heightened a little bit.  But they've been terrific.
Q. Since the press conference from last night have you seen or heard Ryan Johansen's comments in the locker room about Ryan Kesler?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: No.
Q. Do you like the way on the ice Joey has responded; there hasn't been any backing down in his game?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: No, I said last night I think they're playing well.  They're contributing offensively.  It was a tough call on Joe last night.  Like I said it was a faceoff play.  It was more of an accidental high stick.  And I think he's done a good job.  He's playing well.  Their line is playing well generating a lot.
Q. Has he changed his game at all maybe physically, is he more likely to go at it head to head with a guy like Kesler than maybe when he first arrived?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: I think he's grown as a player.  I think he's getting better.  I think anytime you gain experience even last year in the Playoffs and now this year, I think he's just becoming more experienced, more mature as a player.  And I think he's played well.
He's played against check-in lines before.  He's gone head to head with top lines before.  And that line is able to still maintain some of the best numbers in the league either way.  So I think that they're doing a good job.
Q. Is what you were describing some way of a rite of passage for Ryan getting playoff experience this deep in the postseason?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: Probably anybody.  I don't know about a rite of passage.  But that's the nature of a career, I guess, if you can get in the Playoffs enough is that you experience it once and then you maybe try to take it to the next level and then you try to keep moving on and getting better.
And ultimately, with the hope of being successful at the end.  So not only Ryan is in that situation, but probably two-thirds of our team, three-quarters of our team are in that situation or they've experienced some things over the last couple of years and now they're in a situation where they're trying to push even further.
Q. Physicality is always a big factor in the Playoff.  First two games showed pretty much.  Now coming back at home would you try to find a way with your speed and your talent aside being physicality and maybe getting around that aspect of the game with the Ducks two home games you have forward this week?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: There's no question they play a physical game.  Our team's been able to do it different ways, play different styles.  We have home ice, so we'll be able to find matchups we want or don't want a little bit easier.  But I think, like I said, our guys, I think they're accustomed to playing different types of game.  To get through Chicago we had to play one way.  To get through St. Louis you had to play a different way.  So I think the guys will be fine.
Q. You said that you didn't hear the comments.  But he was clearly, Ryan Johansen was clearly frustrated after last night's game.  I know you said he was composed on the ice.  How do you reconcile the on-ice composure with maybe the postgame frustration?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: I didn't read his comments.  So I can't reference them.  I can tell you that I just saw him on the plane and he's composed.  I saw him on the ice last night, he's composed.  So he'll be ready to play tomorrow.
Q. You've been able to see the actual comfort level -- have you been able to see an actual different level of comfort from the guys at home versus on the road on the ice?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: I think we played pretty well on the road.  It's not like our guys didn't show up and compete last night.  It was a hard fought game, give the edge to them last night.
We won a big Game 1.  The same thing in St. Louis.  I don't think we played bad in Game 2.  I think our guys competed really hard.  I think there's always a little bit of a comfort level at home, especially in our building, when you get behind their fans and into that environment, it's a boost for us, and I think our guys have proven that by the record in the Playoffs and the record in the regular season.  So we're excited to get back home in front of them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT