NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: DUCKS VS PREDATORS
May 14, 2017
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Anaheim - 5, Nashville - 3
Q. You jumped to a fast start but what changed during the second period when they turned it around?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: There was a penalty at the end of the first that changed the game, changed the momentum.
Q. You mentioned momentum.  But seemed like throughout the playoffs you guys have done such a good job at clogging up the neutral zone.  Was there anything they were doing specifically that was able to kind of break through that from what you saw?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: At what point?
Q. Like in the second period?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: I thought they came out, like I said, they grabbed some momentum right at the end of the first period.  They came out and scored another quick goal.  I think the momentum just shifted a little bit.  That being said, I think we did a pretty good job in the neutral zone.
They were a good team that moves up and down the ice.  They got speed.  And I thought from a defensive standpoint we could have been a little bit tighter, a little bit quicker to what we were doing, a little bit more mindful of what we were doing.  But like I said, I think they just grabbed momentum.  Everything lit up.
Q. Pekka is such a rock for you, consistent and always good.  Two goals tonight from a distance.  How rare is it to see that happen?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: That first one was a laser.  I'm not sure if it hit Roman Josi's stick or not and got redistricted or not.  But it was a cannon.  It was hard and quick.  He got everything into it and he put it really in about the only spot he could.
And I thought that there were some saves that he made that were really good.  There were a couple of scrambles in front of the net where we can do a better job at tying up in front of him.
Certainly the second goal, I think, we can do a better job defensively.  So we've been pretty good in front of him.  I think we can go back into Game 3 and look to be a little bit better defensively.
Q. Obviously not the result you want, but Arvidsson, a big game.  How much of a credit is that to your management, your organization?  A guy that got passed over a couple times has really developed into a star player.
COACH LAVIOLETTE: Yeah, he's been impressive since the first day that I met him at development camp after we drafted him.  We drafted him a little bit older.  A lot of times the kids are so young when they get drafted.  But he had been a little bit older in that draft.
And it's a credit to our scouts for staying on him and following him and being adamant that he was a player.  He's got good speed and he's a competitive guy.  He likes to shoot the puck and he's had a real strong year.
Q. Ryan Johansen was pretty upset at the game with the way Ryan Kesler has been playing.  How do you think he's been handling that challenge?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: Ryan Johansen?  I think Ryan's played terrific.  I think he's played terrific.
Q. Follow up to that, something we addressed yesterday, especially as a player of Ryan's position who is going to be a focal point of the other team's game plan in terms of keeping his composure, how do you feel he's done in that?  And do you feel like a player like Ryan Kesler can knock Ryan Johansen off his game?
COACH LAVIOLETTE: I think Ryan's been completely composed.  The penalty that he took tonight was a faceoff where he was battling for a puck and the stick came up.  I think it was accidental more than anything.
And as far as his game, I've already answered that.  I think he's been excellent.  Thank you, guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT