NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: PREDATORS VS PENGUINS
June 8, 2017
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Peter, Colin Wilson spoke the other day of this interesting dynamic -- those are his words -- that he's experiencing between obviously fighting the urge to get back into the lineup and help his teammates in the Stanley Cup Final, but also knowing that he needs to be ready to play and return from injury.  As a coach is there a push and pull that you need to experience and go through with a player in that situation, especially in the situation that this team finds itself in?
PETER LAVIOLETTE: Well, I think everybody is probably banged up a little bit.  I think that you have to find the point of when a player is healthy enough to get back in the lineup and when they're not healthy enough to get back and be able to contribute and play at a level that is needed right now at this point in the season.  So I think all those things are weighed to a point where hopefully good decisions are made.
Q. P.K. Subban said after Game 4 that he doesn't believe in momentum during the Playoffs.  Do you?
PETER LAVIOLETTE: He didn't believe in it?  I've said it a few times, usually desperation wins the day.  If you've got a team that has momentum and a team that's got desperation, for me anyway, the scarier team is the one that's got desperation.
2-2 series right now, I'm not sure where it lies.  They still have home ice.  Desperation should probably still fall on our side here where we know we've got to win a game in Pittsburgh.  We know we've got to win one road game and then a home game to boot.
Right now I'm not sure that there's a momentum or a desperation.  I think you're probably going to see two teams that are ready to play hockey and fight hard for one win.
Q. I know you don't talk lineups, but is Wilson physically available for the game tonight?
PETER LAVIOLETTE: You started it off really well (laughter).  See how much fun I'm having today?  See the big smile on my face?  (Laughter).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT