NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 31, 2010
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: First question? 

 Q. Coach, you said a couple of weeks ago that taking Dan Carcillo out of the lineup was one of the hardest things you had to do this year. What do you hope to see out of him tonight, and how much did it make you feel good to put him back in the lineup? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: I haven't commented on the lineup tonight. But you're right, I did hate taking him out. 

 Q. Your players said this morning, Peter, that they feel that what Carcillo brings is exactly what was lacking in the first game, just the edge to get everybody else going. Do you concur with that? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: What's the question? Do I agree that Danny plays an aggressive style? 

 Q. And that's what you were lacking in that first game and you have to get some of that back tonight. 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: I don't know if I agree that we were lacking that the first game. I don't think we got out-hit. Danny certainly plays an aggressive game. 

 Q. Peter, what went into your decision to change your mind, I guess, and make the announcement that Leighton would be your guy in goal? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: I didn't change my mind. I stand by my statements yesterday, as you can tell from the Carcillo comments today. I said likely we'll keep everything internal. When questions were asked about the goaltenders yesterday, we had to make a decision. We had not had conversations until we got back to the hotel and had a coach's meeting last night. 
 The goaltenders weren't notified at the rink, so I didn't want to comment on anything and have you guys going to them without them getting information from us first. Once we got back to the hotel, we got a chance to kind of absorb everything from the day. We made decisions with regards to the game tonight. 

 Q. Peter, my apologies for trying to hammer home the same nail here regarding Carcillo, but irrelevant of whether he plays tonight, when do you think he's at his best when he's on the ice? Because as you know, sometimes he crosses over that line. When is he at his best when it comes to being on the ice? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: Actually, Danny -- I'm not sure of the exact numbers. You would have to look it up. Somebody gave them to me. He doesn't cross over that line too much. In fact, that line goes the other way. I believe he finished top three in the penalties that he draws, as opposed to the penalties he takes. It was like a plus 25 rating. 
 I'm not sure of the exact numbers. You would have to look into it. Danny Carcillo has done an excellent job with his discipline when he's been in the lineup, so he plays an aggressive game. He can agitate a little bit. He's physical. And I think he's done an excellent job of controlling his game and keeping it legal. 

 Q. Coach, how upset were you by Burish's hit on Krajicek? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: I personally didn't like the hit. I mean, it appeared to me to be from behind and a dangerous hit. I don't think he saw it coming. So I thought it was a dangerous hockey hit. 

 Q. Peter, was it difficult to go with Leighton for this game? Was it a difficult decision? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: We haven't had to make a decision in a long time, I said that yesterday, just based on injury. We just wanted to go back and talk about everything. 
 Michael Leighton, his numbers have been excellent for us in the regular season. They've been excellent in the Playoffs. His bounceback coming back here. Game 3 in Montreal was kind of the same scenario that we were in last night. We played -- we need to play better in front of him. Everybody could be better. Our goaltending, we said that yesterday, our goaltending, defense, forwards, our game can be better; and we all seemed to respond as a team in Game 4.
 So we're looking for a better effort from everybody tonight. The team and Michael have proven that they can do that. 
 THE MODERATOR: Any further questions? Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT