NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 28, 2010
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. There's been a little bit of a layoff for both teams. Some of the players have been talking about the fact that two teams that don't see each other, don't know each other very much, there might be a tendency in the first game to lay off a little bit and just a feeling-out process at the beginning of the game. That's not the style you play. Do you worry about that, that you would be a little bit looking instead of initiating the first period? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: It's not the style they play either. I don't have a crystal ball to see how the first game is going to play and who benefited from four or five days off and who didn't benefit from that. 
 You hope that you prepared. You hope you go out and play the way you wanted to play. The last thing you want to do is look back at the game and say I wish I did this or that.

 Q. Whenever there's a coaching change, quite often the change itself has an impact. Once that's all done, what were you able to convince this group of players to buy in to get to this point this fast?
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: I think coaching is, one of the chores you have as a coach to get everybody on the same page and have your team play with an identity. And it didn't happen right away for us. It took a little bit of time. Ultimately the players get the credit because they're the ones that drive the machine. It's their work ethic, their power, their execution, their passion for the game, those are all things that win hockey games. When you get a team that plays with an identity and thing play on the same page and most importantly I think they play it together you can be successful.

 Q. You won a Cup not long ago. What do you take from that, especially with a team that plays with expectations?
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: The teams are different. It's not fair to compare the two. Carolina the year from start to finish was a pretty strong year. We finished in the top of the conference. There wasn't too much adversity to come over. Ultimately, if you get this far down the road, your team is playing well. They believe in each other, they believe in what they're doing. Their game is pretty good on the ice. 
 And that's probably the similarity I think that not only lays with my teams but even Chicago and how they got here. You have to be playing well this time of year.

 Q. Looking at practice today, seeing the logos the Stanley Cup logo and all that, how much do you guys just want to get going and for yourself, how much do you want to get going and get this series going after five, six days off here?
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: You know, you don't notice - when you're actually out on the ice practicing, and when the game starts tomorrow, I know there will be anxious moments up until the game, but once the puck drops, two teams will play hockey and they'll play it hard.
 There's a lot of hype that goes with it, as there should be. It's the biggest event for the National Hockey League. And I think there's an excitement that goes with that and a buildup that goes with it. 
 But ultimately the game will be determined by the players on the ice, when the puck does drop. I think everybody's anxious to get going. There's a lot of times you spend four or five days waiting for it to happen it's nice when it gets here.

 Q. What was that year off like for you obviously it wasn't that long a time. But were you wondering when that next chance would come or if it would come?
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: I had the good fortune of working with some great people up at TSN. And it was - it's tough when you're off. There's only 30 jobs in the NHL head coaching jobs. When you're out, you're not sure you'll get back in. I was fortunate to get a call from the Flyers. When you're out, I guess you enjoy it for what it is. You get to spend some time with your family and kids and time that I'm missing now where your kids are in sports and they're growing up and you're not really around that much.
 But certainly grateful to be back coaching and with the Flyers' organization, it's a great organization. I'm happy to be here.

 Q. You've had a lot of experience internationally. Bettman talked today about possibly not being part of - he hinted not being part of the Olympics, maybe not being part of the Worlds how much of a boost do you think NHL gets out of playing internationally and in the Olympics?
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: I haven't thought about it to be honest. I didn't even know those statements were made. So I don't really have answers for that. I can tell you I enjoy the Olympics because it's the best players in the world representing their country. When you saw Canada and U.S. playing in the Finals it was great hockey. I enjoy that part of it. 
 What it does for the league, I haven't thought about it too much.

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about Claude Giroux and kind of maybe what struck you the most about him in watching him kind of throughout the Playoffs so far?
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: I think one of Claude's best assets is that he wants to be a game-breaker. He doesn't shy away from big moments and big opportunities. For a young player, I think that speaks a lot about Claude. And he's a talented player. Everybody sees the plays he makes, the passes, the goals he scores. 
 But to have that desire and that drive to do it at such a young age, that's impressive for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT