NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: PREDATORS VS PENGUINS
June 8, 2017
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Pittsburgh - 6, Nashville - 0   
 Q.  Peter, when this team entered the locker room in Game 1 down 3-0, I think you could chalk it up to bad bounces.  How could you explain the way your team started tonight's game?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: It wasn't good.  It was not the third period we were looking for, and it really didn't get much better after that.  Definitely things we could have done better defensively.  And I think, when we go back and look at it, we can talk about those things and look to be better next game.   
 Q.  What do you say to Pekka after a game like that?  And also, his struggles here at PPG, is there something about this place he just -- is it a mental issue for him, something?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: I know we've got to be better in front of him.  If you go back and look at the goals and the way they were scored, you give up a power play early on, the next two we need better coverage.  There's things we can do better in front of him.  I don't think that necessarily they were bad goals.  One of them he was completely screened.  Like I said, there's coverage that's missed after that.  We'll look to clean that up and be better next game.   
But with regard to Pekka, our guys have a tremendous amount of confidence in him.  We've just got to do a better job in front of him.   
 Q.  A game like this, is it easier to shake off because of the way it was, and does going home give you some confidence, the way you played at home?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: I don't know if anybody shakes off a game like that that quickly.  Sometimes it's good to hang on to it a little bit.  Everybody is not happy in the locker room.  Nobody feels good leaving the building after you play the way you did.  It's okay to hang on to a little bit of that.   
We've got a couple days, we'll fix some things.  We'll get our guys in the right spot, get their heads in the right spot.  And like I said, we've played well at home.  There's a lot of confidence in our group, and we'll move past this.  But it's difficult just to sit here and say, oh, yeah, it's gone, everything is good.  We just lost the game by a big score, so we've got to be better.   
 Q.  Do you have any concern for disciplinary action on Sissons for his cross-check at the end of the game?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: I watched it play out.  I saw Maatta cross-check him, Colton cross-checked him back, Maatta cross-checked him again, and they were doing it somewhere in the midsection.  On the last one, Maatta seemed to slip and his head dropped.  I don't think there was any intention there whatsoever, so -- I don't think so, but that's not my call.   
 Q.  When you see that opening shift and the penalty and how it occurred and what was seemingly not a dangerous situation become a dangerous -- as a coach, what goes through your mind when a game starts specifically that shift, when it starts like that and he makes a play the way that he did?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: That's a pretty good player making a play right there, and we need to be better.  Obviously we didn't defend it well and they got a power play.  I mean, that happens.  Our guys will be ready.  That's all I can tell you.   
 Q.  How does the messaging change?  How different is tonight from your standpoint?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: Our guys will be ready.  I'm telling you, we've got a lot of confidence in that room.  We've got a lot of confidence in our home building.  We've got a lot of confidence in the way we played this year.  We've got a lot of confidence in the way that we played in the playoffs.   
You think about it, you play over 20 games, there's probably two games maybe where I thought we could have played better, and this is one of them.  And our guys will respond.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on the scrum, I guess you could say, for lack of a better term that happened behind the net between Sidney Crosby and P.K. Subban?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: I don't understand it.  I don't understand the call.  I saw my guy get his head cross-checked in the ice ten times.  I don't even know what he did, P.K.  I'm not sure.  I disagree with the call.   
 Q.  What can you tell us, if anything, about Ellis and with the score impact, why he didn't come back in the game?  
PETER LAVIOLETTE: Yeah, honestly, I don't have any details to share with you yet.  Not that I will (laughter).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT