NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CANADIENS v FLYERS
May 20, 2010
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your captains said that this was an old-fashioned ass kicking. Can you tell us about this?  
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: Well, I guess, you can run with that. That's good. It's one game. That's all it is.  
  
  Q. Mike said he thought you guys may have come out a little too cocky. Do you think that was the case?  
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: It's definitely my experience in the Playoffs is it's never about momentum, it's always about desperation. I haven't been around in a long time, but that typically seems to be the way it runs when I've been in the Playoffs. Desperate teams are tough teams.  
  
  Q. It seems as though your team allowed the Canadiens to establish their speed game and they made a statement with it.  
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: Yes.  
  
  Q. Would you say it's pretty crucial to not allow them to play at that speed?  
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: Yes, I would say that.  
  
  Q. Sometimes when teams win a bunch of games in a row, mistakes kind of get lost in the shuffle.  
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: They do.  
  
  Q. Did they catch up to you tonight, is that what happened?  
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: I believe so. It's one game. They caught up to us. We'll be better next game.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised that when they came at you so hard, so physical in the first and your players really didn't respond to that?  
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: You know, I don't think we responded with handling the puck very well. Probably passes that were going tape to tape, or opportunities to move the puck out of our end when the pressure was coming, but we clearly still had opportunities to move it. We didn't move it efficiently.  
 When we did move it, we didn't receive it efficiently. Turnovers, you know, turnovers in any sport will kill you. Doesn't matter what sport it is. When things usually go south, no matter what sport, coach will sit up here and tell you the turnovers cost us the game.  
 So we have to do a better job of fighting for the puck and keeping the puck.  
  
  Q. This team knew that it had to come out stronger, faster today. You said it, they all said it, and that didn't happen tonight. What happened? What did you see?  
 COACH LAVIOLETTE: I'm not sure, but your assessment is correct, and it's one game. Thank you.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT