NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: OILERS v HURRICANES
June 17, 2006
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Just give us timeline on the Erik Cole situation, how it worked out last couple of days how he was able to get back in tonight? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE:  Well, after further examinations from the doctors that have been looking at him, the healing process is probably gone as far as it's going to go.  It didn't matter if he waited anymore until next training camp. 

 Q.  Did he have another test? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE:  There was more exams that went on, yeah. 

 Q.  When was that? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE:  Just recently. 

 Q.  In the first period when Markkanen mishandled the puck, you score on that chance and there's a total different hockey game. 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE:  Well, I don't know.  They skated us pretty good tonight.  They battled better than we did, skated better than we did.  And ultimately when you are skating, when we're skating we're tough to handle, and we didn't skate very well tonight.  They skated very well. 

 Q.  How do you regain your form for Game 7 now that you lost two in a row? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE:  What are the options really?  You know what I mean?  There's one game left for the Stanley Cup, and it's in our building.  No place we would rather be.  We won an awful lot of games there this year. 
 We need to get rid of this game.  We looked like we didn't have our legs, we didn't compete very well in the battles, which is disappointing.  We have a lot of veteran players in that locker room and a veteran defense, and we just seemed to be off a step, or maybe two. 

 Q.  Back to Cole again.  When he did not skate yesterday with you guys when you practiced, was he here with you guys yesterday and when was the Final decision made to have him go in the lineup? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE:  Again, he was getting checked out in the last few days.  The doctors that have been watching over Erik since the time of the injury consulted -- one of them was here today, Dr. Richardson. 
 And, again, there was just, you know, between Erik and the doctors, there was a feeling that the healing process was completed. 

 Q.  You made that decision today though to have him go in? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE:  After one last consult with the doctor today, yes. 

 Q.  What do you guys have to do to turn the physical side of this series around? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE:  Well, in order to get in the physical side of it you have to skate, and we just were really lousy at the skating part of it.  We looked tired, and skating has been our trademark the entire year and our legs were not under us tonight. 
 We didn't move as a unit of 5; we moved as individuals.  The safest area in the building was that red pipe at the opposite end.  Everything else went high and wide and blocked and deflected.  We did not get pucks through, did not get traffic. 
 A lot of room for improvement to get back to our style of hockey.  We're certainly capable of that. 

 Q.  Having Cole in the lineup, obviously he was a 30-goal scorer for you and the doctor said he was ready.  Did you want him in the lineup also as well to sort of give a boost, emotional boost? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE:  No.  We wanted him in the lineup because at the time of his injury I thought he was one of the top power forwards in the game.  To be honest, for the first two periods I thought he might have been our best forward.  He was skating, he was physical. 
 He had a couple of opportunities, they didn't translate to goals, but he did have some chances in the right areas.  He took hits.  He gave hits.  Courageous effort by him. 

 Q.  What are the Oilers doing to limit your shots? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE for me it's pretty simple:  They out skated us in all three zones tonight.  The puck was on their stick and we were trying to get it back and they out jumped us.  They out quicked.  They quicked us the loose pucks, they quicked us off the rush, they quicked us off the backcheck.  They had their legs under them. 

 Q.  All year your team has showed a lot of composure.  In the third, seemed like the Oilers kind of gotten under their skin, specifically Raffi Torres.  What do you say to him? 
 COACH LAVIOLETTE:  There's no question we took undisciplined penalties tonight and they can cost you at any point.  They cost us tonight. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT