NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: OILERS v HURRICANES
June 10, 2006
Peter Laviolette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about your perspective on the last goal and what explanation you got as to the ruling there? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  We don't get explanations.  They don't come over and give explanations.  So my view from looking at it, while it happened and watching it on replay, there was a man in the crease, interference on the goaltender and the puck went in the net. 

 Q.  Would you agree they did a better job of denying you in certain areas tonight, and if so can you identify? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Yeah, I think especially in front of their net, they did a real good job of getting stick on stick, stick on puck, not making opportunities easy.  When we did have some good quality chances in front, Markkanen made big saves for them. 

 Q.  Can you talk about Cam Ward's game tonight, especially under the personal pressure he was under playing in front of everybody he ever knew? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  Personal pressure doesn't really seem to affect him.  He played extremely well again for us.  You can't fault on him either one; first goal was a redirect and second one wasn't allowed to make the save. 

 Q.  When you killed the two-man in the first period you thought you were going to build off of that? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I thought that that could be a good turning points for us.  You know, I think any time you can kill off a 5-on-3 and in somebody else's building for an extended period of time, it's an opportunity to use that momentum in your favor.  We had some chances like I said, they weren't as easy, but we didn't bury them either. 

 Q.  After the first two periods was there anything you guys tried to do in that third period that you hadn't done earlier in the series, any adjustment you made there to try to free some things up? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  You know, switched some lines around a little bit just to try gain a little bit of momentum.  A couple of small alterations in what we're trying to do offensively, but not a lot for the most part. 

 Q.  After Edmonton got that early goal, were you surprised at how well your team was able to handle what was building hostility with the fans into it, with the first lead and you guys kind of rocked back on your heels a little bit? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I think when you get to this point, I don't think that buildings are going to play into it that much. 
 Edmonton deserves to be here.  I think we deserve to be here.  I think you get two hockey teams that are going to play good hockey, even at the end of the first period, the chances were fairly close, probably four or five each apiece.  They got a redirect on one of the pucks and 1-0 lead, but, you know, the atmosphere was a great atmosphere for hockey. 

 Q.  Was there any major difference that you could look at one aspect of the entire game compared to the first two down in Carolina? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  I thought Edmonton played decent down in Carolina.  I thought we played decent up here.  Like I said I don't think you are going to see a one-sided, lopsided hockey game. 
 They had their chances in the first game.  We did a better job defensively in the second game.  They did a better job defensively tonight. 

 Q.  Did you expect them to try and match to the point where they were doing early on, where they were trying to get their first line on every time you put your fourth line on or was that something a little unexpected? 
 COACH PETER LAVIOLETTE:  We're rolling off a lot of three lines, so I don't think it would be easy to match that way.  I saw them trying to get, you know, Peca out there against Brind'Amour's line quite a bit.  Like I said, we're okay with that matchup as well. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT