NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: QUICKEN LOANS 400
June 14, 2015
Pat Suhy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Now we have a special recognition that Michigan International Speedway instituted a few years ago.   Congratulations goes out to Chevrolet, Pat Suhy, representing Chevrolet, he's Manager of NASCAR Competition for Chevrolet Racing, and Chevrolet wins today's race here at Michigan International Speedway.   That means they're going to take home the Michigan Heritage Trophy, which Pat has right here today, and I probably can't recite all the things that Chevrolet has won over the last 24 hours, but I know that Pat probably can.   But you guys and gals and men and women and everyone associated with that great brand has had one terrific weekend, so congratulations, Pat.   
PAT SUHY:   Thank you, Kerry.   It's been outstanding.   The '64 Corvette won at Le Mans this morning, finished off a long 24‑hour race there.   We had the IndyCar race we won in Toronto this afternoon, probably should have finished after this race, but as it was with the rain we had to wait here to see how we did, and I'm very proud to say that Chevrolet gets to hang on to the Heritage Trophy for another few months at least.   It's been displayed prominently in our offices for the last year, get to keep it until at least August and I'm planning on keeping it beyond that, as well.   Roger Curtis and the guys at Michigan, or the folks at Michigan International Speedway did a great thing about putting this together.   I think it's nice to recognize the manufacturers when we do something special in our backyard here, and it's a great way to cap off an awesome weekend of racing for us.   
THE MODERATOR:   Certainly the victory here today is an exclamation point on all the other victories that Chevrolet had over the weekend.   We'll take some questions.   
   
 Q.   Pat, how much bragging rights go with winning this, especially since Ford is headquartered nearby, and this is a big race for Toyota to try to win, too.   
PAT SUHY:   Well, I think it's always had bragging rights to win at Michigan, like being here in our backyard, it's our home racetrack, and having the trophy to commemorate the win with and to see it every day as we walk into the office and for our visitors to see it and to explain what it is and what it means to us, plus the that fact it helps out a charitable cause, I think it's very special to be able to get something for us and give something back at the same time.   
THE MODERATOR:   When you're able to go to victory lane and win in all these different series, that's got to be a thrill and a testament to all the hard work and efforts and smart people and so forth that Chevrolet has on its side, so I can't thank you enough, congratulate you enough.   This is just a huge win here for you all, and just hope you keep it up the rest of the season.   
PAT SUHY:   Thank you, appreciate it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT