NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 8, 2005
Andruw Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  What were you thinking the other night when (Brian) McCann came to the plate, and what are your thoughts today as he's back in the starting lineup? 
 
ANDRUW JONES:  Well, I think he had a good at-bat against Roger Clemens.  That specific inning right there, Roger Clemens was throwing a couple good pitches.  He didn't chase him.  I think Roger was ahead and he just threw a fastball right down the middle.  Today, Oswalt is a good pitcher.  He's going to go right after everybody.  He's going to use all his pitches, use his curveball, slider, change.  He's going to pitch against us the way he pitched all year.  He's been successful against us.  He's just going to go right at us.  
 
Q.  Both teams go through several ups and downs.  Can you reflect on what it's been like to be a part of the team that always wins this division, and whether that's been part of your thinking and deciding to stay in Atlanta when clearly you've had chances to go elsewhere.
 
ANDRUW JONES:  Well, I think just a good organization, period.  In '96, our goal was just to win the division title and get back into the playoffs and hopefully get to the World Series.  In camp, our goal is not to play 500 games, our goal is to go out there and win division titles and, get into playoffs and hopefully get into the World Series.  That comes from the front office, to Bobby Cox, and the whole team.  
 
Q.  What do you expect from McCann tonight? 
 
ANDRUW JONES:  Well, I hope he does the same thing that he did.  We're facing a good pitching staff.  I said before we started the series, we've got a good pitching staff, too.  But, you know, hopefully they make the first mistakes and we take advantage of it.  I think the way Roger Clemens pitched against us, he made more mistakes than John Smoltz did and that's why we took advantage of it.  So hopefully today (Jorge) Sosa will come out there and do what he was doing for us the whole year.  I mean, he was the key of the success of the way we been playing.  Every time when we needed wins, he was the guy that was going out there and give us a good seven solid innings, give us a good win.  Hopefully, he doesn't make that many mistakes and hopefully Oswalt makes mistakes. 
 
Q.  You said before Game 1 that after the success you had against their pitching staff last year you thought they might approach you differently in the way they've pitched to you.  Obviously, you've already had some success.  Have they changed what they're doing with you or are they doing what you've seen them do in the past?
 
ANDRUW JONES:  Well, like I said, these guys are future Hall of Famers.  You know, experienced pitchers.  They're not going to change the way they've been pitching you -- I think I've had over 20 at-bats against all of them.  They're not going to change the way they get me out. That's the way they're going to try to get me out.  I just have to make adjustments and hopefully be patient and when they make mistakes hopefully take advantage of it.  
 
Q.  What has it been like for you this year with all these rookies around?
 
ANDRUW JONES:  It's fun.  For me, they're not rookies any more.  They have almost half a season in them.  The season's over.  This is playoffs.  We're a team.  We don't look at them as rookies any more.  We look at them as going out there, get the job done and help us win.  
 
Q.  Do they remind you at all of when you were a rookie? 
 
ANDRUW JONES:  Well, I didn't have as many opportunities as they had in the playoffs.  I only played in the World Series because we were facing the Yankees and they had a lot of lefties.  Before that, I had maybe six at-bats in the division and the national league championship.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT