NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 8, 1998
Andruw Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby Cox said you're the greatest center fielder in the League right now. How do
you feel about that?
 
 ANDRUW JONES: Well, I think that that's a compliment, me being the best center fielder
in the League right now. I've been working out hard. I had a hard time in the beginning,
but I've worked out of that, and I'm happy with the success I'm having right now. 
 
Q. Can you talk about some of those things that were difficult at the beginning of the
season that you've been able to overcome?
 
 ANDRUW JONES: Well, starting the season 0 for 20, 0 for 40, I think is hard, to come
back from that point to put those type of numbers that I put on the board. I think I'm
really happy with myself. 
 
Q. Were you surprised when Rivera tagged up on you on that play last night?
 
 ANDRUW JONES: I think he was trying to be aggressive on the bases, and trying to
impress them to stay in the line-up to help his team. But I think that ball was in right
center, and I think he did a good job. And I tried to throw him out, but I didn't. I got
short. If it was myself, I'd probably do it myself, too. 
 
Q. Do you feel sometimes that the expectations are too much for you at your age right
now?
 
 ANDRUW JONES: Well, I don't know. I think God gave me a talent to play baseball. And
playing in the Minor League, people like you all just put it in the paper that the way I
was playing my baseball in the Minor League was to become the greatest. And I came to the
Major League and I started out slow, but I think I'm working out of that. 
 
Q. Do you think it's necessary that Bobby Cox has to give you a little push now and
then?
 
 ANDRUW JONES: Well, yeah, I would love for him to do that all the time. I like people
to tell me what to do and stuff like that. I'm young, and my dad did that with me all the
time when I was younger. So I think that's good. I like it. For him to do -- for him to
tell me to do something better, I'll try it. 
 
Q. When he pulled you out, how did you feel about that?
 
 ANDRUW JONES: I feel bad. Nobody really likes to get pulled out of the game. I think in
front of the whole crowd of the Atlanta Braves, I think I feel bad about it. I think I'm
the kind of guy that I work on my own feet. I don't care that much. I lost my focus. I
went out there and apologized for what I did. And if you don't believe me -- he did
believe me. If he didn't believe me, I can't do nothing. I have to go out and do the best
I can. Everybody loses focus. Big players lose focus. I've seen that before. And I think
he just overreacted a little bit, but still I agree with him. 
 
Q. Are you disappointed that you're not in a lead-off spot?
 
 ANDRUW JONES: Well, I'm not disappointed. I thought I could have helped the team. They
thought I could help the team as a lead-off hitter, but I didn't start in Spring Training
as a lead-off hitter, and they moved me to the A spot. He put us in this spot where we are
right now, and I'm happy for him. I'm a little disappointed I didn't do it, but I'm all
right hitting 8 or 7. 
 
Q. Do you see yourself as being one of the better home run hitters as you mature?
 
 ANDRUW JONES: Well, I think -- I don't call myself a home run hitter. I call myself an
all-around player. I do whatever I need to do to help the team win the game. If I need to
hit a home run, I hit a home run. If somebody make a mistake, you hit the homeruns. I'm
not like McGwire, or Sosa or Galarraga; I can't hit them every day. I can, but I don't
look to do that. I just go out and do my game. 
 
Q. The home run seemed like a breaking pitch inside.
 
 ANDRUW JONES: Yeah, it was a breaking pitch inside, and he made a mistake and I had to
swing on it. 
 
Q. How long did last night seem to you?
 
 ANDRUW JONES: Well, I went home. I couldn't sleep. I was thinking about the game. I was
sad. I was ready for playing the game at 8:15, but unfortunately, it rained, and it didn't
give us a chance to play the game until 10:15. I was a little impatient. I wanted to start
the game right away. I was ready for 8:15, and they just backed everything off, and maybe
God didn't want us to play at 8:15. 
 
Q. Do you feel there's anyone as close to you in terms of center fielders in the game
right now?
 
 ANDRUW JONES: Yeah, Findley is one of the good outfielders; I gave him credit. He go
out there and you do the job that you have to do. And a lot of guys in the Major League
Baseball, because they're good as center fielders. 
 
Q. What's the feeling in the Braves locker room, being down 0-1 and facing Kevin Brown?
 
 ANDRUW JONES: In my mind, I think that it's just one game lost. It's the best of seven.
We've still got six more games. Whatever game we win, we might start from today, and sweep
all the games. I don't have no doubt in this team, just because it's Kevin Brown pitching.
He's great. He's got good stuff, but he's beatable. He's lost games. I don't know what his
record is, but he won more games than he lost. But he lost games. So I think that he can
lose. 
 
Q. Can you talk about what you remember about facing him last year in the final game of
the season?
 
 ANDRUW JONES: Unfortunately, I didn't face him; I was on the bench. I didn't face him.
But the guys, they did their best to win the game, and I think we came out short.  
 
Q. What time did you finally get home last night after the game?
 
 ANDRUW JONES: Probably 2:45, I think. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT