ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2017
Suzie McConnell-Serio
Brenna Wise
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








North Carolina 72 - Pittsburgh - 60
SUZIE McCONNELL-SERIO: It was an up-tempo game, but we went cold in the second half.  I mean, it was -- the difference in the game was Jamie Cherry.  She took over the game.  We threw hedges coming off those on-ball screens.  We sometimes switched.  We went zone, and she just found a way to pick us apart.  She was a player on a mission today, and really proved what a great point guard she has been and really stepped up her game in the absence of Destini Walker and Stephanie Watts and Fuller.  When those three went down, she really stepped up her game, and she carried this team today for sure.
Disappointed that we didn't continue what we started in the first half.  They didn't do anything that we weren't expecting, we just didn't hit shots, and it's just a disappointing end.
Q. Coach, just a wide discrepancy in free throws here or is it just the aggressive style that y'all were playing?
SUZIE McCONNELL-SERIO: I'm gonna address that in the locker room.  They only played six players typically in the last couple games, and we knew they did not want to get in foul trouble, and we talked about being aggressive attacking.  We did that early on in the first half.  We continued to go inside.  We were aggressive, got away from it, and we started settling for jumpers.  It's just the way the game had gone.  We would have liked to have gotten to the free-throw line a little bit more, but unfortunately we weren't going inside as much in the second half.
Q. When you find a team like that that's got two players like that, is there any urgency to make sure that you get them in foul trouble or try to keep the ball from them or just foul them, maybe just to get yourself back in the game?
SUZIE McCONNELL-SERIO: Well, we knew coming in that they had changed their primary offense, went to more on-ball screens with Jamie Cherry and Paris Kea, just how we were defending them, and throughout the course of the game when they would run offense, we knew if the ball got back in their hands that they were going to them with under 10 seconds.  We tried to deny them, stay home, and we lost her a few times, helping and rotating.  They made plays.  When they penetrated, we helped, they kicked out, we rotated, we didn't recover, and a lot of times the ball ended up back in Jamie Cherry's hands.  We tried to disrupt what they were doing.  I don't want to say fatigue became a factor at this time of the year, but Kauai Bradley was playing a lot of minutes, and she was working to guard Kea throughout the course of the game.
But I don't have any excuses.  We just didn't get the job done.  We didn't fight hard enough defensively and get stops when we needed to.
Q. Brandi Harvey-Karr didn't see a whole lot of minutes tonight.  Was it something in the way she was playing that she didn't get as many minutes?
SUZIE McCONNELL-SERIO: I thought Kalista Walters was effective inside on the block.  We were able to go inside, and then we had some turnovers and tried to go back with Brandi, and it was kind of too little too late.  But Brandi has been great for us all year.  She brought a lot of leadership and energy and was a great personality on our team.
Q. Brenna, just talk about your time at Pitt and playing for Coach McConnell-Serio.
BRENNA WISE: I certainly think we made progress from my freshman year to my senior year, started off the season strong.  Nice to see a lot of young players continuing to develop.  Coach talked about Kauai Bradley, Kalista Walters, Aysia Bugg, Jasmine Whitney, and surely we will miss Destinie and Brandi, but it's nice to see the development coming from my other teammates and seeing the growth on our team and what the future comes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT