INSPERITY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 9, 2011
Brian Claar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Brian, one of those days, we just couldn't get the final round in. 
     BRIAN CLAAR: Yeah, we knew we were -- well, this kind of snuck up on us. The last forecast we got yesterday evening was 30 percent chance of a shower, and we came in this morning and looked terrible, and with the 5:00 finish, we only had two hours to play with, because by our regulations, we cannot start the last group if we know we can't finish. 
     So we only had two hours to play with after the first lightning delay, which was an hour and 42; that give us no wiggle room. It's raining so hard now; the greens are puddling up; the course is unplayable. 
     So we had to bring them in and we just couldn't have time to get them out and get the course ready and to finish before darkness. So, Brad Faxon is the winner. 
     PHIL STAMBAUGH: We had not had this thing since the 2010 Outback Steakhouse Pro-Am was the last time we had a rain-shortened event in Tampa. 

 Q. So are all of the greens puddling? Is everything --
     BRIAN CLAAR: Probably by now, about ten minutes ago, we had it on 14, 16, all around the hole. And you know, once we get water on the greens, and rain this hard that's not going to go anywhere, so we have to suspend. And the rest of the day looks terrible, too. 

 Q. Just as a strange question, and you may not know the answer to this, why do the Champions Tour do that to where there are no Monday finishes unless half the field is through; do you know why?
     BRIAN CLAAR: The only thing I can think of is -- these regs have been in place for a long time. But I know a long time ago, a lot of our players have corporate endorsements and do a lot of Monday and Tuesday outings. 
     Now, that's just a guess on my part, but it's been that way for a long time. So they usually made the deal where we're out of here on Sunday, unless half the field finishes and then they felt it was right to come back Monday.

 Q. How close did you get to have the field finishing?
     BRIAN CLAAR: They were only on the fifth or sixth hole. It was a ten o'clock group, so it wasn't close. 

 Q. And there's just no window this afternoon? 
     BRIAN CLAAR: No, it's socked in. And like I said the greens are puddling in and we can't even squeegee them because there's nowhere to squeegee the water if it's coming down this hard. With sunset at 6:57, we had no wiggle room. 
     PHIL STAMBAUGH: Thanks very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT