CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
November 1, 2008
Brian Claar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: I asked Brian to come over just to clarify, just give you an update on where we stand with the remainder of the weekend, which is tomorrow. Brian, could you fill us in on the plans for tomorrow and get a couple of questions here.  
 BRIAN CLAAR: Guys, right now, to get 72 holes in, we're going to try to restart the third round we started today at 7:15.   
 We have about three hours of golf left. So if we can start at 7:15, if the course conditions allows us, we should finish about 10:15. We'll re-pair. Go 1 and 10 tees again. First tee time will be 10:50. And that way we should have about a 3:45 finish and get right back on schedule for 72 holes.   
 So if the weather, if we get any drying of the golf course today, tonight and tomorrow morning, we don't have any showers laying around, we still should be able to get a 72-hole golf tournament in.  
  
  Q. And if you don't get that drying?  
 BRIAN CLAAR: We'll see what we do tomorrow. If we get there tomorrow morning and it's still unplayable, we'll have to address that when we can.   
 And if Monday is an option, according to our regulations, if the forecast on Monday looks good, which right now I don't think it does, so we'll just have to see what the golf course looks like in the morning. If it's not playable at 7:15, we'll re-evaluate and look at other options.   
  
  Q. Being played three holes, everything that's been played today counts.   
 BRIAN CLAAR: Every shot hit counts. I think they played 4. I think they're on 5. They've got about three hours of golf left.   
 So hopefully we can get everyone done about 10:15. We can re-pair pretty quickly because we only have 29 players, and get them started off at 10:50 on 1 and 10.  
  
  Q. If you were to shorten short it to 54, do you need to make that decision before they go back out before the third round, or when do you have to make that call?  
 BRIAN CLAAR: Well, if we can't, if we know we can't finish 72 tomorrow, we would have to either make the decision is this a 54-hole event, or we're going to play only 18 tomorrow and then finish on Monday.   
 So we kind of can't make that call until we see what's up. But according to our regs, we can't send them back out for the fourth round if we know we can't finish.   
  
  Q. Because of the nature of this tournament, it affects not only the 72 holes, but the eventual winner of the Schwab Cup year-long competition, would that make any difference in the 54- or 72-hole?  
 BRIAN CLAAR: Absolutely. It's like our Majors. Most of our 72-hole events, we have a little -- we will always try to finish 72 holes and we will go to Monday in a few select events. With the prestige of this event, this is one of those.   
 As of right now, Monday's forecast doesn't look that hot either. So hopefully -- hopefully we show up at 7:15 tomorrow morning, the course will have been dried down and the course will be prepared and we can play a lot of golf tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What's the forecast for tomorrow, showers?  
 BRIAN CLAAR: Hit and miss. 50/50is what it's looking like. I think the heavier stuff will be through here, maybe some lingering light stuff. So hopefully the golf course will be playable.  
  
  Q. If the course is, quote, unplayable, you made a decision, in these conditions, obviously without sunshine, would there be enough drying? Is it a matter of drainage or what, where you can actually play golf on it tomorrow?   
 BRIAN CLAAR: The greens drain really well. The area of the holes and puddles, we squeegee it off, they're fine. Couple of tee boxes concern us. We're covering them, which Cal Roth, and Jason, the superintendent, thought of it, which I thought was great. So we're covering a couple of those, keep as much rain off as possible.   
 Fairways are not bad. We can deal with some water in the fairways because we have rules for casual water. But if a tee box becomes unplayable where you're standing in water, then we're really in trouble. So that's the thing that concerns me right now.   
 The 1st tee, the 4th tee are a little saturated right now. We're covering those. And other than that, the bunkers drain pretty well. They're going to start working on them as soon as this latest deluge gets through, and they've got enough people to get all the bunkers back. The tee boxes are what concerns me the most.  
  
  Q. Is golf finished today?   
 BRIAN CLAAR: Yes, golf is finished today. Yeah, we've got no chance. This last deluge just knocked us down for good.  
  
  Q. What's the forecast of the rest of the afternoon and evening and even up to tomorrow morning?  
 BRIAN CLAAR: We've got this heavy batch. There was some kind of frontal boundary that pushed through. There's going to be some lingering stuff, light stuff through tonight into the morning hours. But nothing, from what we understand, nothing from, what we just got. On the radar, it's all light green stuff. So just drizzle.   
 The course will drain, even though it's drizzling. They've done a good job with drainage here. So, like I said, it gives us, what, 12, 15 hours, 18 hours to put some of this go away, try to play some more golf tomorrow.  
  
  Q. The World Series all over again, huh?   
 BRIAN CLAAR: That's right.  
  
  Q. Was there an official stop time, for my records, when play ended?  
 BRIAN CLAAR: We stopped at 10:16. And we thought we were going to get more golf in this morning. The radar looked okay. But the way it would come in off the Pacific, as soon as it got to the coast, boom, so we had -- when we got here we looked like we had a few hours to play with. But as you guys saw --  
  
  Q. That's normal here, the Northern California. It rises over the hills, and it basically starts, when the weather hits the coastal hills, and that's why there's so much more green in the trees and everything than another 10 miles inland, basically.   
 BRIAN CLAAR: We were hoping to get a couple more hours in. But as you saw, it knocked us down pretty quick.  
  
  Q. At this point is it fair to say it's optimistic you'll get 72 in?  
 BRIAN CLAAR: Hopefully optimistic. This is a big week. The Schwab Cup is quite a big deal. And the money list and everything. We're going to do everything we can. You know, it's tough out there. The players don't like to play in sideways cold rain, but we'll do everything we can to get it done.  
  
  Q. We have to basically wait until tomorrow and find out?  
 BRIAN CLAAR: Hopefully when we get here it won't be raining and you'll see guys hitting balls on the range at 6:30 and things will be looking good.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT