TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: KANSAS STATE v OREGON
December 31, 2012
Dion Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Is Collin Klein the most difficult matchup that you've had at quarterback this year that you've seen?
DION JORDAN:   Probably.   I mean, he is a Heisman candidate.   It is what it is, though.   These guys want to bring it.   He didn't get to where he is now without working hard. 
We've seen it.   We've watched it on film.   We understand he's going to have his handprints all over this game. 

Q.   Do you feel your defense gets overlooked because of how good your offense is?
DION JORDAN:   I don't.   Our numbers speak for themselves.   We rose to the occasion.   This year we had to come up big for the offensive line.   But we make sure we take care of each other.   That's what it takes to win big football games. 

Q.   One of the things a lot of people talk about is the uniform differences.   Who decides what uniforms you guys wear?
DION JORDAN:   Usually we have Coach Kelly ask the head coaches from other sports, like tennis, golf, basketball teams, and they usually come up with the combination for the week.   They also have an assortment of uniforms also.   It's great to have the option to wear whatever you want to that week. 

Q.   Do you ever get any input as far as what you're wearing?
DION JORDAN:   Not really.   As players, it doesn't mean much to us.   We still have to play the game.   If you look nice, go out and get beat... 
We focus on what we have to do on the field. 

Q.   K State has worn the same uniforms they've worn for 20 years.   Do you think it would be boring?
DION JORDAN:   No, that's tradition.   That's college football.   No, I don't think so at all.   I don't really think they care much about what we wear either. 

Q.   What I found interesting talking to your family, around the time you had the accident, she was getting herself right, and you both got stronger together.   How much did that mean to you?
DION JORDAN:   It meant a lot, like I said.   My family, they mean a lot to me.   My aunt, she was my angel, like I told her.   When her sister couldn't be there, she made sure she was.   It's great to have family that truly love and care about you. 
Anytime you have somebody that's going to be there for you, my mom, she never left me one day in the hospital. 

Q.   She camped out there?
DION JORDAN:   She stayed with me.   That was actually my first time ever having to be in the hospital, so it was rough.   It was tough for both of us.   She stayed there with me. 
I made sure, like I said, when I'm off the field, I'm doing things that represent myself and my family, that I'm mature about it.   I take care of business. 

Q.   She was saying even in the hospital she learned a lot about you.   She didn't know through other people that came to visit you, tell stories she hadn't heard.   Felt like she didn't learn enough early on.   Do you remember that at all and what was that like?
DION JORDAN:   Like I say, when I'm away, I try to hold myself accountable and take care of myself and do the right thing.   I treat people the way I want them to treat me. 
I had a lot of love, people from all cities, around the state, they came and supported me.   Schools.   There were just a lot of people.   I feel like they showed their love for me. 
That's the way my mom is.   She's the same type of person.   I'm surprised that she's surprised.   That's just the way we are. 

Q.   How hard is that when you're a middle schooler and you have to switch homes and go with your aunt?
DION JORDAN:   It's tough, you know.   Only child that had to go through the divorce in the family, being separated from the family.   It was tough, you know.   I understood at a young age it was the best decision for my mother and my siblings also. 
I had to be a man about the situation at a young age and had to really understand.   I felt like my aunt, she just took us in and we all grew together. 

Q.   At that age were you able to understand your mom's problem?
DION JORDAN:   Yeah, I understood.   I had to accept what was happening.   Just as a young guy, just be able to take the situation and make the most of it.   I did.   I found a way to play sports, football, basketball or track.   I was busy.   It was crazy.   I was busy all the time. 
It is how it works.   Being that young, having problems with your family and things like that, trying to stay focused, it's hard work.   But my aunt, she kept us on track. 
I don't complain a lot about anything.   I make the most of my situations. 

Q.   Is that the way you grew up or is that the way your personality is?
DION JORDAN:   I guess it's probably my personality.   My mom is the same way.   She's the same type of person. 
Like I said, at the time, I couldn't be that way.   Like I say, I'm not the only child that had to go through this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT