TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: KANSAS STATE v OREGON
December 30, 2012
Dion Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Your aunt was a stabilizing force when other things were not in a good place for your family. 
DION JORDAN:   Yes.   Like I said, she's my angel.   She came in, took care of me, let me know things were going to be all right.   Since I've been with her, it's been wonderful. 
I'm going to continue to show her that everything she has done for me, it hasn't been overlooked.   I'm going to continue to be a better man. 

Q.   She'll be at the game?
DION JORDAN:   Yes, she's going to be here. 

Q.   Your mom, too?
DION JORDAN:   Mother, grandmother.   The whole family is going to be there.   They're having a Fiesta in Arizona.   I'm coming back home.   I got family from California and a lot of family here.   I have been enjoying myself. 
It's a wonderful time of year.   Who else would I want to spend it with than with my teammates and my family. 

Q.   Growing up, was Fiesta Bowl a big deal in your life?
DION JORDAN:   No, not really.   Being in Arizona, you kind of watch the games, things like that.   Used to play Arizona State.   Kind of wasn't a big deal, but it was. 
Just being here, just understanding all the hype that actually comes with it, understanding college football, playing in all these big games, you start to understand that it's real.   You have to accept everything and be grateful. 

Q.   Last night ironically the last team your team played in the regular season and a team Kansas State played, Texas, met in the Alamo Bowl.   Did you watch that game?
DION JORDAN:   No.

Q.   What were you doing?
DION JORDAN:   Out with my friends.   Did Oregon State win? 

Q.   Oregon State lost in the last couple minutes. 
DION JORDAN:   Okay.   That sucks for the PAC.   I usually root for the PAC‑12.   Who else would I root for?   I'm a West Coast guy so I'm going to root for my conference. 

Q.   How difficult is it maintaining your patience against a team like K State?
DION JORDAN:   It's very important.   They're a great operation.   I think they focus on not making mistakes.   They have a guy in their quarterback, center, does a good job as far as controlling the game. 
It's very important to be patient.   Like I said, guys on the defense have to be disciplined and understand your job on every snap. 

Q.   When you face a team the way they do the play‑action?
DION JORDAN:   Teams like USC, not only do they have a great quarterback, they have great receivers.   Marqise Lee and Robert Woods.   Like I said, we got to be disciplined.   We got to play hard and everything else will take care of itself. 
Nothing is going to change.   We played 12 games now.   It all comes down to who's prepared to go the best.   It's going to be exciting. 

Q.   How do you see the way their tight end fits into their offense, No.80?
DION JORDAN:   He does a great job.   They use him in a lot of situations.   They have a lot of formations, just a lot of things going on with that offense. 
It's kind of hard to just focus on one thing, but we understand that everything is going to run through No.7.   That's what we have to focus on. 

Q.   There's lots of schemes that have running quarterbacks.   What is it from the tape that you watched that makes him so successful?
DION JORDAN:   Like I say, he does a great job of managing the game.   He don't make a lot of mistakes.   It's kind of hard to find that weakness. 
But you understand that he's going to have the ball in his hand.   No matter what kind of play it is, it's going to be him pitching into a guy or running down the field, play‑action pass with the bomb.   It's going to be No.7's game. 
Everything speaks for itself.   I watched a lot of game tape on him.   He's progressively gotten a lot better.   It's all credit to him and to these guys.   Got to be focused and be disciplined.

Q.   Is he sort of deceptively fast?
DION JORDAN:   I think he looks that way because he's a big guy, probably 6'5".   Hard to see how fast he's actually moving.   When he has the ball in his hands, he's tough to bring down because of his size.

Q.   When you watch tape are there signs that he's going to keep it or handing it off?
DION JORDAN:   Every game you see little hints and tips.   You see things.   You understand what they're going to run based off the defense that you're going to run. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT