MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2008
Trip Kuehne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Obviously it's an emotional, what's going through your mind right now?  
 TRIP KUEHNE: Sad it's over. All I wanted was an opportunity on the back nine here to make the cut and I had it and just didn't quite get it done. But it was a hell of a ride, but I guess this is the way it ends. I think this is the way you're supposed to ride away.   
  
  Q. What happened on 16?  
 TRIP KUEHNE: That was one of the few shots on the back nine I wasn't even nervous on. I had a perfect vision of what I needed to do and it wasn't even a full 9-iron, just a three quarter 9-iron. And unfortunately I hit a shot like a working man should probably hit under those situations.   
  
  Q. What did this, obviously this meant a lot to you, can you put into words what exactly what it means and why this was such a big deal for you?  
 TRIP KUEHNE: Well it means, it's the culmination of a dream that I've had since I played here in 1995 is to -- I thought that if I could ever make it back to this tournament and in these situations and this golf course, that I could really foster the amateur game. Because I thought I could play well here.   
 And with everything that this course means to amateur golf, with Bobby Jones and all the amateurs that they have historically had play in this tournament to get the opportunity to represent all the amateurs that have never turned pro or just dreamed about being here, all the working people that have either just dreamed about playing Augusta National or coming to the Masters tournament, to get to play and to represent those people, that's what I always wanted to do.  
  
  Q. I take it from your reaction there's no turning back, no second thoughts?  
 TRIP KUEHNE: No. Nobody thought that I would do it, but I knew in my heart this is where I wanted to go out if I ever got back and I got here and had a hell of a run, I got a piece of crystal, that's good.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about that.   
 TRIP KUEHNE: I hit a good drive like I envisioned off the tee and we were debating between six and 7-iron. And I kind of wanted to hit 6 and Steve said -- or 7 and Steve said, no, hit a little three quarter 6. And I said, now would be a great time to have a double eagle.   
 And it came off perfect, just like I wanted to, rolled down there and we were walking up and I said, I hope that's as close as I think it is, because if it's not six inches my knees are really going to be shaking. And I got it and it was perfect. It was, you know, 13's my lucky number and to eagle 13 to get a piece of crystal and to have what I always dreamed about, to play the last few holes under the same circumstances that the guys competing to win the Tournament.   
 My goal was to make the cut. That was my goal. And to be right there to have an opportunity to do it, you know, I handled it the best that I could and I made two miraculous pars to get close, but unfortunately 16 did me in.   
 It's probably the easiest hole on the golf course, the way they put the pins the last two days and I played it in 3-over and Ian Poulter place it in 3-under. That's six strokes right there between me and one of the guys that's in contention in the tournament. But that's the way it goes. That's life in the big city.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about what it was like to have your son over here at your last tournament?  
 TRIP KUEHNE: It was awesome. I saw him over there. He believes in me 110 percent. I wish I had as much faith in myself as he does me. And every time I got a little nervous I would look over and I saw Tony Romo or Terrance Newman, friends of mine that are in this, and they do it and they gave me the fist pump to keep going. And I saw Will because he was with those two guys all day and he had a big smile on his face and he was proud of his dad. So he wanted me to get here, he wanted to come watch me play in the Masters, and I was able to do that for him.   
  
  Q. You were laughing about 16 at one point.   
 TRIP KUEHNE: What can you do? One thing I said is, on this golf course, you can't hide. And I did what most amateur golfers do, they shank or they hit bad shots and unfortunately I picked a very inopportune time to hit it sideways.   
 But I could get mad, I could throw clubs, but there's no sense for it, it's just, hey, it was a bad shot at the wrong time, I need to laugh about it.   
  
  Q. You had some time to think about it, what do you think you're going to take away from here?  
 TRIP KUEHNE: Just the memory. I said, I can't repeat it enough, to have an opportunity to play the weekend in the Masters tournament as basically a working man, that was all I ever wanted in life to have that opportunity again. And to have the opportunity is a dream come true. And to share it with my family and close friends that have encouraged me to push on with golf and to win that USGA event, and they're all here to share it with me, and I gave myself quite a thrill. I think I gave them a thrill too. That's what I'll take away.   
  
  Q. What were you thinking there late in the round?  
 TRIP KUEHNE: Keep making birdies. I knew if I could somehow get to 2-over par I didn't have to worry about what the cut line would be. And that's all I was thinking about. And I had I was in good shape on 14, didn't hit a very good shot.   
 And I tried to hit a great shot on 15 and got it in a situation where I couldn't be aggressive because I didn't want to take myself out of it right there.   
 I knew where the pin was on 16. I thought I would be, I thought it would be a birdie opportunity. If I could make a birdie there I might have a stroke or two. I don't know what the cut line's going to be, but I imagine it's going to be 4 or 5-over. I was right there to do it and it was just -- you know, after -- I just wanted to keep making birdies. I wanted to take care of it, come within 10 shots, be 2-over par and not have to worry about it. Unfortunately that sideways shot kind of derailed my plan.  
  
  Q. How good did you play?  
 TRIP KUEHNE: I hadn't missed a shot all day. I hit the ball very well at the Azalea, I didn't putt very well, I didn't play particularly well in the practice rounds. Ironically in the practice round with Phil on Tuesday I kept telling Tim Hewitt from Adidas and my caddie Steve that I feel like I'm going to shank it.   
 But I felt good after that. I really hit the ball well with playing with Charles on Wednesday, the nine holes. I hit the ball great warming up yesterday. And I didn't miss a shot until the 16th hole today. Drove it right in the middle of most fairway, solid shots to the middle of the greens, and the greens that I did miss, I wasn't, I was basically using my putter. I never had to chip. And I thought the stars were aligning. And unfortunately the rug got pulled out right from underneath me at a time that I didn't think it would.   
 Like I said, that was one of the few shots I wasn't nervous on. I don't know if it was I just let up for a brief moment or whatever, and I'm not good enough to let up for a brief moment. I guess that's what I did. I took it for granted because it was a, I thought it was just a stock little turn over 9-iron and I was going to stuff it and I was going to make a birdie and I was going to get to 3-over. I walked away six over.   
  
  Q. Talk about the way you finished.   
 TRIP KUEHNE: Well, you got to finish on this golf course. You got to finish. You can get in position, and you know what, you still have to finish. 16, 17, and 18 are holes that if you hit quality shots you can make birdies. If you hit poor shots you're going to play them over par. And I played those holes 16, 17 and 18 5-over for the week. And I shoot 6-over. I played pretty good except for those three holes. I played pretty good except for 16. 17 and 18 are hard holes.   
 I mean, to shoot 6-over for the two rounds and be 3-over on 16, if you would have told me I was going to be 3-over on 16 I would have told you I was going to shoot a million. I mean, that's the regret I'll always take with me, not playing 16 when it's such a perfect hole for me. It's a nice high draw when the pin is down there, it catches the slope and rolls down and you have a great birdie putt. I, unfortunately, just didn't get it done.   
  
  Q. Did you have a good time?  
 TRIP KUEHNE: I had a great time. 35 year old working man, I was inside the ropes and had a chance to make the cut at the Masters and I was 2-under par and you know, at the end of the day, now my last round of golf is 72 at Augusta National, even par at a Major.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT