U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 29, 2019
Miguel Angel Jiménez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Heck of a round today, considering it got a lot harder?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Yeah, it's a lot harder today.  The direction of the wind is a little bit different way.  It's a little firm, the golf course, but, you know, the golf course is in great conditions.  But nice, played very well, very solid.  Start with three birdies on the first three holes, and then I struggled with my putts on the greens.  That's what happened when I made a couple of bogeys there, just missing some short putts, some for birdie, but I'm still missing the chances for birdie.  And at least on the last I saved that three meters, three-feet putt for save the par, at least.  Something good for tomorrow.
Q. The speed of the greens, has it changed or is it similar?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: It looks very similar.  Looks very similar.  You have to be careful if you increase the speed of the greens because there are undulations inside the greens, and can be very dangerous.  Obviously I would like to have a little bit faster probably, just a fraction faster.  But, you know, it's...no, I like them faster, yeah.
Q. What are the factors going to -- I mean, 67 has got to be one of the best rounds of the day.  What other factors are making the golf course more difficult?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Pin -- well, no, the pin positions, there are some right in the front, just on the corner on the slopes.  So they are right more on the corner today.  And the undulation of the wind is different.  That makes a little different, also.  It's because probably the golf course is going to play one of the shots difficult today probably.
Q. What's the goal for tomorrow?  What do you want to try to get accomplished?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Try to do my best as always.  I think I'll be hitting the ball very well all the week, but I I kind of -- I kind of hope enough putts.  That's the only thing.  And then I hope tomorrow I can hole a few more putts on these days, and then I can be as high as possible.  It looks like Stricker is untouchable this week, but we'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT