NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ASTROS v CARDINALS
October 12, 2004
Tony Womack
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  How surprised are you to see the Astros here? 

TONY WOMACK:  Not surprised at all.  I guess in the division, in the league, once you get to the playoffs, it's whoever's playing better baseball, who executes better.  So those guys can play, it's just a matter of -- I'm not surprised by anybody.  I'm a person that worries about me and my teammates.  Who we play or how we get there is one thing. But those guys, they can play.  They have a lot of veterans.  They've been around and they know how to play the game. 

Q.  The way the weather is right now, how is that affecting you guys getting ready for tomorrow? 

TONY WOMACK:  You still get your work in.  You got a cage.  We ran outside, we threw.  Weather may be a factor playing here, you know. So you don't think about it.  It's the playoffs, man.  Either you win or go home.  If you want to go home because of the weather, then go home. But this part of the year, you kind of don't worry about what you can't control.  We can't control the weather.  We can just control how we go about our day.  The guys are still getting their work in in the weight room and doing what they have to do to get ready for tomorrow.

Q.  Tony said he's not going to fall into the trap of not facing Clemens or Oswalt in Game 1. 

TONY WOMACK:  We've got to face them eventually.  I'm to the point I don't care who we face.  The 25 guys stick to the same game plan we had all year to win the series.  No matter how you do it, you have to start somewhere. These guys can still pitch, though.  You're not in the Big Leagues for nothing.  I'm not a big believer in that, just because you're not labeled 1 or 2 or the best, that you can't pitch at this level.  If you play in the Big Leagues, you belong here.  I take it as a Big League pitcher, I don't know who's pitching tomorrow, but I don't take Game 1 tomorrow, who's different from Roger Clemens, they're both amazing pitchers.  I just have to go with my game plan and get ready. I don't look at who it is, I just look at what I have to do to help my team score runs and win.

Q.  You have your son here today.  I saw him on the field with you.  What would you like for him to take from this experience?

TONY WOMACK:  To enjoy what I couldn't do.  We grew up in Virginia.  We didn't have Major League Baseball around.  To go out, experience the fun that comes with October baseball.  Just to be part of it. This organization, since I've been here, has been a family organization, and my kids are welcome.  That's a good thing. Let them go out, have fun, be around the guys.  This is what it's all about for me.  Playing is fun, but I know sooner or later, if not my son, someone else's son is going to be at the same place I am.  I'd like to let him enjoy it.  It's not something you see a lot.  A lot of teams are home right now watching, their kids can't be on the field for this playoff run and World Series victory and all that good stuff. What I try to do is let him enjoy it.  The older he gets, the more he understands.  The better once he gets to where I am, being a father, he can tell his own kids. 

Q.  Will the focus and intensity increase because it's NLCS or division?

TONY WOMACK:  For me, no.  I still take it as I'm still trying to help my team win the series.  If I'm not mistaken, my 24 other teammates are on the same page.  Win this series, no matter how you do it, you win this series.  That's the game plan we've had all year.  Just no matter where you go, who you play, what you have to do, win the series to get to that next level. I think if you put more pressure on yourself now it's kind of hard to do and execute what you want to do.  My first playoff hunt, I was a little nervous but I don't think I put my pressure -- I just had a little extra adrenaline.  For some of these guys that haven't been this far, I think after the first pitch they might feel it a little bit.  If we can get them to stay on the same page they've been on all year, I think we'll do just fine. This team has been, like I said, the chemistry we've had, has been to win the series, and why change now? 

Q.  What has Carlos Beltran brought to an already formidable lineup? 

TONY WOMACK:  I guess you could say he's not really considered a No. 2 hitter like Larry Walker. The guy can play.  He can play defense, he can run, he can hit, steal bases.  He does it all for them.  Once again, he's another Larry Walker over on the other side.  He's not your typical No. 2 hitter. If you stick to your game plan as a pitcher and defender and do what we're supposed to do, we try to limit -- try to take away a lot of his strengths, you know.  The guy can do a lot of things.  If you can eliminate one or two, keep him off base, keep Biggio off base and keep those guys, you know, close to like normal, instead of being super normal... But he's a talented individual.  For guys like me, who haven't seen him this much until he came over here, you really appreciate his ability. 

Q.  You alluded to Walker there as well.  What did he bring you guys in the Division Series that just kind of escalated from the season to the Division Series? 

TONY WOMACK:  Well, for a lot of teams the biggest thing is not to let me get on base because of the guys that are behind me.  Then you have our No. 2 hitter, is considered a No. 4 hitter on most teams or No. 3.  He's the type of guy like Beltran.  If you make a mistake, it could be 1-0 or 2-0.  Once again, Larry can run as well.  Not as much as he used to but he still can steal bases. The thing he brought for us, he just made that lineup a little more deeper to try to pitch to or pitch around or I guess you would say who you're trying to get out.  Him, take your chances with Albert (Pujols) or Scotty (Rolen) or Jimmy (Edmonds) or Edgar (Renteria). So what he brings to the table is, for pitchers and relievers on other teams, he doesn't give you any kind of relief going down that lineup. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT