NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 20, 2013
Zach Randolph
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  ZACH RANDOLPH:   Yeah, it was frustrating.   It's definitely positive that we watched film and we had a good practice today and made some adjustments and will do some things differently.   I played bad.   There are a lot of other guys that didn't play that well.   So we've got to play better as individuals and as a group.

Q.   Can you guys win without you playing well?
ZACH RANDOLPH:   I mean, I think we can.   I'm drawing so much pressure and so much attention that it opens guys up, and sometimes I've got to be a decoy.   Last series and the series before I was a decoy some games.   It's going to open up for me, I've just got to pick and choose my spots and be aggressive.

Q.   Was it tough to sleep last night?
ZACH RANDOLPH:   Yeah, it definitely was.   I'm hard on myself more than anybody.   I really couldn't sleep last night and it was frustrating.   That's part of I don't like losing and I'm a competitor.

Q.   Did you work on anything specifically in practice today?
ZACH RANDOLPH:   Yeah, I worked on catching it out a little bit, facing up, making moves quicker and playing from the elbow.

Q.   There's not a lot of teams in this league that have guys‑‑ you're used to manhandling the other big. 
ZACH RANDOLPH:   I mean, Duncan is probably a big‑‑ Splitter, he's not that big like Duncan, but Duncan is long.   We played guys like that last series.   It was the same way with Perkins and Ibaka.   We've just got to make adjustments and play the elbow some and catch it off the block some.

Q.   Is it about making shots for you or can you do some stuff differently tomorrow?
ZACH RANDOLPH:   It's everything, positioning, making shots.   A lot of little shots I missed around the basket I usually hit, and I only took eight.   Just playing better, get in better post position where they can't come double and just playing my game.

Q.   Is the experience factor overrated at this point?
ZACH RANDOLPH:   It definitely is because we've been in this position‑‑ not here, but we played in the Playoffs where we played‑‑ two years ago, Oklahoma City, so we've been here.   We haven't been this far so we've got to embrace the moment and come out and play our game.

Q.   Mike said the team was angry yesterday after the loss.   Is that something you'll take into the game tomorrow?
ZACH RANDOLPH:   Definitely.   We were soft.   We didn't play great basketball, so it was definitely frustrating.

Q.   Bonner was saying that you guys had the pick‑and‑pop yesterday and Mike talked about how the bigs are having so stay up on him. 
ZACH RANDOLPH:   You can't help off guys like Bonner and Green.   We break down on the defensive end, they drive.   We've got to stay.   We can't over help because that's when they're getting open shots.

Q.   How frustrating is it to know that these weren't‑‑ this was not you.   Not just you as a team but it wasn't what you‑‑ how you've been all year. 
ZACH RANDOLPH:   It was real frustrating.   I had trouble sleeping last night, and I'm harder on myself than anybody, and like I told the guys, I apologized to them for the way I played.   I've got to come out and give them something.   That was it.   But we've got to bounce back.

Q.   Was there something new‑‑ you played a lot of years‑‑
ZACH RANDOLPH:   It was the same thing, like similar to what the Clippers were doing and what San Antonio always do to us when we played them in the Playoffs two years ago.   It was the same thing.   We've just got to make adjustments. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT