NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Zach Randolph
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Is it important for NBA players to take an active interest in union business?
ZACH RANDOLPH:   I think it is.   This is our job.   This is our life.   And this is a big part of it.   What's going on with the business of basketball.   It was important during the lockout to know what was going on and understand what was going on.   I think it's definitely important. 

Q.   Can you talk about any advice you have for the kids?
ZACH RANDOLPH:   Enjoy it.   It's a fun time with all the best players in the country.   So just enjoy it and taking it for what it's worth, and go out and give your best and play.   The whole world will be watching.

Q.   (Inaudible)
ZACH RANDOLPH:   I definitely do.   I think once we get out here and we're together, we play and get together, I think it will surprise a lot of people. 

Q.   (Inaudible)
ZACH RANDOLPH:   Just come out and be a professional.   One of your best players is traded, so we just come together.   Understanding that this is our core group unit here, this is what we have and give it our best. 

Q.   When you come to an event like this, what stands out for all of the things you have to do the three or four days?
ZACH RANDOLPH:   It's part of it.   It's a great time.   It's part of Houston. 

Q.   How do you feel about Rubio?
ZACH RANDOLPH:   I like him as a player. 

Q.   Earlier, like last month when most people were talking about the Rubio potential trade, but your name came up.   What did you think about that?
ZACH RANDOLPH:   Honestly I'm a vet, so I've been through it, I've been traded before.   It's part of the business.   I understand that.   Some guys might have a hard time because they've never been traded or have as many years or I had in the league.   They can't understand it.   But for me personally I understand it.   It's my 12th year in the league.

Q.   Do you want your future to be in Memphis?
ZACH RANDOLPH:   I definitely do.   I love the city of Memphis and the people in it.   I love interacting with the kids and the charity.   That's my home.   I just bought a house there and my daughters go to school.   I'm always going to be in Memphis, if they trade me or if they don't.   That's my home. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT