76 CLASSIC MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 31, 2011
Arnie Scaglio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   TIM SIMMONS: This is Tim Simmons. I'll be the media operations director for the 76 Classic. Right now with us is Arnie Scaglio. This is our fifth annual tournament. 
     Arnie, give us a little background on the 76 Classic and where it goes from here.
     ARNIE SCAGLIO: Thanks, Tim. We're very excited obviously to have a quality field coming to the event again. 
     It has certainly grown over the years. We're excited about the fifth annual event, bringing quality basketball to the West Coast and to the Anaheim area. Also the timing here, it's an early-season tournament, with our sister tournament the Old Spice Classic going on in Orlando, the games bounce back and forth. It really is a wonderful showcase early season where our college basketball fans can look and see some outstanding talented teams. So we're looking forward to the event. 
     TIM SIMMONS: All 12 games will be on the ESPN family of networks. You're announced crew for the tournament will be Dave Fleming and Miles Simon will form one team, then Mark Neely and Sean Farnham will form the other team. All 12 games will be televised on the ESPN family of networks. 
     ARNIE SCAGLIO: That's right, Tim. All the games will be televised ESPN-2, ESPNU, ESPN-3. So it should be exciting. 
     TIM SIMMONS: Arnie, one thing with the tournament, we're at the Anaheim Convention Center. A different format where they play three days. Do you like the tournament playing three games in four days? 
     ARNIE SCAGLIO: The way it works out with those, Thursday and Friday are days where we have the opportunity to do the games, then Saturday we take a day off and then come back on Sunday. It is a little bit of a unique format. We found the teams like it and it also gives them a chance to enjoy the area a little bit. There's a lot to offer with Disneyland and all that Southern California has to offer. 
     Our partnership with the folks with the Big West do a good job of hosting us. We're looking forward to having everybody there. 
     TIM SIMMONS: With the ratings for the tournament, you're playing on Thanksgiving and so forth. A lot of football going on. What have you seen in the past from the shows? 
     ARNIE SCAGLIO: What we see is if there's college basketball fans interested at that time of year it's a very heavy football time of year, but at the same time you have a lot of college basketball fans that are out there. So we can offer an alternative. 
     It's worked out pretty well for us. 
     TIM SIMMONS: Do you think we're going to have the success we had two years ago where two of the teams in the 76 Classic advanced to the Final Four in West Virginia and Butler? 
     ARNIE SCAGLIO: Yeah, we would love to see that happen. Butler ended up losing two games in the 76 Classic and went on to the Final Four. The fields are obviously very strong, very competitive. We're very lucky to be able to attract such strong teams, such wonderful competition. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT