THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VOLVIK
March 2, 2021
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome everyone to our 2:00 pm press conference with Angel Yin.
 My first question after welcome is thank you for giving us such a great week last week to watch.  How do you feel now that Gainbridge is over with such a great finish?
 ANGEL YIN:   I feel good.  I felt really good after the results I got from last week.  Going into last week I was actually really nervous because of my results last year and what I was going through, so heading into the event, even though I put in -- you know, because I didn't get to prepare for the season until like a month before the tournament started, so I know I didn't have that much time and I was changing a lot of things.  New set of irons I just got a few weeks before the tournament.
 So I was quite nervous with how everything was going to go, but I was really happy.  Being able to the play in the last group meant a lot to me.  Last day the scores were everywhere, but to me it was more about testing myself and seeing where I am.  It makes me more clear of how I'm performing with my game and how everything is right now.
 Q. We also asked a couple questions about your shoulder last week.  How is your shoulder feeling and is everything a lot better than a year ago?
 ANGEL YIN:   I would say definitely it's better than a year ago.  Yeah, it's getting better.
 Q. May I ask when is the first time you knew that it really hurt?
 ANGEL YIN:   I knew it -- like it started hurting and I thought it was just some kind of injury because I never imagined when the pain first started it would last that long.  It was at British last year, so just started the event.  Something was a little bit off during Marathon, which is the second tournament back from restarting our season, and then I was like, Oh, it's just probably tight.  I just need a massage or some therapy.  Didn't do much.
 And then British it kind of got worse, and then gradually after that it went downhill fast.  And then what scared me the most was that no one knew what was really going on until I found any doctor now.  That took a long time.
 Q. Last question on that is for someone who is always upbeat and smiling, how do you manage all that stress and emotion that you get from being injured, other than the fact that you're an angel?
 ANGEL YIN:   (Laughter.)  It was really tough.  Well, it wasn't as hard in the beginning because I was just like, Oh -- growing up playing, like playing at six years old you grow up with pain.  It's inevitable when you play at that young of an age.  You get used to aches and pains.  So I thought it was just some normal ache and pain until it got worse and worse and then no one know what was going on.
 I took an MRI for the first time in my life; didn't like that experience.  It was very tight and really loud and I was like, Oh, my God, this doesn't feel comfortable.  I did that for the first time ever, so just new experiences.
 Yeah, I mean, I was just like how bad can it get?  That's okay.  That's why I was like, Eh, just keep playing.  As long as I can swing the club I was just always happen.
 Q. You're definitely swinging the club; solo 7th last week.  How do you feel going into this week and are you excited about this week again?
 ANGEL YIN:   Yeah, I'm excited.  I just played nine holes today.  I took yesterday off, saw my doctor, got treatment on my shoulder.  So I'm excited and just excited to see how this week will play out.
 Q. Have you played the course yet and how is it playing?
 ANGEL YIN:   It's playing different.  My caddie has been telling me -- I don't even know if this is legal to say, but it's like all these holes are kind of replicas of famous courses around the world like Augusta and Troon.
 I'm like, Wow, one minute I'm in Europe and one minute I'm in Georgi.  So it's pretty cool to see all of that, because I've never played those courses except for Troon.  So it would be like, Oh, this is number what on Augusta?  I was like, Oh, okay, okay.  I'm getting like a -- not the real experience but somewhat of an experience.
 Q. What are you looking forward to doing here this week with your game?  Any particular part of your game that you've been focusing on more?
 ANGEL YIN:   My approach shot for sure.  Been focusing on that a little bit more.  Last year it wasn't that great.  This week my main focus is to see where my body is, because I know my game is there and it showed up last week.  I want to see where my body is, especially since this is the second week playing in a row.
 Q. Speaking of recovery and your mattress partnership with Zinus, how have you been without your mattress at home?
 ANGEL YIN:   I haven't got a mattress from them yet.  I don't know if it I can say this, but I'm excited to try it.  I've been reading a lot about their mattress.  It's green tea infused and helps you sleep.  I sleep for a long time.  I think the longest I've ever recorded was a 19-hour sleep.  I was basically out.  My mom said, I put my finger under your nose to see if you were alive.
 Q. On a flight or in your house?
 ANGEL YIN:   It was at my house.  The other one was when I flew from Q-School to Dubai years ago and I slept for 17 hours.  Somehow I was able to break that record.  Maybe with that Zinus mattress I'll go 24, just be like a Koala, just out.
 Q. Angel, you're always such a pleasure to talk to.  What advice do you have given that March is Women's History Month and a lot of players will and do look up to you right now?  What advice do you have for everyone?
 ANGEL YIN:   I really just know about golf.  I don't know much about anything, advice.
 Q. As a person who is just loving life and you're always so happy and spirited.
 ANGEL YIN:   The world is full of color and just it enjoy it.
 Q. That's awesome.  Last question from me then is:  who is someone you looked up to outside of golf, outside of your family, maybe a politician or a celebrity, who's a women?  If you can think of someone outside of golf or outside of your family that's really interesting, we would love to hear.
 ANGEL YIN:   Would it be bad if I said no one?
 Q. Yourself.
 ANGEL YIN:   Man, I don't -- I never grew up looking up to someone.  I don't know if it's a culture thing, but I just never really grew up looking up to someone.  Not really.  Just kind of always was taught to be myself and just to be who I am and then take bits and pieces of everyone's knowledge.  Because I like having conversations with everyone, so just learn from them and then create me.  Yeah.
 Q. And we love you.
 ANGEL YIN:   Thank you.
 Q. Thank you, Angel, and good luck this week.
 ANGEL YIN:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT