CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 29, 2019
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The perfectionist in you has to find something, right?  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, I wasn't hitting it as great, little draws. I put myself in tough positions to potentially make a bogey, but I didn't do it.   
 Q.  That was your miss today; you tended to hit a pull hook, which can kind of get you into trouble. You bailed yourself out. What happens when you do that and what do you try to do to rectify it?  
ANGEL YIN: Usually it's just that I'm not stabilizing my body enough and I'm moving around, so I try to just have my weight in the center more and be more stable.   
 Q.  On the other side of that, you hit some amazing bunker shots today. They weren't just straightforward bunker shots, you had some awkward lies and stances. Is that something you pay extra attention to? Are you working on that, or does it come naturally?  
ANGEL YIN: Well, to prepare I always have really good pants that give so I don't rip. That's for starters. And just if I can get down low, then it's good.   
 Q.  Page said one of the big things, when you have that shot where the ball is way below your feet, you have to really get down into a good squat.  
ANGEL YIN: See, like I have the flexibility, I just need the pants to go with it, that's all.   
 Q.  (On the long drive contest.)  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  Where does it come from?  
ANGEL YIN: It comes from just timing it well. She (Anne van Dam) hits it far for sure. I don't get a lot of roll for sure, but yeah, it was so much fun, just like seeing us two hit and then having Phyllis there just whip her ass. Am I allowed to say that?   
 Q.  What did you think of Phyllis and the club that she had because you took a few swings with her driver.  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, it was too long for me and I couldn't time it, so it was hard for me to hit it. I kept hitting it right, and I was like, oh, this is not my job. I'll stick to golf.   
 Q.  You talked about having to workout out to get a few more yards to beat Anne van Dam. I don't know, are you really committed to that workout effort?  
ANGEL YIN: The five minutes after the competition I was. Now I'm rethinking about it. But I do want a rematch in the future. Not in the far future. Yeah, far future.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT