CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 25, 2019
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANGEL YIN: This week was good. Okay, so this week's ball striking was this year's worst, but I was able to get it work and hopefully finish top 10.   
Put it in play pretty good. Putting was good. Overall, my game feels really good. Just wasn't able to hit it as well as I wanted to.   
I'm happy how even though I didn't hit it very well, I was still able to score.   
 Q.  What was off about your ball striking? What will you work on?  
ANGEL YIN: Just my timing was off, tempo for my whole entire swing. Just wasn't able to really get it together. I was able to make it work.   
 Q.  Solheim Cup. It was a week you were in the driver's seat for Rolex Rankings points. How much were you aware of where you sat and how much was that on your mind this week?  
ANGEL YIN: Solheim is a big deal. Since rookie year I made it; I want to make it again, especially on points and not captain's pick.   
It was in my mind but wasn't really thinking about it. I just know that I have to play good golf. I haven't been able to really perform this year, but I know how good my game is. I would say my game is the best it's ever been. I just needed to trust.   
 Q.  What did you learn from playing as a rookie on the Solheim Cup team that you'll take to Scotland?  
ANGEL YIN: That I like the crowd. I would just work with the crowd.   
No, yeah, but, you know, just have to stay calm. The environment is crazy. A lot is going on. You just have to single out your thoughts and just hitting your golf shot.   
 Q.  Do you think it'll be any different playing on the road in Scotland?  
ANGEL YIN: Away, overseas? Yeah, for sure. Because I played Junior Solheim in Germany. Even just playing Junior Solheim it was ridiculous. There was a lot of chanting going on.   
I was like, Where do they people come from? We're playing Junior Solheim. Go away. (Laughter.)   
But I know, so it's going to be ten times, hundred times crazier than Junior Solheim. It will be absolutely awesome. It's great. I just love when people come out and watch golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT