U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2019
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So how much is your length an advantage on this course?
ANGEL YIN: It's the same.  I mean, the length has always been my advantage in any course I play, so it kind of just shows up more here because it's a longer golf course and you don't have to hit a lot of 3 woods or 2 irons off the tee.
Q. (No microphone).
ANGEL YIN: Not as hard.  I shouldn't say that.  It was challenging, but I got over it.
Q. What was the biggest difference playing this morning as opposed to playing in the afternoon yesterday?
ANGEL YIN: It was more wet so the ball was holding on the green a little more, so we had more opportunities to make birdies.
Q. What did you learn yesterday that helped today?
ANGEL YIN: Don't hit your second shot on a par 5 too hard.  There you go.
Q. What was the result of when you did that?
ANGEL YIN: It made one birdie.  Actually, I made one birdie yesterday, so it didn't really matter.  Didn't change anything.
Q. Obviously, you know you'll make the cut and whatnot.  Do you sit this afternoon, watch TV, and watch the other golfers and see where they stand, or do you just not even care about the leaderboard heading into the weekend?
ANGEL YIN: I don't really look at the leaderboard unless I'm looking for my tee time.  So I'll just probably be on YouTube or Netflix or Hulu or whatever streaming network there is.
Q. You need a streaming WiFi?
ANGEL YIN: My LTE is pretty good, so no WiFi.
Q. What's your go-to show?
ANGEL YIN: I've been watching -- well, I watch a lot of SNL.  I mean, if I'm not in a tournament week, I probably watch -- looking through whatever Netflix has new, yeah.
Q. Early start, you're still quite young.  There are a few kids in this 14, 15 years old.  What do you think of players that young being able to make it into the tournament?
ANGEL YIN: I think it's great because I think it's a great learning experience for later on in their career.  But, yeah, don't get too beat if you don't play that well here, because it's just one tournament.
Q. Keep it in perspective?
ANGEL YIN: I played well, but I never played well in the U.S. Women's Open.  This is the first one that I've ever made the cut at.
Q. A definite learning curve?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah.  Plus, like, it depends on golf course.  Like there's no rough here, so I can hit it wherever I want and be okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT