BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 22, 2019
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 10-under.  Tied for second right now.  You happy with how you're playing?
ANGEL YIN: Yes.  Yes, I am.
Q. What makes you happy?
ANGEL YIN: I'm hitting it good, putting it good, chipping it good.
Q. You're just playing good.
ANGEL YIN: I'm just playing good.  Just good, good, good.
Q. Been working on anything that makes you play good, or is it the course?
ANGEL YIN: Yes.
Q. What have you been working on?
ANGEL YIN: I've been working on my swing.  Because I'm working on my swing and I swing better, then everything with it kind of flows with it.  It's all connected.
I've been working on staying on top of the ball more.  I come up on it so I don't really have the consistency and repeating it as often because of how I come up on it.  It's just not how your body should be moving.
So I'm working on that, staying on top of it more.  I'm hitting it better.
Q. Are you working with coach, on your own?
ANGEL YIN: Yes, I'm working with -- her name is Lucy, Lucy Davies, and she's up in I think Thousand Oaks area.
Q. How did you get connected with her?
ANGEL YIN: Someone asked me to do a clinic at her place.  I didn't think too much of it because it was indoors with a lot of simulators.  I was like, Okay, it's not my style.  I'm more of like outdoors and I just go by feel.  I don't like a lot of TrackMan in my swing.
Then I went to China, came back, and I was like, Hey, can I look at some numbers?  Saw some numbers and she was like, Let's work on your swing.  I was a little skeptical.
Then we worked on it and it felt like whatever she was saying was correct.
Q. So how long have you been working with her then?
ANGEL YIN: Since the beginning of this year, so January.
Q. Okay.  And so not our China event, but in the off-season?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah.  I went to China to visit my grandparents like every year.
Q. Is this when you feel it really start to come together now?  You've been playing well this year.
ANGEL YIN: I've been playing good.  I just feel like now my swing is getting better.  I know I can strike it -- I'm not saying I should gain distance, but I feel like I'm hitting it further because I'm striking it better and more consistently.
I feel like in the long-term I can repeat it more better.
Q. You, gaining distance?
ANGEL YIN: I know.  Did you see that 320 drive on the last hole?  That was pretty good.
Q. Yes.  They were commenting about it on TV, about how short you had into the green.  That had to feel good.
ANGEL YIN: Oh, yeah.  That felt good, yeah.  It helped.  Made birdie, so...
Q. How do you feel heading into the weekend?  Any goals you want to achieve?
ANGEL YIN: Nothing I want to achieve.  Just happy to play on the weekend, of course, and just keep striking it good.
Q. I want to ask you about having the Founders around this week.  What was that like seeing the ladies who started this?
ANGEL YIN: It's always very special.  This is my third year playing in this event.  It's just awesome to see them still out here, people who made this possible so we can make this our living, we can just play golf for the rest of our lives.
Q. They were out setting up the golf course, hauling their scorecards around in their trunks.  Think how we've grown since then.
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, we got this organization, we got people, we got fans, we got big purses that we're playing for now, something we can play for that we don't have to go look for another job and making a living.
It's quite special for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT