CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 26, 2018
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I think it would be fair to say that on many days that was good enough to win, but maybe you just fell victim to a player that wasn't going to be beaten today?  
ANGEL YIN: Well, she played really well.  I think I put up a good fight.  It was really hard for me in the beginning because it was just too cold for me, and my body wasn't adjusting.  I didn't have enough clothes.  I didn't think it was going to be this cold.  It kind of threw us a curve ball.  So I kind of really was trying to adjust.  By the back nine, I adjusted to it.  I warmed myself up and was smart about how to keep myself warm throughout the whole round.  And I kind of got it going, but Brooke was playing extremely well.   
 Q.  Three birdies on the back; you gave it a roll, didn't you?  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, I gave it my best.  I think I fought her.  I did good.   
 Q.  I noticed you made a comment to her while you were walking between 17 and 18, was that maybe half joking, half sportsmanship that maybe you were acknowledging --  
ANGEL YIN: What did you hear, before I say anything?   
 Q.  It just sounded like a playful --  
ANGEL YIN: We were all so focused, we didn't really get to talk to each other, and Brooke is a great girl.   
 Q.  And then later, you walked up to the 18th with her.  That's how come I noticed.  
ANGEL YIN: Oh, okay.  Is this like interrogation?  Is Canada getting mad at me?   
 Q.  No, it just seemed like the temperature got brought down quite a bit once it was obvious she was going to win.  
ANGEL YIN: Well, we talked when the temperature was high up, too.  It was not like we weren't going to talk to each other than fight each other.  It was a really good atmosphere.  The whole group was great.  Nasa was great, Brooke was great.  There wasn't really a point where we were going to tear each other apart.   
 Q.  Did you yourself feed off the atmosphere?  It was quite a day, temperature and rain aside.  
ANGEL YIN: Well, I didn't really heat up until the back side, but seeing the crowd out here, it's great.  Obviously they're supporting Brooke, but it's great to see them.   
 Q.  Was it difficult playing with this crowd?  
ANGEL YIN: No.  I had -- I mean, she's my (indiscernible) right now.  I've had like crowds like this when I played the Solheim, so I'm kind of used to it.  Korea is the same way.  They're huge fans, huge golf fans over there, so I kind of adjusted to it.   
 Q.  Obviously you wanted the win, but was it a neat thing to be a part of walking up here and being in that group?  
ANGEL YIN: I've obviously wanted to win.  I've been playing pretty well.  I played pretty well last week, this week, but it's a great experience.  It's going to come -- I'm playing well, so I just need to be patient like I have been the whole year.  I haven't really scored until now, but it's just -- I'm playing good.   
 Q.  Do you foresee -- that's her seventh win.  She's a little more than a year older than you.  She turned pro significantly earlier than you.  Do you kind of see that as something to shoot for in terms of a young player who's kind of went out and grabbed it by the throat, if you will?  
ANGEL YIN: Winning a tournament is not something really work for.  We always have to prepare for -- do all the preparation to be able to win, but there's nothing like, oh, I'm going to win a tournament, so I'm just going to play my best and see how it goes.   
 Q.  And I would assume today was a big building block to get there?  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, I got second, and I -- it's not like a second where I didn't play well, but I fought hard and I got second, so it was good.   
 Q.  In a way do you kind of tip your cap to her?  There was so much around her, so much pressure and so much attention?  Do you kind of tip your cap to her and say maybe this was kind of meant to be for her in a way?  
ANGEL YIN: Honestly, it's great.  It's great for golf in Canada, women's golf, and it's great for her, too.  I mean, people shouting her name left to right since the first hole, like 9:00 in the morning.  I bet you she feels pressure, but she's used to it and she handles it pretty well, and she finished the job.   
 Q.  What's next for you?  
ANGEL YIN: Evian.   
 Q.  And then that string through Asia?  
ANGEL YIN: The whole Asia.  You're going to be seeing me the whole Asia.   
 Q.  Three months in Asia?  
ANGEL YIN: Three months -- well, no.  I have to come back for Thanksgiving in Florida.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT