CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2018
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The wind picked up during the round?  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, it did.   
 Q.  It's really breezy now.  
ANGEL YIN: Yep.   
 Q.  Good thing to be done?  
ANGEL YIN: Yes, but it's hot now.  The wind picked up and it started getting hotter and stuff.   
 Q.  Started out pretty good, birdie-eagle over the first three holes.  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, and then I kind of went flat, a little bit down, but it went flat, and then I was able to close it out with three birdies at the end.  It felt good.   
 Q.  What got into you there at the end?  Was it just some adrenaline trying to get it done or was it holes that fit you?  
ANGEL YIN: Well, I knew it was there.  I kind of was a little flustered in the middle when the wind picked up.  I didn't adjust quickly enough and I wasn't hitting it well.  So I was a little flustered that I got two bogeys there, and it just didn't happen.  I just waited and I knew it was going to happen at some point in the round or tomorrow, and it happened at the end, the last three holes, so I was fortunate.   
 Q.  You were playing with Austin and Amy, who were playing really well, as well.  Does that help you maybe?  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, we kind of feed off each other.  They make a birdie on this hole, we make a birdie on the next hole, so every hole we kind of birdied, too.  Especially Amy; Amy played really well today.  I'm going to be playing with her tomorrow, so that's going to be fun.  It's our second week paired together.   
 Q.  Do you like that?  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, I do.  I think we should be paired together for the rest of the year.   
 Q.  How is the golf course playing now that the wind is picking up?  
ANGEL YIN: More difficult.  The greens are firmer, and it's just going to be more challenging.  I thought the wind was going to be -- was going to be blowing yesterday, but throughout like morning to afternoon, it was just calm, so we were really fortunate the scores were lower.  But the scores are definitely still there, but it's going to be harder.   
 Q.  The crowd support here has been great.  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, did you see that girl that said hi?  She was the girl on 11 that walked with us on the pro-am day, and she walked with us to the green and made the putt for us.  So it's really cool, yeah.  She came up and said hi to me.   
 Q.  It's great to see all the crowds out in all the red.  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah.  There's a huge crowd following Brooke, of course.  When I was an amateur, I think I was like 15, this little girl came up to her, and she wrote a book, like a picture book and gave it to Brooke.  She's like an idol here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT