KIA CLASSIC
March 20, 2018
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You came here for media day a few months ago.  What's it like being back in San Diego for this event?
ANGEL YIN: Feels great.  The weather is as good as it was when I last came here to do media for Kia.  Yeah, it's a little warmer I think than last time.  Last time it was cold.
Maybe because I got here like two hours earlier.  Today I'm two hours later than when I came here.
Q. What do you like about this course?
ANGEL YIN: This course is a challenge.  I would say my favorite part about the course is that it gives me a challenge.  Yeah.
Q. You like a challenge?
ANGEL YIN: I like a good challenge; not the easiest court out there.  And the greens definitely putt -- it's a test.  It's a test for me.
Q. What have you learned about yourself and your game after your rookie year going into your second season?
ANGEL YIN: I know my strengths and I know where I need to work.  I've been working hard on that and I can see improvement.  Especially last week, even though I didn't play that well, my ball control was much better.  That's what I've been working on for the lasts half of my year last year.  I'm really happy.
Q. Did you feel like you're significantly better as far as being a professional golfer and knowing what to expect after a year?
ANGEL YIN: I would say I've improved in that.  I would say that I've gotten maybe more mature on the golf course.  I'm not as surprised or shocked as I was when I first turned pro maybe.
Yeah, I think I definitely have grown on this tour.
Q. Your rookie season you were one of the youngest out here.
ANGEL YIN: Yeah.
Q. Have some players come to you for advice as they start their rookie years?
ANGEL YIN: No.  I'm 19.  I don't think anyone should come up to me for any advice.
No, no one has come up to me.
Q. What would your advice be to a rookie starting their career?
ANGEL YIN: Well, my situation was a little different.  I didn't go to college.  A lot of people turning pro right now went to college.
So I think for my advice to college players is it's like more individual out here.  You don't have a team behind your back.  I don't know.  I can't say that.
No, scratch that.  Scratch that.
For my fellow high school graduates, I would say it's a big change because you have to be more independent.  You're running your own little business and you have to deal with more people.  It's not just you and your parents or your friends.
It's about managing everything, your time.  And traveling to different places is pretty hard, too.
Q. What are your goals for this year?
ANGEL YIN: I've set a few goals, two to be exact.  Win an LPGA event, because I feel like my game is there, and play International Crown.
Yeah, so that's my two goals.  International Crown it's harder.  I think it's only four people.  But I like a good challenge and I really want to represent my country in Korea this year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT