MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 6, 2020
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. All right, Angel, 5-under after the first day.  How comfortable are you feeling out here at Highland Meadows?
 ANGEL YIN:   I'm happy with my score.  After we made the turn I had a few hiccups, two bogeys.  It wasn't like -- it was like a scramble for bogeys so it wasn't like ideal.
 But I got it together.  My caddie told me to birdie coming in and I did; I was a good listener.
 So I'm quote comfortable and looking forward to tomorrow.
 Q. Definitely two different courses to last week in definitely some different conditions.  What's that like for you to prepare mentally for something totally different?
 ANGEL YIN:   I don't know it's like a mental thing, but it's more of like last week -- you know, going into playing the practice round I didn't know too touch about the golf course.  My caddie did because he's a big golf architecture nerd.  So he knew a lot about it and so he was helpful.
 It's just an amazing golf course, especially looking to 2021 Solheim.  It was just awesome.  And I loved it so much Matt was playing there with a member we both mutually know and I walked 15 with him.  I carried the bag.
 Q. So you're telling me --
 ANGEL YIN:   I liked it a lot.
 Q. -- on your off time you guys switched roles.
 ANGEL YIN:   Yeah, we switched roles.
 Q. What was that like?
 ANGEL YIN:   It was fun.  He didn't think I was going to last, yeah.
 Q. Why not?
 ANGEL YIN:   I don't know.  I don't know.  Because I'm pretty lazy.  I don't know, I don't work out.
 Q. So as you started to prepare for the LPGA Tour events, what was it like being able to get back into the competitive mindset after some time away, the break?
 ANGEL YIN:   You're asking really hard questions.  Just play golf.  I don't know what to say.
 Q. Take me through how you started preparing again for the LPGA Tour.
 ANGEL YIN:   So because of the quarantine, how long it was, I rested up quite a bit.
 Coming into tournament season -- well, preparing for the tournament season to start I played a lot at my home course, Hacienda Golf Club.  Played it a lot with my friends.  Every Sunday we would have a match, so they kept me in a competitive mode.
 Me personally, I'm very competitive, so I would not lose to them.  We were always like very competitive and kept me on edge and kept me fresh.
 Q. I was going to say, how much do you think that helped coming into tournaments once again?
 ANGEL YIN:   Helped a lot because I was competitive.
 Q. No, that's good.  This is a course where I feel like anyone can go low on any day.  What's it going to take to continue staying strong out there and keep reaching those birdies?
 ANGEL YIN:   Keep laugh, talking to my caddie, listening to my caddie, and just keep playing good golf and stick to go the game plan.
 Q. What's the game plan?
 ANGEL YIN:   Fairways and greens.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT