OMEGA DUBAI LADIES CLASSIC
December 8, 2017
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Angel, a 65, up into second place.  You must be delighted?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, I'm really happy about my round today.  Made a bogey there, overall, I stroked it pretty well and made a few putts.
Q. You got going, didn't you, early on.  Four birdies in a row?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, that was good.  I hit my iron shots really good today.  Those four birdies, I think three of them were a foot away from the hole, so it was a tap-in.
Q. On the way home, three more birdies?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, usually when you start off well, you don't close it off that well, but today I did.  I'm really happy with my round overall.
Q. Got out of trouble nicely at the last?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, I wanted to hook it like what Anne did on first day but I missed it.  Hit the tree and went in the sand, in the forest that we have on the course.  But I was able to scramble out of it, so I'm really happy.
Q. You said you wanted to play with Anne, and you probably will tomorrow, at this rate.  Was that the aim?
ANGEL YIN: Yes, you told me yesterday that I had to work for it when I was interviewing Anne, so I was like, today, I was like, I've got to play with her.
Q. You told me that you wanted to interview yourself today, so is there any other questions you'd like to ask yourself?
ANGEL YIN: No, you did really good.  I mean, obviously you're professional.
Q. Would you say you are one of the longest drivers?
ANGEL YIN: I am; I'm one of the longest.
Q. Happy about it?
ANGEL YIN: I take pride in that.
Q. Do you think the men's game is also becoming longer and longer?
ANGEL YIN: Of course.  Equipment is getting better, ball's getting better, overall, but also, I feel like we're just -- we're focusing differently.  We're focusing on more distance, fitness and overall we're becoming -- well, we actually are a sport, but before it was a game more.
Nowadays, women don't really take it that men and women have a difference.  We think we can do the exact same.  I don't know if I explained that correctly.
Q. Do you think you still left some shots out there?
ANGEL YIN: I mean, leaving shots out there is normal every day, but today I think I did overall really well.  I wasn't disappointed at all, maybe the last hole, but other than that, I think I did really well today.
Q. So every part of the game felt in place today?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, just second shots going into the green.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT