OMEGA DUBAI LADIES CLASSIC
December 9, 2017
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BETHAN CUTLER: Angel, congratulations, OMEGA Dubai Ladies Classic Champion and first-time winner on the LET.  How does it feel.   
ANGEL YIN: I feel amazing.  Actually my first major tour professional win, so this is big for me.   
BETHAN CUTLER: What are the others?   
ANGEL YIN: Just mini-tour events when I started out.  This is like a major tour, I can say my first professional win.  So this is a very meaningful win.   
BETHAN CUTLER: How are you going to celebrate?  I think you said you'd been to the mall, and you've seen the aquarium and you're going to see the penguins?   
ANGEL YIN: Yes, the penguins tonight.  It's at 7.00.  I'm so excited.  I'm going to bring Olivia with me and Larsen.  It's going to be fun.   
BETHAN CUTLER: Where is that?   
ANGEL YIN: In the Emirates Mall.  We went to the Dubai Mall and we walked in there and I was like, I could spend a good three days there, like just stay there and just go in the mall.  It's huge.   
I mean, I really want to come next time when I come to Dubai, I want to come earlier and sightsee.  Last year I came straight from Tour School, so I didn't have much time and I left right away because I decided to play in this China event.  This year, there's no events, but I don't know what I did, I just booked my flights wrong.  I should have stayed longer.  This place is awesome.   
BETHAN CUTLER: Fair to say you've had a great week here?   
ANGEL YIN: Yes.   
 Q.  You had some problems obviously the last couple of holes and drove it into the water on 18.  Difficult to pick yourself back up from that and finish out in style, so how did you manage to recollect your thoughts on that third shot into 18?  
ANGEL YIN: I wasn't happy, of course, with hitting in the water, because I know that if I just had an iron and 2-putt, I'd win easily.  But I know that I can make birdie there.   
Earlier this year, I was playing in the same situation.  I hooked it in the water and I had a 2-iron and I stuck it to three feet and I made birdie.  So I was like, I can do that again.  And if anything, if I don't do that, I'm going to make par and go in a playoff.   
 Q.  How long was your shot into 18?  
ANGEL YIN: If I can remember correctly, it's 178 with a little breeze in, so I hit a little 5-iron.  Kind of wasn't a great shot but I managed to get it on the green.   
BETHAN CUTLER: The playoff you hit an amazing iron in, almost holed it, I believe.   
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, I had 88 in.  I thought my drive in the playoff was much better because I went like at least 20 yards more left, so I was like, that's good, and it hit the palm.  Unfortunately it went in the rough and the rough is really thick so I couldn't really go for it because actually to the pin was 177.  It's really short.  Could have easily reached it with an iron.  But third shot was good.  I scrambled and made a four.   
BETHAN CUTLER: Then you went to 17.  What did you do there on the playoff hole.   
ANGEL YIN: 17, when I was actually playing my round, I hit the same shot a little bit more left of the pin.  I got a little nervous on my second putt so I missed it.   
I was like, you know, what I'm going to play this better.  I'm going to get a birdie.  I played the hole right.  The playoff was good.  I played both holes correctly, exactly how I wanted.   
BETHAN CUTLER: Is this your first playoff?   
ANGEL YIN: First playoff, yes, professional playoff.   
BETHAN CUTLER: Did the Solheim Cup experience help to you cope with nerves?   
ANGEL YIN: Of course.  I thought I was going to be very nervous at Solheim but I was more pumped than anything.  It just helped me able to deal with my adrenaline better as we come into the closing holes.  Solheim helped me a lot.  I got better with the crowd I think, too.   
 Q.  What does this win do for you in your career?  How will 2018 start for you, knowing that you have won such a big tournament?  
ANGEL YIN: It's huge for me because at the LPGA, the last event, the CME, I didn't play that well.  I played terribly.  So to close out this year, 2017, which I think I've done really well, to close it off on a really good note and such a big win in Dubai and on the LET, it just gives me that stamp, like you can do it.  I know next year I'm going to have confidence more.   
 Q.  What were the celebrations?  
ANGEL YIN: It was funny, so they poured water.  Nicole Larsen and Olivia Cowan, they poured water on me.  I looked up and the water was still coming down.  I was a little surprised.  It was great.  Those people are my best friends on Tour.  And Larsen's playing on the LPGA, too, so we're getting to know each other really well.  Good friends.   
 Q.  What about the water pistol?  
ANGEL YIN: Can I talk about that?  Yeah, yeah, so one of the media girls was like, I've got a water pistol in my car.  I'm like, Oh, yes.  We're pouring the water, it was really aggressive.  My mouth was full of water and stuff, like gosh, go easy on me.   
BETHAN CUTLER: Is this pretty much the perfect end to 2017 for you?   
ANGEL YIN: Yes, I couldn't have asked for a better one.  That playoff, I think it just added a boost.  I didn't want a playoff but obviously it's awesome to have a playoff and play with IK.  That shot on 18 was nice.  She stuck it.   
BETHAN CUTLER: What will you do after this?  Where will you go to celebrate your holidays?   
ANGEL YIN: I'm going to go to China to see my grandparents.  I won't be back in L.A. until January 11 and I'm going to prepare for my 2018 year.  I won't be touching a club for the whole month.   
BETHAN CUTLER: So even though you're American, is Shanshan a bit of a heroine for you, because she's won this tournament so many times?   
ANGEL YIN: Yes, I mean, for her to win this many times, I was like, I'm going to do that.  Yeah, kind of gives you that bush.   
BETHAN CUTLER: I guess we'll see you back here next year?   
ANGEL YIN: Yes, of course, I'll be coming back.  Of course I want to see the LET people, too.   
BETHAN CUTLER: Thank you and enjoy your evening seeing the penguins.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT