SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 17, 2017
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So, you have sponsors?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, I have JDX.  I started working with them last week.  It's been really nice.  Their production is really fast.  I heard actually he opened the shop one night to get my clothes fitted.  It's really nice of him.
Q. Did that come together out of Solheim Cup?  I know that was something that came out of Solheim Cup, was we've got to get some sponsors?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, even Juli said that.  She said, "We need to get some sponsors."  Yeah, it happened after Solheim.  Actually it just happened literally last week and he was like, okay.
Q. What has life been like after Solheim?
ANGEL YIN: About the same.  Nothing changed.  Yeah, but really, honestly nothing changed.  Normal, every day life.
Q. But I would think it's got to be good for you knowing you have that in your back pocket now?
ANGEL YIN: Self-esteem.  Self-confidence boost, which is good.
Q. And it showed last week.  You played really well last week.
ANGEL YIN: I did all right.
Q. Probably the highest we've seen you up the leaderboard so far this year.
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, second day, leading.  I got sick Saturday.  I got a minor fever as I was playing, so that didn't really help.
And then on Sunday, I was really unlucky.  I wasn't playing as well but I was hitting way better than the third day but scored worse because I hit three fairways.  One fairway I hit was because I chunked a 2-iron.  I wasn't having the best breaks.
Q. But still, learning experience?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, it was amazing.  Being in the final group for the first time felt amazing.  It was awesome.  The crowd was crazy.  Felt like a major.  It honestly felt like Solheim.
Q. Did you think back to Solheim at all?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, third day I was in the final group and I was like, this is like Solheim.  So many people high-fiving everywhere.  Jin-Young, the girl that won, I actual played with her.  She says, "You don't really see this.  This is like last day gallery, and more."  And the last day there was more than that, a mountain of people.
Q. Fun experience then?
ANGEL YIN: I love Korea.  It's nice.
Q. What about Korea do you love?
ANGEL YIN: Food.
Q. What's the best thing you ate?
ANGEL YIN: Best thing I ate, gosh, I can't remember.  Everything.  I think everything.  I can't think.  I have so many from seafood to barbeque.  I tried everything.  My agent, Michael, was actually my tour guide because I went to Seoul on Friday night.  Saturday and Sunday, I stayed in Seoul and we ate around.  It was amazing.  I went to the palace, sightseeing, it was pretty awesome.  People are nice.
I was in Myeong-dong and I was trying to look for this restaurant.  We were asking around and this lovely person was just like, "I'll take you there."
I'm like, "What?  Okay."  A stranger.  And obviously he didn't take me anywhere sketchy.  I'm still here.  He took me to the restaurant.  It was just really nice of him.  I actually kind of like the fans there, I really do. They are just like very starstruck and then they are just very excited to see us.
There's a bunch of girls, I think was on 10, walking up to go to the shuttle, right, and there were three girls sitting on the right, and they are -- and we looked at her and she just freaked out.  Especially when Ingee high-fives the girls, they freak out.  They absolutely freak out.  I don't think they will wash their hands for like a month.
They are very enthusiastic.  I like the fans.
Q. Is this your first time playing here in Taiwan?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, first time.
Q. Okay.  I know it's pouring rain.  But you've been out on the golf course.
ANGEL YIN: Yeah.
Q. What was that like, other than wet?
ANGEL YIN: Other than wet, the course looked good.  I didn't really get a full feel of the course because it was so wet.  Everywhere you hit it, the ball just stopped.  But the course is actually playable.  The drainage system is amazing.  I thought it was going to be flooding.
Q. It's an outdoor sport.  It's something you've got to deal with; right?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, but not like this, this is typhoon.
Q. You've already beaten the typhoon.
ANGEL YIN: It's coming.
Q. It's going to hit Japan.
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, but it's Friday.  It's coming.
Q. Yeah, it's going to hit Japan.
ANGEL YIN: So it's not going to hit us?
Q. No.
ANGEL YIN: I sound skeptical but I'm happy hearing that.
Q. So this is, what, your second week in a row travelling and you're playing Malaysia and Japan?
ANGEL YIN: I'm going to get some horse sashimi.
Q. How are you managing through -- did you play the Asian swing in the spring?
ANGEL YIN: No.  I couldn't -- I was a rookie.
Q. Now you're in pretty much your pick of the fall Asia Swing.  What's this first Asia Swing been like for you so far?
ANGEL YIN: It's eye-opening.  It's just, everything was planned out so detailed.  So they think about everything for you.  Hotel is amazing.  It's great.  In Korea, the hotels, other than expensive, it's really nice.  It's new.  It's huge.  Just a little expensive.  Everything you've got to pay for.
And this week, the hotel is really nice, too, and the food is right next to us, amazing food.  But because it's four weeks and it's nonstop golf and traveling, with far-distance traveling, you've got to like plan out your time really well.  Time management.
Q. Now you said it was mom who told you that you had to go out and play?  Does what mom says, go?  Is mom the boss?
ANGEL YIN: Mom is the boss.  But I'm the boss sometimes, too.  Depends.  Depends.
Q. When are you the boss and when is she the boss?
ANGEL YIN: When I make up my mind.  There's certain times where I tell her, oh, I'm doing this.  But I was in between situation because the physio is at 1:00, and the party, I have to get ready for the Pro-Am party tonight.  So it's either go or stay, but -- so she was the one who made the call, so, okay, let's go.
Q. What do you take from last week, if anything, that you can move ahead to this week?
ANGEL YIN: I need to be like me second round, Friday, where I just don't think.  I just keep playing.  No score boards, nothing.  Just keep playing golf shot by shot.  I need to channel that, channel Friday Angel.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT