LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 13, 2017
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Fantastic eagle to get your round going.  What was its highlight of the day for you?
ANGEL YIN: Has to be the eagle.  That got everything started.  I made a few pars in the beginning, but that eagle just fired everything up.
THE MODERATOR: You had a lot the fun in the opening round yesterday, and a lot more fun today I think..
ANGEL YIN: Yes.  I played with Lizette.  I played with her -- she was my Solheim Cup partner.  We have been hanging out a lot, so it was fun to play with her again.
THE MODERATOR: As you say, Solheim up partners.  How much do you feed off one another?  You like playing together, you're used to playing together, and you're both playing well.
ANGEL YIN: It just puts you in a good mood.  You're having fun out there, which is important.  Sometimes it gets too intense.  It's a tournament, but at the same time you have to have fun to play well.
THE MODERATOR: Pretty strong back nine.  You bogeyed the penultimate hole, but bounced back nicely to finish with a birdie.  Explain what happened on 18.
ANGEL YIN: Do you mean 17 or 18?
THE MODERATOR: 18.
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, hit a good drive down there.  I had like 200 to the hole, downwind, so I was like, I got to hot a 4-iron.  Landed really nicely.  Went over the green, like how we planned.  Chip was a little hard because of the grass, how everyone had just walked and it was kind of flattened and the green's away from the hole and it's loosened.
But I managed to hit a good clip.  Almost made it, which was really nice, because it's a hard chip, and then made an up and down.
THE MODERATOR: We were talking yesterday about the LPGA Rookie of the Year award.  Obviously you're in second place, but a long way behind the leader, Sung Hyun Park.  As you said, you have to see what happens the last few events of the season.  Ere both of you are high up on the leaderboard here.  How cool is that?
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, I mean, she's great competition.  Makes me keep going.  Actually really happy that we have the same rookie year.  She keeps me driving, improving myself.
Yeah, got five tournaments including this one, so I have a chance still.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. (Through translation.)  You might be unfamiliar to some Korean fans.  If you can, briefly just introduce yourself, and also share with us if you're particularly close with any of the Korean players on the tour.
ANGEL YIN: Starting with who I'm close with, not close with anyone.  I don't really see them, but met Jin Young Ko at U.S. Women's Open.  I really like her.  Been talking to her a lot.  She's a really nice person.
Like the players on the LPGA Tour, I talk to everyone, so I just know them a little bit.  I'm not really close, close with anyone.  I like Chella a lot.  Who doesn't?
So to introduce myself a little bit, and I used this in my rookie feature on the LPGA Tour, I hit it long and far.  Distance is the highlight of my game.  My advantage, too.  That's it.  Who doesn't want to hit it far?
Q. (Through translation.)  You've described yourself as a long hitter.  A lot of people have been saying this course is better for those long hitters.  Would you agree?
ANGEL YIN: I agree.  The par-5s, I'm able to hit irons into them, which is very helpful.  I can get closer.  Like with my eagle.  Hit a 6-iron in and ended up with 12 feet.  Yeah.
The last hole, on 18, I had a 4-iron.  Irons you get more accuracy on them.
Q. (Through translation.)  I don't have to say you're having an impressive rookie year.  You're the youngest to take part in the Solheim Cup and you won that event.  Did you expect yourself to do so well?  If you were to give yourself a score for this past year, what would it be?
ANGEL YIN: A score?  From one to ten, I would say I'm doing like a seven.  That's pretty high.  I don't give myself anything like ten.  Seven is good.
I know I'm a good player.  Played on the LET last year, European Tour, which helped me grow as a person and with my golf game.
So I knew I was going to do pretty well here.  My goal was to win Rookie of the Year.  Sounds really good.  Really good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT