LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 12, 2017
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Angel, that was red hot finish:  five birdies in your last eight holes.  What was working so well for you out there today?  
ANGEL YIN: In the beginning I wasn't hitting it that well.  I couldn't hit a fairway.  Getting on the green was kind of hard.   
After that I kind of figured it out with my swing. Started hitting more greens, and with that, I was able to make more putts.   
Putting today worked out pretty well.   
 Q.  What was the longest putt you made?  
ANGEL YIN: Longest putt?  I made a few lengthy ones, like 20-, 30-footers.  I almost made my eagle putt on the last hole.  When it got to the hole it broke to the right.  I thought it was going to break to the left.   
So that was like a 40-footer.   
 Q.  God.  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, maybe.  Not sure.  I may be exaggerating.  I don't know.   
I made a few good lengthy ones, like 20-footers, 30-footers.   
 Q.  You must've been very happy with that start.  It was cold conditions teeing off today.  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, it was very cold.  I didn't really see the sun until I finished.   
Jeff told me it was going to be cold when I came to Korea but Monday was really hot.  I was like, You just lied to me.  I just brought so much clothes.   
Now I can actually wear them.   
 Q.  Did you like the look of this course the first time you saw it?  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, I did.  Fairway are wide; greens are not too small; they're good sized.   
Also when it's too big, if you miss just a little bit you're on the other side and you have like a 30-footer to putt.   
It's a good size.  Everything is good.  I really like how the course is set up and everything.   
 Q.  You've had a great season; you're loving this season.  Solheim Cup was obviously one of the highlights.  How would you describe how this year has gone for you so far?  
ANGEL YIN: Really well.  I had two goals this year.  One to was to play in the Solheim Cup, which I did.   
The other one is Rookie of the Year.  I'm a little far from that, but I'm working hard.  I've got five more tournaments, so you don't know what's going to happen.   
 Q.  And you're in second place.  
ANGEL YIN: Yeah, I'm in second place, so yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT