SOLHEIM CUP
August 18, 2017
Angel Yin
Lizette Salas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Angel Yin and Lizette Salas, who took a 6&5 victory this afternoon.  It's only the fifth time in U.S. history, in four-ball that the U.S.A. has had a victory margin of at least 6&5.  Ladies, you played tremendously well.  Lizette, you were on fire this afternoon.  What got in to you?  You had a great match this morning.  But especially this afternoon you really seemed to shine.   
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah, I just was fortunate enough to have great partners.  And I felt like I let myself down and let Danielle down a little bit on our first match this morning.  And kind of used the afternoon match as, like, my redemption and really just focused on feel.   
These greens are very tricky and kind of went back to basics and went to the style of golf that I know how to play.  And, yeah, I played really well.  And I think just having a partner like Angel next to me was very refreshing and very low key and fun overall.  So we did a great job.   
THE MODERATOR: What about her game do you think balanced out with you?  Or what little parts of Angel really worked well for your pairing?   
LIZETTE SALAS: I think as long as she knew that I was okay on the greens, safe, that she could go for it.  She's very aggressive, and sometimes we had to calm her down because adrenalin and it's her first Solheim and it's understandable.  But we're a team and we should complement each other.  And it worked great coming down the stretch and we pulled off the win together.   
THE MODERATOR: Angel, same question to you.  Your first victory here at the Solheim Cup in your debut.  What was it like being out there with Lizette, who has the experience to help you out there your first time out?   
ANGEL YIN: It means a lot.  She made every putt she came across.  And I couldn't putt.  She was, like, it's okay, just go hole by hole, because I was hitting it really well.  Hitting it close but not close enough.   
I had a length of a putt to work for it.  But then I calmed down after my 3-putt.  And then I made, on my back nine, I made every putt I came across, right?   
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah.   
ANGEL YIN: Yeah.  So it was good.  When I was a little flustered, she calmed me down, brought me back.  So it was good.   
THE MODERATOR: Was that fluster maybe from it being your first time out; was it some nerves?  What do you think?   
ANGEL YIN: On the first tee, I was a little bit nervous.  No, I wasn't nervous.  My heart rate skyrocketed.  So I was, like, okay, just get this on the fairway.  I and did that.   
After that I wasn't nervous, but I just couldn't make a putt.  So I was a little frustrated.  I wanted to do something because Lizette was playing so well.  I wanted to do something for her.   
I was, like, you know it's a team.  I don't need to do something crazy, special.  If she's doing well I have to support her.  That's all I need to do.   
 Q.  Lizette, it's unscientific, but I stepped it off and she outdrove you 96 yards one time.  Is she the longest you've ever played with?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Yeah.  And I just told her I'll meet you on the green.  I had to yell.   
ANGEL YIN: I was, like, the weather up here is really nice.  Come up, hurry up.  Hurry up.   
LIZETTE SALAS: I'll chip it.  It's a drive and chip to get up there.  But it's incredible how much talent she has.  And she's fearless.  And I think that rubbed off on me a little bit to be a little more aggressive when my confidence was up.   
And she was just a great partner today.  She kept me laughing, and we made fun of each other.  And just talked about non-golf stuff that really helped us, kept it enjoyable and less stressful.   
 Q.  And it was obvious after the 3-putt on 7 that you pulled her aside.  What did you say?  
LIZETTE SALAS: What did I tell you?   
ANGEL YIN: Didn't say much about putting.  It was just, like, calm down.   
LIZETTE SALAS: I said, yeah, you need to calm down.   
ANGEL YIN: Calm down.   
LIZETTE SALAS: Like, just take it easy.  It all comes down to fairways and greens.  The last three holes coming down I said, okay, fairways and greens.  And I told her on -- what was that one hole -- I said okay, I need your help here.  Because I had 3-wood in to No. 13.   
ANGEL YIN: Our last hole.   
LIZETTE SALAS: Our last hole.  I had 3-wood in.  And I said, I'm going to need your help here.   
ANGEL YIN: I drove it all the way down to the bottom of the hill.  I just want to brag about myself for a second.  Drove it all the way down the hill.  And she looked at me.  She said, yeah, I need your help.  I was, like, I got you.  I got you.   
LIZETTE SALAS: She totally backed me up when I needed her to.  And she made a few clutch putts that our team needed.  And it was awesome to share that experience with her.   
 Q.  Lizette, the Americans are down after the morning session.  What was the feeling within the team?  And then, did Juli say anything to you guys going out?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Honestly, we were all in a rush that I barely saw -- my entire team, we didn't even get together because Danielle had 30 minutes for her next one, and I had to get treatment.   
I don't think Juli has to say much to us.  I think we know what we have to do.  And I just really was looking forward to playing my own game and to really contribute that I haven't done in previous Solheims.   
We're all really positive, really just really relaxed.  That's the whole vibe for this week.  We know what our job is.  We know how talented we are as a team, and we just gotta go out there and do it.   
 Q.  Lizette, did Juli talk with you before today about the fact that she was going to put you with rookies and why she did that and how did you take that?  
LIZETTE SALAS: I think we knew -- I think I knew before getting to Iowa that I was going to have to play with either Danielle or Angel.  And I was totally okay with that.   
I know Danielle's game.  I played with Angel enough to know the kind of style that she plays and how we can kind of work together and play great.  So I had no problem playing with rookies and I don't really consider them rookies from a golf standpoint.  Maybe in other things they're rookies, but we were put in the pod for a reason, and I trusted Juli with her pairings.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you had to be at any time the mother hen out there?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Well, not really.   
ANGEL YIN: No.  No.   
LIZETTE SALAS: I don't think so.  And Juli never gave me that impression that I had to take care of Danielle or Angel.  And I think we all bring out something different in each other.  And I'm more quiet and reserved and Angel is not.  And so she kind of brings out --   
ANGEL YIN: I'm not?   
LIZETTE SALAS: You're not reserved.   
ANGEL YIN: Got that straight now.   
LIZETTE SALAS: So, yeah, I think we all just bring out something different in each other.  And we're all there for each other, and that's really comforting and when things get really intense out there.   
 Q.  Lizette, given your humble roots, your humble start in the game, when you have a great day like this and a great day for your team, on a big stage like this, what kind of feelings do you have?  Do you think back about how long a journey it has been to this point?  
LIZETTE SALAS: Definitely.  I glanced at my dad on the last hole, and you can see a smile from ear to ear.  Like he was just so proud.  And to have both my parents here -- you know, because they've been part of the journey with me and they've been through all the struggles and sacrifices.   
So just looking at them just really reminds me of how hard we all worked.  And all the players have different stories.  But it's things -- it's days like today that really make me cherish what I've gone through.   
 Q.  Angel, what was that build-up like for you having to wait until the second session today?  And explain that feeling on the first tee.  You mentioned nerves a little bit.  Go in depth a little more on those.  
ANGEL YIN: It felt great.  When Juli said, I wasn't playing in the morning I was, like, yes, sleep.  Sleep.  So I woke up at 9:00 today.  So I felt really fresh, ready to go.   
I came on the course.  Got the vibe on the first tee box, what they were talking about.  I was like, okay, I can handle this.  My heart rate went up, but other than that, I think I handled it pretty good.   
But they were all around me.  So their support meant a lot to me.  I don't think if they were out there I wouldn't have done as great.   
 Q.  Angel, can you tell us about your experience playing golf in Europe?  That must have been a big thing for someone at your age to go so far, traveling so much.  What did that do for you and what did you learn most from being over there?  
ANGEL YIN: I learned a lot.  I think I owe the European Tour how I'm playing right now.  Without them, I wouldn't have played this well on LPGA this year.   
Their courses are very different.  They're not what I usually play.  They're narrow, shorter.  So you have to think more around the course.  And that kind of just tightened my game a little bit more.  And when I came out here on the LPGA the courses are wider, but it gets narrow.   
Back in -- I have a gear.  I can use that when I need to.  So I know how to play in that situation.  And I'm playing smarter and smarter.  Last year I got, like, a 2-iron and I've been using it ever since because I notice that when I'm laying up, there's a huge gap between my 3-iron and my 3-wood.  So I've got that gap closed in.  So this year it's helped me a lot.   
 Q.  What about as an individual?  At your age it was a big thing to go over there and do that, I presume.  
ANGEL YIN: It made me more mature as a person.  It made me more independent.  But I feel like I aged a lot over there, because -- not physically, but like another world age, you know what I mean?   
LIZETTE SALAS: Oh, my God, she does this all day.  She makes me laugh all day.  Oh my God.   
ANGEL YIN: It's a good thing.  Good.   
 Q.  Lizette, you mentioned to me putting tweak in between sessions.  Can you describe maybe a little bit about what that was; was it more mechanical or more mentality, or what made you feel more comfortable?  
LIZETTE SALAS: It was a little mechanical.  I felt like I was just hitting at the ball rather than stroking it through to the hole.  Had one of my coaches here.  So I grabbed him and I said I need you to look at this.  And made a little setup adjustment, and focused on speed rather than line, line and speed are a great combo, but I really just focused on the last three feet of the putt and which way it was going to enter the hole.  And just used my imagination and that's -- I hope I'm good at that.  But it really worked out this afternoon.   
 Q.  Lizette, what were your impressions this morning of Danielle; what stood out about Danielle?  
LIZETTE SALAS: I think besides her clutch putts under six feet, I think it was her attitude.  She just embraced everything.  She was getting the crowd going.  She had so much positive energy.  And whenever I got down on myself, she asked me to name three things that were good about each putt and each shot.   
And I had to come up with some funky reasons a couple of times, but just her energy and her vibe really kept me going and she's meant for this.  She loves it.   
And she's going to agree with me on this, but she loves to be the center of attention.  So we're just really glad she's on our team, and she brings a more fiery attitude to the Solheim Cup, which is great.   
 Q.  Lizette, when Juli was in here yesterday she said she didn't want to play anybody five matches.  But you've kind of set yourself up for tomorrow playing in foursomes and then most likely playing in four-ball.  Are you good to go all five?  
LIZETTE SALAS: I don't think she's going to play anyone for five.  I think she made that very clear.  And you know it's a long week.  It's a lot of golf.  And I think as it happened in Germany, a lot of things can happen on Sunday.   
So I think she wants her strong players to be refreshed and ready to go on Sunday.  And so I'm okay with sitting out either tomorrow morning or in the afternoon.   
 Q.  Angel, in your first Solheim appearance, you're part of American history by being the first team to sweep the afternoon session.  Where do you go from here?  
ANGEL YIN: Where do I go from here?  To tomorrow.  (Laughter) no, I mean I don't know.  It still feels like a dream, honestly.  I was just out there and I was playing but honestly I was out there like for Lizette's putting clinic.  It was that amazing.  She's that good.   
LIZETTE SALAS: Thanks.   
ANGEL YIN: You're welcome.  She didn't make me say that, just saying.  I'm just doing that all by my own will.  But just preparing for tomorrow and see what happens.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT