U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 25, 2015
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Angel, I guess first things first:  How do you feel about the way you performed today?ANGEL YIN: I actually feel I did okay.  The first 18 was tough.  I don't think I played that well to be honest.  I kind of just -- estimating my score, I was like 3-over.  I can say that was like the worst round I played all week.  But the second 18 I think I played pretty well, so I played decent golf.  Today overall, I think I did okay.Q. What was your strength?ANGEL YIN: (Inaudible) I wanted it to be.  Putting, there were so many lip-outs and I was misreading the greens a lot, but I made one long one, so that was good.Q. Early today you had trouble, went out of bounds twice, I guess?ANGEL YIN: Oh, yeah, yeah.  The funny thing was this morning I was hitting my shots ridiculously straight.  I don't hit it straight.  I work my ball from right to left, so it's a good amount, like a 20-yard, 15-yard hook.  I can say it's a hook, right?  It's not a draw anymore.  So this morning I was aiming outside to the right, and it just goes straight.Q. On No. 3?ANGEL YIN: Yeah, and then on the next hole, too, and then the next hole.  I struggled a bit because I was hitting it too straight.  It just doesn't make sense.Q. How did you regroup after the first 18 holes?ANGEL YIN: I had my friends to support me, so it was good.Q. All the ones on scooters?ANGEL YIN: Yeah.Q. The scooter people?ANGEL YIN: Yeah, the scooter people, they're my people.  They came out to support me, and they gave me a lot.Q. That helped you?ANGEL YIN: Yeah, that helped.Q. Were they cheering for you or were they just there?ANGEL YIN: I hope they're cheering for me.  I don't know.Q. Did you get conservative with your second shot on 5 after you saw her hit the tree?ANGEL YIN: Oh, yeah, yeah.  I just wanted to hit it on the green, yeah.  It was a mistake.  She had a few bad breaks but I was too conservative overall, just overall.Q. It didn't look like your shots were stopping and spinning back the way they were in some of the earlier rounds, they were running out a little bit.  Were the greens a little firmer?ANGEL YIN: They were definitely firmer, but I think it's just because there's only two people playing this course today, and there's not as much spike marks, no one is walking on it.  There's only four people walking on it all day, so that affects it, too.Q. Did you feel like when you made that birdie on the 19th hole, did you think, okay, I'm getting it back, I'm going to take off here?ANGEL YIN: A little bit.  But then, I mean, I just wasn't feeling it.  I was so tired.  I was unbelievably tired.  Yesterday's round, my match with Andrea, just took me.  I was so drained from that that my second match I barely held on, and today I can't even feel the distance because I'm more of a feel player.  When I go up to a shot, I feel it.  Once I feel it, I can hit it.  I couldn't do that.  I couldn't putt.  When I look at a putt and I see the distance, I usually don't walk it off.  When I see it, I make the stroke. Today it just wasn't happening.  Nothing was just going right.  I mean, I'm physically not up with this, especially with the weather, too.Q. This is awfully hot for this much golf to be played.ANGEL YIN: Yeah, I've never played in this weather before.  I've actually played in this weather similar, but not as much golf.Q. How tough was Seong today?ANGEL YIN: What do you mean?Q. What kind of player is she?ANGEL YIN: She's a great player.  I met her two years ago, and I thought she was older than me, but then I asked, she's like one year younger than me.  I was so shocked, because I was always considered the tall one, the biggest one, and I saw her, and she took my title.Q. It looked like you guys had a lot of fun?ANGEL YIN: Yeah, we knew each other, and she was really relaxed, so it was pretty fun out there.Q. You seemed like you weren't hitting driver as much as she was.  Was that just you sticking to your game plan because you're equally as long as she was.  Was there something about your driver today that you weren't feeling or was that your game plan all week?ANGEL YIN: That was just my game plan.  I didn't want to change it because of anyone.  There was some holes that was tempting once I saw her hit it, but I was like, I need to stick to my game plan.Q. You mentioned just how tired you were.  This is a long week of golf.  You've played a lot of golf this week.  How did that affect you?  You knew going in that if you did what you wanted to do.  Were you ready for that?ANGEL YIN: Not really.  Coming here, I was like, I'm prepared.  I'm ready for this because last year's Girls I fell short because I got dehydrated, so I thought, I'm going to drink lots of water, I'm going to get prepared.  I know I have the game because I've been fixing it, and then I came here, and then the heat took me.  So I was like, okay, maybe we can survive the heat.  But the match with Andrea just completely drained me out of energy.Q. She wore you out?ANGEL YIN: Yeah, she wore me out, because I know she is one of the best players around.  Seong -- Eun Jeong, she's in Korea so we don't see each other that often, we only see each other at the USGA events, but Andrea, we see each other often, like in AJGA events, so I know how she plays and how good she is.  So that took me out.  But I wasn't really prepared for how tiring it was for the 36 holes.  Usually one hour of sleep just takes care of everything.  I mean, I had seven hours of sleep.  That's a lot, right?Q. I think it's safe to say this is your best performance in a USGA event.  How do you feel about that?  You've taken a big step here this week.ANGEL YIN: It feels great.  I mean, I had some tough matches coming in.  I didn't think I could make it this far.  It's just like, I'm really thankful that I can play against Eun Jeong, too, the last match.Q. And you had the win at the Annika AJGA event earlier this year; did that help going into the summer competitive season?ANGEL YIN: Definitely.  It built up confidence.  Any win builds up confidence.  It definitely helps, because that course, I could never play well.  I've played there for like three years, and every year it gets worse.Q. Reunion?ANGEL YIN: Yeah, Reunion, because you have to lay up, you have to plan it out, just like this course.  This course coming in practice rounds, I knew this course wasn't my course, so making it this far, I'm really happy how I did because at Forest Highlands it was different, you could actually go for it, last year's course for U.S. Girls, but this one you have to lay up.  You have to plan everything out.  You have to hit it straight and perfect.  That's how you have to play this course.Q. So that's what you learned this week is a little more course management?ANGEL YIN: Oh, yeah, a lot.Q. Do you have anything between now and the Women's Amateur in two weeks?ANGEL YIN: Yeah, Junior PGA.Q. Where is that?ANGEL YIN: Texas.Q. It's not going to be cool in Texas, either.ANGEL YIN: Chris told me it's going to be the same heat, just like today.  He told me it's like today.  He said, it's not that bad.  I'm like, okay.Q. This is your best -- you've never made it this far in a USGA championship.  You're going to be facing the same format at the Women's Am against many of the same players or a few of the same players.  Does it give you an extra confidence boost going into the Women's Am?ANGEL YIN: Oh, yeah, because match play is different than stroke play.  It's completely different.  So now I get a hanging of -- not really a hanging but just a taste of match play and how I can work with it, so it's going to help me because in Portland the weather is going to be better, so I think I'll be more focused there.Q. What grade will you be in?ANGEL YIN: I'll be a junior in high school, yeah, so next year is the last year.Q. Is that Arcadia High School?ANGEL YIN: Yeah, Arcadia.Q. Are you speaking Mandarin or Cantonese?ANGEL YIN: Mandarin.Q. And your family is from People's Republic or Taipei?ANGEL YIN: People's.Q. But the scooter people, they're from Taipei, right?ANGEL YIN: Yeah.Q. Same language, I guess?ANGEL YIN: Yeah.  We all speak -- well, we speak Mandarin, yes.  We speak Mandarin.  There's no big difference.  We have dialects.  That's the only difference.Q. And how tall are you?ANGEL YIN: I don't know, 5'81/2", 5'9"-ish.Q. I was reading your bio, you play goalkeeper when you play soccer?  Do you still do that?ANGEL YIN: No, I don't do that.Q. And you don't play basketball anymore?ANGEL YIN: No, I won't -- they won't let me.  No one will let me.Q. And how about Kung Fu?ANGEL YIN: No.Q. Do you have a belt?ANGEL YIN: Yeah, I do.Q. Which belt?ANGEL YIN: I stopped like so many years ago.  It's okay.Q. Like a long time ago?ANGEL YIN: Yeah, let's just say I have a belt.Q. Are you happy about your performance this week or more disappointed that you lost?ANGEL YIN: I'm more happy.  Yeah.Q. You were having some spirited discussions with your dad out there.  Was it just which way putts were breaking?ANGEL YIN: We keep misreading them.  I would say it's going to be left to right.  No, right to left.  No, okay.  So it was like, okay.  So we had so many tweeners, too, so we were discussing it.  I actually kind of got comfortable around him after all these days of caddying for me, and he's a really funny guy, easy to talk to, too.Q. He did, I think, on the 13th hole when you were in the bunker and you were actually closer to the hole, he did get you to stop?ANGEL YIN: Yeah.Q. And that could have been a potential --ANGEL YIN: Yeah.Q. They could have made you replay the shot, right?ANGEL YIN: Yeah, it prevented it.  Yeah, it was good.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT