U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 24, 2015
Angel Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. That putt on 18, a clutch putt to advance to the finals?ANGEL YIN: Oh, very emotional.  This is my first time playing in the finals for a USGA event.Q. Just talk about getting through.ANGEL YIN: Well, I was really stressed out.  The last hole I told myself, I just need to get a par and I would get it, but then the last three shots as you could see, I didn't make myself easy, life easy at all.Q. When she was coming back in that stretch?ANGEL YIN: Yeah, but overall, Evelyn played so well.  I hadn't played my best over everything, because you can't make a mistake with them because they're on top of everything, so -- what was the question?Q. Just how you handled her coming back and putting some pressure on you at the end.ANGEL YIN: Well, I don't even know --Q. It was 3-up for a little bit and then 2-up and 1-up --ANGEL YIN: I'm so sorry, I just finished and my mind is blown right now.  I'm playing 36 tomorrow.  Well, I kind of just dozed off because of the heat.  I wasn't really quite focused, and during that time she just came up.Q. How difficult was the heat today?  You're playing 36 holes at the end, and it's really hot.ANGEL YIN: Was it yesterday that it was really hot?Q. Today is 99.ANGEL YIN: Well, there was one day that was really hot and I managed it, and today was just drinking a lot of water and Gatorade because I almost got dehydrated last year -- well, I actually did, at the last year's U.S. Girls.  That's why I lost my match.  So I was really careful about it this year, so I was standing under my umbrella and shade the whole time.Q. Can you describe what it feels like to hit a putt like you just did at 18 with so much riding on it?ANGEL YIN: I was shivering all over my body.  It felt good because any time making those putts, like clutch putts, it makes you feel good.Q. You made two clutch putts today, both on 18.ANGEL YIN: Yeah, both on 18.Q. What do you think before you step up to take those shots?  What's going through your head?ANGEL YIN: Make it.  (Laughter.)  I honestly don't know.  I don't even know if I'm thinking.Q. Do you think that your ability to drive the ball so far was a big factor for you this week?ANGEL YIN: To be really honest, no.  I changed my driver this week to one that hits about 20 yards shorter than my original one that I had been using for three years because distance isn't really helping you.  Yeah, it does, but I lay up so much that I used my driver like five times max.Q. You were kind of under pressure all day.  After your first seven holes this morning you were down four holes and then you come back and she mentioned you made another clutch putt on 18 earlier.  Can you take me through the emotions of that putt when you were -- you needed it to move on.ANGEL YIN: Yeah, since I tend to hit everything really hard, I told myself to hit it softer, and that's what did it.Q. Was it tough to see -- I know there's a lot of emotion riding on that, and it's kind of opposites for you, and then this morning against Andrea, kind of ecstasy for you and just really disappointing for her.  What's that like coming off of the 18th green?ANGEL YIN: Sorry, I didn't quite get that.  What does it feel like?  Well, can I just be honest?Q. Yeah, please do.ANGEL YIN: I mean, I feel happy because I'm moving on, but at the same time I feel bad because she was leading the whole entire day.  She was 4-up at one point and just kept it to the back nine and then losing like that.  I mean, I felt that before, too, at Polo one year, AJGA, we were playing match play and I lost at the end after like 20 holes.  So I know what she's going through, and I feel bad, but happy at the same time, which is really mixed feelings.Q. Tomorrow 36 holes; it's going to be another grinder, going to be hot again.  Just talk about your preparation and your approach going into tomorrow against another tough opponent?ANGEL YIN: I'm going to drink lots of water tonight and just stay hydrated, stay loose, because I got really tight my first round, so I was kind of suffering from the second round.  My body wasn't really holding up.Q. What are you going to take into tomorrow in terms of just play?  What can you improve on?  What can you --ANGEL YIN: A lot of things.  A lot of things.  There's always room for improvement, I think, but I think mostly just like my second shot into the green.  That's what I want to improve on tomorrow.Q. What would it mean to you to win the Girls' Junior here tomorrow?  Can you put it into words?ANGEL YIN: No, not really.  It means a lot, because this is my third time playing the U.S. Girls.  Like I actually never qualified for the Girls.  I qualify for the Amateur more than the Girls, so it's really disappointing for me.Q. Is it a tough field, a tough qualifying field to get here?ANGEL YIN: I mean, I always -- I can't always put my driver away.  I can't.  So the qualifying course was kind of short, so you have to lay up, and once you don't lay up, you go into a lot of trouble, and I suffered from that a lot.Q. How far do you drive the ball?ANGEL YIN: 270.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT