BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
December 31, 2012
Ksenia Pervak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. PERVAK/C. Wozniacki
  3‑6, 6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   First win over a top‑10 player.   Was that the best of your career?
KSENIA PERVAK:   I beat Petkovic in Wimbledon.   I guess she was like the same ranked, so not really. (Smiling.)   But anyway...

Q.   You've been top 40 in the world and you slipped a bit.   Is this the sort of win you need to get back where you want to be? 
KSENIA PERVAK:   Yeah, I was top 40 and I got injured in February this year.   It was a small injury which were bothering me like all the time and then became a stress fracture so I was not able to play for a few months like when I needed to defend my points.   So that's why I dropped. 
I had a really good off‑season with my team, like Davis Cup, Kazakhstan, and some juniors.   I worked really hard, and I'm really happy that it's paid off like kind of. 

Q.   What was the injury?
KSENIA PERVAK:   I had a stress fracture of my pelvis like bone, so it was like pretty hard because like you cannot really like put anything to hold it because you still need to walk. 

Q.   What goes through your mind when you have that kind of injury, particularly being a tennis player because you're going to pound this hip on a court?   What went through your mind as you were getting over the rehab of that?
KSENIA PERVAK:   I was really upset because I played really good tennis.   It's really hard, because like I said, I had a small injury in the beginning and I didn't want to stop for a while.
So I was continuing to play and play and just took painkillers, and so it got worse.   But that's how it is.   I mean, it's sport, I guess.   It happens with everyone.

Q.   You have a reward here.   That was a pretty impressive display.   Did you surprise yourself, or you knew that was coming after qualifying?
KSENIA PERVAK:   Actually, like we played with Caroline in Madrid first round and I was up 3‑1 in the third and 15‑40 on her serve, so...
I was like I was going on court and I knew that it's going to be hard match, and if I'm going to play my game to the end probably I have chances.

Q.   The first set slipped by very quickly.   What changed at the start of the second set?
KSENIA PERVAK:   I don't know.   Like, I had really tough match like yesterday.   We played three hours and I was kind of like tired in the beginning.   But then I got into the game.   It just like was easy.   Like, try to play every point. 
Then like won few games and felt that I can do it and started to fight more.   Then I just like didn't really care. 

Q.   No nerves in the tiebreak? 
KSENIA PERVAK:   Really?   I just told myself that I need to be focus on every point and just play my game as more aggressive as I can, because otherwise ‑‑ like I was 5‑3 up in the third and she started to play really aggressive, more than before, and didn't make like any mistakes.
So it was the only chance.   I wanted to win, and I just said, That's the only chance; you can do it.

Q.   Were you getting a bit tight then at 5‑3?
KSENIA PERVAK:   No, like probably I got a little bit, but actually she was playing really good.   Like she started to play‑‑ she's top player.   Like she was No. 1 for a couple of years.   She's like mentally really tough. 
That's the difference between the top players, that in most important moments they're showing their best tennis.   That's what she did actually from like 3‑5.   She started to play really aggressive and everything was going in and serve was amazing.
It was not really my mistake.

Q.   Your next opponent will be Urszula Radwanska.   What are your chances of reaching the quarterfinal?
KSENIA PERVAK:   Lets see how I'm going to feel tomorrow.   I hope I'm going to have rest, but actually not.   I have to play tomorrow. 
So if I'm going to be ready like physically then I have a good chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT