AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 31, 2009
Ksenia Pervak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. PERVAK/L. Robson
  6-3, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What does it mean to you to win here?   
 KSENIA PERVAK: You know, I'm really exciting that I won here. I knew that I am the best here, but it was a little bit hard to keep the nervous. Because you know, that you are the best, but also you never know, like, what will happen like tomorrow. Maybe you'll have sick or have some problems.   
 So it was a little bit hard, but I'm really happy that I did it.   
  
  Q. You've played a lot of senior events, a lot of women's events.   
 KSENIA PERVAK: Yeah, I play more seniors than juniors. I didn't play juniors last year at all, so it was my first.   
  
  Q. Why did you choose to play the juniors here?   
 KSENIA PERVAK: You know, because like it takes a long ways to come here from Russia exactly, so that's why.   
  
  Q. Do you feel that experience playing seniors events helped you today?   
 KSENIA PERVAK: Maybe, yeah, because I think I was more confidence than she. Yeah, I think it's helped me.  
  
  Q. Had you played Laura before?  
 KSENIA PERVAK: No, never played her before. I didn't see her game and I didn't know her.   
  
  Q. What did you think of her game? What did you think of her?   
 KSENIA PERVAK: I don't know. I think she's much younger than me, like three years or something. I think she's okay. But I was better today, so what can I say?   
  
  Q. What was the difference? Was it physical?  
 KSENIA PERVAK: I think it was everything. Like I played better.   
  
  Q. You think you hit the ball harder than she does?  
 KSENIA PERVAK: Yeah, and I was -- like I played really good today. Like everything was down the lines and I moved well. That was the key.  
  
  Q. Will you play any more junior tennis this year?   
 KSENIA PERVAK: Maybe I will play French Open, because I really like Paris and the tournament there. So hopefully I will play there.  
  
  Q. But you'll try and qualify as well?  
 KSENIA PERVAK: Yeah, of course.   
  
  Q. What do you take out of the success that so many Russian women are having in the senior events? How much of an inspiration is that for you starting out?   
 KSENIA PERVAK: I mean, what can I say? I don't know. Yeah, it's a lot of good Russian players. It's just very popular, you know. Tennis is very popular in Russia. I think like everybody plays tennis, so that's why we have a lot of good players in like top 10 and top 100.  
  
  Q. Is there any one of them that you're particularly friendly with or you train with or practice with?   
 KSENIA PERVAK: Yeah, I practice sometimes with Chakvetadze, because she had the same coach -- we had the same coach for like five years ago. So, yeah.   
  
  Q. Had you ever played on a court that big before?  
 KSENIA PERVAK: No, it was the first time. That's why I was a little bit nervous in the morning. But I'm really glad that I keep it well and I really enjoyed it. Yeah, I really like it there.   
  
  Q. In what ways will to help you to have won a junior Grand Slam?   
 KSENIA PERVAK: I think I'm more confidence now, because it's like -- to win a Grand Slam you have to win six matches, so it's not easy, you know, to, like, play every match and to play good.   
 It was really hard for me because the weather was so hot and I was, like, I felt so bad.   
 Yeah, I think it will help me a lot.   
  
  Q. Will it help you in practical ways, like with wildcards and things like that?  
 KSENIA PERVAK: I don't think so. I think my ranking is 150 something, and, like, I will be in in the qualifying everywhere. So it will be okay.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT