FEDCUP SEMIFINALS: RUSSIA v USA
July 14, 2007
Vania King
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Do you chalk up the loss today to never having played Anna before or maybe some opening-match jitters? 
 VANIA KING:  I mean, I guess you can't really blame a loss on, you know, a certain thing.  I would think that would be kind of making an excuse. 
 But, you know, I think I didn't start off very well.  I think I started playing better and better towards the end.  But, you know, she didn't really give me anything.  I mean, she didn't really hit many unforced errors.  She hit a lot of winners.  She was serving well. 
 I think all I -- no matter how I played, I was trying my best.  I think that's as much as I can ask of myself. 

 Q.  How did you feel right before the match, before you came out? 
 VANIA KING:  I mean, I felt, you know, like, of course, the prematch nerves that every player goes through.  I felt pretty good, but I didn't start off so well, like I said. 
 But, you know, I tried my best. 

 Q.  Can you talk about your pregame strategy with Zina, what you talked about before the match? 
 VANIA KING:  Well, because I had never played her before, basically it was just basics that she had told me, you know, like try to move her, mix up the ball. 
 Because I never played her, most of it I have to find out on the court.  How I play is most important.  After that, I can see how I want to play her. 

 Q.  Did Zina say anything to you after the match? 
 VANIA KING:  I mean, she told me little things that she thought I needed to work on.  But, you know, she said that I tried my best and next time I'll do better. 

 Q.  Does the team have total faith in Venus to pull you back level? 
 VANIA KING:  I think the team has total faith in the team.  No matter how well we do, we're going to be a team. 

 Q.  Considering how the match went, is there anything you can pull out of today's match as kind of a learning experience for tomorrow's match-up with Petrova? 
 VANIA KING:  Well, I think they're quite different playing styles.  But I'm sure I have learned a lot for the next time I play her. 

 Q.  How do you think the girl did singing the national anthem compared to yours in Delray? 
 VANIA KING:  I think she did well.  She looked pretty young.  I don't know where she comes from.  I think she's in high school.  I mean, for someone that young, she's got an amazing range. 

 Q.  Talk a little bit about your opponent today.  What were some of the things she was doing that gave you trouble? 
 VANIA KING:  Well, like I said, I didn't start off so well.  But she was not giving me any -- she wasn't giving me any points really.  She was moving the ball around well.  She was serving well. 
 You know, like I said, all things considered, I think I did pretty well. 

 Q.  What were some of those things that went well for you?  We saw a couple of glimmers of hope, fist pumps.  What was going through your mind then? 
 VANIA KING:  Well, whenever I get into a match, I never really count myself out.  Zina was there, as well, telling me to play every point, one point at a time.  That's what I was trying to do. 
 No matter where you are in a match, until the match point is done, then the match isn't over.  So that's what I was focusing on. 

 Q.  At Delray, when you were called upon, you found out late; you didn't know coming in you were going to necessarily play.  Today was a little different.  Describe that difference in preparation. 
 VANIA KING:  Well, I mean, I didn't really have a lot of time as well this time.  I found out basically yesterday.  In every match I think the nerves stay the same. 
 Because it's Fed Cup, it's a little bit different.  I think I was just as nervous then as I was now.  I mean, it's a positive nervousness.  It's something that you want to go through, that every athlete wants to be in this position. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT