U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2019
Kelly Chinn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So once again, you like that backside.  
KELLY CHINN: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Won four of the last five holes.  What flipped the switch?  
KELLY CHINN: I just really wanted to it close down the match.  He got the match down to all square through 9 or through 10.  I had 2-up earlier, so I just wanted to put the gas pedal on and keep rolling, make some birdies.   
 Q.  And you did.  You birdied 12 and 14.  
KELLY CHINN: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  How did you birdie those two holes?  
KELLY CHINN: Well, 14 I hit a great iron shot to about 15 feet.  I just felt the read and hit a good stroke on it.   
12, what was 12?   
 Q.  Par-3, right?  
KELLY CHINN: Oh, right.  Yeah, so I hit my iron shot like three feet and gave it to me.   
 Q.  What club did you use?  
KELLY CHINN: It was a 5-iron.  It was like 220 straight downwind, so I just hit 5-iron just short of the green and let it roll up.   
 Q.  What was your yardage in, club used on 14, on that approach?  
KELLY CHINN: 14 was about 190 with a little bit crosswind going right to left, like a cut against the wind.  Just kind of start off straight and went right at it.   
 Q.  Uh-huh.  And then obviously you won 15 with a par and closed it out on 16.  
KELLY CHINN: Yeah, so as I said before, just wanted to keep it rolling.  Never feel comfortable with the lead.  I've given up before, so...   
 Q.  Was there anything in your game that changed on that backside?  
KELLY CHINN: It was my ball striking.  My tempo was a bit off on the front nine, so that was why I was kind of struggling.  Just thought about tempo.  You know, just focusing on the tempo of the swing.  Just first contact, and after I thought about that I was hitting it really well.   
 Q.  We talked about this before where you got a taste of this last year.  What's it mean to get to the semifinals?  
KELLY CHINN: It means like a whole world to me.  It's awesome to get all the way out here.  I'm not done yet.  I still got a match this afternoon, so hopefully I can close that door down and maybe be here tomorrow.   
 Q.  For those who wouldn't know, what's being in this situation like compared to winning a state championship?  
KELLY CHINN: I mean, you know, winning a state championship meant a lot.  It's different because it's as a team, winning as a team.  Obviously I won it individually last year.  That felt great.   
But I feel like for this tournament, you know, it's really high on the national level.  It's really cool to be able to advance this far, especially with all the great players out here.   
 Q.  You know Bo a little.  What do you know about his game and what's it going to be like this afternoon?  
KELLY CHINN: I know he's good.  Everyone out here is going to be good.  He's a big guy.  Probably hits it decent amount out there.  Really excited to play him.  We're actually pretty good friends, so I'm really looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT