U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2019
Kelly Chinn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Again, you played that back nine well.  
KELLY CHINN: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Got yourself back into contention.  
KELLY CHINN: Yeah.   
 Q.  How did you do it?  
KELLY CHINN: Yeah, hit fairways and greens.  That's the key to this course.  Hit the green on almost all the holes and then gave myself birdie looks.  That was the key for the back nine.   
 Q.  Great up and down on 10.  
KELLY CHINN: Yeah, got a really brutal lie out there.  Been chipping out here for a long time and I'm really getting used to them.  Just opened the club face and swung hard and judged it perfectly.   
 Q.  10-foot birdie putt on 11 and...  (indiscernible.)  
KELLY CHINN: Yeah, that was good.  That was a turning point for the match.  He was 2-down early, so to get those two back was really good.   
 Q.  And he dropped an eagle on you.  You popped back again.  Nine-footer at 16, below the hole.  Looked like the putt broke in on the right side.  
KELLY CHINN: Yeah, yeah, got a little lucky there.  Didn't break as much as I thought, but I put a good stroke on it and was glad it went in.   
 Q.  17, pretty good 2-putt from the back of the green.  
KELLY CHINN: Yeah, I saw where he ended up.  It's all about speed.  Distance is second.  Just focused on speed on that putt and it was perfect.   
 Q.  After you got the 35-footer closer on 18, (interference) extra holes?  
KELLY CHINN: Actually, I had a feeling he was going to make that.  He's been playing great the entire match.  You know, obviously I was trying to make my putt.  I just had a feeling he was going to make that.  I'm really happy for him.  We're both great friends, so.   
 Q.  How would you evaluate your whole week?  
KELLY CHINN: It's been incredible.  Definitely just very successful week.  Played really well throughout the entire week.  Just being able to just grind down in matches really gave me confidence going into other tournaments upcoming.   
 Q.  And where might you go next?  
KELLY CHINN: Playing in the Virginia Junior stroke play, junior event there, and Junior PGA after that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT