U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2019
Kelly Chinn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell me about the start of this match.  Jumped on him on that outward nine.  Tell me what you did well.  
KELLY CHINN: I think overall it was a great round.  Struck the ball really well; hit some fairways.  When I missed the green my short game was on so I was able to get it close and make my pars.   
 Q.  And you had a birdie in there on 8 to go 4-up.  How did you make that, the par-5?  
KELLY CHINN: Wait.  Right, so I just laid up.  It's a long hole.  He hit it to like ten feet for birdie and I'm like, Okay, I just got to stick it, match him.  Hit a 50-degree to about three feet and made my putt.   
 Q.  And last year obviously you were Medalist and got to match play.  What helped you from that experience to get ready for this time around?  
KELLY CHINN: Every match play event you play in I feel like I always get something experience-wise, get better at it.  Last year I was 3-up early but gave up the lead towards the end of the round.   
Mentally I was thinking, Just stay focused.  Get a couple early ones and then just keep it.  Just feel comfortable.  Just got at it, go right at him.   
 Q.  What do you think the best part of your game was today?  
KELLY CHINN: It was probably the short game.  When I missed the green I got up and down every time.  I had no bogeys today.  Especially out of this thick rough, especially the greens are a bit smaller, short game is key.  I think today I did really well with that.   
 Q.  What was your best save, do you think, today?  
KELLY CHINN: It was on hole -- it was actually a birdie.   
 Q.  Uh-huh.  
KELLY CHINN: It was hole 11.  They played it up forward and I was way right in the rough, but he was on the green with a good birdie look and I just hit it to two inches and got a birdie there.   
 Q.  When club did you use there?  
KELLY CHINN: 60-degree.  Just kind of popped it up over the bunker and just let it trickle over.   
 Q.  Now here you are, going back to the second round for a second year in a row.  How do you stay focused on what you're doing?  
KELLY CHINN: Just keep my mindset of just not giving any shots back.  Especially at this point in the match anyone you play is going to be good, so I just got to stay focused on each shot, make sure I can do the best I can, and hopefully I can get a good shot at it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT