U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Kelly Chinn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had a big lead at the start and you were still in good shape on the back side.  What do you think happened?  
KELLY CHINN: You know, it was a mix of him playing really well.  He made a lot of birdies on the back nine.  I wasn't playing as well as I would've liked to.   
Ball striking was a little off and wasn't really making any putts.  You know, combination of all those kind of led to the downfall on my end.   
 Q.  You birdied 14 and that put you in a good situation.  How did you birdie 14?  
KELLY CHINN: Yeah, so I hit my drive down to the right side of the fairway.  It was probably about 65 yards, and I hit my wedge to eight feet past the pin and drained a really good putt down the middle.   
 Q.  You had like I would say a seven-footer on the first extra hole.  Looked to me when you had the putt you thought you had made it.  
KELLY CHINN: Yes.  Right when I hit it I thought it was in.  I saw his putt come down the hill and I knew exactly where I wanted to hit it.  My caddie and I both agreed on the line.   
It just dipped right at the end.   
 Q.  Yeah.  And then he was pretty far ahead of you on most tee shots.  Do you think that had any bearing on the match?  
KELLY CHINN: Maybe just a little bit.  You know, I'm not that big of a hitter, but obviously I've been able to get through this course for three days.  You know, distance really I think helps; maybe a little bit advantage.   
But that's my game, you know.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Yeah.  And then what do you take away from this whole experience and how will it help you in the future?  
KELLY CHINN: Every tournament is an experience, and it's a great one.  Especially this one, the prestige of the tournament.  Being medalist was a great achievement, so being the medalist was really great.  I just want to keep my head up.  I've got more tournaments coming up.   
Just got to look forward, figure out some things next couple weeks, and hopefully I can get some more good rounds in this year.   
 Q.  Does this make you a more confident player going forward?  
KELLY CHINN: Yeah, definitely.  During the stroke play competition I beat some really great players out there.  So, yeah, it does boost my confidence knowing I can play with them, score just as high as them.   
But, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT