U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2018
Kelly Chinn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 2-1.  Want to talk about it?
KELLY CHINN: Yeah, it's pretty consistent round today.  Don't think I even missed a fairway today.  Ball striking was a lot better than yesterday.  The wind kind of got me with the distance control and couple putts didn't go in.
But, yeah, Trent played really well; made a lot of good putts.  It was a good match.
Q. Did you feel like you had to make any kind of mental transition from stroke play to match play today?
KELLY CHINN: Yeah, definitely.  It's a different game.  It's not, you know, a guy made par.  It's if the other guy doubles, you know, try to beat the other guy.
So, yeah, I just kind of had that kind of mindset in, knowing that he can make anything, anything can happen, and just keep my head up.  Even if you're down, you can make a run.
Q. Does it feel good to get this first one under your belt?
KELLY CHINN: Yes, definitely.  As the number one seed you're kind of expected to win, so I think I handled the pressure well.  I was very calm throughout the round.  Yeah, I played pretty well.
Q. Tell me about the birdie at 9 that gave you a 2-up lead at the turn.
KELLY CHINN: Yeah, so they moved the tees up.  Just hit my driver left side of the fairway and hit my pitch to about seven feet past the pin.  So, yeah, it was a good two shots there.
Hit a really solid putt, and that kind of got me some momentum going throughout the round.
Q. He did later cut into your lead, but then you came back with a birdie at 15.
KELLY CHINN: Right, yeah, he made a lot of really clutch par putts to halve the hole, so, yeah, hats off to him.
Also, yeah, I bogeyed a hole and took advantage of that; cut down my lead.  But on 15, hit my iron shots to about four feet.
Q. What club did you pull there?
KELLY CHINN: I hit a 7-iron.
Q. Yeah.  Moving forward, what kind of expectations, if anything?
KELLY CHINN: You know, I'm playing well.  Have a lot of confidence.  I expect to keep this good game going.  This round was definitely -- is going to be a lot easier.  Scores going to be a lot trickier.  Going to have to hit a lot better shots.
I'm just going to sharpen my game and keep moving forward.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT