RBC HERITAGE
April 13, 2018
Si Woo Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was tremendous playing.  Great play.  65 with a triple bogey.  What was working so well for you today?  
SI WOO KIM: I had a really good round today and was happy with how I played.  On 14 I ended up making a bogey with a penalty, so that ended up being a triple bogey, but I think that made me play more aggressive today, so I'm very happy with the round.   
 Q.  Could you explain the penalty on 14?  
SI WOO KIM: I was in the bunker and I was unable to get out of the bunker and it stayed on the fringe and I ended up touching the sand with my hands and I ended getting a penalty stroke for that.   
 Q.  Touching the sand for --  
SI WOO KIM: I scrubbed the sand in front of the ball.  And I realized after that I got a penalty for touching the sand.   
 Q.  I'm still confused.  Were you trying to get -- figure out if you were in the bunker?  
SI WOO KIM: I honestly didn't know.  I thought I was in the fringe and then I tried to get rid of the sand, but then I realized it was a penalty after.   
 Q.  When was the last time you had a 65 with a triple bogey?  
SI WOO KIM: This might be the first time that I've played so well with a triple bogey, but I'm having great feel around the greens and I feel really confident around the greens.  I'm looking forward to the weekend.   
 Q.  Have you played here before?  
SI WOO KIM: Yes.   
 Q.  65 here on Friday.  How would you describe your day here at Hilton Head?  
SI WOO KIM: I felt really good out there today.  I played a good round yesterday, so I had some good momentum coming in.  And unfortunately I had the penalty on 14 that kind of dropped me back.  But that made me play more aggressive and I think that led to a lot of the birdies I had today.   
 Q.  Where is the confidence level heading into the weekend with a chance to win on Tour?  
SI WOO KIM: Just being in contention today, I was kind of surprised to see my name on top of the leaderboard, but it makes me excited to contend on the weekend.  And I hope to win this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT