THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 30, 2017
Anirban Lahiri
Si Woo Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARK WILLIAMS: We'd like to welcome Anirban Lahiri from India and Si-Woo Kim from Korea, victorious with a 2-up victory over Kevin Chappell and Charley Hoffman.   
Anirban, if you can talk about gaining a full point for the team today on a very difficult day, some explosive action at the end of your match.   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, it was really hard.  I think that one full point has been quite elusive this week.  You know, it was nice to get the job done.   
Obviously it's been a tough week for the team, so we were trying our hearts out.  Si-Woo played great today.  I stepped up today but we combined well.  It was nice to come up with a full point.   
MARK WILLIAMS: Si-Woo, if you could talk about your first experience in The Presidents Cup and playing with Anirban today.   
SI-WOO KIM: First of all, I'm so excited, the first point I get in The Presidents Cup.   
It was very meaningful for me to get the first point as a representative of the International Team, and I just came here, the only Korean player to be here at The Presidents Cup on the team.   
So I know that all our team members, they worked really hard.  It is a very disappointing result right now, but I know they worked hard.   
I had a really good team with Lahiri.  We just played great with each other, so that's why we got this point.   
 Q.  Just wondered if you knew your match was really for extending this into Sunday so that they couldn't clinch.  Were you aware of that, and how determined were you on those last few holes to just find a way to get a win?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Well, you know, we knew that the day, the whole day, for that matter, has not gone well.   
I think Si-Woo and I, when we started out on the first hole, I just told him we have to keep our head down and try to not look at the TVs.  Just try and focus on our match.  Because it's one of those weeks where you look up, and you see, you know, another American hole-out or a big putt made or a putt missed.  You kind of put more pressure on yourself.   
Both of us went out and said, we are going to look away from the screens and focus on what we need to do, and keep our head down and try and play our best.  Having said that, I did see the matches -- I did see everything else was red.  There was an all-square, which was our match.  I think it was Louis and Jason were 1-up through 12, and then obviously down the stretch, things didn't go their way.   
I guess in the back of our minds, it was there, but trust me, neither of us was thinking about it coming down the stretch.   
 Q.  Playing coming down the stretch, you had some very key moments.  You played with a lot of passion.  Did something spark you?  Did you just get inspired, or was it just a matter of, you just wanted to win the point?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I mentioned this a few minutes ago when we finished.  I think the Americans have done it all week.  They seem to make the turn, just around the clubhouse, where the clubhouse is, which is the 14th, and they make birdies down the stretch.  They make putts; they hole shots.   
I was sitting in the morning when I came in, and I said one of us or some of us have got to try and do the same.  We have to try and make those putts and make those birdies coming home.  I guess that was just a good seed in my head when I started out today.   
No, I think down the stretch, it was like, we have to stay ahead.  We have to stay ahead.  I think all our matches that we were 1-up or 2-up or around all-square, we've lost 15 or 16 or 17 each and every time.   
So I knew that we had to focus extra hard coming down the stretch, and I think that we combined really well.   
 Q.  You can still sweep Sunday.  How realistic will the team be thinking about something as miraculous as that?  
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I'll be honest with you, this American Team is really good.  They have played really good.   
Having said that, you know, we are a good bunch of golfers ourselves.  We can compete.  We haven't this week.  But you know, going into tomorrow, I think we have to enjoy ourselves a little more.  It's difficult to do that when you're down the way we've been.   
So obviously, I think all of us are going to go out there and try and play our best.  We have to play for our pride.   
I think all 12 of us are not, you know, caddies, and everybody, we feel terrible about, you know, this being Nick's last captaincy, and we've not played well and the Americans have played great.  So this is not the way we'd like him to leave.  We want him to go out, also, on a happy note.  So we are going to give him our all and we are going to play for our pride and for him.   
SI-WOO KIM: It's just only one day and I know the situation is not very good right now.  It's very, very hard for me to enjoy the game, because you know, our team is losing.  However, we are united.  We had a good time the whole week.  Hopefully we'll just try hard and get some points.  That's our goal.   
MARK WILLIAMS: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT