U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 17, 2017
Si Woo Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round of golf out there.  Just talk about the position you put yourself in.  
SI WOO KIM: I really liked this round, third round, but the first nine I'm trying to be really aggressive, and then I'm staying up the number.  But first five holes really too much thinking.   
Then back nine is just playing my golf and then a much better back nine.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Do you draw upon your victory at THE PLAYERS Championship when going out and chasing another major title?  Would you draw upon from THE PLAYERS Championship win?  
SI WOO KIM: Yes, I'm really want to win here, but I think it's a little tough.  I think I'm 3 behind now.  But I'm trying to stay aggressive tomorrow, too.   
 Q.  You're seeing some incredibly low numbers out there.  It's been raining a lot.  Is it there for the taking?  
SI WOO KIM: Yeah, I think it's overnight raining and then course was a soft turnout, and no wind today.  I think every pin needed to go to the pin.  I think it's much easier today, the last two days.   
 Q.  Three shots off the lead and playing as well as you've been playing all week and an opportunity to win a major championship, how excited are you for the opportunity tomorrow?  
SI WOO KIM: Sorry?   
 Q.  How excited are you for the opportunity?  You could win this championship.  You're close enough and playing good enough golf to win this championship.  
SI WOO KIM: Yes.  Just trying to play my golf tomorrow and then, yeah, that's it.  Just aggressive.  Today a little nervous and then pressure.  But the back nine is much better, getting better tomorrow too.   
 Q.  When you see how low some of the other players are getting in their round, does that give you hope or a feeling that you may be capable of shooting a score like that?  
SI WOO KIM: I don't think it's good for me.  Today is too easy, other players may go lower.  I'm playing good today, but like 3 or 4 behind now.   
 Q.  Justin Thomas was 4 behind when he started today.  
SI WOO KIM: Yes, I'm not trying to win, but keep playing my golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT