U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 16, 2017
Si Woo Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How happy are you with that round?  I know it's not nice to finish with a bogey, but all in all, it was a very good round.  
SI WOO KIM: Yeah, really feels good.  First nine was really good putting.  Back nine I hit it still good, but a couple missed putts, but I feel still good now.   
 Q.  Obviously you're feeling good in these big events.  You've just come off a win at THE PLAYERS.  You seem to be really comfortable here.  Do you feel comfortable?  
SI WOO KIM: I really -- PLAYERS gave a lot of confidence for me.  And then I got back hurt, but getting better the last few days.   
 Q.  How has life changed for you since that win and the people back home in your homeland, what do they say to you?  Describe that.  
SI WOO KIM: Just my friends say congrats and not really changed them.  Just a little more confidence, but not much.   
 Q.  What is most difficult about playing here in the U.S. Open?  
SI WOO KIM: I played a little comfortable here today because not much wind, but I'm trying to get aggressive this morning, but the wind is coming, so that made it hard.   
 Q.  How were your emotions out there?  You seemed to ride them pretty well and you get in the zone, but then you have a little release every now and then as well?  
SI WOO KIM: I like this course now because, I mean, first time on Web.com and similar course now and windy, yeah.   
 Q.  Do you drive a car?  
SI WOO KIM: Yeah, yeah, I drive.   
 Q.  Still with you, your dad, your father?  
SI WOO KIM: Yeah, starting the week I drive, but then at home just be myself.   
 Q.  Successful year for you so far?  Successful year in the end for your favorite soccer team Manchester United.  Talk about that, did that inspire you?  
SI WOO KIM: Yeah, I really watching Manchester play, and they win this year the Champions League.  Yeah, I like it.   
 Q.  What is going to be the key for you to keep this going forward the next two days?  
SI WOO KIM: Just trying the same the last two days.  Get treatment, and it gets much better, my back now.  And I think it's putting and that's it.   
 Q.  Do you get nervous out there?  Even though you've won the event, do you feel the nerves of a major?  
SI WOO KIM: I feel confident, but here is nervous.   
 Q.  What will you do between now and your next round tomorrow?  How do you relax and spend your time?  
SI WOO KIM: Just get rest, back to hotel.  I don't know.   
 Q.  How did you celebrate winning THE PLAYERS?  
SI WOO KIM: Just back to my home and then with family, then some Korean players getting dinner, a dinner party.   
 Q.  Did you buy yourself a new car or something?  
SI WOO KIM: I don't have a home in the U.S., now I buy a house in Dallas.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT