THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2017
Si Woo Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Winner of the 2017 PLAYERS Championship.  At just 21 years of age, how were you able to handle such a big moment?
SI WOO KIM: I still can't believe that I'm the champion and I'm the youngest champion for this championship and I'm very honored to be the champion for this amazing fifth Major event and I'm looking forward to working hard from now on.
Q. You did have a win in Greensboro for your first PGA TOUR victory.  What types of experiences did you lean on coming down the stretch here today at THE PLAYERS?
SI WOO KIM: Usually I'm very nervous, but last year I won one of the tournaments and then I could get the two years of exemption.  Because of that I can play aggressively and I wasn't that nervous this year.
Q. Flawless out there, were you as composed on the course as you looked for someone so young?
SI WOO KIM: It's still unbelievable that I won this championship and I am very excited I'm the youngest champion for this tournament and I'm very honored to be that.
Q. You follow a hero and mentor in K.J. Choi.  Joining K.J. Choi on the trophy.  I know you played a practice round with him in the lead-up to this, how exciting is it for you to be Korea's next big star?
SI WOO KIM: K.J. has become a really good model, so because he had won before I have I am kind of confident that a Korean can win one of these tournaments and that actually helps me when I'm playing.
Q. Your second PGA TOUR victory, how special does it feel to be THE PLAYERS champion?
SI WOO KIM: I feel like I'm still dreaming.  I never expected that I'm going to win this tournament and I wasn't doing that well at the beginning of this year but I'm just so excited that I could be the champion for this tournament.
Q. You looked very, very calm and composed all day.  How were you able to manage your emotions so well?
SI WOO KIM: It's been a great experience for me to win the championship last year and today, because of that experience, I could be relieved and I could be very stable and especially I just focused on myself and I didn't try to think about others scores.  I think that really helped me to be stable.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT