RBC HERITAGE
April 14, 2018
Si Woo Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  3-under, 68 today.  How would you describe your performance here in the third round?  
SI WOO KIM: I had a lot of great feel on the course today.  I did notice that I made a lot of mistakes today compared to yesterday.  My putter didn't feel as good as yesterday.  But I think it's going to motivate me to be more aggressive and play well tomorrow.   
 Q.  With a chance to win tomorrow what are some of the things you're looking at in your past with the victories you've had that might help you get back in the winner's circle?  
SI WOO KIM: I just wanted to stay in contention and put myself into a good spot heading into the final round.  And I was a little disappointed because I was nervous on the first few holes.  But just drawing back on those experiences with my two wins, I hope to get another one on Sunday.   
 Q.  How do you assess your round today?  
SI WOO KIM: I felt like my shot making was pretty good today.  But I was a little disappointed in my putter.  I didn't make all the putts that I wanted to.  I feel like I'm in a good spot heading into tomorrow.  And I hope to get another win tomorrow.   
 Q.  Talk about how you feel about going into tomorrow's final round?  
SI WOO KIM: I'm actually kind of relieved that I'm not in the final round tomorrow.  I think I'll be able to play more comfortably that way.  But drawing back on my two previous wins, I hope to gain another win tomorrow and I'll give it my best.   
 Q.  How will you change your preparation for the early tee time?  
SI WOO KIM: Having a really late tee time today I felt that was a big waiting period for me.  So my body needed to adjust to that.  But tomorrow I heard there's bad weather coming, so we're all going off earlier, which I'm looking forward to.  I like playing early, so I think it will suit me well.   
 Q.  What's going to be the biggest key to get the win tomorrow?  
SI WOO KIM: I think the first five holes will be the most important for me.  Usually like any player they're going to get nervous on the first few holes.  I'm going to try to stay patient tomorrow and play those five holes the best I can and be patient and I'm looking for a win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT