THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 28, 2020
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Back-to-back rounds in the 60s. I think you'd take two more of those on the weekend.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, sure would. It might only be 68-68 to finish it off, but yeah, good start.
Q. This golf course is hard. Being as cold as it was this morning, how have you adjusted to the first 36 holes?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, greens got really slippery this morning. Hopefully that will kind of make things a little faster, so probably a little adjustment needed tomorrow, as well, and just, a bunch of pars and maybe a few birdies.
Q. Getting back into a rhythm when you lose last season, obviously health being the number one concern, you got plenty of starts this year to try and get it done. What's it like trying to find your rhythm back out here with a full season hopefully in front of you?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, it's a little tough. I don't really get to pick my schedule this year. Unfortunately I'm not in tournaments like the Genesis Open or the Bay Hill, so missing a few of my favorite starts, but got to try to play well at different courses this year.
Q. I want to hear about this battle with Ryan Armour. Started somewhere in the middle of the trap, went all the way to 18, you've got to set par and figure it out. What's the strategy when you're playing cross country golf? Walk me through trying to do it here.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, it's really fun. Actually we play Bear's Club backwards sometimes. It's really cool. Just makes you think outside the box a little bit. We had to play from 16 tee all the way to 18 green, and if it was up to me, I'd probably screw around on 17, but we did a shot from short of 16 to 17 green, and somehow we both pulled it off, which actually worked out pretty well. Tried to carry it from the green over water on 18 and didn't quite make it. But I think I made it on 11, so not too bad, I guess.
Q. Lasers don't work too well through grandstands. How do you step that one off?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I have an app actually, kind of click and drag on the iPhone, but yeah, I didn't carry it far enough anyway.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT