THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 9, 2017
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I gave myself enough looks and hopefully they will be able to fall the next cup weeks.   
 Q.  The par-5s I thought that was the key to what you were going to be able to do on the back.  Was it the number at 12?  You just pound 1-down there.  I thought that was the opportunity to really seize control of this thing?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, I was trying to hit a high cut in there.  Kind of a downhill lie and straight up chunked.  I don't chunk many shots, so it was just an ill-timed thing.   
 Q.  You bounced back on 13.  Hit the really good shot in there to really get back into the thick of it.  What was the vibe like?  Because all of a sudden it turned into an anybody's game, but it's hard to really know what was going on out there.  Where did you think you were as you came down the stretch?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I figured I was two back after that birdie on that par four.  Still wasn't sure exactly where I was.  I knew that I had to make two coming in, that turned out to be pretty much right.  Had a couple good looks.  I hit a good shot on the par-3 and just a yard short from being really close.  That's a really, really tough pin.  Probably not many birdies.  Still close there.  And 17 killed me.  That's about it.   
 Q.  Continuation of a great season and now it looks like a trip across the pond for the Open Championship.  There's some good things to take away from this week.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Totally Lee.  I'm stoked to play.  I can't wait to go back over there.  I had a tough go last year, I had a weird draw.  But the people are great and the course will be unbelievable, so I'm pumped.   
 Q.  After doubling the first, what did you tell yourself to bounce back down the stretch?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I thought I bounced back well.  That first hole didn't go quite according as planned.  That's a tough way to begin your round.  I had some chances coming in.  Just got to clean up that first hole and I would be right there.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you to have a return trip to The Open Championship, it's coined of a carrot that dangles for what you did this week.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: That was goal No. 2.  We try to win every event we play in and then that's a consolation prize, which is awesome.  I fell a couple spots in the World Ranking the last couple weeks, so I'm stoked to go over there.  Heard the place is awesome.  Praying for some decent weather and some heat.   
 Q.  Did you have any idea where you were at?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: When Xander hit it close on 18, I kind of pitched out a little bit, obviously trying to make birdie there, but that bogey kind of put me out of position for that top four spot, so, but overall not too displeased.   
 Q.  Give us a rundown of your round.  You were almost there, close enough, but fell a little short.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Tough start.  Doubling the first hole is not awesome.  All of a sudden I'm down three, and then I'm down five.  That's not good.  Bounced back okay.  Par-5's kind of got me there, I should have made two birdies or at least one.  Xander played great.  Hats off to him.  We played together all day and he hit it great, putted well and a real nice kid.   
 Q.  Are you proud of how you did bounce back given that start?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, I am.  I didn't have my best today, so kind of pleased with that.  It wasn't horrific, so decent week ball striking, putting was okay and I'm just happy to go back to The Open Championship.   
 Q.  You missed a lot of close ones today.  We watched you putt, so many grazed the edge it seemed like.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: That's kind of the case all week.  Hard to say what the problem was.  I had a great look at 17, hit a really good putt and I just totally missed on the read.   
But, yeah, it was a good week.   
 Q.  Conditions a little more difficult the weekend with the wind and the greens?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: It firmed up.  Yeah.  There's not much wind, but just enough where it's light and variable and that's just kind of annoying, back in the mountains, makes things hard.  It firmed up and the rough was long.   
 Q.  When you look at the whole week and what they did to get this course ready, pretty phenomenal?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Unbelievable.  This is one of my favorite events of the year, so I was so bummed last year we couldn't play and obviously I felt terrible for the people of the area, but, yeah, the course bounced back unbelievable.  Probably some of the best conditions we see on TOUR all year.   
 Q.  How far have you come, you missed a short putt in the Open Championship qualifier to get here one year, how far have you come from that point?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I don't even remember that it's so long ago.  I'm happy with my trajectory.  When I keep putting myself in this position to knock off some wins, that's the goal.   
 Q.  This is an event for 20-somethings and rookies, isn't it?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Oh, all these kids are awesome players.  They come out of college and they're ready to go.  It just shows you how deep the fields are week-in and week-out that anybody can win and I think it's been proven the last few years that it's just deep, deep fields.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT