THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 8, 2017
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You took advantage of moving day.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, hopefully be within three of the lead.  Depends what happens here at the end.
Yeah, I feel good.  Got to make some putts tomorrow.  Might take 6-under to win.
Q. I thought today evolved a little bit.  Felt like hold on early, and then all of a sudden the golf course felt a like it got little bit more gettable late in the afternoon.  How did you go out there and try and attack it and find your way around?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, that back nine has two par-5s.  The front nine is par-3 (indiscernible).  That makes things tough.  Couple good par-3s.  Front nine is definitely tougher.  Like I said, you got to hold on.  That wind get really, really swirly back there on 4, 5, and 6.  That's always tough.
Q. Getting the ball in position here is obviously important.  With your length, how do you try and manage getting around this golf course, and how have you evolved through three rounds here this week?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, strategy has been the same:  always pretty aggressive off the tee.  Nothing stupid, but I'll probably hit a few drivers where guys might not.
The rough is not terrible, and rather have a lob wedge from the rough than 8-iron from the fairway.
Q. What does it take tomorrow?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: 17.
Q. All right.  Go get it then.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: All right.  Thanks.
Q. Have to be pleased with the third round.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, five birdies, one bogey.  Real pleased.  Couple off the lead, so might need 6 tomorrow.  Need to make some putts and go from there.
Q. Still looking to get the W.  Was there ever a point where you said to yourself you feel more comfortable being in these positions going into Sunday?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, I think so.  I think everyone feels more comfortable as time goes on.  I'm 29; I'm getting kind of old.  So hopefully get one of these someday soon.
Q. Think about your strategy changing for you tomorrow as far as how you attack this golf course?  It's firming up.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, no strategy changes yet.  We'll see how the day progresses, see how the leaders do, and we go from there.  The back nine is a little more scorable, two par-5s.
Yeah, you know, the greens are getting firm, but they're doable.  Going to have a lot of wedges in here, so not it's too bad.
Q. Mentality of perhaps not necessarily being in the last group for you but coming from behind, is that more comfortable in your mind?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I'm not sure.  Some has got to win, so might as well have -- be as many under as you can.  I would prefer to be 20-under par if I could, but not the case.
Q. You look pretty flat lined, calm.  The pulse go up tomorrow?  This is the opportunity you've been waiting for again.  Yeah, everyone is mor?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, everyone is more nervous on Sunday.  That's fine.  That's why we play.  Not a huge deal.  Just got to take it slow and give myself a lot of decent looks and don't be too aggressive going into the greens.
When you're on the greens the rough is high and the greens are firm, so you never want to short side yourself?
Q. Is it cool at all to see Davis Love at 53 being right there?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, it's crazy.  He's a Hall of Fame player obviously.  20 wins --I think 20.  It's unbelievable.  He's 53 or 54.
Q. I think he'd be the oldest winner; he'd break Sam Snead's record.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, it's super impressive.  I can't imagine playing golf for another 23 years.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT