U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 16, 2017
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jamie, how is the course playing differently today compared to yesterday?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I was told windy late this afternoon.  It's picked up a little bit this afternoon, but nothing to speak about.  Still soft, but conditions were very easy for scoring.  With wide fairways and soft greens, it's doable.   
 Q.  What about those pins?  Some were tucked into awkward spots, what did you make of those?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, you had to be on the right side.  You can't leave yourself short-sided coming down the hill.  You have to be pretty conservative coming in on the greens, and aggressive off the tees.   
 Q.  To go out there and play like that today, how do you feel going into the weekend?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I feel good.  I played a lot better than I did yesterday, just kind of feeling my way around yesterday.  I hit it much better.  Tomorrow probably the same thing.  Keep it between the fescue and make some putts.   
 Q.  How would you describe the course?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I don't know.  I haven't played the par-5s too great.  I don't really like blind shots.  I'm not sure, I just got to keep it in play.   
 Q.  Were you doing something especially well today?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I've been putting pretty well.  Yesterday I putted great; today I putted really well.  It was really nice today to keep my irons consistent.   
 Q.  You've been in a good run of form recently.  What is it about your game that makes it possible?  What is going right for you right now?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: A bit of everything.  I've been playing well all year, for the most part.  I'm never too far away from having a great tournament.  Everything feels very solid.  It's just a matter of putting four rounds together, I guess.   
 Q.  You've been in a weekend contention before at your only other U.S. Open.  Can you draw upon that a little bit in terms of what to expect this weekend?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, probably so.  The course will probably be longer.  Maybe a reachable par-4, should be firmer and faster barring any rain.  Just got to get off to a good, slow start, get conservative and kind of work my way into a solid round.   
 Q.  The fear of a major championship, in particular this one, for an American, do you feel -- what are your feelings in being right there in contention at a U.S. Open?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, it's a good spot to be in.  It's our national tournament, national Open and we're excited to be here.  And I'm sure it will be rough this weekend.   
 Q.  There's a lot of guys out there with 0, 1, 2 (indiscernible), is there anything about the course that could explain that?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I just think golf's in a good place right, I don't think it matters.  Everyone's a few strokes away from winning three or four times a year.  That's the way it is.  It's just so deep that anybody can win, and I think you might get a very stacked leaderboard really.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT