ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
May 2, 2016
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Take me through the playoff.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, hit a bad drive the first hole.  I saw Ben was in good position so I decided to press it and try to get up there, and obviously kind of hit a tree and ended up kind of making a mess of that one.
Then hit a great drive on the second hole and just kind of double-crossed myself, had a pretty good number to carry that front bunker and just hit a bad shot.  He hit an incredible shot from, whatever, 160 yards.  Very deserving.  It's all right.
Q. Take me through what you saw on those putts that you had to win in regulation, first playoff hole.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, 80 feet for eagle, both putts uphill into the green, just crazy slow, and just bad speed, and then the second one I just blocked it, and that's just golf.
Q. And how about the first playoff hole?  You had the other birdie try, as well.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, that was the one that blocked an inch.
Q. And big picture, you lost in a playoff back in '09.  It was a long road to get back here.  Obviously you want to get the win, but what it does it mean that you're getting that close?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Inching my way.  Hopefully I win one of these.  It was a good week overall.
Q. How do you feel health-wise after this weekend, starting and stopping?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, feel great, no complaints, just muddy.
Q. I know you must be gutted, but you've been doing good things.  How are you feeling right now?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I feel good.  Just kind of disappointed I lost there, and Brian made a great birdie on the last playoff hole.  No complaints, just moving on to next week.
Q. It felt like you came out after all these delays and stuff really solid this morning, hitting the ball well, giving yourself good looks.  Where was the mindset during your final 11 holes or so?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, it was a weird final round between the last two days.  I felt good, just worked on my breathing, hit it pretty well throughout the entire round.  Couldn't quite draw a feel on the par-3s, but overall I'm happy.  Just happy we finished this 54 and we're moving on.
Q. You talked about the one in regulation.  A lot of players are leaving that short.  It looked like you had it.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, it was right in the middle, just uphill into the grain.  It's been raining so the greens are slow, but we know that.  It's a putt you've got to get to the hole, and I just didn't.  That's that.
Q. How about the second shot on the last hole on 18?  You were in a really good spot there.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, I was, just double-crossed.  I usually kind of play my left to right shot and somehow managed to smash is right to left.  Not really sure what happened, just a bad swing at a bad time, I guess, but he made a great birdie.
Q. How do you look at this?  I know it's a disappointment, but you're playing real well.  How do you reconcile the whole week?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, you know, sucks not to win.  I'm sure I'll be in another playoff and I'm sure I'll win playing more events.  Not too disappointed, just a little bummed, but moving on to next week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT