THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2018
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Does this course lend itself to a good round for you?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, I love the course.  It's very challenging.  I think holes 5 through 11 are some of the hardest on Tour.  18 is a tough finishing hole, too.  The scores might drop off a bit this weekend.  It will be a little firmer.  It's a great field.
Q. How do you look at the Playoffs in terms of your entire season?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Well, for anybody that's in the top 30, top 30 or best for us, Atlanta is the biggest goal, having a chance to win the FedExCup Playoffs.  Other than that, go out there and try to make some birdies and see how you play.
Q. Do you look forward to it during the course of the season?  Obviously everybody looks at the majors but where does this fit into your whole mind-set as you look at your year?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Now that the majors are over, this is the biggest four events we have left.  Throughout the year we are always looking at the FedExCup and checking our standings.  Like I said, our goal is East Lake, and we're almost there.
Q. How do you look at your career?  You've had success as a freshman in college, and probably go into your professional career with a lot of big aspirations, but things like that -- how do you see --
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I think I've had a very successful career.  I've had a tough start to my career but only made me stronger.  Gone through some up and downs, some stuff that many other players have gone through, and I'm proud to come out the other side.
Q. FedExCup puts more pressure on players outside the top of the list to make their moves.  What is your thinking about going from four tournaments to three?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: If it makes sense for the TOUR.  I obviously voted on it.  I think the fact that we're trying to kind of sneak ahead of football is probably a big plus for us, especially I like watching football myself.  It will be good to finish up in August and maybe take some of the spotlight away from the football season.
Q. Talk about where you are now in the second round.  There's all these names here and people are out here to watch Tiger and you now lead.  Talk about that, an accomplishment in itself?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: The goal at the start of the week is to lead and to win it.  I'm in great shape.  Going to take tomorrow one step at a time and go from there.
Q. Going to three Playoff events rather than four, does that make it easy just in terms of -- physically make it easy for you and make the season a little more compact?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Not really.  We have three in a row this year and then we have one off and Atlanta.  It's very similar scheduling, just one less event.  Not sure what they are going to cut to after the 125s, but it will probably obviously end up at 30 again.
Yeah, it's just nice having maybe a little bit more of an off-season for us.
Q. How does it golf course set up for you?  I know you like playing these classic, old-style golf courses.  What about your game do you think matches up well with this type of golf course?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I'm not sure.  I grew up in California.  It's not too dissimilar from a California golf course with the poa annua greens and bentgrass.  That being said I've played well on bermuda at the Honda and at different courses around the world.  I think if you're playing well, you're playing well.
Q. Playing 1 through 4 in 6-under, anything in particular about those holes that suits your eye?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: No, nothing really.  Just the way it falls.  Hopefully I'll play 5 through 18 way more under than that.
Q. You made a couple of bombs on 4 and 9, 40-footers and things like that.  What's your approach to such a long putt like that and having it drop?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I try to make every putt I hit.  Kind of the aim small, miss small philosophy.  I think if you narrow your focus and target, you'll have better results.  My speed's been really good, so try to keep that up.
Q. Was the speed fairly consistent over the course of the day?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: A little firmer.  Greens are a good speed.  Nothing crazy fast.  Probably 11 on the Stimp.  Ball will be down tomorrow, I'm sure.  It's firming up.  A few mud balls out there but I think tomorrow it will be nice and dry.
Q. You said you're a football guy.  Are you a college football guy or pro?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Both.  I'm a USC guy, so big Charger fan.  I was a Charger fan -- I'm on the fence with them, though.
Q. How is Donald going to do for the Jets?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Looks good so far.  I wish him the best.  Looks like a great prospect and he's a hell of a player.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT