ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 29, 2016
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 67 and then a 66 today.  You played 27 holes.  How were you able to keep it going?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Just happy to be alive.  I mean, it was hot, humid.  It's a tough walk, just soft, so ate a ton, walked slow.  Not too bad.
Q. What's been working with your game to get to 11-under par?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Most everything seems to be decent.  I'd say I'm putting nice, aggressive off the tee and driving it well, trying to kind of work my irons a little bit.  That's something new for me.  It's all a process, and slowly improving.
Q. You're in a great spot through 36 holes now.  What's the mindset going into the weekend?  We don't know how it's going to shake out as far as weather-wise.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Totally.  I don't think I tee off until a little bit later tomorrow, and then Sunday looks bad, too, so not sure.  Take it slow.  The course is gettable, so keep making some birdies.
Q. You've been in a similar position early in the season.  What can you draw on from that past experience?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, a few times.  I was up there in Houston.  Had a pretty decent season, so just keep doing what I'm doing.  I know obviously it works well.  Just got to believe in myself and keep pushing through.
Q. 27 holes, but you were looking awfully chill out there, you were just ambling around making bunches of birdies.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, I don't feel super chill.  It was a hard walk.  It's a long day, so happy to be done.  Especially happy to be at 11-under.  Guys are just teeing off for the second round.  So go home, chill a little bit, get some good food, and then go home and watch some TV.
Q. Seven of those 11 came on the par-5s.  You've been driving it really well.  Is that the key to playing this golf course in your opinion?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, gosh.  I'm fortunate enough to hit it pretty far and pretty high, so this week is all about that.  You've got to carry it a long ways to get it in the fairways.  Decent amount of mud balls.  With my length, you've got to hit it decently out here, and then, like I said, crush the par-5s.
Q. I thought you were going to take a cut at No. 18 green.  Was there a mud ball there?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, huge clump of pretty dry mud on the left side.  Mud on the left of the ball goes right, and water right, so I opted out, and it actually worked out.
Q. What did you do now?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I'm going to go sleep, man, find some A/C, chill a little bit.  I'm staying in town, so get some good food and just kind of relax, watch some basketball.  I think there's some good games on tonight.
Q. Tell us about conditions out there today, how the course played.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, sure.  I teed off at 8:00, conditions were very soft.  Greens were a little slow, but that's how it is.  You can take advantage of those conditions even though it's very windy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT