SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 2, 2016
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JAMIE LOVEMARK: The wind was blowing all over the place.   
 Q.  It changed a pretty good amount of degrees from when you started to when you guys were on the back-9.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: It was rolling good in the trees.  Definitely switched from more of a north to northwest and who knows what.  It was tough.  The scores were probably pretty high.   
 Q.  You were solid on the putting right now.  You look like it's just automatic for you right now on short putts.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah.  Gosh, the greens are perfect.  What can you say?  They're fast and roll perfect.  Decently good strokes should go in.   
 Q.  How much has this course dried out in a day, really?  It's unbelievable.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: It's fast.  It's really fast and firm.  Like you said, the wind picked up, cold night last night, and I think another cool night tonight, this wind throughout the day, so make it even firmer and faster.   
 Q.  Thanks for your time.  Good luck tomorrow.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Thank you.   
 Q.  Quick start.  Got a share of the lead.  Got the outright lead early, hung on for 2-under, 70.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Quick start.  Things felt good early.  Got some of the down-hole winds early.  Got a bunch of birdies and hung on.  Got tougher throughout the day, firmer and faster.  It's a tough finish.  The last couple of holes were tough and not many easy holes throughout the middle of the course.  I'm pleased.   
 Q.  Has your confidence grown throughout the week?  We talked to you each and every day.  You like where you are, you feel comfortable?  As it gets closer and closer and you're still at the top, how does your confidence grow?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Confidence is good.  Got to keep doing what I'm doing.  It's going to be a tough battle tomorrow.  Lot of guys, I think, are pretty close to the leaderboard.  Saw me and Jim were tied, but I'm not sure what else is going on behind me.  It will be a tough day.  Weather should be good, not too windy.  Be a shoot-out.   
 Q.  What is it like for you being in the final group?  You've won on every other level up to this point, but it's a unique position for you on the PGA TOUR.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Final group at the Career Builder Challenge this year, learned a lot from, didn't quite win that one.  I'll take some of the things I learned from that and apply it to tomorrow and hopefully I'll win.   
 Q.  How difficult is it to keep the incentive that comes with winning on the back-burner?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Not too concerned about it, honestly.  If I play next week, that's great.  Obviously a win on any level is very important to me, whether it's winning Puerto Rico or this week.  A win is a win.   
 Q.  Looking back at '09 early in your pro career had a chance to win at the Frys.  What are some of the biggest changes from then to now?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Getting old, man.  Turned 28.  It's tough.  That was my third or fourth event as a pro.  Things seemed kind of easy.  Hindsight, it's not too easy after all.  I'm not taking much for granted.  Just going to do what I do.   
 Q.  How do you feel like you handled the final group today?  Do you feel like you did well?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I felt good.  Conditions got tough.  I didn't hit it particularly great, not terrible though.  Kept the ball in play and some good shots to save par.  Putted nice but got to miss it in the right spots around this course.  Obviously can't hit it in the water and stuff.  Course is great.  Leave yourself a couple makeable putts and scramble.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT