SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2016
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another good one out here today, Jamie.  How different was this, how different did this golf course play compared to Thursday?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, crazy different.  20 degrees colder, blowing 18, 20 miles an hour.  Tees are up.  Wind was up.  So, yeah, it was different.  Lot more challenging.  Yesterday the ball was traveling forever.  Not an amount of breath of wind.  I think we got the best draw, the early/late.
Q. What does it say about where you are with your game to get through a round like this and put up a 68?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Lot of confidence taken away from this round.  Lot of water out there, trusting my swing and letting the wind take care of the ball.  Swinging great.  Got to make some more putts and be a good weekend.
Q. We talked at Bay Hill that you continue to knock on the door.  As you said, you've won at every level.  Only a matter of time.  What are you learning from each and every week getting more comfortable when you get in this position?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Just learning tendencies.  Obviously under pressure, swing changes a little bit.  It's a little attitude changes a little bit, body fluctuates a lot.  Just ins and outs of being in contention late on Sunday and stuff.  Hopefully I'll get it one of these days.
Q. How much more comfortable are you out here as opposed to maybe five years ago, your rookie season?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Lot more.  I'm playing better, I'm older, more mature.  Got my stuff together.  So, having a good time.
Q. What's it like for you to be back here five years later after you're having to withdraw from this event and led to the back surgery.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Feels great.  I remember on Wednesday, was it 2011 I guess it would be, couldn't really bend over to get into my set-up and I knew that day I was in trouble.  So, yeah, feels great to be playing at a course where I couldn't even compete five years ago.  Come a long ways, and hopefully I'll be able to win it and that will be a cool story.
Q. When you look now at so many young guys really playing well, is there anything that causes you to reflect back on where you were at 22, 23, maybe things you might have done differently or lessons you learned?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, of course.  Hindsight is 20/20.  You never know.  But it's just crazy how good players are when they're young, come out here, competing every week.  It's impressive, really is.  Maybe the public takes it for granted.  Players out here know how impressive it is, as do I.  I couldn't quite get it done at that age.
Q. What are some of the tendencies that you learned about, talked about?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Some swing stuff.  Not to get into too many details.  Stuff I've been working on with Chris.  Stuff I took from Palm Springs and even Sea Island, Bay Hill, stuff like that.  Hopefully have a pretty good grasp on it.
Q. Talking about attitude?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Lot of patient stuff.  Just not putting too much into one single shot.  It's been a big key for me the last couple years.  Getting older and mature.
Q. You said five years ago you realized you were in trouble.  What were those days and weeks like after when you realized things weren't right?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: It was tough.  I'm just kind of sitting at home not doing too much, trying to do some rehab.  Watching from the sidelines is never fun, especially after having a good college career and good Nationwide Tour at the time, Web.com Tour, 2010.  Tough sitting there.  All works out.
Q. How long after this week, five years ago did you have the surgery?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: End of August.
Q. Did you know at the time when you withdrew here it was going to be as invasive of a procedure and as long on the shelf as it turned out to be?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: No, I had no idea.  I knew I couldn't swing, couldn't really walk.  At that point going to go home and reevaluate and I did.  I had a great doctor, great surgery, and no pain since.
Q. Did you hit driver here a lot with the rough being so low?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Definitely.  Super aggressive.  Probably a little too aggressive.  I would love to hit driver on every hole.  Couple shots I don't.  I might hit 11, 12 drivers around, just hit it hard and find it to hit it again.  No rough.  Perfect conditions.  Be aggressive.
Q. Big part of why you've played good so far?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I would like to think so. courses are courses kind of thing, but it's hard to say.  You're going to play well wherever if you're playing well.  I played well at Sony, which really doesn't suit my game, quote/unquote.  You never know.  You play well when you're playing well.
Q. You had a lot of top finishes this year.  Do you feel ready and prepared to potentially win?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I do.  Competing a handful of tournaments the last year, U.S. Open, obviously on this Tour so far.  Got to get it done.  Keep knocking until I do it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT