ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 18, 2016
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Rounds of 68, 68, Jamie.  How would you say this one played out for you today?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Similar. Scoring is very doable especially the par-5s.  I think guys will have a decent time out there this afternoon.   
 Q.  Back and forth between the PGA TOUR and the Web.com Tour.  What has that journey been like since you left college?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: It's golf, man.  It's a tough sport.  Good stories, sometimes good, and some valleys.  Part of life.   
 Q.  How that has journey helped you in preparation for what you face this week in the mix?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah.  You know, I've been in a couple events.  Obviously trying to catch Jason Day is going to be some task, the best in the world.  Playing great.  It will be a tough week to catch him.   
 Q.  You played well again today.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I did.  Thank you.  Trying to catch Jason is pretty hard to do.  He's playing nice so it will be a fun weekend.  I think the scoring conditions will be similar, maybe get some rain this weekend might soften some things up.   
 Q.  You played here once in 2010, I believe.  What did you take from that or do you think that about, that was six years ago?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: That was forever ago.  It's crazy.  Time goes by so fast.  It's nuts.  2010 was a par 70.  One of the hardest courses I've ever played.   
The rough was up.  16 and 4 were par 4s and just extremely tough golf course.  Little different this year.  The course is literally perfect so making putts, and around the greens is pretty easy.   
 Q.  The scoring averages yesterday, the same for both the morning and afternoon wave.  Did you notice any difference from yesterday afternoon to this morning and just the conditions?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Got to 90 degrees yesterday degrees.  The ball was traveling a little bit more in the afternoon.  Didn't blow too hard yesterday afternoon.  Probably little bit windier, the ball goes further but the wind affects it a little bit more.  The greens are perfect throughout the day.   
 Q.  You're in the hunt on the weekend.  Good luck.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT