JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2012
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Great playing today.   Obviously you're looking at your major medical.   I guess this is your last event to maintain that for the year.   Obviously making strikes and getting to where you need to be. 
JAMIE LOVEMARK:   Yeah.   I'm hoping to get a few more exemptions towards the end of the year, so I have that to look forward to. 
But as far as today, I've been playing like this for a long time.   It just hasn't been coming to the golf course.   It's nice to put two really good rounds together. 
Unfortunately decently bad first day, but I need to shoot something like this tomorrow again. 

Q.   What was your injury? 
JAMIE LOVEMARK:   Back surgery.   Microdiscectomy.   Herniated disc, lower back. 

Q.   When was that? 
JAMIE LOVEMARK:   It happened October 2010; I had surgery last year in August. 

Q.   What's it been like to get back to where you are right now?
JAMIE LOVEMARK:   It's been tough.   Not really a physical thing.   It's more of a mental thing, being comfortable on the golf course with my body.   You still have times you think your back is gonna hurt but it doesn't hurt. 
Just trusting your body mechanics and the way you're swinging.

Q.   Knowing what's at stake this week, how much has that entered your mind coming into this tournament?
JAMIE LOVEMARK:   I've kind of made my peace with it.   Whatever happens next year is going to happen next year.   Doesn't both me.   Obviously I want to be out here again. 
There are multiple ways to get back on TOUR, this week being one of them.   Q‑School, Nationwide, I mean, doesn't really matter anymore.   I've played plenty of events out here to have my chance if I don't get my card.   It is what it is.

Q.   In terms how you've played the last couple rounds, what's clicked?   What's stood out? 
JAMIE LOVEMARK:   I'm driving it really well.   Putting the ball in play.   If you're doing that you'll have short irons into the greens, and they're obviously very receptive‑‑ almost too receptive. 
I've been putting well.   So, you know, just hitting decent iron shots but getting the ball in play and making a few putts and taking advantage of the par‑5s. 

Q.   What triggered that injury?
JAMIE LOVEMARK:   Not sure.   It was the second to the last Nationwide event of 2010.   Played the Frys the week before, took a red eye to Florida, and then drove up to Jacksonville, so there was a lot of sitting down for long period of time. 
Then I had a photo shoot where I've been working with a swing (indiscernible) and I think I hit too many drivers being too tight and the disc slipped and got worse and worse. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT