FRYS.COM OPEN
October 12, 2010
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Obviously it was a pretty exciting finish you had last year at the Frys.com Open. Can you kind of just talk about what you remember from that playoff and everything.   
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, I remember finishing second. Obviously Rick and I both wanted to finish first, and that didn't happen. I remember getting on a plane and heading to the first day of Q-School, so...   
 It was a fun event that helped my game progress. Other than that, it was -- I didn't win. So it was a fun event, but second place is still not first.   
  
  Q. Is it kind of crazy to think how close you were to being on the PGA for two years?  
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, it is. You know, one shot, one putt changes everything. I'm happy where I am this year. The Nationwide Tour has been great for me. It's great for a lot of people for different reasons.  
 It's taught me how to be in contention, how to score and make a lot of birdies, how to travel by myself and live that kind of life.  
  
  Q. No. 1 on the Nationwide Tour money list this year, did you think you could do that?  
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, definitely. I know a lot of guys on the Nationwide Tour from the last couple years that played with growing up and stuff, and I've seen them succeed.   
 Me and Chris Kirk and Kevin Chapel always played in college and we're always playing good. There's no reason a kid coming out of college can't win the Money List or finish in the top 25.  
  
  Q. Did you just play the course for the first time today?  
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: I played it yesterday.  
  
  Q. Did you play in course in college?  
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, about 12 times. Serious.   
  
  Q. Does that help?  
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: It does help. The course has changed a little bit. There are some new tees, the rough is longer. It's playing a lot tougher, but some of the lines and the greens are the same, so it definitely does help.   
 There's not a whole a lot of (indiscernible) knowledge that you need, but playing rounds on a course can be the only thing that helps.  
  
  Q. What kind of scores did you shoot in college?  
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: We played a month later, so it was a little colder. So the ball was going shorter and the course was playing tougher. I think we probably shot 10-, 12-under for three rounds. I'm expecting to be between 16 and 20.   
  
  Q. Okay. Does this seem like a Tour-caliber course?  
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: Definitely. Um, anywhere where the rough is long and the greens have potential to be firm and faster. There's a lot of the grass on the greens right now, they can cut them down pretty low.   
 The par-5s are tough. Depends on the wind but, there is only one par-5 for sure that's is reachable. Other two are kind of out of reach. Some long -ar-3s and the wind should blow in the afternoon.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT