FRYS.COM OPEN
October 25, 2009
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Jamie Lovemark into the interview room. Great playing today. 6-under par, 64. Quite a finish there in the playoff, including that approach shot, the skipper on the first hole. Just a good week for you overall. I know you're disappointed, but if we can just get your comments.  
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, a little disappointed. There's not much I can do. I'm going to first stage tonight in Pinehurst, so I'm gonna try and get ready for that and rested to start Tuesday.  
 JOHN BUSH: Talk about the approach shot on the first playoff hole. Did you see it skip out of the water?   
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, I saw it skip. I had 153 yards downwind right to left. I was pretty pumped up. I hit a wedge and I just didn't quite release it enough and it kind of hung out to the right.   
 Troy made a great shot on 17 and sealed our fate.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: It happened so fast. You didn't notice it. It was crazy.  
  
  Q. What was your reaction when you finally knew you were in play?   
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: I was still mad. You know, I knew par wasn't gonna win the playoff, so I was trying to hit it close. I was trying to go right at it and just jaw it in there.   
 I was mad I didn't hit a good shot. I thought I made a good swing. I'm working on some things right now that I'm not quite used to under pressure. This is definitely the first week it's been put to the test.   
 Swing for me is under pressure. I gotta make sure I release it a little harder than I usually do.  
  
  Q. Are you going to the Viking or Disney?   
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: No. First stage for me starts Tuesday.  
  
  Q. If for some reason this changes, evidently if you make enough money you can be sent all the way to second stage; if you make enough you can be sent all the way to the final stage. I think you've got enough for second stage already.   
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: I'm not sure. I think there are still two tournaments left, so I'm gonna go out there and do it. I think I'm 145 or 140 on the Money List right now, and obviously that's not good enough.   
  
  Q. That's into second stage?  
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, at the end of the year.  
  
  Q. You can go straight to second stage. You don't have to play first stage.   
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: I've heard different. I just got off the course.   
  
  Q. Talk about how this was so up-and-down, and it seemed like everybody was in this and then it was a two-man race and then it became...  
 JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, I felt like I was pretty far out of it. After ten holes, I think Troy got to around 20, and I was at 13.   
 I managed to birdie five out of the last eight. I didn't think that was still good enough. I was walking up 18 thinking I needed like two. I got to the green and I saw Rickie made bogey on 18.   
 I was like, Well, if I make this putt and something happens to Troy then I'll have a small chance. Didn't think it was realistic, but it was nice the way it turned out.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT