AT&T NATIONAL
July 5, 2007
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  So here you are, all of a sudden you're only one back, did you expect this after round one? 
 JAMIE LOVEMARK:  I wasn't really sure what to expect.  Obviously we teed off late and it's playing much different in the afternoon an the morning.  I think the rain softened it up last night and the course played easier than we all expected. 
 I'm pleased with my round. 

 Q.  How does it feel to look up at that leaderboard and see your name right under Furyk, Singh? 
 JAMIE LOVEMARK:  It's real cool to see that.  Obviously it's just the beginning of tournament and there's so much golf to be played.  Especially on this course, one shot can change everything.  So just keep it up. 

 Q.  How do you keep it up? 
 JAMIE LOVEMARK:  Do the same thing I'm doing.  Have good strategy, don't get too far ahead of yourself.  I'm hitting a lot of 5-woods, 3-woods, not as many drivers as most people are on this course. 

 Q.  Who is on your bag? 
 JAMIE LOVEMARK:  My uncle, Glenn Holroyd. 

 Q.  You've played a lot of golf with Phil? 
 JAMIE LOVEMARK:  No.  We live in the same town.  I've played with him once and once at the Buick Invitational.  But I haven't played with him too much.  He's always practicing real hard and he's on the road a lot and I'm on the road a lot. 

 Q.  Does he give you any advice or anything? 
 JAMIE LOVEMARK:  If I talk to him more, I'm sure he would.  I haven't really got a chance to sit down and ask him questions. 

 Q.  I know people ask you all the time what you learn from something like this, but is there, anything? 
 JAMIE LOVEMARK:  Well, it's been getting a lot easier.  It's my fourth pro tournament, third PGA, one Nationwide and each time I play, I feel a lot more comfortable.  I just try to think of it as another tournament. 
 I was real calm today, nervous on the first tee like anybody is supposed to be, and after that it was auto pilot, just kind of taking control, cruising. 

 Q.  Those two holes are tough to start off? 
 JAMIE LOVEMARK:  They are really tough, especially we had a 20-minute rain delay, so sat around for a little while and got smacked by two real tough holes real quick. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT