TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2018
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Today 64, had an eagle, bogey-free.  You've got to be really happy.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I'll definitely take it.  This morning was kind of nasty.  It was cold and misty, a little breeze.  Probably about 61 °.  So not my favorite kind of weather.  That's more Nor Cal than So Cal, but I'll take it.   
Didn't hit it incredibly well.  Just kind of kept it in front of me.  Depth do a whole lot with one of those rounds that seem easy, but it wasn't really the case.  But definitely take it.   
 Q.  Put yourself in position for tomorrow.  Obviously, a lot of guys are out there right now.  But do you think 9-under puts you in good shape?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Hard to say, probably not.  Better so than 3-under.  I'm sure I'll be a handful back going into tomorrow, so I'll have a lot of ground to make up.   
 Q.  As these guys get on the golf course today, and some of them are teeing off, what can they expect out?  Are there any trouble spots out there, any hole locations that are tricky?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: With the greens being a little soft from the rain, there is not a ton of bad spots to be.  The rough is long and thick, so you've got to avoid that, not much wind.  Without any rain, it should be pretty gettable.   
 Q.  Why don't you take us through the round.  Bogey-free, 6-under 64 today, highlighted by a hole out.  
 A. Yeah, definitely a solid way to start the weekend.  Kept it in front of me all day.  Didn't do much great.  Had a really easy chip on the 15th hole and knocked it in.  It's a really sneaky tough hole.  You can make a big number there or you could make a 2.  So, yeah, very pleased, bogey-free, I'll take that every time.   
 Q.  Donnie said on the way in that was the easiest 64 I've seen.  He could have gone 8-, or 9-under par.  Do you feel like you could have done even more?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: A little bit.  The quality of strike wasn't incredible.  I had a lot of 20-footers which you can make, but they're kind of low percentage.  But the wind was kind of bad this morning.  Misty and cold, I kind of kept it in front of me and chipped it around the front nine and left myself in good spots.   
 Q.  You were 2-under in the past rounds, go 5-under today.  What kind of changed for you to allow you to break out and get that scoring in?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Golf, that's the way it is.  Ebbs and flows of golf.  Just played solid, pretty stress-free.  Just take one more of those and see how I go.  I'm sure I'll be a handful back tomorrow.   
 Q.  Did it rain enough where the greens softened up and enabled you to go for the flag?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I think it rained pretty good around 8:30, 9:00, and I it kind of misted for the first couple hours of my front nine.  So definitely soft from yesterday.  Parlay that with the rain in the morning, so, yeah, it was a good combo, pretty soft.   
 Q.  Jamie, you're sort of trending in this direction this week.  Did you feel a good one coming for you?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, the first two rounds wasn't as good as it has been in weeks past, but that's kind of the way golf is.  I expect to play well, and I'm definitely trending in the right direction.   
 Q.  Can you walk us through the eagle you had there?  What clubs you were using and your approach on that one?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, think it was probably high 260s to the front, into the wind, cold.  So I tried to hit a low 3-wood, Chase it up.  Didn't quite get it up the hill.  Had probably a 20-foot chip shot, which is super simple and knocked it in.  It was a nice chip, but good spot to be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT