THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 23, 2018
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If I told you when this tournament started that 3-under would be good enough with a 36-hole lead, would you have believed me?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, I don't think so I think so, yeah.  It's playing really tough.  The greens are a little suspect too and the wind is up and this course is hard enough as a par 70.  I kind of saw high single digits winning this and I think it might be less than that.   
 Q.  When you got to the golf course later in that second wave, do you feel like it laid down as you made the turn?  Did the golf course met more manageable for you to try to get in the house?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Maybe a little bit.  It blew hard yesterday morning and blew hard this afternoon, probably until the last couple holes.  You know, it's still up there, still blowing 15.   
 Q.  What are you taking into tomorrow that's given you the most confidence?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I've been really struggling with driving this year.  I think I finally found a driver I liked and switched shafts.  It's doing pretty well.  It's a second-shot golf course so just got to putt it in the right spot.   
 Q.  Back-to-back rounds under par through the first two days here in Palm Beach Gardens.  How would you describe how difficult it is to break par out here?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, it's crazy.  I would probably take anything under 71 most days.  Yeah, it's really hard with the wind.  I thought starting the week it might be 7-under might win but it might be less than that.   
 Q.  How do you stay in the mind-set, the grind, knowing what's ahead?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I kind of like it.  A couple rounds around par, maybe a couple under, might do the trick.   
 Q.  What advantage is it for you to live not too far away and have an understanding of South Florida golf?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Just kind of how it is almost every year, almost every winter here, so I'm a little more used to it.   
 Q.  What do you lean on heading into tomorrow?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Just keep greening.  Won't take many more under to win this tournament.  I would definitely sign up for a 6-under right now and take my chances.  It's just a tough course.  It's a stacked leaderboard.  One swing out here can cost you three shots.   
 Q.  A couple bogeys early and then you got -- was there a shot or hole that turned it around and got you going?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Not really.  It's just a course you can make bogeys really quick on.  Doesn't take much at all.  Just make a bogey, move on, it's going to happen.  You've got to avoid the doubles.   
 Q.  Everyone is talking about how hard the course is today.  How did you find success?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I don't know, I put it in a good spot off the tee and then kind of managed my second shots.  Just can't make many business mistakes out here.  Got to leave yourself -- you miss some greens, you have to leave yourself in some good spots to get up-and-down.   
 Q.  With the crowds following Tiger and J.T., is it more relaxing knowing there's more people away from your game?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I guess so.  I don't really mind the crowds.  It's great having Tiger playing well again and having him back out here.  The draw that he gets is insane.  It's really good for the TOUR and I hope he keeps playing well.   
 Q.  Seeing a lot of familiar names up there that you know are very talented, do you try not to look at all that stuff as you head into round three, some of the other golfers who are having success on this course so far?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, I think we're all pretty decent golfers.  We're all good friends, so it's not a big deal about who is around the lead or who is leading.   
 Q.  What's it like to see some of your friends there with you at the top?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Great.  I always wish the best for my friends and a lot of guys are playing well and even a guys that are couple over par are still in it.  You never know.  It will be a long weekend.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're a good wind player?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I guess in theory I shouldn't be but I am.  I'm not really sure why.  I hit it really high.  I'm kind of used to South Florida winds here.  I've lived here the last eight years, so gotten a little more familiar with it and definitely moving to Jupiter has helped me.   
 Q.  Where do you play out of?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Bear's Club.   
 Q.  How many years?  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: My eighth.   
 Q.  Pretty much everybody at the top of the board played this morning.  That suggests that you might have had the best round of the day.  
JAMIE LOVEMARK: That 66 that Luke shot was pretty damn good.  It blew all day so doesn't really matter.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT