JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 15, 2017
Jamie Lovemark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Round of 66 today.  How do you feel about it?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Good score.  Didn't hit it all that great, my irons shots, so got to clean it up for tomorrow, having struggled in that area all week many.
Short game saving me; driving it great.  Yeah, trying to figure that out and shoot (indiscernible) tomorrow.
Q. When you get off to such a flyer on a golf course where you know it's all about how many birdies you make, how hard is to accept the bogey like the one that came on 6?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: It's not to bad.  Couple bad shots there.  You know, it's going to happen.  You're going to make a bogey probably once a round, so I'm happy to limit it to one.
There are plenty more birdies, like the scores indicate.
Q. You talked about great short game skills.  Just talk us through this one on 9; superb shot.
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, great tee shot; horrific iron shot.  Had decent lie in the rough and just hit a (indiscernible) flopper.  You know, greens are so soft; the wasn't that big of a deal.  It was a nice par.
Q. Certainly made it look very easy.  We know you're in great form from last week at the Greenbrier.  You said as well about that that you were disappointed that didn't turn it into a win.  Have you been able to channel that frustration this week, do you think?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: I think so.  I'm couple back of the lead.  Shouldn't say I'm not playing well.  I'm playing well obviously, but doesn't feel like I'm really clicking.
So I'm pleased with that.  Good form for next week, so hopefully I'll kind of peak.
Q. For you guys to be able to make that statement, that you're not quite on your game and be in contention, isn't that what it's all about for you?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, it's huge.  That's a huge turnaround the last couple years.  You know, hopefully I can always kind of play so-so and have a chance if that's not the case.
It's not as bad as I think it is, but it's not quite all cylinders.
Q. Solid round of golf, 66.  How solid or important is it from a psychological standpoint heading into tomorrow to walk away with a solid par on 18?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, it's big.  I three-putted from 25 feet yesterday on 18, so not the best taste in my mouth.  Great drive down 18; horrific iron shot; decent par save.
So it's good.
Q. Hot start today.  Right out of the gates on fire.  Did you come in with that attitude, or you just know it's a tournament you got to play almost every round that way?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, every hole is very birdieable out here.  You almost have to birdie half of them I feel like to keep pace.  It's very stacked up around 10-under.
Yeah, got to make a ton of birdies, especially the way the course is playing right now.
Q. Statistically speaking you're doing everything very well.  Game plan tomorrow?  More of the same?  Few more looks?  More greens?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah.  Got to clean up my iron play.  It's been pretty bad this week.  Just kind of wiping at it.  Got to get that tightened up.  Might come out a little bit earlier tomorrow and try to work on some straighter shots or draw feels.
Q. (No microphone.)
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Scrambling.  I chipped it pretty well.  Hit some bad iron shots, but, yeah, driving it real nice.  Just got to keep the ball around the greens, on the green for that matter.
Got to clean that up for tomorrow.
Q. Knowing you're now heading to Birkdale, you could have your first PGA win here, but just with what you have been able to accomplish the last month, where is your confidence at right now?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: It's high.  Everything feels pretty good.  Nothing is really, really awesome right now, but everything is pretty consistent, and that's the key.
Just giving myself a lot of looks at birdie and playing pretty consistency.
Q. How about the setup of this course and the conditions today?  How did that allow you to play?
JAMIE LOVEMARK: Yeah, gosh, it's 82 degrees; it's perfect.  The greens are soft and they're rolling perfectly.  Good scoring conditions, like the scores show.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT