NHL DRAFT
June 24, 2016
Mikhail Sergachev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How does it feel to be a Montreal Canadien?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: This is pretty special. This is the best feelings because Montreal is a hockey town, and nothing can be better than to be selected by the Canadiens.

Q. When you think of the Canadiens, what comes to your mind? What sort of organization do you think of?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: I don't know. I mean, great organization, because Montreal, like I said, like Montreal is a hockey town. A lot of fans, and I don't know, just great. I've heard it's a good city. 

Q. Did you have a good interview with them at the combine? Did you meet them often during the season? 
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: Yeah, I got like about two meetings with them, one during the season‑‑ like two, two during the season, and one during the combine, yeah. 

Q. Can you describe yourself as a defenseman, what type of game you play?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: I'm a two‑way defenseman with a good shot, and I can skate well, and I just love playing everywhere in every situation, power play, PK.

Q. What's your target, when you hope to be able to play in the NHL?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: I want to play as soon as possible, but if they give me a chance next year, I will use that chance.

Q. You've been compared to a young Andrei Markov. What do you think about that?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: I think it's pretty cool because he's obviously one of the best defenders in the NHL in the world, so it's pretty special. 

Q. Do you hope to play one day with Markov?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: Yeah, I would like to play with him because he's mature and he knows everything, so he can help me, yeah.

Q. Did you expect Montreal to select you?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: Like I mean, I didn't expect, but I was thinking about it. 

Q. Were you thinking about going out of the top 10?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: Obviously, because you never know where you're going to go, so you can drop out of the top 10 or the first round. You never know. Yeah. 

Q. So you were hoping to be selected by the Canadiens?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: Yeah.

Q. Where do you think your game needs the most work? What do you have to improve on the most?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: I've got to be more defensively, more in the defensive zone, harder in front of the net and the corners. 

Q. The reports are that you play a pretty hard game, you play with an edge. Would you agree with that?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: Yeah, yeah, pretty much. 

Q. When you arrived in Windsor were you able to talk English?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: Just a little bit. Like I used some words, but I couldn't make sense. 

Q. We heard that you learned English really quickly. Will you learn French as quickly now?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: Yeah, my dad told me I've got to learn two languages, English and French. I was like, okay. But I love Spanish, I don't know. 

Q. Can you talk about your season with the Spitfires and how the coaching has really helped you get to this point?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: Yeah, it was a kind of good season, like a lot of ups and downs, but coaches and my partners helped me a lot and the whole organization. In the middle of the season I got kind of homesick and stuff, but like all the people helped me, and Windsor is a great place. 

Q. Is there an NHL defenseman that you've modeled your game after?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: Yeah, I mean, Drew Doughty, because he's the best and I'm trying to be the best.

Q. When all the announcements were on the stage, were you thinking it was you? 
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: I was kind of like nervous, just a bit, because probably he would take him over me, but they picked me, so...

Q. Can you talk about‑‑ you ended up going to an underrated team on very short notice. It was unexpected for you to be called to go there, so how did it all happen?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: I knew I was going to go there, but I didn't know I was going to play for the 99s, all the young players. But it was a pretty special tournament because it's a new experience to me, to play with the young guys, and trying to be a leader, like more than I played in Windsor, and trying more defensively. I got just one goal against or something, so I was trying to be more defensively.

Q. Do you feel like you've got some‑‑ did you realize you had some leadership traits in you?
MIKHAIL SERGACHEV: Yeah. I mean, I think I'm a leader, as a person and as a player, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT