MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v DIAMONDBACKS
November 1, 2001
Shane Spencer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  In addition to helping the team win this year, do you feel that your performance is setting the table for next year, having a more regular role in the outfield?
 
SHANE SPENCER:   I don't know how to answer that.  I go into spring training expecting to get a starting job every year, and whether it is to go out and get somebody, or injuries, it has not worked out yet.  But I'm hoping after coming off surgery last year that being healthy, I should have a good shot at getting a starting job. 
 
Q.  Could you talk about two plays from last night, one was your home run, just your thoughts and feelings on that and having to sit out last year's post-season; and the other was the tag Jorge was able to make on your throw?
 
SHANE SPENCER:   Schilling was working guys away, cutters, sliders, fastballs away, pretty much; so I was looking out over the plate and I got a good pitch to hit.  He actually threw a strike the first pitch and it was right on the corner and he called it a ball.  And I think he was a little bit upset about that; he let me know that today. I just try not to  -- I'm a pull hitter usually and I just try not to do too much.  He throws hard enough where if you make good contact, the ball will do something.   The play with Posada was great.  When I threw it, I knew it wasn't going to get there, but he made a great play.  I didn't even know he tagged him with his bare hand with the ball and usually the ball falls out in those situations. 
 
Q.  The Diamondbacks are saying that you just have to forget about last night and go on, but Joe said that he hopes you guys can build on last night.  How do you handle that on/off-switch after a great game like that?
 
SHANE SPENCER:   I don't know, I guess maybe we are used to it.   We play so many close games; it's not like we have an offense that blows people out.  We feel confident in short, one-run, two-run games.  And if we get a guy on base, you have Tino, Bernie coming up, Bernie has hit a lot of big home runs for us in the playoffs.  As soon as O'Neill got that hit it just seemed like confidence was in the dugout, I didn't think he was going to hit a home run but after that, the momentum, you could just see it change.  They knew Mariano was up, and that's a good feeling for us, when he's up. 
 
Q.  This is your last home game of the season, no matter what.  How have you found the best way to deal with playing in the city here, with the fans and the media and Manhattan itself? 
 
SHANE SPENCER:   Especially this year, we have a lot of  --  everybody on our team has friends, fire, police, Port Authority, and they are living through us right now.  They go to work and we have no idea what they are actually going through, finding bodies, still.  I get to hang out with some of them afterwards and go to dinner with some of them, and you know, they don't want to talk about what they are doing; they want to talk about what I'm doing and how much fun it is to come to games and watch.  It's a great feeling, to see them in the stands, to see them all smiling and having fun. 
 
Q.  Could you talk about the frustration you went through with the knee injury, and was last night sort of a reward for all of the rehab you went through? 
 
SHANE SPENCER:   Yeah, it's definitely  -- I can say I did something in the World Series, and not a lot of guys can do that.  You know, I didn't know how much playing time I was going to get this year, a couple injuries; and I got a lot more at-bats, and I thought that was going to be it.  And getting a chance to be on the roster in this post-season was even more, and now I'm getting a chance to play and I'm having fun with it. 
 
Q.  Joe was asked before about this possibly being O'Neill's final game here; what is he like with young guys and has he taught you anything?
 
SHANE SPENCER:   Most definitely.  He has by far helped me the most with defense, just his work ethic in batting practice.  You know, he goes out there for 15 minutes straight and shags like he's playing the game.  Ever since I went to big league camp four or five years ago, it's made me a better defensive player.  I don't run real fast, don't have a great arm, but just doing all the little things has made me that much better.  I give him all the credit for that. 
 

Q.  Obviously, you guys don't play in the National League, but can you see what a miserable experience it must be for opposing teams when they have to face Schilling and Johnson; that's just has to be a miserable day in any series? 
 
SHANE SPENCER:  It's definitely not fun.  They are power pitchers, but at the same time, they are hitting the corners and they are not missing over the plate; they are missing off the plate, and you don't see that in power pitchers.  But at the same time, we have four of them.  Maybe they didn't have the years that those two guys had, but we feel like the guys we send out there every day, we have just as good a chance as anybody in this league. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT