FRYS.COM OPEN
October 24, 2009
Nicholas Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Have you ever experienced anything like that in your life?
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: Well, I mean, that was my second double eagle and my eighth hole in one. Never in the same round were, I hadn't had either of them in competition as a professional. 
 So it was pretty cool experience. And to have them within three holes, pretty unbelievable.

 Q. You realize, in two and a half days you were 6-under in a span of, what, four holes? 
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: In three holes I was 4-under. I mean, 5-under.

 Q. And then you birdied what?
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: Well, I birdied 9 and I birdied 15. So in a span of five holes I was 6-under.

 Q. Right. What would take you two and half days to do you did in five holes.
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: (Laughter.) I didn't have to putt. 

 Q. I was talking to your caddie. Were you having trouble with the greens?
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: I am. I've hit a lot of good golf shots. I mean, over the golf course of the three rounds I've missed seven greens. Three of them have been on fringes. I've played really well. I just managed to just have a rough time reading the greens out here. 
 Seems like when I get a line right I maybe hit a poor putt, or when I hit a good putt I maybe get a line wrong. Seems like it's around the hole, but it's not falling in quite yet. So I'm saving it for tomorrow.

 Q. There you go. An easier game when you eliminate the putting. 
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: Exactly. That's what I said.

 Q. You couldn't see the double eagle, huh? 
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: I couldn't, and the Golf Channel didn't get it either. I was sitting down in a valley on a downslope. I hit the shot, and it went up. I heard some claps and I'm like, Nice, it's on the green. 
 And I see a guy throw his arms up in the air and I'm like, Yes, tap-in eagle. Then I hear them roar and I'm like, Wait a minute. That's a double eagle. Yes. 

 Q. Did it hit on the greens or did it hit short?
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: I imagine it landed just barely short. It's ten-on on the left side, so... 

 Q. So what were you thinking when you get the hole in one two holes later?
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: You know, I actually just barely missed birdie on 12. Then I get up on 13 and I had 199 yards. I underclubbed it purposely so that I could land it short of the pin over the false front. 
 I mean, I flushed it and I hit it good. I was like, Oh, be as good as you look. Apparently it was. (Laughter.)

 Q. Did your group give you a bad time after that?
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: Well, Scott McCarron, when we got off 15, the drivable par-4, I got up there and hit a driver. As soon as he saw it was gonna be a pretty good golf shot, he's like, Get in the hole, just to harass me.

 Q. What were your thoughts after the double eagle and you get the hole in one?
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: I said, I like this no putting thing. 

 Q. You're cruising along and you're doing okay. You're not up on the leaderboard. After the hole in one, are you thinking, Hey, I'm back in this tournament? 
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: You know what, I mean, it's just a matter of time before I start making putts and I got myself back in the event. Instead I just started making shots and got myself back in the event. 
 Tomorrow is a day for putts. Hopefully some shots, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT