TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2009
Nicholas Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You looked like you might have gotten in the clubhouse at 6-under par, and your little sister playing so good, she's on the leaderboard.   
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: Yeah, I played good golf all day. I hit a lot better shots than I got away with at the end. My best swing of the day came on 16 that went well long of the pin.   
 17, I hit a good putt, thought I made it.  
 And 18, I mis-hit my tee shot but it was still only about two feet from carrying the bunker. It goes down the fairway, and I've got hybrid into the green. Sometimes you get some breaks, but overall I played really well, and looking forward to playing the next three rounds.  
  
  Q. I noticed you were in and out of the rain gear on the last few holes. Were you in it early when you were making all those birdies?  
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: No, no. I think I took one swing all day in it. I wore the pants all day. But I only took one swing in the rain jacket. I had my mittens going on and off, and I just prefer to swing without two long sleeves on, and I've already got a turtleneck.  
  
  Q. Any thoughts on your sister's play today?  
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: It must have been amazing. Last I saw, she was 3-under through like 12, and for her to finish 7-under means she must have ran it off coming down to the end of the day. So that's pretty awesome.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about the 4-under par? I know you're disappointed with the last hole, but talk about 4-under par 68 under these conditions.   
 NICHOLAS THOMPSON: I played good. I mean, it's raw out there. It's really cold. As soon as that wind even kicks up to like 10 and then it starts drizzling, it's just flat-out miserable weather. But you know what, they've got the golf course in amazing condition for as much rain as they have gotten, because they've gotten just pummeled in the last -- since I got here on Sunday, they've gotten tons of rain, and they've done a great job getting this golf course in shape.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT