84 LUMBER CLASSIC
September 14, 2006
Nicholas Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NICHOLAS THOMPSON:  I played well.  I hit a lot of good shots, and I can't say much bad about the round.  I hit one poor shot, I think I missed one fairway, and I had two three putts.
LAURY LIVSEY:  We would like to welcome Nicholas Thompson into the interview room after a first round 64, which puts you in the lead of the 84 Lumber Classic.  Some general comments about your round.
Q.  Did the course play much differently today than it did Monday in the Pro Am?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:  Totally different.  With the Monday and Tuesday conditions, with how firm the greens were and how soft the fairways were, the shots in were a long way and you weren't able to hold them, as well.  It was kind of throwing darts in there.  If you got the right distance, it was just going to stop right in there.
Q.  What has been your experience being in the lead, if at all, after one round?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:  This year not in a PGA TOUR event, but I led the LaSalle Bank Nationwide event through the first and the second round.  I mean, I'm just looking forward to it.  It's a new experience.  I mean, I played solid at the Nationwide event, it was just the tough conditions that got me a little.
Q.  Refresh my memory; didn't you contend at Sunnehanna?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:  I did.  I played at the Sunnehanna three years and shot a poor final round my first year for 11th, and then got 3rd and then lost in a playoff.
Q.  I was there the last two and I talked to you then.
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:  Yeah.
Q.  Are you surprised that there either aren't more lower scores or that the scores are as low as they are?  It's wet and long, but it's softened the greens up?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:  Had it not rained and the scores had been this low, I would have been surprised.  Due to the rain, it softened up the greens.  The greens are still some of the best greens we've seen on Tour this year.  Here and at the BC Open are the two best greens we've seen all year.

You just get a line.  It doesn't really go off line too much.  They're beautiful.  They've done a great job with the whole golf course, getting it in shape after all that rain, and the greens, they've done a magnificent job.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Can we go over your card with your six birdies in seven holes?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:  I birdied 1.  Actually I hit it just over the green but I was only 15 feet from the hole and had a chip in, 15 feet, about two feet off the green.

Then a 15 footer on the 2nd hole for birdie.

3rd hole, I hit a 4 iron into four feet maybe and birdied that one.

Just barely missed birdie on 4.

I hit No. 5 in two, I hit a driver and a 3 wood onto that green and wasn't too far from making eagle on that hole.  I had about 20 feet, tapped that one in for birdie.

6, I made birdie there.  Oh, I know, I hit a soft gap wedge into about three and a half, four feet.

And then I hit one in pretty close on the par 3.

After the 2nd hole none of them were outside ten feet, even the eagle.
Q.  How close was the one on 7?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:  7 was five and a half, six feet.

And then I three putted 8.  That was the only fairway I missed.

And then I three putted 9.

And then I hit it in there about five feet on 10 with a wedge.

11, I hit a lob wedge in there to about six and a half feet short of the hole.

Parred 12, the par 3.

Parred 13.

Parred 14.

Bogeyed 15, that was my errant iron shot for the day.

And then I hit a driver and a 4 iron to three feet on 16 for eagle.

I hit a 7 iron to six feet, five feet on 17 for birdie.
Q.  What's your lowest round out here on Tour?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:  On Tour, 64.  Today, I shot it at the BC, I shot it at Nationwide.  I might have shot it somewhere else, but I can't remember.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Okay, Nick, good playing.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT