FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 5, 2015
Nicholas Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How was the course playing?  NICHOLAS THOMPSON: It was nice to not be in the rough out there, because it's nice and lush.  I missed one green, had a lot of looks at it, and hit a lot of good golf shots.   Q.  What do you like about this course that's set up so well for you today?  NICHOLAS THOMPSON: Actually, I mean out here, between the two golf courses, my, the North Course has been my nemesis in relation to the field. So it's nice to get a good one there, a good start there.  I mean, it's in perfect condition.  All the sight lines are good, the fairways are defined well, and I mean it just looks great.  The greens are the best I've seen the North Course since I turned pro 10 years ago here. I look forward to going over and playing the South Course.   Q.  Give you a good sort of confidence boost, right?  NICHOLAS THOMPSON: It does.  As I said, that's probably my nemesis.  There were a couple shots out there that I didn't really care for and I got over it and hit really good golf shots throughout the whole round all day and I look forward to going over to a golf course that truly suits my eye.   Q.  What would you say was the best part of your day?  NICHOLAS THOMPSON: The best part of my day was not being in the rough.  So, I mean, it's a lot easier when you're playing from the fairway all day and it allows you to hit the ball closer.  You don't have to shy away from every pin.   Q.  Is that number you shot today the number you had in mind?  NICHOLAS THOMPSON: Honestly, there is no number in mind because there has been years -- they made the North Course harder over the years, but there has been years that people like you shoot 8-under and you're like in seventh place on that course. So, I mean you just never know.  I mean, it was in such good condition and the best I've seen in my seven times here, that you never know, I mean some people could just take advantage of that being in such good shape.   Q.  Do you have a best score you've shot here?  NICHOLAS THOMPSON: I played well there my rookie year and that's the only time I shot below 69.  I shot 66 my rookie year.  But I think the best after that was 69.  There have been years where I've shot lower all three days on the other golf course.   Q.  So is it just the way it looks to you or what?  NICHOLAS THOMPSON: Yeah, I just, it's not so much the way the North Course looks, it's how good the South Course looks.  And it just feels really good when I step up on it.  I don't think there's one shot out there that I look at and I go, oh, I dread this shot all day.  No, you just know you got to go out there and hit good golf shots.   Q.  Is there a shot on the North Course that you don't like?  NICHOLAS THOMPSON: There's a couple tee shots out there that definitely don't suit me.  It's just like, you know, is this the line or is this the line.  Every hole doglegs in certain areas and tough areas for my distance, where it's like five yards further right and you're in the rough, where three yards further left, you're in the fairway.  So, it's just, you have to be really pinpoint accurate. I missed maybe one or two fairway, I think I missed only one green.  I hit a lot of good golf shots.  Even the shots that were played safe, I hit them to the right spots, I had a lot of good looks, didn't make many long putts.  I made a 20-footer on the first for eagle.  After that, I just had a lot of good opportunities, made a lot of short putts, hit a lot of good shots and actually had a lot of mid length to longer putts that took some peeks at the hole, but decided not to go.   Q.  You obviously didn't get to play too much in the rough, but how juicy is it out there?  NICHOLAS THOMPSON: Oh, it's thick.  You don't want to be there.  It will take a long time. But they have done a really good job, the golf course is in immaculate condition, the rough is very fair.  It's even throughout.  So it's not like you're going to get good lies and bad lie, they're all going to be very similar lies.  You might catch a little bit better lie, but not because the rough's shorter.   Q.  The South Course awaits you tomorrow, what's your plan?  NICHOLAS THOMPSON: I look forward to it.  It's one of my favorite golf courses.  It is a great test from tee to green and I always look forward to it. Over my career here, the North Course has been my falter, in relationship to the field, usually.  And I usually go out there and play the South Course well.  It fits my eye really good and I like a lot of the golf shots.   Q.  Great to see you out here again.  NICHOLAS THOMPSON: Thank you.  I appreciate it.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT