CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 25, 2014
Nicholas Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Regardless of what happens, that was a big putt on 18?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   Yeah, I played really good.   I played good all week.   I had a faltering 9, the first 9 yesterday, but bounced back really good. 
I played really good today.   Every putt‑‑ I don't think I've had that in a round.   I can't say I made a lot of putts, but every putt I hit looked good.   I mean I made a couple of putts‑‑ I didn't make anything long, but I had some putts that were 15 to 50 feet today that really looked like they could have gone in and it just missed.   All‑in‑all I played really well.

Q.   One hiccup on No. 3?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   Yeah, you know, I just misgauged the wind a little bit and was in a bad spot.

Q.   So what do you do now?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   What do I do now?   I'm going to go eat a little, sign some autographs and cross my fingers. 

Q.   Okay.   Sounds good.   Did you see this coming?   Did something turn around?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   The last four I've missed the cut.   I didn't play that bad.   None of them were like terrible missed cuts.   It hasn't been that bad, it's just been a couple of bad breaks here and there.   And absolutely nothing going in.   So, I mean, where I made a couple of putts my score has improved dramatically.

Q.   Nothing earth shattering that you did to change anything?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   No, I take that back.   I changed back to my old shaft in my driver after the first round last week.   Drove it excellent last week.   Didn't really get to use it much this week, but when I did I hit a good one.   I think I hit four drivers, maybe, on this golf course.   The two par‑5s, that third hole and I hit it on 14 some days but not today.   You're talking three or four drivers a day. 

Q.   Didn't make much of an impact?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   No, but the impact that it did make was the first hole was a driver, par‑5.   And I didn't crush any of them, but I hit them all right in the fairway, gave myself opportunities to go for the green every day, which just starting out on that foot is great.   You're like, I made a great swing, put it in a tough fairway to hit and I've got a good look at birdie. 










END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT