RBC HERITAGE
April 19, 2014
Nicholas Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Kind of a tale of two rounds for you out there.   5‑under, 31 making the turn.   You had to fight that last bogey at the last.   Your thoughts on how you played today?  
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   You know, I played really nicely from tee‑to‑green.   I didn't putt so well today.   My speed was a little bit off.   But luckily on the front nine I hit it close enough that the speed didn't matter.   
I made four birdies inside of four feet.   And then I hit a really nice putt from just off the green and made that.  
All in all I'm really happy with where I am.   I played nicely from tee‑to‑green.   I hit a lot of nice golf shots.   I would have liked to have not bogeyed that last hole.   But it happens.   It was a good bogey, from where I was.  
   
 Q.   The putting on the back 9, you had a great look at 11 after a wonderful second shot into that green.   15 you had about a 10‑footer.   16, about a 7‑footer for par.   And then at 17 you had a good look, too?  
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   You know, I hit a lot of really quality golf shots.   I was a little off the speed.   The miss on the back nine kind of laid down on the green.   They got a lot slower.   It was just kind of‑‑ I don't know if the dew was there or not.   Didn't hit it hard enough on pretty much every hole.   
I hit a good putt on 11, just didn't have enough speed, that's a miss.   I had a putt going dead in on 12, missed with that speed.   A misread on 13.   15 I had the right line, I don't know why I hit it that short.   16 it was left short in the cup.   17 I hit a really good putt with enough speed but just could not believe that it could break to the right.   18, you know what, I committed to one, I got the right line and it went on.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts going into tomorrow, 5‑under, you're certainly there with about half the field.   
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   I'm excited.   Looking forward to it.   My golf game is good.   I'm hitting a lot of quality golf shots.   And it's going to be an exciting day tomorrow, as long as we don't have to play 18, 18 times.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT