JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2013
Nicholas Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. This had to be one of your better ball‑striking days from start to finish. 
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   You know, I mean, I've played well this year.   I've had my couple weeks here and there where it's been a little sketchy, but I would say this is very similar to the way my year has been.   It's just a matter of this week I've rolled the rock pretty good. 

Q.   You're a high adrenaline player.   Your emotion gets into those drives because on the back nine you started hitting some long balls off the tee. 
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   Yeah, it gets warmer as the day goes on.   It starts heating up.   It's definitely not too hot, but it's a nice temperature and the ball is just taking off and the fairways are running nice.   Golf course is in great condition, firm fairways, so if you hit the proper drive it goes 330 and if you don't it rolls out of the fairway.

Q.   I notice you stepped out your putt distances.   What are you doing there?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   You know, I just know exactly how far the putt is.   I know if I have a 24‑footer downhill I'm going to play it like it's 21 feet or 20 feet, depending on how downhill it is.

Q.   What about tomorrow now?   You're right there. 
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   I'm just looking forward to going out and doing the same thing I've been doing, go and hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of good golf shots and make some putts. 

Q.   Great round here on Saturday.   How happy are you now to put yourself in the mix headed into the final round?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   It's nice.   I've been playing really well the last five or six weeks and I've had some chances, and this time I've played even better, made some putts, and I'm really looking forward to tomorrow. 

Q.   What clicked, though?   You said you played well but maybe haven't had the results.   What is going right this week?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   You know, I'm just reading my putts good this week.   I've got a good feel for the greens and how they're breaking.   It hasn't been that I've hit bad putts, it's just I've struggled reading the greens, and I feel like I've read these pretty good, and I've been all over the holes, even when it's missed.

Q.   With that confidence now, what are you looking forward to most on Sunday?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   Going out and playing a good round and seeing how it goes, seeing how it finishes.

Q.   Do you think you'll get the chance to finally break through?   What do you think it's going to take on a course where you've got to go low?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   You never know.   Somebody could come out of the pack and shoot a 59.   It's capable out there.   But we'll see where it finishes today.   I mean, I'm not going to put a number in mind, I'm just going to go out there and try to play like I did the last two days and go low. 

Q.   Nice day for you and right there in contention. 
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   Yeah, you know, I mean, I played really nicely, hit a lot of fairways, gave myself a lot of opportunities, and I made a fair amount of putts.

Q.   Thought process going into tomorrow then? 
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   No number, just get after it. 

Q.   Did you do some leaderboard watching out there?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   You know, I like to look at the leaderboards, more or less not so much where I am, but I like to see the stats who's the best percentage from 25 to 30 feet and all that stuff, and just have it mind blow me.

Q.   What is it about this course that you like? 
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   The golf course is in perfect condition.   The greens are holding well.   It's firmed up.   It's bouncing.   There are just a lot of things I like about it.   It fits my eye off the tee, too. 

Q.   Seems like putting has mainly been the thing that's held you back.   What's changed this week? 
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   Absolutely nothing.   I just feel like I've got a better feel for the greens, and I'm reading them pretty good.   It's not that I've putted poorly, I've just read my putts poorly.   You hit a good putt on a bad line, it's not going to go in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT