FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 8, 2013
Nicholas Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nicholas, 4-under par 66.   Gets it to 8-under par.   I know you would have liked that last one at 18.   That was a really tough shot to get it close from that angle.
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   I played really well tee to green today, hit a lot of good putts like the last one.   A little bit off.   I mean, I made a couple putts.   I just really put myself in a lot of good positions for a lot of good birdies.   Made a couple, happened to make a sand shot and there it is.

Q.   I want to ask you about the bunker shot.   It was a tough shot.   Did you get away with one or was it perfect?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   When it came off the club that was really good.   With three foot to go, I don't think it's going to miss.

Q.   There's nothing wrong with that then.   What are you thinking about going into tomorrow?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   I've hit the ball really nicely from tee to green.   Just get the putter rolling and feel good.

Q.   We played on the Web.com back then, I think it was the Nike Tour awhile back.   You seem to like hard golf courses, don't you?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   I do.   I mean, I just -- I like golf courses that you can't fake it on and you cannot fake it here.   You got to hit the ball in the fairway, in the right spots on the greens.   You short-side yourself, good luck.

Q.   Let's start with the bunker shot on 16.   Heck of a shot.   Just kind of take us through that, if you can.
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   I hit a 7-iron into the par 5.   Didn't quite hit it as good as I wanted, but it was actually a pretty good spot to miss.   Straight up the hill.   When I hit it I was like, "Oh, this is going to be really be nice."   With three feet to go, I put my arms up in the air, "I don't think this can miss."   I hit it good.

Q.   Just looking at the leaderboard, it's really anybody's ballgame going into the final day.   What do you think you're going to need to shoot in order to get the win?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   You know, honestly, you never know due to conditions and everything, you never know what the wind is going to be like.   There's a lot of guys that are still in contention, lot of big names, lot of first timers, and it's just like, I mean, going in there and play a good round.

Q.   Can you talk about the course today and how it played?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   The golf course is in perfect condition, running firm and fast.   You get a ball running in that fairway and it might not stop.   The greens are really good firmness. If you hit a good shot, you'll be able to stop it.   If you don't, it will make you pay.

Q.   What about the tee spots, they seem to be better placements.   What did you think about them?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   I thought they set up the golf course very nicely today.   The 14th hole, just glad to see they didn't put us on the back box.   It was still a really hard shot.

Q.   Nicholas, talk about how you play each day getting ready for tomorrow.
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   I played very similar.   The second round on Friday I got a couple poor bounces here and there, made me miss a couple more greens.   But, I mean, I think I missed three greens today and they were all right next to the -- two of them were right next to the green. 
And, I mean, I've struck it really well.   My tee ball has been really good.   Might not have hit as many fairways as I wanted, but every one I missed, it's a foot out of, six inches in the rough.   It's right there.

Q.   When is the last time you felt like this good at an event?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   Oh, my start of the year I felt really good, the whole West Coast into Florida.   I mean I felt really, really good.   Going into Texas.   I mean I felt really good the first probably third of this year. 
And I mean even when I played poorly prior to this week, missed cuts, I didn't play that bad.   I was getting a couple poor breaks.   I was working out a little driver issue and some short game issues.   Now I mean I feel like I just -- I've been patient.

Q.   You said you've always kind of liked this course here?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   Yeah.   I was born and raised in South Florida.   I like bermuda.   I'm not going to complain.   These greens roll about as good as they get.   They're not getting torn up.   They're not getting spiked up.   They're firm and they've got nice speed to them.

Q.   Going into the final day seeing yourself this high on the leaderboard, how do you think the pressure and excitement?   What's your mindset?
NICHOLAS THOMPSON:   You know, I'm just going to go out there and play as good as.   I'm going to go out there with the same mindset, hit as many fairways and greens as I can, and try to roll some putts in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT