NCAA MEN'S DIVISION II CHAMPIONSHIP GAME
April 5, 2013
Derrick Clark
Brandon Jefferson
Mitch McCarron
Demetrius Miller
Jonathan Morse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Metro State head coach Derrick Clark and student‑athletes Jonathan Morse, Brandon Jefferson, Mitch McCarron, Nicholas Kay, and Demetrius Miller.
Coach, an opening statement.
COACH CLARK:   First of all, I'd like to send my gratitude out to the NCAA in terms of this idea of bringing all three divisions here.   It's a very unique experience for our guys.   It's as good as it's ever going to be in terms of that experience and them getting to rub with some different guys and different programs. 
We're very humbled to be here.   We're extremely excited to compete on Sunday, and we're just enjoying the whole experience.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for the student‑athletes.

Q.   Brandon, could you just talk a little bit about the balance you guys have, looking at the box score from your semi, 17, 17, 17, 17.   Just talk about the balance on your team scoring‑wise?
BRANDON JEFFERSON:     Yes, our starting five, we all averaged over ten points.   So it's hard for other teams to key on one or two guys.   So J‑Mo, he's the workhorse down low and we try to get inside to him.   It makes our job easeir.   Nick, he's a slasher, he can shoot, so he spreads the court.   Then our three perimeters, it's harder for everybody to key on it.   It makes our job easier for the perimeters.

Q.   For the guards, you guys just got done dealing with Chuck Guy, (indiscernible) and a whole lot of 2s and 1s that can really play.   You're getting ready to do the same thing here with another All‑American in Alex Hall and Lockhart.   I want you guys to talk about that challenge and just embracing that. 
MITCH MCARRON:   We've got a game plan.   We've got some tricks that we're going to try and put in defensively.   As long as we stick to our game plan, hasn't let us down yet.   Our coaches do a really good job of preparing scout and getting us ready.   We'll stick to what we know.
DEMETRIUS MILLER:   We're very active guards.   We like to take on the challenge.   Within B.J. and myself and Mitch, we love passing the challenge around to each other to take on the best players, try our best to hold the runner to the average. 
So I think in this game, like all our other games, we're going to try to wear them down, see where it takes us.
BRANDON JEFFERSON:     Like Demetrius was saying, it's not just like one guy guarding Alex Hall, it is a team thing.   We're all helping each other out, and then Nick and J‑Mo stepping over and taking charges, it's a team defensive effort.

Q.   Jonathan, I'll ask you, if anybody else wants to chime in.   You guys won first, so you were able to sit and watch Drury play its game.   How much do you think that's going to help that you guys were able to see them play in person, especially the way Hall can play?
JONATHAN MORSE:     Definitely helpful to watch them live knowing ‑‑ scouting out who we're going to play.   But, then again, you can do the same thing watching film.   But I guess watching them live, seeing the intensity that their bench has, seeing how they communicate on the floor is a big advantage.
DEMETRIUS MILLER:   It really helps us out, because as players, you know, we have our own perception of players.   And that's the biggest thing.   The coaches can coach, but we are the ones that's on the floor seeing the same. 
So we talk to each other.   That's going to help us a lot when it comes down to game time.

Q.   McCarron, in the Drury game it seemed they were a little disrespected from their opposition.   Do you guys, after seeing what they can do, what do you think about the Panthers?
MITCH MCARRON:   You can't make it this far if you can't play.   Championship game, everyone's going to make moves, if you slack off, a guy's going to make a shot. 
Like I said, we need to stick to our scouting report, know our scouting report.   We can't let Hall get going from the 3, just things like that.

Q.   Can you talk a little bit what it was like being here as an assistant coach and now coming back as a head coach, and along with that, can you compare a little bit that 2000 team to the team that you have in front of you today?
COACH CLARK:   Well, I think I appreciated it a lot more now being a head coach.   When you're an assistant coach, you know, every aspect's not on you.   And in saying that, you don't‑‑ the preparation for this kind of game right here, you can only appreciate being a head coach.   It doesn't work the other way around.   In other words, you know, my attention could waver in this first situation when I'm with Dunlap and I'm an assistant because I don't have to be sharp on every little aspect.   That is the biggest difference right there.
So then my appreciation level goes even higher for a guy like Mike Dunlap who has coached in three of these games right here and won two of them.   I understand now the process a lot better than I did at the time. 
So, again, the appreciation factor for this opportunity that we have just goes up a lot higher.   What was the second part of the question? 

Q.   (Off microphone)?
COACH CLARK:   I really hesitate to do that, because it would be unfair to both teams on that, and it's a valid question.   And I'll let the former players‑‑ and they'll soon be former players‑‑ ‑ I'll let them debate that stuff right there and have a good time with it.   Because everybody's perception is we were the best. 
What I can tell you, to get to this level right here, you know, you can't shortcut it on talent.   Both teams had great talent.   And that's about as far as I'll probably go with the comparisons right there. 
And the other thing I'll tell you is they both can score, both teams can score.   So that's the best you're going to get from me on that one.

Q.   Coach, both you and Drury are very efficient offensively, but obviously you guys go about it in different ways.   And could you compare the way you guys play, how you guys score?
COACH CLARK:   We do have some similarities in that we both like to get out in transition, and we're very selective.   They don't turn the ball over playing in a hurry.   We're the same way.   We want to get out in transition and then we make a switch and try and get the best shot we can get.   They're averaging 81.5 points.   We're at about 80 points.   So the tempo is about the same.   You're not going to see the team play a slow‑down game.   It's not going to be two opposite extremes as far as that goes. 
They understand where their bread's buttered.   They'll get Hall shots, and Lockhart is going to do his job, and everybody else is a complementary player.   I don't mean it in a disrespectful way.   It's actually a respectful way.   They do their jobs.   If they're rebounders, they rebound. 
I think we have order in the house with our team as well.   They understand and they just do their jobs.   So there is similarities in that regard.

Q.   Looking at both teams, do you think maybe you guys have a height advantage, or is that one thing you're going to try to take advantage of trying to take it inside?
COACH CLARK:   Yeah, we certainly have a little bit more size than they do.   We always look to exploit that in terms of post‑ups, and it's something that we've done a great job of, is offensive rebounding. 
So sometimes height and size helps a little bit in that area.   But it's just not‑‑ we're not going to change the whole game plan because they're not as big as we are.   We're going to play the way we've been playing for I believe 36 games or whatever it is. 
There's not going to be any major things, but we hope to exploit that a little bit.   What I mean by that is defensively all of a sudden you've got a 6'5" guy, 6'6" guy going against a 6'8" guy defensively.   Sometimes in those areas size helps you a little bit.

Q.   Coach and players, you guys started with a 22‑game winning streak; they have a 22‑game winning streak here.   What does that tell you about the basketball team?
COACH CLARK:   I'll tell you what, you've got two big‑time programs when you're able to put together a 22‑game winning streak.   Credit to them.   Something's gotta give on that right there.   It's either going to get to 23 or we're going to stop it.
And, again, we've been in that situation before being able to win those many games in a row.   But they're not locked up in, okay, we won 22 in a row, you're locked up in your next challenge.   That's the game on Sunday.   So I'm not sure it's really going to play a big factor. 
But what I'll tell you is, again, I'll go back to the point I made is two great teams, when you're able to put those many games together, because it's really difficult.
JONATHAN MORSE:     It's not easy to do coming in winning 22 games in a row.   Every team's out to get you at a certain point.   So, like Coach said, two great teams going at it.   It's going to be a fun game on Sunday.

Q.   Kay, can you just talk about playing as well as you have been playing and the leading team scoring in this tournament so far?   And you definitely have not been playing like a sophomore, have really stepped up and taken on a role?
NICHOLAS KAY:     It's really a team effort.   Everyone's playing hard together.   And we're moving the ball really well.   Basically just playing together and playing as hard as we can for each other, knowing that the seniors only have a couple more games, like this could be the last game they play.   And everyone just wants to make the most of this year.
So just trying to play as hard as we can and we're strong as a team.

Q.   Players, I'm curious how this experience compares with being in Louisville.   And second for Coach Clark, you've actually been in a championship game in the Division II circle setting, and now here.   I'm curious what you think and if you'd like to see this continue?
DEMETRIUS MILLER:   This is an amazing experience.   Being here with the DivisionI guys, you know, this is the things you dream of having.   And Louisville's a great experience, too.   They treated us well there.
And I just feel like it's the bigger stage.   This is what we play for all year and we wanted to get here and make the best out of it.
COACH CLARK:   I would like them to continue this, because this is all about players, the athletes.   I take the coaches out of the equation right here.   And that's why I wanted our guys to experience this, because that's something you just dream about, the stakes that are involved in this thing right here.   They're building memories that will last a lifetime.
Now, I've been involved with three of these games, but nothing like this.   This is unique right here.   So the buzz about the game, the intensity, the environment is totally different when you've got all the DivisionI teams here, too.
I want these guys to have the greatest memories that they can have.   And I take that back to the future teams that are going to play for the championship.   You know, these guys will never forget this experience right here.   So why not keep it going? 

Q.   Alex Hall, is there anybody like him that you've seen in the RMAC thus far?   Seems pretty unique in terms of being a pretty bulky fella that can shoot and put the ball on the floor. 
COACH CLARK:   He's a great player.   I would never take anything away from him.   He's a big key to what we do.   Our guys are pretty smart in answering the questions early because they didn't give any strategy away on that deal right there. That's pretty sharp for those guys.   And I did not prep them for that. 
Alex Hall is a great player, but when you get to this point, whether you're playing national semifinals or quarterfinals, everybody's got an All‑American.   They've all got good players. 
He's a guy that can make a shot from anywhere on the floor.   We've faced some guys like that.   We don't face it on a night‑to‑night basis in the RMAC, but these guys have been through some rumbles, too, and we've played some great players.
So to answer your question, he is unique in the fact that he does what he does in terms of shooting the basketball like that.   But we've seen some different guys, too, as well that can play.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT