THE QUINN DIRECT BRITISH MASTERS
September 22, 2007
Niclas Fasth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Three birdies to finish - give us your assessment of the way you played?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  It was a very good round, solid play and good putting at the end. I was pleased I got it back after some difficulties in the middle with a double bogey as well. Except for that I made plenty of birdies and I am starting to free up the game.   
  
  Q.  The putt on the last, second birdie of the week on the last, did a lap of honour and won you another bottle of champagne?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  I promised that one for my caddie Dave. He had to wait for an extra second there but it was lovely.   
  
  Q.  How much pleasure would it be to win tomorrow and what is the strategy?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  That would be lovely. Firstly I am pleased to be back in contention after my pretty disastrous first round. I have aid I want to have one more win under my belt this year and if I do I will be in the running for the Order of Merit.   
  
  Q.  You had a shank in the first round - how do you put that behind you?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  It was a shot where you are taking a risk and it was more disappointing where I was two under under with three to go and finished three over. I was reasonably happy with my game and it has come together since then. The round yesterday was brilliant, not many mistakes. And today holing the putts makes for good scoring. This course is a good challenge and you are always going to make birdies. I enjoy it here, good course and good hotel and the memories from the Ryder Cup, as well; it would be fantastic to have a success here and I am in the running for it now.   
  
  Q.  You love being in the running, don't you?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  I am smiling now.   
  
  Q.  You are well up there in the Order of Merit?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  I have to go up a gear and then see if I am in it. It has been a bit average the last month or so but I have been addressing the putting and it is paying off it seems. It is a matter of freeing up the game which I feel I am doing now. That's the way I like it.   
  
  Q.  What was wrong with the putting?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  Long story. My putting has been inconsistent through the years so there must be a reason for that. I think we have got to the bottom of that and hopefully it will be easier for me to be more consistent.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT