BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2007
Niclas Fasth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Niclas, I would like to ask you a question I'm sure you've never heard in the interviews outside your game:  How hard of a day was it today?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  Yeah, it was extremely difficult.  This type of layout of the course with lots of trees will always make it difficult with wind.  And with a really, really strong wind like today, it was extremely difficult.   
 On top of that, the wind was gusting, so you've got one strength in the wind when you're actually setting up over the shot and when you hit it, it may very well change and make the ball go ten yards longer.  And ten yards longer, that's into thick rough or water or something else.   
  
  Q.  Did you enjoy going into the final round with the lead even though it's tied right now?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  Yeah, of course.  Well, who wouldn't?  But like to feel that I'm right there in it, and I am now but we have one long round to go.   
 I look forward to that.  I'm sure it's going to be rather intense tomorrow with so many guys in with a chance.  So that should suit me just fine.  I hope that I can go out aggressive tomorrow and at least feel like I'm possibly in charge all day.   
 But that's wishful thinking.  There's a lot of good players that want to win this.  I really do hope that I'm in with a chance come the back nine tomorrow; and I really feel that I have the game for it in spite of not really getting the flow going today.  Because of setbacks along the way, you lose a little bit of confidence when the balls don't land where you think they are going to land.  In spite of that, I played very well, and it's difficult when things are not going your way.  And they weren't going my way today.   
  
  Q.  Do you think the putting will be the key to win the tournament?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  Well, in a way, it always is.  But it's more than that.  You know, if you're going to win this one, you need to set yourself up with lots of chances and tee shots are very crucial on this course because of the very punishing rough.  That's perhaps more key than a lot of other weeks.  But the putting -- I mean, the guy who holes one or two extra putts is going to have an edge.   
  
  Q.  There are a lot of guys, a lot of players close together, even going down to Bernhard Langer, 6-under.   
 NICLAS FASTH:  Well, possibly, yeah, it's only five shots.  You can shot a very low score on this course.  If everything goes your way, you can shoot a very low score.  We've seen that in the past, too.  It's in no way going to be easy.   
 Obviously there is a whole bunch of guys ahead of Bernhard who can also shoot low scores.  So like usual, it's going to come down to who has the great day.  But obviously I would rather be 11-under than 6-under.   
  
  Q.  What will your tactics be tomorrow?  Will you follow the others from the scoreboard or will you try not to know that?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  Well, it's generally hard not to know, but you try to play your own game really.  In my case, I like to feel especially when things go my way, even if I'm behind, I like to draw some strength from seeing myself climb on the leaderboard.  If that means climbing from first tied to first alone, that's fine, you know.   
 But it's difficult.  You should avoid the leaderboard when you're doing bad and look at it when you're doing well, but it's not so easy.  They are all over the place, so I generally see what's happening.   
  
  Q.  After the hard week last time in the United States with the U.S. Open, now again your physical fitness is okay for tomorrow?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  It is.  I may very well have felt more energetic if I was coming off a week at home.  This week, for example, I've had to cut back on practise, very little work out, these things that I like to be part of my preparation.   
 So it's a little bit of a compromise, but the focus on the course has generally been very good.  So I don't think it's suffered much.   
  
  Q.  Your wife is here together with you, is it any help; do you feel more comfortable going into the tournament when your wife is watching you from behind the ropes?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  I like to have her watch me.  But I wouldn't say it necessarily has an effect on the outcome of a tournament.  Since inevitably we're away from each other quite a few weeks every year, it's nice when she and the kids come out.  And I do enjoy having her watch me.  She's also never, ever managed to see me win a tournament, so it would be a lovely bonus in that sense.  I enjoy it, but I don't think it really has any importance for the tournament.   
 KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Thank you very much.  Will you join us at the players' party tonight?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  It's been a little different this week, and like I said I had to cut back on practise, I have to try to sleep more, which is not easy with jet-lag.  Normally I would go to the gym but probably, you know, not for very good anyway.   
 KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Then I hope you can sleep well for tomorrow and be prepared properly.   
 NICLAS FASTH:  I hope so.  There's a good chance of that.   
 KLAUS WAESCHLE:  Thank you very much and good luck for tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT