WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2007
Niclas Fasth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  It was a tough match, 3-up after 10, all square.   
 NICLAS FASTH:  We both played very well.  I mean, Retief is one of the top guys, so I was always kind of having to have my best day to beat him, especially now.  He's won recently and everything.   
 But I was playing my socks off.  I was 7-under through 10.  He had already lost two holes on birdie there where I eagled No. 1 and 10.  Everything was great.   
 But I made one mistake on 11.  Gave him a chance to get back in it, and he's a top player.  He was right back in it.  Took three straight holes.  I managed to stop the bleeding on 14 and really turned it around again because I was the guy -- I had a really good chance at 14, 15, 16, and on 17 I made a great birdie.  That was what it took in the end.   
 That was perhaps even a stronger win than if I just kept going and won 4 and 3.  It was a good day for me.   
  
  Q.  It shows when it comes back like that, shows why he's a Top 10 player, doesn't it?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  Oh, yeah, he always would come back if he was given a chance, and unfortunately I gave him one.  But again, I was stronger overall today, and I was really proud about this win because he didn't give it to me.   
  
  Q.  Those two eagles, you mentioned 1 and 10, 1 in particular, great way to start the match, wasn't it?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  But it was -- I knocked it to, I don't know, seven feet maybe, second shot.  Same on that one, 10:  I hit it into maybe 12 feet, I don't know.   
 So really, really good play.  A couple of mistakes there in the middle to let him back in it, but overall a fantastic round for me.  I was really happy with that.   
  
  Q.  I think you've got Geoff Ogilvy next round; is that right?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  Someone said that.   
  
  Q.  Defending champion.   
 NICLAS FASTH:  Well, there's no easy matches here.  They're all going to be tough.  If they come much tougher than Goosen I'm going home.   
  
  Q.  You enjoy this kind of format, though, don't you?  Gets the best out of you?   
 NICLAS FASTH:  Yeah, it seems to.  I don't know, people think I don't get nervous or anything, but I do, just like anybody else.  But I seem to handle it well.  I was stronger in the end, both yesterday and today.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT