VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2003
Niclas Fasth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thank you very much for coming in and joining us.  Nice round, 67, 5-under par, sits you at the top of the leaderboard. 
NICLAS FASTH:   Yes, I started playing a lot better I thought from last week and on; I sort of found my rhythm again.  I played pretty good, today was not a great playing round.  Probably better than yesterday, but I kept it going, no bogeys and made a few birdies. 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Three birdies, a nice way to finish today. 
Q.  Can you tell us about the highlights of the round?
NICLAS FASTH:   It was a very undramatic round.  Just made my way around, hit a few good shots.  Obviously, sometimes you feel when a par putt goes in or whatever, it's really, really important.  I holed a good one on 15, to sort of stay with the pace.  That felt really good.  I knew I had a couple of chances coming in from there but I wouldn't like to drop there and lose too much ground.  I felt that was one of the big moments, just simple seven-foot putt; but still, it could have been anything, really.  What felt most important to me may have been that one.

Q.  What was the clubs on the last three holes?
NICLAS FASTH:   It was a sand wedge on 16.  I chipped and putted on 17 from the side.  Hit a lob-wedge shot on 18. 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  How long were the putts? 
NICLAS FASTH:   Two 3-footers and the last, it must have been 10, 11 feet. 

Q.  Yesterday you had a run of five birdies in a row but then you let it go a bit after that; were you unlucky? 
NICLAS FASTH:   I played brilliant to start.  On the next hole after those five birdies, I had a 4- or 5-footer for birdie again and I managed to 3-putt that one.  Sort of lost the rhythm there. 
Couldn't really  -- I played all right from there on in anyway, but couldn't seem to get the birdies, and even made a couple of bogeys which felt very disappointing.  A couple of birdies to finish off yesterday made me feel a bit better, but I really felt I played a lot better than the score yesterday and today, it felt the opposite.  I didn't play as good as I did yesterday. 

Q.  You had that electric start on Sunday in Germany. 
NICLAS FASTH:   Yeah. 

Q.  And you got that run of birdies yesterday.  How throughout your career have you been capable of these long runs of birdies or is this recent?
NICLAS FASTH:   Yeah, it's happened.  It's happened a few times.  It's not something that happens every week, of course, but yeah, I've done it quite a few times. 

Q.  Any reason? 
NICLAS FASTH:   I mean, the only thing you would say then is that you must not sort of stop yourself from doing it, so it's a mental thing.  You need to be strong or simply a case of look at the next shot all the time.  The case yesterday and last week was that I played so bloody good on those holes, I just made the birdies.

Q.  You played so bloody good? 
NICLAS FASTH:   Yeah, it was fantastic.  They were short putts.  It was pretty much the same on Sunday last week.  So it's not like suddenly  -- it can be that the putter suddenly goes hot, but I just played good. 

Q.  What sort of score do you think you are going to need? 
NICLAS FASTH:   The course is  -- the greens are receptive.  I think at the moment, only the wind is keeping us from really shooting low scores.  I may be playing well now so it feels easier than it really is.  The way the course has been playing these two days, the course setup and everything is not too difficult, so the scoring should be low.  The wind can change that, of course, but the wind has been fairly tough these two days, and especially yesterday.  Still the scoring is low. 
I don't know how it was yesterday morning; that's when all the low scoring was.  So maybe it was somewhat easier; I don't know. 

Q.  Have you set any targets for this year? 
NICLAS FASTH:   Yes, of course.  Do you want to know them? 

Q.  Please. 
NICLAS FASTH:   One target that I really  -- or goal that I really could tell you about is I really felt that I've developed as a player the last few years, but I haven't won anything big which is disappointing.  So one of my main goals this year is to win a reasonably big event, here, or in America.  I really feel I have to win a fairly big event to prove myself, not only to others, but to myself and feel that  -- I need that to take the next step in my career.

Q.  And this would fit that profile?
NICLAS FASTH:   It would, for anybody, I think. 

Q.  And obviously, after the second place, you'll be looking at the majors, as well? 
NICLAS FASTH:   Yeah, I know the game; I don't back off if I get a chance.  They don't come easy.  To win, you usually have to do a lot more than finishing second.  Fair enough, but I know I can do it.  When I get a chance, I'll go after it.  I really did that last week.  Two shots behind was not what I was hoping for after that good start, but I'll give it another go this week.  I'll expect obviously some more guys to shoot low today.  I'm probably not going to be in the lead but I'll be there with a chance for the weekend.

Q.  The thing that the other players say about you is that your mind is very strong.  Do you agree with that?
NICLAS FASTH:   Yes. 

Q.  Why?  How do you make your mind so strong?
NICLAS FASTH:   Well, I worked at it since the age of 15 maybe.  There are a lot of small skills involved, self-control.  But I guess you could call it self-control in different ways.  But there's a lot that you can do.  As you see out on the Tour now, there's a lot of psychologists around and coaches and everything.  In Sweden we started doing this 15, 20 years ago.  I was one of the guys who was interested and so I've worked a lot at it.  It's a not hard work; it's just a matter of acquiring the skills and using them and getting used to that.

Q.  Are you working with anybody we would know?
NICLAS FASTH:   Not right now.

Q.  You don't work with anybody? 
NICLAS FASTH:   I could say probably but nobody you would know.  It's a professor back in Sweden, I see him about twice a year.  I do most of the work myself right now.  But I get support.  One guy who has supported me  -- obviously my coach  -- but also the Swedish coach for the Swedish team; he's out in some tournaments and I see him once in awhile.  His name is Peter Matsen. 

Q.  Was Pia Nillson involved in that program? 
NICLAS FASTH:   Yeah, probably.  Not when I was in it.  She was the head of it but we never saw her, the guys never did. 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT