WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2002
Niclas Fasth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  General comment on your match? 
NICLAS FASTH:   It was good, I would say.  I'm not used to playing match-play, and probably not what you expected  -- he is a great player and I didn't expect to get anything for free.  At the beginning we swapped holes all the time.  We parred our first hole and we were both playing well.  I felt it was a very steady game today. 

Q.  Only one or two bogeys? 
NICLAS FASTH:   I got the lead pretty much after 12, I was 2-up, I think.  Really, he never really managed to get me under pressure after that.  So, I had a fairly easy time in front there, just making pars all the time.  Even made one bogey and got away with it, but I played very well.  It was steady and it was good.

Q.  Do you change your strategy when you're ahead?
NICLAS FASTH:   Not really.  Suddenly, you'll get a birdie in your face if you start making pars; you just keep trying.  This course is fine if you're playing well, but if you miss a couple of shots, it's not forgiving.  So you just have to go as hard as you can out there, and that's what I did. 

Q.  This will be a good practice for the Ryder Cup come September.
NICLAS FASTH:   Yes, I think so.  I have to play more match-play before September, but this is a really good way to start practicing match-play, and also give me a chance to get going this year and hopefully start a great season again. 
I like the idea of match-play.  I think it's more intense than stroke-play.  There's certainly room for a few match-play tournaments a year.  There could be more.  I would probably be better at stroke-play  -- that's just a guess, but I like match-play, nevertheless. 

Q.  Birdies on 11 and 12, which I assume was the turning point in the match. 
NICLAS FASTH:   We were even up until then.  11, I hit a 7-iron five meters short of the hole, 50 feet or so, and knocked that in.  He might have made bogey, but I knocked it in. 
On and then 12, the par  5, we both missed our tee shots.  I hit a wedge up to four meters maybe, four or five meters again, and knocked that in  -- four meters, I would say, and he just made par out of the bunker.  So he never really got me under pressure there.  But I did make a birdie and I did get ahead. 
So after that, he didn't really play at his best.  He made pars, but didn't really get any pressure.  I did knock in one big putt, a two-meter downhiller on 15.  It was just a big putt for the match, I would say.  That was for par after a bad chip shot. 
16, we halved in a bogey; so that was the one I really got away with.  That was really the only one in the tournament where I really missed shots. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT