BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2009
Niclas Fasth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us about another good finish.  
 NICLAS FASTH: Yeah, all right today. I was quite pleased with the game in general. Putting is nice. You know, we had a nice morning for it. I was in a good mood, played well, and not too many mistakes either. So only one bogey was all right.  
  
  Q. And the course to your liking?   
 NICLAS FASTH: Yeah, I've always liked this course. Nobody loves everything about anything, really, but it is a really great place to play our major event on The European Tour. I think most people would agree, it's as good as it was 20 years ago, and not all courses are like that. The changes have been good, and it's a fair test.  
  
  Q. So where do you stand on changes to the greens?   
 NICLAS FASTH: Well, if you want players to like them, yes, you probably will need to change them. Now, it should be said, playing in the morning like I did now, they are pretty good, very, very fast and pretty even. It's just as the grass starts growing during the day that they get tricky.  
  
  Q. So the old truism still holds true: It's that sort of case that you have to get off to a good start here in the morning?  
 NICLAS FASTH: Well, it always helps, doesn't it. But yes, the greens are better in the morning, but you play -- some days, your putts drop and some days not. You just go along and play. You never know. Some years when it's been really dry here, we actually go away much better because it has not grown as much. But the course is a good course, it's beautiful, nice morning for it today and good start for me.   
  
  Q. We had a conversation a couple of weeks ago about the work-in-progress, and steps in the right direction. I take it that to start a tournament well, is one of those?  
 NICLAS FASTH: You always feel great that way. I haven't really been changing anything for a long time now. It's been a matter of just letting it settle in, getting some confidence and getting a few scores in there.  
 Although I really haven't had a top finish yet, I have had a few half-decent scores, even good ones, so it's starting to come around. It's not as fast as I would like but a good start this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT