BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2008
Niclas Fasth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did you feel that something was going to click today for you?
 NICLAS FASTH: I felt a lot more relaxed going into this week. I've been doing a lot of swing work and it's been very difficult for a while. I felt that at least this week, there was a chance, you never know, but it felt a lit more relaxed and the swing and the control was working a bit better. So I felt I should play okay now, but you never know. 

 Q. No dropped shots but crucially you got a great up-and-down on the fourth which kept the momentum going today?
 NICLAS FASTH: Yeah, I had two good up-and-downs really. Other than that, it was pretty decent play, a lot of good shots, a few good putts, and again, a couple of up-and-downs to keep you going. It's great. 

 Q. Are you happy with the way things are going with regard to the swing changes?
 NICLAS FASTH: Yeah, I've been doing a lot of work now, way more than you want to do, but I'm pleased the way it's going. You'll never be quite finished but right now it's starting to move to something that I can use and feel fairly comfortable with. 

 Q. Round of 5-under in the first round must be a pleasing start for you. 
 NICLAS FASTH: Yes, I was quite pleased to get a good start of the tournament, and to get a good score in, to be fair. It's been a rough few months for me with bad results due to a lot of swing work and starting to feel better and was a bit more relaxed going into this week and it's a lot better.

 Q. Always pleasing, a bogey-free round, especially having tweaked your swing. 
 NICLAS FASTH: Yeah, you can never guarantee a bogey-free round even if you play well. I was only in trouble a couple of times really today and made nice up-and-downs, so was quite pleased with that, and that will all help you to get a good score, because you play all right, you're going to make a few birdies, and if you can get away from the few situations where you have a problem, then it's good.

 Q. The course here, how is it playing today? Looks like the conditions are ideal. 
 NICLAS FASTH: They are very good now, and considering where we went through this morning, the course has been playing just fine. There were no issues at all out there and as always, it's in great shape, so I think it will hold up just fine.

 Q. Come the end of Sunday in view of the conditions today, what do you expect a winning score to be? 
 NICLAS FASTH: Well, what's leading today, 7-under? So you would expect 20. 
 In spite of the course playing long, the greens are receptive and reasonably generous fairways, so there are going to be good scores, no matter where you put the pins. The more difficult you make it, there are going to be some bad ones, too, but there's always somebody on form. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT