NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: RALEIGH
March 16, 2016
Austin Etherinton
Kellen Dunham
Roosevelt Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Austin, this is not a new thing for you.  You've been in the Tournament several years.  What is the experience like?  Is it any different as opposed to any other time?
AUSTIN ETHERINGTON: This one is really not much different.  Coming into it, there's the question of us being op the bubble, but, you know, we weren't really worried about that or thinking about that.  We were just focusing on us as a team.  You know, I think it paid its dues.  We were ready and our name was called so we're ready to go out there and show everyone what we're capable of.
KELLEN DUNHAM: I think it's a wonderful experience that we have generally just coming to this tournament at the end.  I think that, you know, it's a special one in this year that we're able to overcome adversity early on in the conference season 3-6 turning it around.  I think it's a special one, just like they always are.
Q. To follow up, Roosevelt, you can take this:  Is there an advantage to having Tournament experience, having a team and a lot of guys have been there before and opposed to Texas Tech that has not been there since 2007?
ROOSEVELT JONES: I think there's somewhat of an advantage.  I remember my sophomore year and first time playing in the NCAA Tournament, I was very nervous.  I didn't know what to expect, things like that was, but last year I was kind of more focused, more confident and more calm throughout the tournament.  I think that kind of has an effect on it.  But it's not going affect the outcome; you have to come out ready to play.
Q. For any of the players, Tyler Lewis has been here in this building before.  Played here two years.  Have you guys talked with him much about being back here at N.C. State?
AUSTIN ETHERINGTON: You know, yeah.  Tyler, we knew, you know, right after our name was called and where they told us we were going to be playing at, you know, Tyler played here before.  He's very familiar with this gym.  We're happy for him to be able to come back home.  For him, I think it was hard for him to leave, you know, his state.  So him being able to come back to it is pretty cool for him and a really cool experience, you know, not only being back in his hometown but the NCAA Tournament.  Obviously we're very happy for him.  We have other business to take care of, too.
Q. Butler's reputation in the Tournament, well earned.  We've had a lot of long runs, big upsets.  Do you feel that you guys are more of a target now, because you've established yourself in the Tournament over the years?
ROOSEVELT JONES: No.  I don't really think we're much of a target, because I still feel like there's people that doubt us about our game whenever we come into the NCAA Tournament.  You know, every year, we come in, we're all picked or chosen to lose our game.  So we know we got to come out ready to play and ready to beat the team we play and shock the media with how we play against a team that we go up against.  So, I really don't feel like we have a target on our back, really.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT