ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 12, 2015
AB de Villiers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. AB, how would you describe that performance and would you take a lot of confidence out of that performance into a knockout game?AB de VILLIERS: It was a good performance.  Those are always tricky games.  I thought they bowled pretty well up front and made it difficult for us.  It was one of my harder knocks up there today, really had to work, which means that they played their squad well.  They went and batted well, made us work for our runs.  We got a nice foundation again, which I'm very happy about, and we could free up nicely towards the end.  Very happy about the fact that Quinny scored some runs, Farhaan scored some runs, some of the low order got an opportunity to hit a couple of balls.  Vernon even got in, as well.  Those kind of things will definitely help us going into the knockout rounds now, yes.  So very happy with the fielding display, as well.  Everyone bowled nicely, and everyone got a nice run in.  All the part-timers, as well.  So all around good performance.  I won't say, yes, that win has given us the confidence to believe that we're better than ever, but still, those games need to be respected, and I think that the boys rocked up here with a great attitude today, and we wanted to win and we wanted to play a good game of cricket, which we did.Q. AB, now that Rilee got some runs and Farhaan also got some runs, what does that give you to think about if Faf is fit because now all your batsmen are pretty much in form?AB de VILLIERS: That gives us a good headache.  It's a good thing to know that players are in form.  They're two completely different players.  Rilee is more in the top order, very attacking, where Farhaan is more of a finisher, likes to assess the conditions and the situations really well, and he gives us a few overs with the ball.  So it's a difficult call to make, but we'll -- closer to the time we'll have a look at who we'll be playing.  Looks like we're going to Sydney.  We're not sure about that yet, but we'll look at the conditions, what we'll be up against and the situation we'll be confronted with, what kind of team we're playing, and then we'll make that call.Q. Not saying that your bowlers shouldn't have bowled with such a venom against the batsmen, they're in a World Cup and they should have expected it, but was that the plan to be really ruthless with your bowling?  And will we be seeing this in the quarterfinal, as well?  Is that part of the plan that you'll be bowling with short pitch into the body with such kind of bounce?AB de VILLIERS: It all depends on the conditions that we face on the day.  The wicket, there was a bit of G around.  We didn't start off like that.  I think in the first 10 overs there was only one bouncer.  There was a big of G, which meant that the wicket sped up a bit, got a bit quicker, and the shorter ball came into play.  In any situation we'll try and assess the conditions, see what kind of delivery will work the best to get us wickets.  Tonight the shorter ball, because of the fact it skidded on nicely came into play.  Once again, if we could play different ground now moving forward, I won't say it's a set game plan but if we get a similar wicket again, it'll definitely be part of the game plan, yes.Q. Just to follow up, obviously Faf would come back into the picture for the quarterfinals.  Is it necessarily a choice between Rilee and Farhaan for that space or are there other permutations?AB de VILLIERS: That's a good question.  The bench, first of all, fitness-wise, if Faf will be ready.  He's been struggling with his lower back, but I'm pretty sure he will be.  If all of them are fit, it's a difficult call.  I think because of the fact that most of our batters are in good form, it'll probably come down to Farhaan and Rilee.  It's a tough call, but that's probably where we're heading.  We'll have a look at that.Q. I don't know if you saw, but Graham Smith said before this game that if Quinton was back for this game he'd probably continue to be backed for the quarterfinals, and that seemed to be the way that you've gone.  Are you happy that he's now found a little bit of form and just that he's feeling okay with his own game into the quarterfinal?AB de VILLIERS: Look, we will obviously discuss team selection moving forward.  Russell and I and the selectors will sit down and discuss all the different possibilities and combinations that we do have and we'll make that final call once we get closer to the time.  But talking about Quinny, there's no doubt in my mind that he's a match winner, and I've said it before that he's going to play a big part in us winning this World Cup.  I would hate to see him go, but it's something that we will discuss moving forward, but for now he's still my first pick, and like I said, he's going to win -- when the push comes to shove and when the hitters are not, I really believe he's going to play a big knock for us.Q. Is it frustrating for you guys that the UAE have basically said they're using these matches as practice against Pakistan, against yourselves, rather than the other way around where we would expect you guys to use them as practice?AB de VILLIERS: I'm especially not too worried about what the opposition do.  We came here with a certain plan of playing a good game of cricket.  We wanted to take a few things away from our performance today, and we did that.  The way they approach the game, we can't control that.  It's up to them.  I felt we played pretty good cricket for most of the day, and that's what it comes down to.  I'm not too fussed about teams practicing against us or trying to beat us or not trying to beat us.  It's about what we do as a cricket team.Q. If Quinny does not make the quarterfinals for a selection issue or whatever, would you be sad to give up his bowling seeing that it's going so well?AB de VILLIERS: I'll be very unhappy about that, yes.  Look, personally I don't want to keep.  It really puts a lot of pressure on me as a captain.  I've got more time without the gloves in hand, feel I can get to my bowlers, communication is much better, so it will be a last resort for us to move in that direction.  Quinny showed some signs of good form again today, much better.  He was prepared to fight it out, and like I said, I'm going to say it again, he's going to win us a few games moving forward, so he'll be a big player to leave out.Q. Was the over rate okay today?  We were wondering, it seemed a good idea perhaps to give Aaron Phangiso a game just from the point of view that if Imran falls over before the quarterfinal then you're going to have a cold spinner going in.  What was the thinking behind that?AB de VILLIERS: It was a very difficult decision.  First, the over rate, whenever I bowl the over rate is fine, so maybe I must bowl a bit more.  Yeah, look, the over rate was really good tonight.  I think they're three up, which is always great.  I didn't answer the question of the 35 overs just to make sure because I know that I get banned if I stumble again.  Very happy about that.  I think the boys have reacted really well to that, and we are through the overs.  It was a tough decision for us.  We we were very tempted to Phangiso into the team.  It's been a long tour for him, but his attitude has been superb, and I've got to compliment him on that.  He works really hard in the nets.  I know what he's capable, so I won't be worried when something does happen and we'll have to play him in one of the knockout games.  He's a big match player, he always has been.  I've bowled him in those final overs for a reason because he's always that kind of guy that wins you a match when matters most.  There's absolutely nothing that I worry about when it comes down to that.  He works really hard and his game is in a good place.  I've faced him in the nets, I'm assessing his performance and I know he's in a good place.  If his opportunity comes, I know he'll grab it with both hands.Q. Just on your attack, I suppose it would also be a pretty tough call to leave Kyle Abbott out given how well he's gone, but are you quite pleased with Vernon being back and what is the thinking around those two guys and how you'll manage them in the knockouts?AB de VILLIERS: Yeah, it was a difficult decision.  Abbott had two good games in a row.  It was important for us to give Vernon a go.  Again, we know what he's capable of, especially with the new ball, and he offers something with a bat.  Abbott brings something completely different to the party again.  We like to have that problem with the two of them.  I don't think both of them will play at the same time unless there's a couple of injuries around them.  But to have that headache, to choose between the two of them, is a great problem to have.  They've got completely different sets of skills, and both of them are in good form.  It's nice for us to have that problem moving forward, and like I said, we'll have a look at the opposition and pick accordingly.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT