ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 26, 2015
AB de Villiers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  AB DE VILLIERS: Yeah, I did read it.  It's quite interesting.  Some valuable points made there, and some points are also not that valuable.  But I think it comes from a good place, and that makes me want to read it and want to take the good points from that.  So point taken, and what can I say?  Just thank him for that, for the input, and hopefully we'll make some of the points count that he mentioned in there.Q. Not too much about the game.  Have you ever attended a press conference like you just did?AB DE VILLIERS: I have done it before.  It's quite interesting.  I actually felt a bit uncomfortable.  I didn't want to put him off, you know.  It will feel a little bit intimidating for me to sit here with the captain sitting in the background.  So I was trying to pretend like I'm not listening or just not to make eye contact just to make him feel a bit more comfortable.  But, yeah, I've done it before, and it's nothing special.Q. Listening to him talk there about Chris Gayle, it was quite a knock on Tuesday.  Obviously, for Chris Gayle who has been out of form to come back and do something like that would make a lot of headlines and that kind of thing.  Did you see it?  He didn't train today, Chris Gayle.  Was it something that you guys are thinking about it at all?  Can he keep going from that?AB DE VILLIERS: He doesn't train often.  I played with him in Bangalore, and you don't often see him in the nets.  His body is quite old for his age, I think.  He needs to look after himself to make sure he gets on the path with all the games.  The fact that he scored runs is definitely not a surprise.  It's not a surprise to see him bat like that. It's a matter of making sure you make your plans against him.  He's a world class player and he can win games for his team in almost any situation.  He's one of those guys you need to look out for and make sure your plans are really clear towards him.Q. In chasing 270 in the last year or two has been a concern for South Africa.  Why do you think that is?  Do you need to put more depth into your batting or why would it be?AB DE VILLIERS: Yeah, we didn't have seven batters in the last game, but they're not a real excuse.  The two run outs cost us quite a bit, like I said in the previous few press conferences that I spoke at, and you just can't afford those when you're chasing that a title like that.  It was definitely not a bad total at the MCG to chase -- did we chase 370 or 307?  It was over 300 anyway. I thought it was a 270 pole wicket, which would have been a bit easier.  But we chased over 300, and it's never an easy total.  It wasn't an easy wicket to play on.  It's not a problem.  We've done it before.  We've chased on over 330 in Zimbabwe in the final against Australia a few months ago.  So the confidence is still there, it's just a matter of going out there and doing it.Q. The selection of the team, have you guys fully decided or was there still a bit of confusion with the selection?  What do you expect from the conditions here at the SCG?AB DE VILLIERS: There is no real confusion.  We've just got to make a few tough calls, with that I'm not ready.  It's obviously, (Indiscernible) extra seam bowlers that we've got.  Either (Indiscernible) stays in or Kyle Abbott gets a chance, I'm not going to make that.  I'm not going to say what's going to happen now, but it's not confusing.  It's one of the two.  I'm very comfortable with both of the players, and we'll make the decision to not (Indiscernible).Q. Conditions?AB DE VILLIERS: Conditions here in Sydney, it's been a while since we played here again.  We finished here in that ODI against Australia which we lost.  It did play pretty well.  We played the game right there till the end, missed a good cricketing wicket.  There was something in there for the bowlers always.  You can feel the seamers in the game and even the spinners in the game, but you can also get in as a batter.  It's just a good cricket wicket, I think.Q. The perception of South Africa has always been maybe a little bit tense and not relaxed in big tournaments.  I think you have your normal coaching staff plus an extra three consultants.  Do you feel that perception is fair at the moment or what do you feel like the team is actually quite relaxed tee spite the start?AB DE VILLIERS: We're in a very good place.  It's very easy to say a lot of things about our team after our previous performance.  But a disappointment about what happened there.  We only have one extra consultant in Michael Hussey, Gary has been around the team a long time.  All the other guys have been around the side.  We don't have the psychologist that we normally have in the World Cups. I really believe the team is in a good space.  We have the right amount of management here.  Every single person knows his role.  We didn't do those roles well in the last game, and we need to do better tomorrow.Q. The team is concerned of this threat of suspension hanging over your head, but he also said we don't really have an answer.  We've got all the seamers.  All he said was I've appealed to the other players to increase their match awareness and try to pick up a few seconds here and there.  But the issue with overrides.  Is that something you brought up with the team this week, and are you concerned, because you're the one under threat?AB DE VILLIERS: We've spoken about it in length.  I think all the captains are under pressure in this tournament.  They're very strict with that in this particular tournament you get one warning and then you're suspended.  They're a little bit more lenient with normal cricket series around the world, which is understandable.  This tournament is under the spotlights, and it heats you up the right way. So I'm under pressure.  Yes, we know that.  We've had a good discussion about it.  There is nothing else you can do about it except just get it right.  It's one of those things you've just got to get the intensity for 50 overs, which is not easy.  It's easier said than done, believe me. But we have the guys (Indiscernible) and obviously the part-time bowlers will have to help in that.  The seamers need time.  They need time to get the marks and get the fields right.  And those longer run-ups they get tired.  So it's understandable for a seamer to waste a bit more time, but the fielders have got to get the intensity up.  We've spoken about it in length, and I believe the boys will react.Q. What did you learn about the West Indies from the ODI series?AB DE VILLIERS: They're a dangerous cricket team.  I believe if you put enough pressure on them like any other cricket team really, they can crumble.  The focus on the weaknesses and make sure we push hard on those areas.  Also, you've got to look at the other side of things.  We haven't played well in the last game.  So we have to make sure that we look after our side and our games and make sure we do the basics well.  I think that is the first thing.  Make sure we play a good game of cricket.  But what we learn is they do have weaknesses on the team, and it's important to push those batters especially in the pressure situations.Q. Can you give the captain's arm band away?AB DE VILLIERS: I can, but it won't work.  We've already spoken about it.  I actually asked about it, and I'm the nominated captain for the tournament, so I still get the band.Q. In terms of the MCG where it was a massive 90,000-plus people.  This isn't as big, but still steeped in a lot of cricketing history.AB DE VILLIERS: Yeah, it's a great privilege to play here.  It was a loud game the other night.  I think in a way that played a role, but we sort of learned our lessons that you need to win games in those big situations and when the crowd is against you to win a World Cup and get far in these kind of tournaments.  It might be a little bit quieter in this game and the two neutral teams playing at the Sydney Cricket Ground. I love playing there.  It's a beautiful stadium.  Lots of traditions and cricket history.  It's almost got a feel of new lands on the mountain here.  But you can feel the cricket history when you walk out here to play.  Yeah, it's a great honor.Q. How much does the defeat to India change your approach to games in this tournament?  You probably wouldn't have expected to lose to them and have that loss.  Has it changed any in terms of your approach to games?AB DE VILLIERS: It doesn't change a thing.  You can't expect anything in these kind of tournaments.  India is still a current World Champions.  There is no such thing as you just arrive at the World Cup and you beat India.  You have to work really hard. Nothing has changed for our approach except our confidence might have taken a bit of a slip in the last game, which is maybe not a bad thing.  It's maybe a good thing for us to make sure we keep our feet on the ground, keep working hard.  We understand what is required in order for us to play some good cricket now.  Not that we didn't understand before, but I think that we've got only upwards to go now otherwise we're going to stumble out of this tournament.  The boys are really eager to perform, and very much ready to go tomorrow.Q. This is obviously a big game, any game in the World Cup.  But when it gets to the quarterfinals, is that really when the tournament starts?  You have the fans going ups and downs.  We just saw 92 Pakistan games.  Is that in the back of your mind?  You obviously give a hundred percent, but that's when it really counts.AB DE VILLIERS: That's obviously the main part of the tournament and where it counts.  Honestly, we cannot think like that at the moment.  We are not sure of the place in the quarterfinals.  We would not like to be that team that stumbles before we get there, and the thought of the quarters and the semis and the finals where we're going to play.  There are so many things we need to think about, and the most important thing for us is to make sure we have a spot there first.  No matter how we get there, I just want us to get there and then we'll play some high-pressure, make-or-break kind of cricket like you mentioned now.Q. Just the weather conditions for Friday, the conditions didn't exist here on the grounds, have you thought about the rain at all?AB DE VILLIERS: No, I haven't.  I wouldn't want it any other way.  I don't want to think about that.  It's part of the game.  It's nothing -- it's good for rain to come.  The farmers want it.  So I can't sit here and say I'm praying for rain not to come.  If it comes, we have to adapt and playa accordingly and hopefully make it count further.Q. Do you think if there is anything, do you plan like this is how we need to play?AB DE VILLIERS: But you don't know if it's going to rain.  That is the problem.  There might be rain around, and then I'll say maybe it's a bit better for us to bat second.  It doesn't run the game, and then we shoot ourselves in the foot.  So that's a difficult one.  You don't even know if it's going to rain in the game whether it's going to be rain affected or not, or if it's going to rain in the 15 overs.  It's a gamble.  So the best thing to do is just not to think about it, make sure you keep your focus throughout the game and whatever the rain situation throws at you, just take it on.Q. I don't know if you're thinking about an extra batsman.  But if you are, could you talk a little about the differences that Farhaan Behardien and Rilee Rossouw would offer, and maybe what you're looking for in terms of that extra batsman?AB DE VILLIERS: Yeah, it depends which player we go for with whoever comes in.  I think if Abbott comes in he's a bit less of a batter than Parny, and we might have to go for the seven batters then.  If Parny plays, it's a different story.  If Rilee and (Indiscernible) play they're two really good all-around cricket players, Rilee can bowl a bit of offspin as well for us.  And Farhaan, you've seen enough really.  They're both really good fielders, bot good finishers, good middle order batters.  They can play anywhere.  They're versatile players. I like to have versatile players on my team to be honest with you, especially guys that can handle the pressure down in the middle of the order.  Farhaan has seen many games in the past especially domestically, but he's definitely capable of doing it here.  Two class players, and if they do get a chance, I'm sure they'll make it count.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT