ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 14, 2015
AB de Villiers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







  AB de VILLIERS: Yeah, it was a long buildup, but it was all necessary buildup stuff, so we're very happy with where we're at, and we feel we've played enough cricket. We've had enough net sessions. We're certainly not tired or exhausted because of the buildup, we're just really ready to go. I think everyone is excited to get the ball rolling, and very excited to start off against Zimbabwetomorrow.    AB de VILLIERS: I'm not 100 percent sure at the moment. We're still sort of testing it out. He had a nice bat today, went through that, and as we speak, he's going through his batting fitness checkup or fitness test. I think it's going to be okay so far. We're having a looktomorrowmorning again. We obviously want to play him. It's an important position for us, that, but if he doesn't, we'll make a plan.    AB de VILLIERS: We haven't decided yet. That's a good question. This tournament is going to be all about adapting, and whatever comes your way you're going to have to take it and make it work. I don't have a preference to be honest with you. I feel we're going to have to do both the skills really well in this tournament, especially against teams like Zimbabwe, Ireland, UAE that we face in this tournament. Whatever we do first, we can't be relying or hoping for a toss. We're going to have to play the better cricket on the day. I think if we have that kind of mindset right throughout the tournament, it'll do us well.    AB de VILLIERS: Yeah, like any other tournament, I think our chances are good. We're in a good space as a team, which always bodes well for a side, and I really feel we're comfortable with where we're at. We really enjoy each other's company. It's the little things that I feel it's in a good place at the moment. We're not getting ahead of ourselves, we're not thinking about the trophy at the moment. We know we can win, there's no doubt about it, but we know there are lots of obstacles along the way that we're going to have to overcome. It will come down to those special moments every game, and we're certainly up for it and very excited to take it on and to give it a good go.    AB de VILLIERS: Yeah, it goes hand in hand with individual performance, as well. For me to be in good form, it's never easy, it's a fight. So for us to fight in that situation is what it's about. Batting, bowling, fielding, whatever the skill is, under pressure it's never easy, and I think all the guys know that, and we're prepared for whatever is going to come our way. But the main thing is it's a fight. It's never easy. All my hundreds that I've scored in the past, all my good knocks, all my bad knocks, it's never been easy, and I think that's the feeling in the camp. We're prepared for whatever comes our way, easy or difficult. So those pressure situations are never easy, but we're also prepared to fight it out for the team.    AB de VILLIERS: What's different? We're in New Zealand. That's different. This tournament has all been the same to me. It's just a great opportunity. It's awesome to be here. It's always a great vibe. I would have playing in the World Cups. It's my third one now, and some of the guys have asked me what to expect and what not, and I can't tell them much to be honest with you, just that it's a great privilege to be here. The pressure will be on you at a certain stage in the tournament, and it's up to you to make a play for the team. If you can't, we might lose, if you do, we'll win. That's what it comes down to, and that's our great opportunity. Each guy will somewhere along the line get an opportunity to make a play for the team, and that's so great. I've got no doubt in my mind that whoever is going to be under pressure at certain stages in this tournament will come through for the guys. We're ready to go and win some really good games.    AB de VILLIERS: Yeah, it's been a rocky road. I remember being all over the place when I started off. I think it's pretty normal. It's the same as my career with my batting early on I had absolutely no idea, actually for the first three to five years, but it's a whole different ballgame now. You sort of get used to what works for you and what not. You get to know your own game, and I've got to know my own captaincy game a little bit better over the last while, a lot better over the last while. I feel I've got more time to make better decisions. Still get it wrong, like any other player has done in the past and will do in the future, and yeah, so I don't know. It's just been a good ride, and hopefully we'll finish high in this tournament.    AB de VILLIERS: Yeah, we get along with all of them. Brendan and I have come a long way together. I think we played against each other , way back, and I'll never forget a game in Cape Town where I think we bowled him out for 100 and he scored about 80 and he was still not out at the end of the inning, chasing whatever, 180 or 200, and he's just always been the thorn in the side for us growing up, and he's still a great player, and he's done so well in his career. Lots of credit to him, and we will witness his capabilities intomorrow'sgame, and the other boys. Look, they beat Australia not long ago. They're a dangerous side. They've come a long way and think they're under good leadership at the moment from the captain and the coach, so definitely a side to be reckoned with. We've got our plans in place, but we know we'll have to take them up seriouslytomorrow. It's a big start for both teams.    AB de VILLIERS: Zimbabwetomorrow. That's really how I feel. I haven't thought, to be honest with you, to watch other games and to follow other games just tires me out. I don't really care much about the other games. I watched SriLanka and New Zealand but now I watch 10 overs and I feel tired sitting here now. I don't like to focus too much on that. We do our analysis and we focus a lot on the other teams away from practices and away from your off time. I just want to get away from it a bit and focus on what we've got to do to win this gametomorrow. That's the most important. Yes, we're going to play some world class teams in this World Cup if we're lucky enough to make it to the quarters, we're going to hopefully play three incredible cricket games against three very, very tough oppositions. I don't need to tire myself out now already thinking of them.    AB de VILLIERS: Not really. I feel like it now. I want to get out to the park because we're so ready now. But definitely not tired, no. It was all part of a plan. I think the management team did an exceptional job to get out there what we can expect, you know, so we knew exactly what to expect leading up to this World Cup, even three months back. We knew exactly the games that were coming, the amount of sessions we had in place, net sessions. Whatever sessions were in place, were put in place really early, so we knew what to expect, and that way you can sort of get your mind ready, adapt early to know what's coming. I sit here feeling really fresh but ready to go.    AB de VILLIERS: It's very easy. It's just Fudgy that's a bit of a question mark for us at the moment. It will obviously be a bit of a difficult one if he doesn't play, whether we put an extra batter in or allrounder or a frontline bowler, so that's a decision that Russell and I will have to make, but the rest of the team is ready to go and pretty much in place.    AB de VILLIERS: It is a new tournament. I do have memories of the previous two tournaments. I remember the first one, going by really quickly, and before I knew it we were in the semifinals. It was almost as easy that. I know that the World Cup is not as easy as that, but it happens really quickly, and before you know it you're also out. As easy as it is, it's also just as tough. I think these tournaments go by really quickly even though it's quite long. It's the kind of tournament that you build up for‑‑ that's what you look forward to your whole life, and all the guys feel like that, so it's important for me to break things down a bit, slow it down a touch, make sure there's enough time away from the game, just to slow it down, just to make it feel like a whole year because it's a dream come true for everyone here, and sometimes if you don't do it that way, those pressure situations and those big moments in games just fly by like that, so we'll just try and slow it down. It feels like a fresh tournament. It is a fresh tournament for all of us. Those past happenings and the chokers and all of that, that's still very much part of our system. There's no doubt about it. We're going to have to win to take that away, and we know that. But like I said before, it's a great opportunity for all of us. The guys being here can make history, and just want to slow things down. That's the main message for this tournament. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT