ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
July 4, 2019
Shai Hope
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
West Indies - 311/6 (50), Afghanistan - 288 (50)   
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Shai Hope.  Questions?   
 Q.  Being your first World Cup, what are your memories or lessons from this World Cup?  And secondly, you, Hetmyer and Pooran are considered the core for the future for the West Indies.  Your thoughts on that as well?  
SHAI HOPE: It was definitely a learning experience.  Something that I will never forget.  Playing each team in this format, obviously you have to be the better team on the day to progress in the tournament.  But having said that it's a learning experience.  I definitely gained something from it.  Hopefully myself and the younger guys can use this and take it forward into their career.   
 Q.  Looking at the World Cup, the team obviously came together very late.  You've had coaching changes and regime changes at Cricket West Indies.  Do you think it was maybe just a little bit too soon for this team?  
SHAI HOPE: I wouldn't say that.  Regardless of what happened behind the scenes, we have to go out there and play the cricket.  It doesn't matter what happened the week before, the day before, two years before.  It's about crossing that line and playing the hardest you can for the region.   
 Q.  Do you think you'll be better for the experience in four years' time, when you and Hetmyer and Nicholas are a bit older?  
SHAI HOPE: I would like to think so.  If you don't improve and learn from this experience, then we're not going anywhere, we're not learning anything.  I'm sure we're going to use this as basically a platform for the next four years.  And hopefully we can have something stronger and build more momentum early in the tournament and take it on to the semis and the final.   
 Q.  Can you put your finger on why it didn't kick on after beating Pakistan in that first game because it was such a positive start and it slightly went a bit?  
SHAI HOPE: If I knew the answer to that, I reckon we'd be in the semis.  It's just one of those things.  As I said, we didn't play the better cricket on the day.  And in a tournament like this you have to basically play your best game each game.  As you muck up you're basically out of the tournament, if you have a couple of bad games.   
The better team won, the better team won in the particular situations of the game.  Because I think we lost some of those games in some crucial situations, but that's basically it.   
 Q.  Obviously, just a question about batting here.  What is it about this place that gets your juices flowing?  
SHAI HOPE: Good question.  I don't know, man.  I just love to bat here.  As you know, two years ago I had some fun batting here.  And it's just nice to get back and perform again here.  Not sure what it is.  I don't know if it's the wicket, if it's the atmosphere, whatever the case may be, but I'm just happy to bat here.   
 Q.  Did you guys know much about Ikram coming in, about how he batted?  And what did you make of his innings?  
SHAI HOPE: Yeah, we did a bit of research.  We knew what he was like.  He played pretty well.  He came out very aggressively and played with decent intent and it came off him today.   
 Q.  You had some good starts.  So which was the most difficult defeat for you looking back?  
SHAI HOPE: Probably Australia again, definitely after that win against Pakistan.  Yes, having -- we had them in very good position and basically allowed them to get that total.  And I still think that we had a decent batting platform to chase runs. As I say, we didn't play these situations as well as we could have.  I thought that we let the game get away from us sometimes and that cost us.   
 Q.  (Question off mic).  
SHAI HOPE: Same thing.  Had them in a spot of bowlers as well, and once again we allowed them to -- quality players as well, can't take that away from them.  It's just that in a situation like that, if you have a team down and out, you have to really grind them to the end.   
 Q.  A week back or so, Chris Gayle said that you're one of the possible future captains for West Indies.  Do you think on those lines?  Have you started thinking on those lines in the sense that taking over from a leadership point of view?  Are you actively involved in your mind?  Do you think of those kinds of things?  
SHAI HOPE: I just try to contribute as best as I can to West Indies cricket.  If that's a particular role I have to take, then I'll try to do it to the best of my ability.  As I say, I try to put my hand up whenever I can, whether it's on the field or off the field.   
 Q.  What will you miss most about Chris when he eventually retires?  
SHAI HOPE: It's too much.  I'd be here for too long.   
 Q.  Off the field/on the field deal, mostly, if you could pick one thing that you miss most?  
SHAI HOPE: Probably sunglasses.  (Laughter).  Too many things that you could pick from Chris.  He's just one of those guys that I'm sure the entire world will miss him when he goes.  It's going to be a sad day for cricket.   
 Q.  On Chris, is the dressing room very emotional right now because this is his first -- his last game in the World Cup?  So are you guys -- did you guys give him sort of a farewell or something?  
SHAI HOPE: Not just yet.  Still pretty cheerful and happy in the dressing room.  I don't think we're going to cry about it.  But I think that we have a lot to cherish.  I know he's one of the better players in world cricket, and we're just happy to have him on our team.  I'm sure the guys will do something for him and I know he will appreciate it.   
 Q.  Do you see you three -- Shimron and Nicholas, kind of -- can you sense that something good is developing in that West Indies middle order?  All three of you young players really kind of doing well, like, can play around each other and stuff like that?  
SHAI HOPE: Yeah, I think we all complement each other pretty well.  This is about learning, learning as quickly as possible.  I'd say that we all have different types of play, different styles of play.  But if you can mesh that all together and combine and really put those batting forms in, I'm sure we'll be a force to reckon with in the future.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT