NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: BRAVES v DIAMONDBACKS
October 19, 2001
Albie Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the success you've had in the past against the Braves? 
 
ALBIE LOPEZ:  Last two times I've pitched, I've thrown against them twice , I had good success throwing first-pitch strikes.  These guys came out swinging for me, they hit a lot of pitches, and my defense played well for me.  
 

Q.  I was asking Bob about when you have Curt and Randy going, the other guys in the rotation and how important they are, do you feel more pressure coming out following Curt tonight, especially assuming if he wins?
 
ALBIE LOPEZ:  Actually, no.  It kind of relaxes me.  I mean, I know that I have Curt going in front of me.  I kind of watch where Curt throws his fastball and the kind of pattern he pitches.  I follow what he's doing.  If he has success, it kind of transcends to me. 
 

Q.  Just a quick follow-up, how confident do you feel going out there tomorrow in what could be a huge game for you guys? 
 
ALBIE LOPEZ:  I'm very confident.  Every time I go out there, I mean, I'm very confident in myself and what I have to do and my abilities.  Even though it's a big game, to me, I'm just trying to stay relaxed and do my job to keep the team in the game.  
 

Q.  Having played for two expansion teams that came in the same time, what are the biggest differences between the Devil Rays and the Diamondbacks? 
 
ALBIE LOPEZ:  Well, first, the record (laughing).  The record.  I mean, they've been in two different directions.  With Tampa, we were a young team.  They were trying to get themselves established.  Here they brought in veteran players to basically come in and win that season.  That was the biggest difference.  
 

Q.  Because it didn't go great against St. Louis, could some of that have been just nerves pitching in the post-season?  Now that you have that out of the way, could that help you tomorrow? 
 
ALBIE LOPEZ:  You know, nerves never bothered me.  The situation, the people, the fans, that never bothered me.  It was more me sitting around from the time I got up sitting in the clubhouse, waiting for my start.  I sat there for so long that I basically got stale.  My fastball wasn't there.  I was throwing way below my average.  To me, that just cost me.  
 

Q.  The success you've had against the Braves, do you think that was a reason why they traded for you? 
 
ALBIE LOPEZ:  Kind of like a Brave-killer or something (laughing)?   Tell you the truth, I don't know.  I had one start against the Braves, then I made my other start here.  So I couldn't say for sure.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT