MLB EXPANSION DRAFT
November 18, 1997
Albie Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Albie, are you surprised by the selection?   
 ALBIE LOPEZ:  Yes, I was.  I was kind of hoping I was going to be higher than I was on Cleveland's list, but obviously I wasn't.   
  
  Q.  By that, Albie, do you mean you thought you'd be protected?   
 ALBIE LOPEZ:  Yeah, I did.  I mean, from the words when I left John, the word was that I was going to be protected.   
  
  Q.  If you weren't, were you hoping to be chosen by Arizona because of your background here?   
 ALBIE LOPEZ:  My background?  Basically I'm looking for the new start.  I'm getting a new start with a new team.  And I'll take it at that.   
  
  Q.  Albie, do you think you leaving the club at the end of the year, not traveling with them in the postseason, did that play a part in this?   
 ALBIE LOPEZ:  No, I don't think so, I mean, where are they going to use me, as a cheerleader?   
  
  Q.  You've been looking for a change for a number of years, but is this really what you're looking for?   
 ALBIE LOPEZ:  Yes, anybody is looking for a change.  It's a new team.  There's a new team, it's a Major League Baseball team, we're going to be competing against other Major League Baseball players, it's the change I wanted.   
  
  Q.  How do you sum up your experience with Cleveland, Albie?   
 ALBIE LOPEZ:  My experience with Cleveland is great.  It was a top-notch organization.  They were top notch from the bottom up, from rookie ball all the way to Major Leagues.  It's a winning organization, and I'll take the winning coming out of there.   
  
  Q.  Albie, are you a starter or reliever, do you think now?   
 ALBIE LOPEZ:  To tell you the truth, I don't know, I'll find out when I get down there, when I talk to someone.   
  
  Q.  What would you like to do?   
 ALBIE LOPEZ:  Whatever benefits the team. Whatever role they think I can do, I feel like I can either start or relieve, I have no preference either way.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like you reached your potential with Cleveland or did you do what you wanted to do in Cleveland?   
 ALBIE LOPEZ:  No, not at all, I mean -- no, Cleveland had me going up and down, they had me in different -- all over the place.  I'm hoping now I get to a place where I have a solid role and that's what I'm going to do and I can focus on showing what I have and my abilities.   
  
  Q.  Are you excited or disappointed by the situation, Albie?   
 ALBIE LOPEZ:  I'm very excited.  Like I said, I have a new beginning.  I'm excited to start pitching again.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT