ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2014
Lukas Lacko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/L. Lacko
      6‑2,6‑4, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   What was your reaction when you saw that you would be playing Roger in the first round?  
    LUKAS LACKO:   Well, Australian Open I was a little bit disappointed because I played Novak there first round.   
    My first reaction was like not so good.   But what you can do?   I mean, I skipped all the clay season, so started to practice like Wednesday or something.  
    When you practice like four days, doesn't matter who you play.   
   
 Q.   You've played Roger before; today were you surprised by his game and surprised by how many times he came to the net?   
    LUKAS LACKO:   Well, he served quite well today, and, you know, was placing good serves.   When he saw that I'm reaching the ball with slice, immediately he was trying to come to the net and just finish the point.  
    So with this playing, he played very well today.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about his level?   Do you think he's still able to win Grand Slam tournament?   
    LUKAS LACKO:   Well, he still has moments when he plays like really well in the match, but also he got couple of moments when he starts to miss a little or couple easy mistakes.  
    Like top, top guys can take advantage of this, so, it will be very hard.   I think he can do it, but very, very hard.  
   
 Q.   Do you think he can do it here at the French Open?  
    LUKAS LACKO:   I think it's not his favorite surface and tournament as well, so I think not here.   
   
 Q.   One question personally:   You make it through the draw quite often, but have had a lot of first‑round defeats this year.   It's hard for you, I guess, right?   How do you get along with this?   
    LUKAS LACKO:   Well, I'm pretty much used to play on big courts on Grand Slams.   I play often like top 10 guys.   A little bit frustrated, but what you can do?   
    Unless you are seeded, you can play whoever first round.   That's just bad draw.   
   
 Q.   Is the seeding still fair, the system of the seeding?  
    LUKAS LACKO:   It is.   The guys who make best results are seeded, so it's fair.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT