THE RYDER CUP  MATCHES
September 23, 2002
Pierre Fulke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Well, Pierre, we've finally made it to the De Vere Belfry, and you more than anybody must be pleased, because as we know, it's 20 months since you knew you were going to play here, and it's been a fairly roller coaster ride, hasn't it.
PIERRE FULKE:  It's been a long time, but finally we're here.  And, as you said I was one of the first to qualify.  And it felt a bit sad -- because obviously I wasn't playing very good last year going into the Ryder Cup, so I was trying really hard to get my form back in shape.  And I was starting to see signs of better play early on in September last year, and then we all know what happened next, and it felt a bit -- it felt like the remainder of the season wasn't important at all, because you've just been trying to psych yourself up for the Ryder Cup week, but now we're here.  So it feels great. 
GORDON SIMPSON:  Do you think that was why there was a dip in form as well with Phillip and Paul; you were all in the same position, possibly.
PIERRE FULKE:  I don't know.  I always play better in the latter half of the year, and after the events last year, I started to play a bit better.  And then the winter months.  My season sort of goes from first of July until the 1st of March, and then there's not much happening between March and July.  It's been like that for quite a few years now.  But now we're right in the middle of that season, which is good. 

Q.  How important was your good performance at the U.S. pGA to give you confidence coming into this week?
PIERRE FULKE:  Everything helps.  But to me, I've been playing good since the Open Championship, really.  I kind of blew away there on Saturday, but finished strong with a 65 last day, and solid in Holland, top 10 at Hazeltine, and then 11th in Germany two weeks ago.  I didn't play last week, because I didn't get in.  So it's been good.  It's been shaping up good since the Open Championship, which is nine weeks ago or something.  So I'm there, I'm ready to play. 

Q.  Can you tell us how you think you'll feel over the course of the next 72 hours in terms of nerves, tension?
PIERRE FULKE:   I'm normally pretty good.  I cope with these situations pretty good.  Sure, I get nervous in tournaments.  But I cope pretty good with it.  But this week I'll be as nervous as I've ever been.  That's all I know, and I'm pretty sure I'll cope with it and handle it well.  But I'll be nervous, like anybody else out here.  But I think I'll sleep sound at night.

Q.  Have you spoken to the more experienced players on the team like Langer?
PIERRE FULKE:  Regarding --.

Q.  Just what it's like playing in the Ryder Cup?
PIERRE FULKE:  Yes, I have.  We sat down -- it was actually at the American Express tournament last year when all the events took place in New York, when we flew home from that event.  We had to charter a plane to get out of there and it was when we were waiting to go that we all sat down, the Ryder Cup team sort of -- the rookies of the Ryder Cup team sort of got together and sat in the corner and talked about -- because at that time this was still on for last year.  And Colin Montgomerie came over and sat down and told us to ask him questions about anything regarding the Ryder Cup.  And we sat there for a good hour and talked about that.  That was really interesting.  And he sort of learned us as much as he could.
And I've talked to guys when you play with them, played with Bernard at the NEC, talked to him a little bit and Jesper.

Q.  What did they say to you?
PIERRE FULKE:  It was just -- what to expect about this week, that was one question.  And Monty sort of said that "I can tell you everything I know, but you're still not going to be ready," he said.  It's going to be something that -- he says it's like having a baby.  It's something that you can't -- if you talk to somebody who hasn't had a baby -- I haven't had a baby -- but you can't explain it until you experience it.  So there's really nothing that he -- anyone can say to us what to expect when we're on that first tee, whether it's Friday, Saturday or Sunday, because the practice rounds are going to be just like any other practice rounds; it's just that we play in different formats and with different partners.  But once you get on that tee, Friday, Saturday or Sunday, that's a new experience that no one can explain to you until you experience it yourself.

Q.  How important will it be for you to get a game the first two days, rather than get into the singles, without having played?
PIERRE FULKE:  Of course it's always nicer to have a round before Sunday, because the singles are so important.  If you haven't played before Sunday, I think it's hard, although you're really, really motivated, because you've been waiting for two days to play, so you're really keen to play.  But it's hard to -- I don't know, to me it would be hard to focus on what I really, really need to do on that Sunday.  Because I know that all my -- all the focus is on the people that haven't played until Sunday.  Even if you've lost that match that you played on Friday or Saturday; at least you've played.  And I think you stand a much better chance of winning your match on Sunday if you've played once before.  And also you take some relief off the guys that we know are going to play a lot of matches, because they might be a little -- it's five rounds in three days, and it's tough on you, no matter who you are.  So they might be a little fresher on Sunday, and we can win more matches on Sunday, which is normally the Europeans' problem.

Q.  With so many Swedes involved in this team, how big a deal is this at home?  Is there lots of interest, lots of media coverage, and will it be up there on the weekend?
PIERRE FULKE:  I think Swedish television is broadcasting everything.  I think it's 27 hours, it's nine hours each day.  It's huge for Sweden, really.  I think people in general in Sweden, like normal golfers at clubs around Sweden, are more interested in this than the media is in Sweden, which is unfortunate.  But -- so they'll watch it on TV and all that.  There hasn't been a whole lot written in say newspapers and magazines. 
GORDON SIMPSON:  Just hope the long wait is worth it. 
PIERRE FULKE:  It will be. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT