BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 4, 2017
Jim Littell
Diana Omozee
Kaylee Jensen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas - 71
Oklahoma State - 60
THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by the Oklahoma State Cowgirls, Coach Littell and his student-athletes, Diana Omozee and Kaylee Jensen.  Coach, your thoughts about tonight's game?
JIM LITTELL: Well, I'm proud of our kids.  They kept competing.  Obviously Texas has a great basketball team with great personnel and great depth.  And great teams like that when you make some mistakes, they exploit your mistakes and they had 17 points off of our turnovers and 12 fast break points to 0 for us.  That's a big difference.
Part of that comes from if you take a bad shot against 'em it just puts them in a track meet.  They're very good at getting it out and going especially when your shot selection isn't good.  I think we had probably six or seven possessions like that that just got them out in a hurry and allowed them to get easy baskets and they continually attack the glass, and we did a good job for a while blocking 'em out.  But I think they wear you down a little bit.  They're athleticism if you don't put a body on them we're not going to win those 50-50 rebounds.  Some good things out of our kids, some things to build on, that's it.
Q. Diana, we've been talking about it a little bit, but barring any postseason play this was your last game.  What was going through your mind as time ticked out?
DIANA OMOZEE: I just wanted to play hard for my teammates and my coaches and I wanted to represent Oklahoma State well.  That's mainly what was going through my mind was just playing hard.
Q. Kaylee, Coach mentioned that you are getting worn down on the boards and you were outrebounded by 11.  What was going on there in the second half?  Were you feeling worn down?
KAYLEE JENSEN: A little bit.  They sent a lot of big girls in through you.  They send in two or three big girls and I'm staying.  So I try my best to push as hard as I can, but sometimes it just kinda gets to you.
Q. Diana, it's good to see you again.  I covered you in high school.  Kaylee, the depth of Texas, 32-18 or 14 on bench points, is that what makes them a cut above most teams, that they can rely on more than just one or two or three people?  People off the bench were actually coming in and making big contributions.
KAYLEE JENSEN: Yeah, that's, I think, where -- that's where they are above a lot of teams is they don't have to rely on one or two other starters.  They know that if one of their starters comes out someone else can come in and produce off the bench, and I think that's one of their strong points actually.  So they did a good job of doing that tonight.
Q. We were talking about getting worn down.  How does it affect you that you guys played a game the night before?
DIANA OMOZEE: It's tough, because you don't really have a chance to let all your bruises and aches and stuff heel up.  You don't have a chance to get in and do rehab and therapy and stuff, but everybody has to do it.  It's tournament time.  It's postseason play, so you just have to toughen up and this is the point in the season where you see what people are really made of.
KAYLEE JENSEN: Just pretty much what Diana said.  You have to push through it.  You can't complain about it.  You have to play the next game, so don't worry about why you're hurting.  Just play.
Q. Coach, Texas was hitting all their shots pretty much in the first quarter, but in the second quart you kind of locked them down.  What was working for you?  The scout?  What was going on?
JIM LITTELL: We gave 'em a lot of easy baskets.  We had a game plan to back off a few of their people, but we let 'em get way too deep in transition and they were shooting a lot of 10, 12-footers in the first quarter on us out of transition.  And we did a better job in the second half of containing that and stopping transition a little bit.  But some of the people that we wanted to back off we just let 'em get all the way to the rim and let 'em get too deep, and that wasn't the intent of the game plan.  Second quarter I thought we did a better job of getting back and forcing them to run a little more half-court offense.
Q. Kaylee, I was at your game in Austin and you had trouble putting the ball in the basket and tonight 5 of 16.  Is there anything in particular that Texas does to you, whether it's personnel or scheme where it seems like you have a harder time scoring?
KAYLEE JENSEN: Honestly, I think it just -- and this is on myself, but I think it just gets to me because they're longer than most other teams in the Big 12.  I think I try to maneuver too much around them instead of powering to the hoop and that's just something I need to work on.  But I don't think it's really them in particular.
THE MODERATOR: Okay, ladies.  Take care.  Good luck in the NCAAs.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT