WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 9, 2009
Vince Perkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   VINCE PERKINS: I didn't do what I needed to do with it that early, and make them put the ball in play. When I didn't get them to put the ball in play, things like that just seem to happen for me.

 Q. Did you feel like you had command at all or do you think you were having a lot of trouble finding the zone?
 VINCE PERKINS: You know, it was tough. It was tough. Obviously some nerves played into it. That's not the way I've been throwing lately, and I was fighting myself a little bit to throw strikes, you know, kind of pulling off the ball. But, you know, I should have been able to do a little better than that. 

 Q. You prepare for weeks, if not months for this, and it's over in 3 days. 
 VINCE PERKINS: It's tough. I got first contacted about it two or three months ago. It's something that you build up, and you want to do well, and it's just a huge disappointment when you perform like I did today. 
 But, you know, you got to move on, go back to spring training and, you know, baseball goes on, and life goes on.

 Q. Describe the mood in the room with the guys?
 VINCE PERKINS: You know, I don't know where guys are right now. There's not much going on in there, just kind of -- some guys are kind of hanging out. Some guys are -- you know, for all I know they could be still out in the dugout reflecting on what happened. 
 Bottom line was, you know, I feel like I let the guys down. I didn't set the tempo early and do what I need to do, and it's tough to come back from that.

 Q. Not as many fans here today as the other day, and there was a lot riding on this. How do those things affect you? 
 VINCE PERKINS: There was a lot riding on it, yes. I didn't notice too much, what the stands looked like. It was just really trying to focus on what I was there to do. The fans here have been good for the last couple days, and, you know, didn't really notice too much.

 Q. This team probably had much higher expectations of itself. It seemed like you guys, with the two games, were just one big hit away. Did you feel like when the offense didn't get in early runs, that was going to put more pressure on you, as well?
 VINCE PERKINS: No, I feel like, if anything, I put pressure on them, got us in a hole early. And, you know, baseball is such a momentum game. And you put your team in the hole right away like that, you know, sometimes it's just tough for them to get going. And, you know, I think that was kind of the case today.

 Q. You were in the dugout before the game, like during BP. Is that your normal routine, to watch BP from there or in the clubhouse?
 VINCE PERKINS: Yeah. Normally just try to show up a couple hours early and just kind of relax and get done the things I need to do. 
 You know, up until game time, everything was going great. I felt great in warm-ups. Everything was normal. I just, you know, for whatever reason -- I don't know. It's March, you know. Maybe that's got something to do with it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT