MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v GIANTS
October 29, 2010
Jonathan Sanchez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did you look at any tape from the last video from the last start? Was there any issue at all, the last start or the start before, with release point, which was a problem that you addressed earlier in the season? 
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: I mean, I didn't watch any video. I don't need to watch videos. That's in the past, and I'm just going to go out there tomorrow and do my best. 

 Q. What do you take from that last start? I know you said you've put it in the past, but what did you learn from that as you go into tomorrow? 
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: That everybody is human, you know, everybody makes mistakes. You know, everybody is going to have bad days and good days. 

 Q. Did you work any extra on the side, even if you didn't watch video? Did you do anything more in the pen? 
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: No, I did my regular side. 

 Q. From watching the last two games, anything particularly that stood out about the Texas lineup for you? 
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: I mean, I kind of watched the hitters a little bit because we had Cain and Timmy, righty and lefty. We're different, but I have an idea what it's going to be tomorrow, and hopefully I get the win tomorrow. 

 Q. To see the offense score 20 runs in two games, what's that like for a pitcher? I mean, that's a little uncharacteristic of these Giants of this year. 
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Yeah, I mean, that means a lot to us. You go out there and you start a game like that, that you have a lot of runs behind you, it makes it easier for you to pitch. We scored a lot of runs, but we have two more games to win to finish it, and hopefully we keep scoring runs. 

 Q. Righetti was talking about Game 6, said that sometimes you maybe walk too much, you love the big game so much that you maybe speed up or get so emotional. Do you think that's part of it? And how do you pull back on that sometimes in a big game like this? 
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: You've just got to relax out there. Sometimes you get emotional, you want to do more, and you've just got to stay back and take a breath and start pitching. 

 Q. Have you talked to Cain and Lincecum at all in terms of them saying maybe this World Series stuff is not that hard at all, it's no pressure, since they've done so well in their debut?
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: They're pretty good pitchers, so I knew that was going to happen, that they were going to pitch great. Like I said, I hope I do the same thing tomorrow. 

 Q. Will you miss batting? 
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: I'm going to miss it tomorrow. (Laughter). 

 Q. Seriously, what are the challenges of facing an American League lineup with no pitcher in the batting order? 
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: I mean, it's going to be different. You're not going to face the pitcher, but in the National League I always pitch the same way to the pitchers as I pitch to hitters. He's here for a reason. Everybody is in the Big Leagues because everybody is good. So tomorrow is just another game, you've just got to go out there and pitch. 

 Q. I know these games are obviously all important, but does it take any pressure away from you after winning the first two games to know that you have the lead in the series?
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: You've got to do your best every time you go out there. It doesn't matter if we're winning 2-0 or losing 2-0. You've just got to -- this is my game, you know. I've got to go out there and do my best. I don't know if it's going to be the last game of my life, so I've got to give everything I have. I've got to give it.

 Q. Did you regret anything that happened with you and Utley? Do you look back and say, I wish that didn't happen?
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: We're in the World Series against Texas. Phillies are at home. I don't want to talk about that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT