NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: GIANTS v PHILLIES
October 22, 2010
Jonathan Sanchez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Jonathan.

 Q. Can you just talk about what it would mean to you to be able to pitch your team to a potential World Series?
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: It's going to be great to get to the World Series. Never been there. We've got a lot of guys on the team that have never been there, and to be able to do that, it's going to be something special for me.

 Q. Can you talk about what the atmosphere was like on the flight out here and having had a chance to wrap it up last night and having to come back to Philadelphia?
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: We've done this before, so it's nothing different. Just in the plane, talk to guys and you just wait five hours to get here.

 Q. Second time around in about a week against the same team, how helpful is that to you? Do you think that's more helpful to you than it is to the hitters having seen them a week ago?
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Just going to go out there with my plan, pitching plan, and let the game go.

 Q. Jonathan, were you at all nervous the first time out, because the first inning was a little shaky, and after that you seemed to settle down. Do you think a second time in this environment will make a difference?
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: It doesn't make a difference. I've been in that situation before. I faced San Diego. I faced Atlanta. They're postseason games, so it's going to be the same.

 Q. Couple days ago the question was asked to Tim Lincecum about growing up, being a kid, having a chance to pitch your team to the World Series. Did you ever think about that and having the chance to close out this series and what it would be like to pitch in the World Series?
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Like I said, I've never been there. But that's all we want to do, go to the World Series and keep playing hard and make the team win it.

 Q. You pitched the final game of the regular season. Was there any connections you can make to that and how important that game was for obvious reasons and where this start is in comparison to where you were for that start mentally as far as closing out the season with a chance to go to the playoffs?
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: It's going to be gone entirely tomorrow. Going to be the same game. Just try to come here and close the game out and go home with a win.

 Q. How aware are you of the Steelers -- excuse me, the Phillies -- they've gotten hit by pitches six times. As a pitcher, does that enter your thought process that maybe these guys are trying to get hit to get on base against you?
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: No. They're just too close to the plate (laughter), I guess. 

 Q. You know they have many professional hitters in their lineup. Have you noticed when you faced them last time, did they make any adjustments from the first time through the lineup to where you saw them a second and third time through the lineup and do you think their approach will be any different to you tomorrow?
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Just going to wait for me to be in the zone. They're taking pitches. I'm just going to get up and be aggressive in the zone. They're going to be swinging. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Jonathan. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT