NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: GIANTS v PHILLIES
October 16, 2010
Jonathan Sanchez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for Jonathan Sanchez.   
  
  Q. Jonathan, what's the biggest challenge to facing the Phillies' lineup?  
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: That they're home. They play pretty good at home. You've just got to play the game.   
  
  Q. Does it make any difference to you pitching the second or third game of the series?  
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: No. Just prepared to throw the third game, but they moved me up. So just ready for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What did you think when they changed the rotation to get you up faster? What did you think about that? Was it a sign of respect for what you've achieved, do you think?  
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: I mean, I pitched pretty good here. So I mean, I think that's a good move, to put me to pitch here on the road and I've been doing pretty good on the road, the last month.  
  
  Q. You've had a lot of success against the team this year, how much does that factor into now at this time of year, how much confidence you have and how you approach them in the playoffs?  
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: They've got a pretty good team. Like they're hard to pitch to but I'm just going to go out there and throw my pitches and make them swing the bat.  
  
  Q. Jonathan, you and Tim are obviously very different pitchers, one right, one left, but you're both strikeout pitchers. So what, if anything, will you be watching tonight and hope to learn as Tim goes against this lineup?  
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Like you said, we're different pitchers. There's not much to watch.   
 I mean, it's going to be an exciting game. But I'm just going to go watch my videos tomorrow and what they're doing against lefties. But nothing to say about Tim. He's going to have a great game tonight.   
  
  Q. You had a little bit of trouble with wildness earlier in the season, but it seems to have calmed down in recent weeks. What did you do? What adjustments did you make?  
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Just being aggressive. The strike zone -- trying to get first-pitch strike and then with my breaking balls, just get ahead.  
  
  Q. How did the indoor bullpen session go the other night? And what else have you done to stay sharp in the break you've had?  
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: It went pretty good. Just did it inside, it was raining. Everything was good. I worked out and did everything I had to do for tomorrow.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT