WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL D: SAN JUAN
March 9, 2009
Jonathan Sanchez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What can you tell me about Carlos Gutierrez? Has he come out well in the way he's worked?   
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Well he's a guy who is smart. And he, he has been with us, when we mentioned his name for starting pitcher, we ask for reports, we called the organization, see their history and they all give me good reports as a young man who has posture, who has control, he has a good arm, he has a good sinker, and well, we think that for what we want him here, he's a guy who could do well last night and in the game he came out really good in the ninth inning with seven runs and we think that it's a good opportunity for the guy and we took advantage of him. He looked well, and he showed and the first practice game he showed that he's young, that he works with the strike zone, but we have talked with him and we have dealt with a few things in his mechanics, but he's a guy that has a very good attitude, he's smart, he knows how to assimilate, he gets information, he applies it and he makes his adjustments on the mound. So I believe that it has been a good selection to qualify and play on Wednesday, but we want to qualify today.   
  
  Q. The fact that you do not know, does that change it in any way your routine, your preparation?   
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: No, I do my thing, it's another game the same. Different team. But I come prepared to pitch for any of the teams. And so we come to win.   
  
  Q. You looked very good in Florida with a team that you had to pitch against, how prepared do you think you are and in condition in terms of focus, preparation for this game?   
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Well, I feel strong, I've done the job to play tomorrow, today's Wednesday, I've done my exercises, I feel fine.   
  
  Q. Regardless of your rival you're going to do the same thing.   
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Yes, whoever it is I'm going to go out to win, to do my job and make Puerto Rico's team win.   
  
  Q. Would it be a difference if it's one team or another team or if it's tomorrow or Wednesday? Will there be a difference?   
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: No, just one more day to rest. I got my rest days to pitch and I go out to do my job.   
  
  Q. In terms of focus for the technical work, how do you see them?  
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Well, they have good batters. They have to see us pitch and do their job. There are a lot of players who have never seen me pitch. And that is convenient for me. Pitch.  
  
  Q. Pitching at home, is that important? To qualify or to assure a victory does pitching at home give you a lot more pressure?   
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Well, pitching here in Puerto Rico is what I've always wanted. To my people in Puerto Rico it had been awhile that I had not done that. And so I feel proud to be here representing the city, Puerto Rico, and it is, it's a sense of pride to be here in Puerto Rico with the guys and sharing and having Puerto Rico in front of us.   
  
  Q. With the work that you're doing that you brought from the United States to here, do you feel in game condition?   
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Yes, I feel ready. I feel that I am in the rotation and I see that the work that I brought from Arizona to here is the same work that I'm going to keep on doing. I'm going to stay in condition, I'm going to keep on doing my job.   
  
  Q. Have you sat to talk with Yadier to see if you can improve communication?   
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Yes, I have talked with him when I pitched in Tampa we talked and he told me I'm going to follow you, we'll both do the same thing, you tell me no to whatever you don't want to pitch and we work together. I pitched that day over there and we got along well.   
 We're good, we're pitching by the book. I have always followed Yadier and we have done a good job together.  
  
  Q. In terms of the time that -- depending upon today's outcome, the next opening would be, you would have great runs, so would it be a process or how would you keep your focus to say, well, I'm going to prepare myself for this situation with more pressure, but I do hope that Puerto Rico classifies immediately.   
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Well, you know, the most difficult situation is tomorrow. If we lose, tomorrow's a decision that we have to win. But I do hope to win today and I'll have a game for us. What we want is to qualify today. If I have to play tomorrow, I have to do my job and the team will have a good attitude and we'll win the game tomorrow.  
  
  Q. How much do you think you have matured with the big leagues?  
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Well, in the big leagues I learned a lot. I have learned how to pitch and now here I pitched to the Dominican and neither of the teams have seen a lot of their players, so I know how to work them. But you know, I have matured a lot in pitching.   
  
  Q. How many pounds have you accumulated?   
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Well, my pounds are in muscle. This year I went to work out on weights, but I gained them in muscle. About five or six pounds.   
  
  Q. How do you feel for today?   
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Well, we feel ready, we came to play and to win today's game to qualify. And the motivation for this I imagine would be huge.   
  
  Q. What did the manager say in the bullpen?   
 JONATHAN SANCHEZ: Well, the same thing as that day, with the same attitude, with the same enthusiasm, to, as we came that day. We did a lot of runs, we're expecting today for the team to do the same thing today.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT