U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2019
Cohen Trolio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Cohen Trolio, who was defeated by Andy Ogletree 3 & 1 in this first U.S. Amateur semifinal of this 119th championship.  Cohen, a great run.  Obviously didn't end the way you'd like, but tell us about your day.  Was it as frustrating as it might have appeared to have been when we were watching it?   
COHEN TROLIO: You know, I got off to a weird start, and I couldn't really get it rolling.  I knew I was -- I was in every bunker that is on Pinehurst No. 2.  I tried to get something rolling.  Putts weren't going in early.  And then I made a couple putts and was like, here we go, we might can get something going, and he just fired back, and I couldn't get anything going.   
 Q.  Let's ask the question first, you're a young man, you made it to the U.S. Amateur semifinals.  Is this your biggest achievement in golf do you think?  
COHEN TROLIO: I think so, for sure.  I think that it does prove to -- I'm not really worried about what everybody else thinks, but it proves to everybody else that I can compete here, and it also proves to me more than anybody else that I have what it takes to compete, and that what I'm working on is working, and then my expectations are good enough to compete at just about any level.   
 Q.  Curious, what's the one thing you'll take away from this that's going to make you a better player in the future?  
COHEN TROLIO: I think there's a lot of good things that I'm going to take away.  I think the most important things are -- one of them is definitely that to know -- like just that confidence to know that what I'm expecting on the golf course and what I'm expecting around the greens is working.  I know I keep saying that, but that really is the most important thing that I'm going to take away.   
 Q.  I believe you hadn't trailed through your first 62 holes or something in match play.  Did not having to play from behind and battle back, did that affect your mindset, not being able to kind of experience that kind of play out today and trying to fight back when you were down early?  
COHEN TROLIO: I don't think -- it didn't really change my mindset.  I think that you always might have in the back of your mind that you are down, but it didn't really change the way I was going to play or anything.  I kind of just played golf.   
 Q.  Do you look at this course in the situation you got yourself into and try to develop a plan to find a hole here or maybe a hole there that can get you back on track?  Is that even possible on No. 2?  
COHEN TROLIO: I think it might be possible.  I just don't look at golf holes as birdie holes.  I never have.  And so I mean, I think every hole, there's a reason it takes five shots to get to a par-5.  It's because the hole is longer.  So I don't think that -- I don't look at birdie hole, birdie hole.  Honestly, I don't.  I didn't see it.   
 Q.  Do you anticipate taking any time off, or will you be right back to the rock pile hitting balls tomorrow?  
COHEN TROLIO: I think I'll probably -- I've got like an eight-, nine-hour drive tomorrow, but I'll probably go to -- I've got to go to school Monday.  But after school I'll probably get some work in.  But yeah, I might take a day off, but I'll probably get right back to it.   
 Q.  I know you're at the end of the match, but the fact that the ball came back to you twice in the last three holes, how did you hold it together to try to keep going?  
COHEN TROLIO: Well, I think when people -- or when I've seen and I've learned from it, when a ball rolls back to you, your first instinct is well, I'm not going to hit it short again.  I think I was just proud of myself on 15 -- I think it was 14, 15, the par-3, when it came back to me, and I still lagged it up there like three, four feet because that took a lot of thinking about -- because it's easy to hit it up there 10 feet by.   
 Q.  It looked like you and Andy really didn't have a whole lot of conversation on the golf course, did you?  
COHEN TROLIO: I think when -- no, we didn't.  But I think caddies, when you have caddies, there's not a lot of talking between the players.   
 Q.  How much credit do you give your dad for getting this far?  
COHEN TROLIO: A good bit.  He's showed me just about everything I know.  Of course, I had to execute the plan, but he definitely laid the plan out for me.   
 Q.  Can you just describe what this experience this week has been like for you?  
COHEN TROLIO: It's been cool to know all the ropes about this tournament, and it's been awesome.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT