U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
June 30, 2016
Cammile Adams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're here with Cammile Adams, who is yet another -- excuse me, no she is not.  We have had so many first-time Olympians, I'm used to saying that, but you are not. So Cammile Adams joining us, the Champion in the 200 Meter Butterfly.  So Cammile, you said it was great just now.  Explain why.   
CAMMILE ADAMS: Obviously after the last, you know, 24, 48 hours, I'm just really happy to punch my ticket to go to Rio.   
 Q.  Cammile, you swam a very strong last 50 on that 200 Fly.  You're one of the few world-class swimmers perhaps invoking Melvin Stewart, who was a side breather.  Where did that come from and how does that help you swim so fast?  
CAMMILE ADAMS: Yeah, so when I was in the sixth grade, Scott MacFarland, who now coaches for Magnolia Aquatic Club was like -- I couldn't get the timing down so he was like let's try this out, after many frustrating practices, so we tried it out and it stuck, and I wouldn't say it works for every little kid that does it, but it's something fun and obviously work for me.   
 Q.  Was that part of keeping the hips straighter as well?  
CAMMILE ADAMS: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, I was trying to breathe, I guess, and my hands were coming back toward my hips which were, like you said, causing my hips to drop, so we wanted to make sure that the breath was come at the top of the stroke, so the side breath works.   
 Q.  Cammile, talk about the wave of emotions you've had here, thinking you're out, and then this and going up and down and up and pulling it out tonight?  
CAMMILE ADAMS: Yeah, I think it all started with not making it back in the 400 IM.  I was third four years ago in that so that was a little bit of a crush for me, but I was really excited with how my 100 Fly went before that, so once I got off that roller coaster I swam the 100 Fly that night and went a best time in that, so I was pretty stoked.  And then led into the prelims, and hadn't raced for two days, and obviously with the DQ in the morning was not what I wanted to see, but luckily I have a great support staff behind me that knew exactly what had to be done and went back and watched the video review, and there was no question about it.   
I'm glad he made the call, he was doing his job, but obviously it wasn't the right call.  So the wave of emotion definitely just hit me last night, I guess, and after the semis, I just wanted to refocus and recharge.  I slept 11 hours last night and another 3-hour nap today, and if you know me, I'm a big napper, I'm a big sleeper, but that's even a lot for me, so it definitely took a toll on my body and emotionally and mentally, but luckily I have great, great people around me, great friends that really just stepped in more than I could have every asked for.  I spent a good bit of time yesterday with Allison, and she had her final last night, so for her to come into my room and tell me jokes and watch some trashy TV, she knew exactly what I needed.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about your transformation over the course of these four years from being an Olympian and being able to kinda wear that around for four years, and then becoming a repeat Olympian.  What have the last four years been like?  
CAMMILE ADAMS: Yeah, these past four years have been a journey that I never thought I would get to go on.  You dream of becoming an Olympian, and once you do it you have to reset, I guess, and reestablish what you want to do in the sport.   
Obviously making the trip to Charlotte 18 months ago was the hardest thing I have ever done, leaving Houston and my family and now my fiance and my sister, and leaving everyone behind, but I knew for me to be successful this year I really needed to be around people that were just in the same phase of life and we were going to be doing the same things, and I wasn't going to have to be attached to a college program where they were resting and I wasn't and all that sort of thing.   
So when I met David in 2012 and I knew that we just clicked and we got along really well, so moving out there has been so much fun.  Luckily Bob Groseth came on, and he's more of the mid-distance, distance coach we have there, so it's been really fun these past four years, like especially the past 18 months.  I've learned a lot about myself and learned a lot, which I don't think I would have had the opportunity to do if I would have stayed in Texas.   
 Q.  For winning gold medal in this, 2:05 or the Japanese, what's the situation?  
CAMMILE ADAMS: Yeah, I mean, I think I'm obviously capable of a much faster swim than that tonight, so a little disappointed with the time, but as you know I'm always hard on myself, so I definitely think I'm going to be a lot faster in Rio and I will be excited to hopefully being on the podium there.   
 Q.  You mentioned your journey to Charlotte.  Talk about the SwimMAC and the success you guys have had as a team here.  
CAMMILE ADAMS: Yeah, it's been so much fun, and I also think it's been emotional, these Trials, you get so invested in these other swimmers.  It's been fun, obviously watching Kathleen Baker and Katie Meile make it a couple of nights ago.  Katie is my roommate and Kathleen is like my little sister, so that was just so, so exciting for me to come down off that high as well, and watching Jimmy and Tony make it tonight, just super awesome, and I know the guys coming up are going to have great swims as well.   
I think this just definitely motivated them, like Katie and Baker motivated me.  And Kirsty Coventry is someone I train with every day, and she has a big, big role, not in just my swimming life, but just in my life in general, and so if it wasn't for her, I don't know if I could have stuck it out being in Charlotte, being away from home, but her and her husband have definitely taken me in, and just it's such a fun group.  I tell people we're the most dysfunction family that you've ever met, but we really are.  It's a ton of fun over there.  I love it.   
 Q.  Talk about the camaraderie you guys have as 200 Butterfliers, obviously the moment you shared with Hali tonight and then on the flip side, Katie, not making the team, and you had a bond with her last year, and talk about the emotions she is going through right now?  
CAMMILE ADAMS: Yeah, obviously Katie has been through quite a bit this past year, since January, but I know she has big, big things in store for here these next four years, so it's heartbreaking her not going with me.  We've grown a lot together the past three years, especially, definitely taken her under my wing, but I know she has a lot of growing to do, and I'm very excited for her.   
On the flip side, I've also gotten to know Hali really well, obviously being in the SEC together when we were both in school, and she is so sweet.  When you hang around Hali you want to be a better person, so I think she is just who Team USA needed; it's just who I needed, and I'm obviously very, very excited to -- she trains, also, super hard, so I think the training camp is going to be so much fun, the two of us together and I can't wait.   
 Q.  You have the best last 50 in the world, I think it's pretty fair to say that.  How much pride do you take in that and is there a point where you think I need to keep it this close or that close so I know I have a shot coming home?  
CAMMILE ADAMS: Yeah, definitely I learned that from Steve Bultman, for sure, just to really be confident in that and I'm obviously very proud of it, but I think definitely going into these next couple of months, just working on that front half speed is something I'm going to need to do, and, like I said earlier, that's not my best swim.  It's not going to be my best swim so, yeah, I'm excited.  Thanks.   
THE MODERATOR: The Champion in the 200 Meter Butterfly, Cammile Adams.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT