UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 8, 2016
David Lipsky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is that a good start to the Fanling event?
DAVID LIPSKY: Yeah, it's a great start.  I'm second place right now and it felt like I didn't play too well today.  I just made some putts and got up-and-down, so I just kept the moment actual going and kept myself in it.
Q. There was a lovely purple patch, birdie after birdie after birdie, and you were really picking up the scores.
DAVID LIPSKY: My putter got hot.  I holed some really nice putts in that stretch and I hit one close.  It was overdue I felt like.  I haven't had a stretch like that in a while.
Q. Had it begun playing on your mind?
DAVID LIPSKY: The last few events it was very flat, so it's nice to get something going.
Q. What makes you spark?
DAVID LIPSKY: Holing putts.  Just seeing the ball go in the hole.  That solves all the problems.
Q. Does it help where you're back at a place where you've visited on numerous occasions?
DAVID LIPSKY: I love it here.  This is one of my favourite courses we play all year.  To come out here and play well, I'm pretty pleased with how everything went.
Q. Probably speaks for itself but what makes it one of the favourites?
DAVID LIPSKY: Just the conditions of the course, firm and fast.  You have to really control your ball around here.  It's not a bomber's course by any means, so that sort of suits me.  But I love it.
Q. And as well as holing those putts, was that a case of what worked today, you put it in the right positions to give the chances?
DAVID LIPSKY: Exactly.  I missed it on the right side of the pins which really helps, helps you get up-and-down and hole putts.  Hopefully I keep doing that the rest of the week.
Q. It is the start of 2017 for The European Tour; how do you reflect on your year?
DAVID LIPSKY: It's been a pretty good year.  I finished in the Top 15 in Race to Dubai and had a really good stretch to the end of the season and that's all I could hope for.  I feel like my game is rounding into form, so hopefully we can take that into next year.  I'm looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT