CIMB CLASSIC
October 28, 2014
David Lipsky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Let's welcome David Lipsky into the interview room.   David is currently leading on our current Order of Merit.   You're second time playing in the CIMB Classic.   Your thoughts coming back here.  
DAVID LIPSKY:   I love the course, and this is my fourth event at KLGCC great memories from here.   The course is in phenomenal shape and I'm looking forward to this week.  
THE MODERATOR:   How is the game shaping up for you this week?  
DAVID LIPSKY:   The game's good.   I feel like I've been working on some stuff and it's been really paying off and obviously I played well in Switzerland.   I've had a good run since then, so looking forward to the next few weeks.  
THE MODERATOR:   Seems to be getting interesting with the Order of Merit at the moment with Anirban winning last week in Macau.  
DAVID LIPSKY:   Obviously Anirban is playing well but as long as I take care of business and do what I need to do, then everything should take care of itself.   
   
 Q.   You didn't have a good round the last three events, how do you get back on track?  
DAVID LIPSKY:   I'm feeling good.   Golf is up‑and‑down, obviously.   Can't win every week but I've played well here in the past and I have good memories, so I'm looking forward to the week.   
   
 Q.   On the Order of Merit it's a race between you and Anirban.   Do you think you can actually get to No. 1?  
DAVID LIPSKY:   Yeah, have a pretty sizable lead right now as it is.   As long as I play well the rest of the year and do what I need to do, I'm pretty confident I can win.   
THE MODERATOR:   After winning in Switzerland, you were talking about the form.   Is there anything that's pulling you back?   
DAVID LIPSKY:   Well, golf is up‑and‑down.   I don't really remember saying that, but obviously I've played well in spots.   But if I can just get the ball‑striking in shape, I think I can have a good week.   Every week this year, I've hit the ball somewhat decent.   I've played well, so as long as I keep the driver in play, you know, my short game will take care of the rest.   
   
 Q.   What is the key to this course?  
DAVID LIPSKY:   You definitely have to drive it well.   The greens are quite slopey so you have to position yourself around the greens correctly or else it's going to be hard to get up‑and‑down to save par.   Just giving yourself chances off the tee and playing the correct shots into greens is important this week.   
   
 Q.   Playing in a PGA TOUR event, as well, this is a great opportunity for you.   
DAVID LIPSKY:   Yeah, of course, I've played with a lot of these guys growing up and on the Web.com Tour, so it's good to see familiar faces, and you know, hopefully I can have a good week playing against them.     
THE MODERATOR:   And you have a Malaysian caddie on the bag this week.   Talk about your relationship with Sargunan.   He was on your bag when you won in Switzerland, as well.   
DAVID LIPSKY:   Yeah, my caddie has been on my bag for the past, close to a year now.   And this is a hometown tournament for him, so he's obviously very excited and he might be more excited than I am to be honest.   So hopefully I can take that good energy and turn it into something positive this week.   
   
 Q.   You're one of the stars of the Asian Tour.   Do you see yourself moving up into the PGA TOUR at some stage or The European Tour as a full‑time player?   
DAVID LIPSKY:   Well, yeah, so I won in Switzerland, so I have status in Europe for the next couple years, but being from the United States, definitely, getting to the PGA TOUR at some point is one of my goals.   So you know, I've been progressing every year with my game and developing everything so hopefully the next couple years, I'll be able to take that next step and play the PGA TOUR.   
   
 Q.   Is this is first time you're playing on this golf course?   
DAVID LIPSKY:   No, it's my fourth event here.   So I've played‑‑ this is my first‑‑ will probably be, you know, I've played ten rounds here.   So I know the course quite well.   
   
 Q.   So if you think that you can actually finish well or even win?  
DAVID LIPSKY:   Yeah, I finished third here in a European Tour event a few years ago, so I know I can play well around this course.   It's just a matter of executing the shots I need to see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT