CIMB CLASSIC
October 23, 2012
David Lipsky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We have with us David Lipsky from the United States.   David won the qualifying school on the Asian Tour in January, and went on to win his first title in Cambodia a couple of months later, and he's now playing in his first CIMB Classic.   David, welcome to Malaysia.  
DAVID LIPSKY:   Thank you.   
THE MODERATOR:   Give us your initial thoughts about the CIMB Classic?   
DAVID LIPSKY:   Playing with these players in a PGA TOUR event is a dream come true.   Growing up in the U.S. and being in an event like this is what I always dreamed of doing.   So really fortunate and happy to be here.   
THE MODERATOR:   Talk about the year you've put in the past 12 months or so since turning pro?   
DAVID LIPSKY:   It's longer than that.   I was working toward this since I was a little kid.   But I've been working hard the past couple of years especially in university.   So I'm really excited to be here.  
   
 Q.   You've had a look at the golf course, played nine yesterday and played nine today.   Give us your assessment of it and what you need to do to post a good number here?   
DAVID LIPSKY:   The course is in phenomenal shape.   The fairways are great, the greens are immaculate, rough's not too long, so it won't be too much of a premium on driving it.   
But the greens are pretty small and very undulating, so you'll have to hit good iron shots and definitely the short game and putt it well this week to play well.  
   
 Q.   You played quite well in the Malaysian Open earlier in the year.   Coming back to Kuala Lumpur, what are you bringing to this tournament?   
DAVID LIPSKY:   I was playing well in Malaysia.   I was on a hot streak then.   I've been playing pretty consistent in the last five, seven weeks.   Couple of Top 5s here and there.   But I went back home last week and really worked on my swing to get that into shape for this event and the next couple weeks, so I'm feeling really good right now.  
   
 Q.   Have you had a chance to meet with Charlie Wi or anything?   
DAVID LIPSKY:   Yeah, I actually saw him last week back in the U.S.   Charlie and I practice at the same golf course, so we had made plans to come out here and practice a little bit together and grab dinner.   Yeah, Charlie's a good friend and a good guy.  
   
 Q.   Has your rookie season on the Asian Tour been what you expected when you came out of Q‑school all those months ago?   
DAVID LIPSKY:   It's what I hoped for, not necessarily what I expected.   Sometimes those two don't go hand in hand.   But I was really happy with the way I played this year, and hopefully I'll continue my good play on through the end of the year.  
   
 Q.   We have 10 of the best from the Asian Tour this week against a really strong PGA TOUR field.   The last two winners have come from the PGA TOUR.   Do you think one of your guys can actually be on the top come Sunday?   
DAVID LIPSKY:   Oh, yeah, no doubt.   I know the guys I play against week‑in and week‑out, they have the game to shoot the 20‑under, 25‑under here that it took last year.   Thaworn is playing really well and Marcus is playing well too.   So I wouldn't be surprised if one of those guys won this week.  
   
 Q.   Tiger Woods is playing this week.   Obviously, you're hoping to tee it up with him this week?   
DAVID LIPSKY:   Oh, yeah.   He's an idol of mine growing up.   I'm from Southern California as well as Tiger, so growing up, watching golf, he's been a hero of mine.   It's crazy.   It's a dream come true to be playing in the same event as him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT