TROPHEE HASSAN II
April 24, 2019
David Lipsky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great to get the win early in the season, and you've had three top 20s as well as that.  Has the win helped take the pressure off a little bit, so you can enjoy the season a little bit more?
DAVID LIPSKY: Yeah, it always does.  It frees you up.  It lets you just play how you want to play and not play tight, and that's been the big advantage to me for the first third of the season.  I've had some good finishes and I'm playing a little bit more aggressively.  That win definitely helped me do that.
Q. We've had some time off since the last event.  What have you done to prepare for the next strep of the season?
DAVID LIPSKY: I worked with my coach back home and tried to get my swing in good shape.  Feels great.  Played pretty well in these practise rounds, so looking forward to the event.
Q. Thoughts on the golf course?  Not the easiest we'll play on Tour, so it's anyone's this week, isn't it?
DAVID LIPSKY: Yeah, it's really demanding for every part of the game.  The greens are incredibly slopey and it's very tough from tee-to-green.  Every part of your game has to be sharp and really it will show the best players this week.
Q. And practising today with a friend from back home?
DAVID LIPSKY: Yeah, Kurt and I practise a lot in Vegas and we're really close.  We room together most weeks.  It's fun to have a buddy out on Tour.  Feels less like work.
Q. And three wins between you, you must be doing something right?
DAVID LIPSKY: Yeah, exactly.  You know, I think just having a friend out here and not -- golf can be so grueling, week-in, week-out, with the travel.  Having him out here and me for him, this sort of breaks it up, and you know, lightens it up a little bit.
Q. And over the last few years, compared to a lot of other players who maybe are less willing to travel, how have you become accustomed to going week-to-week, different country nearly every week?
DAVID LIPSKY: I've travelled internationally pretty much since 2012.  This is my sixth year on The European Tour.  So I'm used to it by now.  Not that I really enjoy it because it's tough at times, especially coming from the U.S., but getting to come to here, to Morocco and places like this and experiencing things like, you know, playing on the King or Prince's course out here, it's amazing, and having those opportunities, I really appreciate that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT