DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 18, 2017
David Lipsky
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was going well for you out on the course today?
DAVID LIPSKY: I got my putter hot.  I've been hitting it good Thursday, Friday, and today, I made those momentum putts to keep my round going.  That was just the difference.
Q. Do you feel like you're going to need another number like today, tomorrow, for you to have an opportunity to win?
DAVID LIPSKY: Oh, definitely.  I mean, the course is there for the taking.  We'll see how they set the course up tomorrow because they set it up pretty easy for us today.
But we'll see what happens.  I'm hitting the ball really good, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. Does that mean you feel like you have to be as aggressive or more tomorrow?
DAVID LIPSKY: Definitely.  The greens are a little softer than they have been in the past, so you can really fire at the pins this week.
Q. 64, we talk about special rounds, special days on The European Tour.  How sweet was it out there for you today?
DAVID LIPSKY: It was great to put everything together today.  I played really well last round at Nedbank and thought I had something going.  A little flat Thursday, Friday.  So it was nice to get it going today.
Q. Course conditions this morning, when you look, it's been pretty perfect all week, but what about the setup and the way the course was playing and your ability to go out there, and obviously having a fairly early tee time.
DAVID LIPSKY: I'm guessing they wanted to see birdies today, so a lot of the pins were in bowls.  The greens are a little softer this year and they moved some tees up.  They were a little kind up but we will see if that holds up tomorrow.
Q. Give us a sense how the greens are speeding up.  A couple of the players yesterday talked about how important it is to find the right spots on the greens.
DAVID LIPSKY: Oh, yeah, definitely.  Wednesday, they had not gotten too fast yet but yesterday and today, definitely downgrain.  They are picking up speed.  So to have uphill, into-the-grain putts, is really big.
Q. How have your thoughts changed now given your performance today, headed to tomorrow's final round?
DAVID LIPSKY: I'm just going to try to keep doing what I'm doing.  I hit it great Thursday, Friday and today, as well.  Hopefully my putter cooperates and we'll see what happens tomorrow.
Q. In a big tournament like this, that was a timely moment to shoot your lowest round of the year?
DAVID LIPSKY: Yeah, I've been hitting it great the last few weeks and so to finally put it all together and hole a few putts was really special.
Q. Four birdies in a row to start, doesn't get much better than that.
DAVID LIPSKY: No, it doesn't.  I was talking to my caddie.  I said we need to get something going.  My goal going into the weekend was to try to sneak out a Top-10 but obviously that's changed a little bit.  My caddie had me going pretty good today.
Q. Now the course setup is slightly different today, but is there a feeling a similar kind of score tomorrow you're going to have to do if you want to stay in contention?
DAVID LIPSKY: Definitely, just looking at the scores right now on the leaderboard, guys are going low today.  I'm happy with what I did and it put me in position for tomorrow hopefully, so we'll see what happens.
Q. The Rolex Series events have not been particularly kind to you this year.  You must feel you're due a good finish in one of these big events.
DAVID LIPSKY: Yeah, I don't think I made a cut during the regular season.  So I'm definitely high on the Access List.  But yeah, to play well in one of these events, especially the final event of the year, will be good going into next season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT