ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 29, 2010
Rodney Hudson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. What would it mean for you and the rest of the senior class to capture the ACC Championship in the same season that you've also beaten Miami and Florida?  
 RODNEY HUDSON: I think it would mean a lot. At the beginning of the season we set goals to strive for and we hit a lot of those goals and we're just trying to finish strong here.   
  
  Q. Jimbo said yesterday that one of the things that makes you so good is just the fact that you love the game so much. Where does that passion for just playing football and loving the game come from?   
 RODNEY HUDSON: I think it definitely started when I was younger playing football out in the yard, playing with friends and getting out in the backyard and tackling each other and stuff. I eventually started playing football when I was a youth, and I just always loved it.   
  
  Q. How have you managed to, I guess, stay humble and level-headed and grounded given all the accolades that have come your way? Where does that come from?   
 RODNEY HUDSON: Well, I've always been that type of person, and I've never really bragged about myself. I've never been taught to do that. It's kind of easy being a lineman; I don't score the touchdowns and stuff like that. So I think it's easy to stay humble, you know?   
  
  Q. Rodney, Coach was talking yesterday about what Christian Ponder's leadership had meant to this team. I just wanted to ask you the same question. What kind of example does he set, how much has that leadership helped and particularly the way he's kind of been playing with pain the last few weeks?   
 RODNEY HUDSON: I think his leadership means a lot. Like you said, he's playing with pain, and I think that brings the other guys up, to see a quarterback playing with a lot of pain and seeing what he's going through. It makes other guys think, well, I can do it, too, play up to a better level.   
  
  Q. I mean, is it noticeable on the field that he's kind of not necessarily at full strength out there?   
 RODNEY HUDSON: I mean, sometimes you can see it. We've been around him for a while, and like you said, we know what his full strength is. As a player you kind of start to see it.   
  
  Q. What's the main difference playing for Coach Fisher as opposed to Coach Bowden? How much changes have been done as far as how you guys prepare, that type of thing?   
 RODNEY HUDSON: I mean, certain changes have taken place. Practices are different in a way. Some stuff that we did under Coach Bowden we still do. Practices are different in a certain nature, and a lot of stuff, we eat differently and stuff of that nature.   
  
  Q. How meaningful is it for you? I know people show up at Florida State and expect to win tons of games, go to championship games, but you guys haven't been able to do it. Now in your last season you guys are there.   
 RODNEY HUDSON: I think we have a big opportunity in front of us, and like you said, we haven't been there before, but we have a chance now, and I think we just need to take advantage of our opportunities, practice hard this week and prepare well.   
  
  Q. What's your take on Virginia Tech? Annually they've had a very good defense. You've seen those guys, heard about them. I mean, they've sort of taken over this league since they came in. What do you feel about them?   
 RODNEY HUDSON: Like you said, they have a very good defense, have a very good all-around team. They've done well this year, and we expect their best going up there to play them. They have a pretty good defense, pretty good team.   
  
  Q. I just wonder what the frustration level with Christian Ponder might be. He came in as sort of a Heisman candidate, and it's been a bit of a rough go with the injuries and such, so I'm wondering if it's been a frustrating year for him.   
 RODNEY HUDSON: I mean, I would imagine so, but the kind of guy Christian is, you can't really tell. He's a team player and knows -- like you said, he's been through some tough things, but I think he's persevered and done his best to get healthy and hold the team up.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT