THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 21, 1994
Lora Fairclough
Dale Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Opening comments about the match today.  

DALE REID: I felt the Americans were getting  off to a good start the way they putted today.  They  holed a good one at first; it kept them pretty tight to  hole after that.  Sorry.  
I think Lora and I just bolted away out there  today and Lora played, I thought, very solid today; a  lot more solid than I did.  And she chipped and putted  great today and got us out of a little bit of trouble.  And basically, we just really played well together.  Good team.  


Q.  Where, in particular, did she get you out of  trouble?  

DALE REID: I think on -- I can't remember the  holes there.  I think on 10 I came up short of the  green and she played a superb chip.  I thought she had  holed it, you know, to about 3, 4 inches.  So it was a  couple of great chip shots she played out there today  which was good considering she is not used to American  golf courses.  So I was impressed at the time.  


Q.  Give us the details from 15 in.  

DALE REID: From 15 in, I think we 3-putted  15, didn't we?  Or no, it was 14, sorry.  14, 3-putted.  15th hole Kelly hit a tee shot into the  right-hand trees.  I was a little bit too far down the  right as well.  We checked first to see if the  Americans had a shot out of the trees which we felt  they didn't really.  Lora played a great little shot,  you know, turning it around the tree just short of the  green.  The Americans came out and then came up short  of the green for the third shot.  I hit a little  doosley (sic) chip; went about 2 feet.  Bit of a muppet  shot.  


Q.  A doosley (sic)?  

DALE REID:  Yeah, we call it muppet shots.  


Q.  How did that originate?  

DALE REID: Ask the caddies.  


Q.  Was it a fluff or was it a difficult chip?  

DALE REID: Little bit worried about a  sprinkler head.  I wasn't sure what club to play and I  ended up just making a hashing chip and as it happened,  we came off with half.  I think 16th hole, girls both  hit good drives down the fairways.  The Americans had a  terrible lie.  They were in a very bad divot.  Came up  short in the water.  I followed them in the water.  


Q.  With what?  

DALE REID: 8-iron, and we came out there with a good  half as well.  I chipped down to about eight feet from  the back of the green and Lora holed a great 8-foot  putt.  And 17 I hit a 7-iron in to about 12 feet and  the Americans -- we had already conceded a putt for  them to make 4.  And Lora holed the putt anyway, so it  was a game set match.  


Q.  Where did their tee shot go at 17?  

DALE REID: I am not sure what Kelly hit off  the tee, but I thought she hit a 6-iron and Gary,  Lora's caddy, seems to think she hit an 8-iron, but I  can't see her hitting 8.  Lora only hit an 8-iron in  there so I am not 100% sure in there, but she went  clean over the back.  It just didn't touch the green.  So I am not sure.  And Tammie didn't really have a good  and easy shot from where she was.  


Q.  Your 8-iron at 16, was that in a difficult --  

DALE REID: No, it was a straight forward  shot.  I was going to try and cut it in.  My main thing  was in -- don't be short.  Instead of cutting the ball,  if I pushed it straight right and lengthwise where it  went in -- it was the proper club.  I wasn't actually  short.  It was just a push straight right.  


Q.  Lora, can you talk about the state of your  nerves?  

LORA FAIRCLOUGH: I felt pretty good all the  way around.  I was nervous on the first.  I am glad  Dale had the first tee shot.  I really felt good.  I  felt in control all the way around.  It didn't really  get, you know, too hard out there, but I think really  because I have got a good par down partner who is so  good, she has been there so many times.  It was just  that steady.  Really, that is what won the match at the  end of the day.  


Q.  Has the whole thing lived up to your  expectations so far?  

LORA FAIRCLOUGH: Yes.  Exceeded it, really.  It is just brilliant.  I mean, so many people on the  team and Mickey made sure we enjoyed it and I think  trying to enjoy it has made it so much easier.  You  have just got to just try and enjoy and it is just  fantastic.  I am having a wild of a time.  Yes, it is  brilliant.  


Q.  What do you think of the crowds?  

LORA FAIRCLOUGH: Well, obviously, you know,  they are going to be shouting a lot harder because they  are at home, but we have got -- it does me good anyway  when they start roaring it up because it gets me up,  so, well, I don't shout back, but I feel like doing  it.  


Q.  The hometown favorite went to college in West  Virginia.  Were you aware of all of her fans out there?  

LORA FAIRCLOUGH: Yeah.  I was on the first  the tee.  It wasn't so much after that.  But they were  so nice to play with.  They were really nice, nice  girls.  It made it a lot easier for me.  


Q.  Dale, can you talk about the flag raising and  looking at that wonderful Scottish flags?  

DALE REID: It was pretty close to Finland;  wasn't it?  Doesn't Finland have a cross?  


Q.  It is the Nova Scotia flag.  

DALE REID: Maybe next year, we were  discussing that in the trailer, actually we thought  maybe when they come over they may raise the Iraqi  flag, see how you go with that. No, I am happy.  I was  on the practice green and tomorrow we will see the  change; I am quite happy; so is Pam and so is Katrin so  it is nice.  


Q.  Did you sleep last night, Lora?  

LORA FAIRCLOUGH: Really good.  


Q.  No trouble?  

LORA FAIRCLOUGH: Had about 3 glasses of wine  which helped.  I slept really good surprisingly.  Managed to eat a quite a lot for breakfast so it was  good.  


Q.  Is that really more than normal, three  glasses?  

LORA FAIRCLOUGH: No, perhaps I probably have  one normally.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT