DAVIS CUP FIRST ROUND: SWITZERLAND v USA
March 6, 2009
Marco Chiudinelli
Severin Luthi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/M. Chiudinelli
  6-1, 7-3, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Tough assignment going up against Roddick in Davis Cup today. He tied Andre Agassi for second most wins in U.S. history. Is that kind of what you expected, the way he came out playing?   
 MARCO CHIUDINELLI: Well, I guess. For sure I had more info on him than he had on me. I've seen a lot of his matches.   
 He played very tough in the beginning. Made me play a lot. He played very solid. That's a bit what I expected.   
 Unfortunately, I just started off quite bad. I mean, it went quite in his favor. I was 2-0 sets down after just a little over an hour, I guess.   
 Yeah, I guess I had quite a slow start, unfortunately.   
  
  Q. Are you satisfied with a 1-1 tie heading into doubles?   
 CAPTAIN LUTHI: We would have preferred 2-0 for sure. But, yeah, we anyway have to accept it. We knew that we would have our chances in each match. That's what happened today.   
 So, yeah, we're looking for the next day, for tomorrow, are already focused for the doubles.   
  
  Q. Marco, the crowd had kind of not been into it. But the third set, when you pushed Andy, they really kind of got loud. Did you start feeling like you were against the crowd as well in that situation?   
 MARCO CHIUDINELLI: Well, I actually appreciated it, as well. I think it's nice that you have a loud crowd than a quiet crowd.   
 It was exceptional for me, a very special moment out there with this big crowd. Yeah, I loved it. You know, when they got louder, it didn't bother me at all actually. I think also that's when I kind of raised my level a bit.   
 Yeah, so basically the louder they got, the better I played as well, so...   
  
  Q. What particular problems do you think the Bryan brothers will give you tomorrow as a doubles team?   
 CAPTAIN LUTHI: We know they're a great doubles. So I think it's not -- we won't have big surprises tomorrow.   
 We saw them playing a lot of times. Yves played them a lot of times already. Stan also. I think we're ready for whatever is coming. We know that they're playing very aggressive. We know the way they play.   
 I think there won't be big surprises tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT