BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 28, 2012
Felipe Aguilar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  FELIPE AGUILAR:   It was a good round today.   I played really, really solid overall.   I made really good putts.   I made two little mistakes, a couple bad swings, but overall, I'm quite happy with the round.   I played very simple golf today.   I think tomorrow will be the same, fairways, greens, and just waiting for the ball to fall into the hole.

Q.   Little by little you were building that score up and that birdie on the last could be very important. 
FELIPE AGUILAR:   Yeah, it was very important.   It will be very important.   I think Bernd is playing great golf today, so it will be a good horse to chase tomorrow.   So, it will be cool. 

Q.   I take it you enjoyed chasing that horse with Miguel Ángel alongside you?
FELIPE AGUILAR:   Yeah, we were just talking about it.   Hopefully we'll play together tomorrow again, because we really had a good time.   We had so many things in common and we talked about so many other things than golf.   It makes it a really fun round. 

Q.   Dare I ask, so many things in common; that usually means cigars and Rioja. 
FELIPE AGUILAR:   Yeah, one is one of them definitely.   We keep the rest inside the golf course. 

Q.   Does it help having that kind of camaraderie out on the course? 
FELIPE AGUILAR:   It does.   Especially I'm a very outgoing guy and concentrate only when I have to hit the ball and the rest have a good time. 

Q.   Goes without saying, such a long time out there, you can't focus on your golf all the time?
FELIPE AGUILAR:   No, you can't.   You have to make sure you focus whenever you have to focus and get your mind off when you need to. 

Q.   Number tomorrow? 
FELIPE AGUILAR:   Low. 

Q.   Possible? 
FELIPE AGUILAR:   Always possible.   The way I played golf today, a couple more putts to fall in and don't make a couple of those mistakes, it might be enough.   But you never know.   You never know what happens.   You never know what's going to happen with the weather.   You can't control how the other guys are going to play, so we'll see. 

Q.   It's nice to have a chance, isn't it. 
FELIPE AGUILAR:   It's always good to be in contention on the weekend.   We know we'll be in contention on Sunday, so it's nice.   It's cool. 

Q.   Probably has not happened for a little while. 
FELIPE AGUILAR:   Last time, I think it was South Africa, yeah, the end of last year, Portugal and a couple of weeks after that, South Africa.   I think it's been like three months, four months now.   So, it feels good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT