BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 27, 2012
Felipe Aguilar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the two rounds?  
FELIPE AGUILAR:   It was good.   I played today very, very good.   From tee‑to‑green was solid today.   The greens were good.   I missed some good chances for birdies but I can't really complain.   You have to try to avoid big mistakes here and try to make as little bogeys as you can.   
I think that that was my goal the last two days.   I made I think four or five bogeys in the last two days, and it's good.   Yesterday was really, really windy, and shooting under par yesterday was very good I think.   
Yesterday I think my game was really sharp on the greens and around the greens.   It wasn't very good from the tee, and today was the opposite.   On a day like this, if you're really sharp with your irons, you can get away a little bit.   But yesterday, you can't get away if you don't put very good.   
It came on the right time, so hopefully this weekend will stay the same way.  
   
 Q.   Explain poco‑poco.  
FELIPE AGUILAR:   Poco‑poco is little by little.   We use it every time.   It's very useful in golf, because this is the game of the little bit, the little bit of things.   And little by little, I think we can get some results going.   
   
 Q.   So you think things are working and improving on your game little by little?  
FELIPE AGUILAR:   Little by little, that's what it means, exactly.  
   
 Q.   Which presumably has been frustrating for the last few weeks or months.   
FELIPE AGUILAR:   Yes, last week I didn't play that bad but I played really bad on the weekend.   I finished on the back of the pack.   I missed the cut in Malaysia shooting 7‑over on the last eight holes Thursday and Friday.   
So I have not been able to close down the rounds.   I think what happened yesterday, being able to keep that good score on the back on a windy day, it just sets up my mind for a good day like it was today actually.  
   
 Q.   Have you seen signs that are poco‑poco?  
FELIPE AGUILAR:   Signs that things are coming together for a good result.   
It's always good to be in contention.   It's difficult when you are on the top and you know that you have 154 guys looking at you and saying that they want to kill this guy; even though they don't say it, they do.  
We have a saying back home, it's called like digging in from behind, so I consider myself like a little Indian, just coming from behind and see what happens on the weekend.   
   
 Q.   So you're going to stab somebody in the back?   
FELIPE AGUILAR:   No, not going to stab anybody in the back.   But hopefully my ball will go in the hole a couple more times than the other ones.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT