PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2011
Felipe Aguilar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Give us your thoughts on that, another good day at the office, isn't it. 
 FELIPE AGUILAR: A very good day, a little more consistent than yesterday. I made two big mistakes I think today, two 3-putts, one was very, very short and that's going to hurt me for the weekend. But I guess you've got to make some mistakes and accept them as they come. Good thing I finished birdie, birdie to bring them back. 

 Q. The birdie at 9, fantastic shot. 
 FELIPE AGUILAR: Yeah, off the rough with a 5-iron out here is never good, especially when you have water on the left-hand side. 
 But I'm very pleased with my game and very pleased with my swing. I think things are coming together at the end of the year, and well, just waiting for this weekend to be as good as these first two days.

 Q. Obviously you're used to playing in warmer conditions, but this is very hot here, isn't it?
 FELIPE AGUILAR: Yeah, it's been hot, it's been dry. I think, well, that's one of the things that I -- well, it's like I say, you have to be a 4 X 4 player to play on The European Tour: You have to to be used to playing in the rain, in the heat and the cold, and I think for me, and for my back, usually it's much better to play in hot weather than cold weather.

 Q. Everybody who has back problems enjoys it more in the heat. 
 FELIPE AGUILAR: Definitely, and the muscle pain, stuff like, that it gets a little better.

 Q. You haven't had any problems this week?
 FELIPE AGUILAR: No, just tight knots, but that's pretty common for us.

 Q. Thoughts going into the weekend? You're in good position now. 
 FELIPE AGUILAR: I'm in good position. This is where you want to be. I'm close enough. I like to hunt from behind, especially on the weekend. I have nothing to lose. I think I'm playing well this year. I have my card and I want to get into The Race to Dubai.

 Q. Is it to stop yourself thinking ahead, that you might have a chance to win, or is it easy to think about tomorrow first and foremost?
 FELIPE AGUILAR: I think when you have a chance to win, I like it. It's much better to have that thought than, for example, instead of saying, what am I going to do this weekend if you miss the cut. I think that's a pretty good thought. Try not to get ahead if you actually win, but to have a chance to win. 

 Q. There are two positions you don't want to be in on The European Tour, that's 116, and you're 61st. Is that on your mind, because you want to play in the Dubai World Championship, Top 60? 
 FELIPE AGUILAR: Well, I think what happened last year, having 116 before my last card, it was a year of humility. It made me realise the things I could actually lose if I lose my card, made me think again what I had to do with my swing and my golf team. This year, it's been much better since the beginning. I think it's a pretty good thought to be 61 than 116 or 120. But I try not to get ahead of myself in that position. I think Race to Dubai will come along as long as I play well.

 Q. What was good today?
 FELIPE AGUILAR: I think I made solid all around, pretty good off the tee, pretty good off the green. On to the green, I was really good, except for a couple of two, 3-putts that I had today but overall it was a good day.

 Q. You like the golf course?
 FELIPE AGUILAR: The golf course is great. It's in good shape and the weather is good. It's fun. It's fun to play out here, because if you are strategically place the ball in good positions you get birdie chances.

 Q. Do you like the mad birdie tournaments or the tough par tournaments? 
 FELIPE AGUILAR: Actually I do like the tough putts because I'm not a great putter. But this week I'm putting good, so I'm liking this this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT