IRISH OPEN
May 17, 2008
Felipe Aguilar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good day.   
 FELIPE AGUILAR: It was a good day, yeah. I played quite nice, especially off the tee, I put many balls in play. I was playing most of the time from the fairway which on this course is very, very important, which you have to. I struck the ball much better than the first two days.   
 I missed only two putts on the front. I missed a putt for birdie on No. 1, like a metre and a half for birdie.  
 And I missed a putt for par from like a metre and the par 3, I think it was four.   
 After that my putter got together and I putted quite well. Obviously the cherry of the cake was the putt for par on 18.   
  
  Q. What happened there?  
 FELIPE AGUILAR: I hit it in the water on the second shot trying to go for the green. I held it and just hit it on the other side and came back to the water and chipped it up and made an eight-metre putt for par.   
 It was a good round overall. Even if I didn't make the putt on 18, I was still thinking it was a really good round. I hit a good shot and should have been punished for it but it worked out quite fine.  
  
  Q. Two eagles?   
 FELIPE AGUILAR: No, actually one eagle today on No. 8 but they ran out of the big bottle so they gave me two small ones.   
  
  Q. You must be thinking of winning.   
 FELIPE AGUILAR: No, I just want to have a good round tomorrow. I think thinking of winning with the names up there, I would be just too spoiled to think that way. There are really good names up there and anybody can win, especially the way the scoreboard is.   
 Just going to go out there and have a good round tomorrow and try to hit fairways and greens, and let's hope for the putter, the club I would love to work.  
  
  Q. The way you've been progressing and you've won now, you must be thinking your name belongs up there?  
 FELIPE AGUILAR: I do. I do think my name belongs up there. Obviously there are a couple weeks you play well and a couple weeks you don't play well but in a week I play good, I should be up there. That's the way I feel after I won in Indonesia and I've been working on that and it's coming long.  
  
  Q. Is it something you've had to work on?   
 FELIPE AGUILAR: Yes, I have to think that I deserve to be there. Indonesia was my second tournament of the year and after winning that, it took me ten days just to realise what I had done.   
 Now that I realise what I did I think that my name should be up there, but it depends only on me. I think my game is there and I just need to putt it together.  
  
  Q. Do you think you're the most traveled man on The European Tour?   
 FELIPE AGUILAR: No, no, there are a couple guys in Argentina that travel a bit more than myself.   
 But I think I travel quite a lot, especially because of the tournaments I play on The European Tour and the tournaments I play in South America and the trips I make with my family; I think I have a good amount of miles.  
  
  Q. Did you win twice in a row in Chile in the last month?   
 FELIPE AGUILAR: Yes, the three weeks I took a break over here, I played two tournaments down there, the Chilean Open and another tournament, I won both of them.   
 It's been fun. I'm really having fun on the golf course and as long as I do that, the scores will come along.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT