ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2015
Felipe Aguilar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. A hole-in-one?FELIPE AGUILAR: It was very special because obviously my state of mind wasn't very good this morning after shooting 3-over yesterday.  I started pretty good, birdied 1 and 2. My way of playing today was going to be attacking a lot of greens, trying to get a good score, especially in the morning.  I had the right yardage and my caddie just said speed up with an 8-iron, go at it.  I hit it good.  I figured it came in quite soft because after the ball landed on the green, it took a little while for the guys to scream on the other side of the hole.  So it was fun.Q. There was somebody out there at that time of the morning?FELIPE AGUILAR: Amazingly, yes, there was somebody on the other side.Q. I take it when you've got a hole in one like that and we know that it benefits charity this week as well, 160 yards, ten pound per yard?FELIPE AGUILAR: Yeah, it's always good to help with our own effort.  It's going to be fun and it's going to be good for the charity to give as much help as we can.Q. Is that your first in competition on the European Tour?FELIPE AGUILAR: It's my first hole-in-one in a competition, yeah, on the European Tour.  I have a long way to go after Miquel, about 200 left.Q. And a nice bottle of champagne to go down with it as well?FELIPE AGUILAR: We're going to open it tonight.  I'm sharing a house with a couple of friends, so it's going to be fun drinking this champagne.  Thank you very much.  It's going to be good.Q. In a wider picture, that was part and parcel of a wonderful front nine, out in 30 and I take it you've moved yourself in a decent kind of position now?FELIPE AGUILAR: Yes, I did.  Having such a strong start helps you out with the rest of the day.  I was 6-under after six holes.  Couple of bogeys on the front, but I came back strong with a couple birdies coming back.  I'm quite pleased. The weather is supposed to be as good as it is right now, but I'm really happy to be here on the weekend..


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT