U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2012
Mark Wiebe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   With Mark Wiebe.   Nice round today.   
MARK WIEBE:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Looking on the top ten in the tournament.   Could you walk us through the round a little bit.   It seemed pretty filled with pars on the front side and a little bit different on the back for you.   
MARK WIEBE:   Yeah, it was.   I played nice, struggled with my putter today, just struggled.   I hit well the first 15 greens in regulation and was‑‑ I had three three‑putts on the back nine and just got a little off.   But the front nine, I birdied one and then I had all the pars, but I had my opportunities there and just could not capitalize.  
But I was patient, and I kept thinking something good might happen, and unfortunately, it did not.   But I didn't shoot myself in the foot too bad.   I'm still having a nice event.   So I'm going to probably go practice some putting and try to iron out those issues and see what tomorrow brings.  
   
 Q.   In terms of putting, do you almost have to be defensive on these greens with some of the undulations and such?   
MARK WIEBE:   What you're trying to do on a lot of them, it depends on what kind of putt you have, but you're really trying to figure out if you don't make it, where do you want to putt the next one from.   And it's hard because sometimes it doesn't go where you want it to go.  
But you're trying not to leave yourself another downhill putt for your second putt.   So we're trying to make our putts.   I think we're all the same there.   You're really trying to figure out, if I don't make it, where do I want to leave this.   A lot of cases, it's get it to the hole so you have an uphill coming back and don't have any side hills.   
So I don't know if that's defensive, but it's strategic, I would like to think.  
   
 Q.   That's a good point.   As we get farther into the tournament, third round today, do you find yourself looking at the scoreboard more?   It's a lot of people bunched very close to yourself in the top right now.   
MARK WIEBE:   Well, you look a little bit.   I was so busy on the back nine that I just noticed that Bernie was lighting it up, and I didn't really look much at anything else.   I didn't look at names and numbers.   I looked at some numbers just to see where I was, but I didn't look at any names with it.  
You know, you always look.   I'm always curious.   I'm a fan as much as a golfer.   So it's nice to see my name up there.  
   
 Q.   Let me let you go putt right now.   Thank you so much.   
MARK WIEBE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT