U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2012
Mark Wiebe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good round today.   
MARK WIEBE:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Good for the Championship.   Conditions like the Senior Open presents, being that close to the lead, that's probably a good headset going into the weekend, I'm sure?   
MARK WIEBE:   Well, yeah.   That's where we kind of strive for.   So yeah.   Who knows what's ahead.   When you come to the tournament, you just don't know how you're going to match up with the golf course and the conditions and the pressure that the U.S. Open brings.   
So we strive to‑‑ I think all of us strive to get to where maybe we can be close to the lead so it makes it more exciting.   And so far so good on that.  
   
 Q.   What was your strength of the game today?   
MARK WIEBE:   I managed my way around the course okay.   Not bad.   I think I drove the ball pretty well, although I hit one bad drive and it led to a bogey today.   
Other than that, I kept it in play.   I'm trying to have some kind of strategy around the greens, and if I can keep it below the cup, obviously, that's better.   For instance, on the last hole today, No. 9, I had maybe a 6 or 7‑foot birdie putt, about, and it was straight downhill, and they're tough, and they're not even really that fast.   I've played faster, but they're tough.   The slopes really dictate what's going on now.  
If I would have been below the cup, it would have been an easy putt, but it's hard to keep it below the cup too.   
So in most part, I succeeded with what I wanted to do.   On a hole like 9, you're just trying to hit the green.   That's a tough hole.   It's just a tough, tricky hole, and one to end on.  
But I think my strength was probably management of my game and then I drove the ball nice.  
   
 Q.   Did you notice the wind picking up a little bit at the end of your round at all, or was it not discernible?   
MARK WIEBE:   No, we felt it.   Believe me, we wanted it because it was hot.   It was really hot.   And we were‑‑ any breeze, it didn't matter if it made the hole play longer or not.   We really wanted some wind just to give us just some kind of relief because it was baking.   That shade felt good, but there's not much of it out there.   
We noticed the shades around the perimeter of the golf course, and that's where we don't want to hit it.   So we'rekind of, all right, well, that's the way it is.  
   
 Q.   Thanks, Mark.   
MARK WIEBE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT