U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2012
Mark Wiebe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   With Mark Wiebe.   You shot 1 under today.   Take me through your round. 
MARK WIEBE:   Well, let me see.   I got off to a pretty good start.   I birdied the first hole, which is nice, especially in a U.S. Open.
Played pretty well.   I was 3 under and bogeyed 9.   9's kind of a tricky hole.   And actually, followed that up with bogeys at 11 and 12, and then I birdied 13.   Just played pretty good.   Tried to keep it below the cut, not for the speed of the greens, but for easier putts, because you didn't have to play as much break and try to figure out how to hit it.
But I played solid.   Nothing great.   Nothing outstanding.   Just plodded along and glad I shot under par.

Q.   You mentioned the 9th hole specifically as being tricky.   Jay Haas just said the same thing.   What makes it so difficult? 
MARK WIEBE:   Well, for one thing, we played different wind in the tournament today than we did in our practice rounds because I was hitting a 2 iron and having plenty of room, and today was downwind and hit 3 iron through the fairway.   So that was probably the trickiest part to the whole thing. 
Not to mention you have kind of a small landing area in there, and you're just trying to get it up top so it goes uphill to a flat.   You want it on the flat so you can see the pin.   But then when you get up to the flat, it kind of narrows because of the doglegs.
So although the fairway's pretty wide, because of the way it sits, it's very narrow to hit, even with a 2 or 3 iron.   And then right is just death.   It's just jail, out of bounds, rough, trees, terrible. So you have to make sure you keep it left, and it's just a hard, it's a hard hole.   And it's tricky.   I wouldn't say it's a bad hole, but it definitely gets your attention.

Q.   How do you feel about your position after the first round? 
MARK WIEBE:   Well, I don't know what I am, but I like being under par in a U.S. Open.   Even if it's the Senior U.S. Open, I like being under par.   I feel good.   It's a good start.   I need to improve on some things.

Q.   Thank you so much. 
MARK WIEBE:   Okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT