U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2011
Mark Wiebe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Very nice round at 4-under. 
 MARK WIEBE: Yeah, thanks.

 Q. Tell us a little about it. What was the best thing you did? 
 MARK WIEBE: Well, I bogeyed the first hole, and that was my only bogey today. So it was definitely a good -- I plotted along and kept to my guns and stuck to my game plan. It was hot. I mean, it was tough. The golf course was tough. I don't care where the tees are, this is a tough golf course. Very challenging. There are a whole bunch of holes that are really, really hard. 
 Just did a good job. My son and I did a great job of staying in the moment and not getting ahead of ourselves and not looking back. Putted well. On the other hand, I left some putts out there that I was a little disappointed in. 
 But I'm really happy with the way I played. I'm hurting. My back is kind of bad, my leg is kind of more bad than that. So I'm kind of limited to what I can do, and I think probably the hardest thing for my son and I both were to take that into consideration with making club selections. You know, my swing has to be just right. I have to really rely on tempo and rhythm today. Hopefully it will be better tomorrow, but we'll see. 
 But a great mental day for me today. I would say more than anything I really used my head in a good way today, and I can't always say that.

 Q. You said you stuck to your guns and your game plan. That probably was fairly easy to do after four straight birdies, wasn't it? 
 MARK WIEBE: Well, you know, this golf course is a tough golf course. I think I've played two majors here years ago, and then I actually followed Gunner, my son, around in the NCAA two years ago to refresh my memory with how great this golf course is. I was so tickled to follow him and then learn we were playing here in the Open because I really do love this golf course. 
 I just hope at the end of the week it loves me.

 Q. Correct me if I'm wrong, but the four straight birdies came right after the bogey, right? 
 MARK WIEBE: Yeah, I started bogey on 1, and then I birdied 2, 3, 4, and 5. You know, my motto is, and I talk to my son all the time about it, you just never know. You just never know. All you can do is tee it up, give it your best shot and see what happens. If something like that comes along, great. If it didn't come along, okay. I was going to do what I was going to do today. I didn't know what I was going to shoot, but I was going to stick to what we've been working on this week, and I did a really nice job of that today.

 Q. Can you talk about those four birdies just a little bit, the description a little bit? 
 MARK WIEBE: Sure. Well, the second hole I hit a really nice driver, but if you've been out there, it's a pretty tight hole like all the other ones. I hit a really nice driver and had a good yardage in there. I had 131 yards. I hit a 9-iron, and I kept it short of the hole, which was a goal. I hit it at the pin, which was a goal. I had a decent look at it from probably 15 feet. I made that. 
 Next hole is the par-3. I hit a really nice 7-iron, wasn't a good yardage for me. Again, we're trying to figure out how far I can hit my clubs, but it was a nice, kind of a soft 7-iron to about, I'm going to say 8 or 10 feet. I made that. 
 Next hole is the par-5. I barely in the left rough, I hit a sand wedge for my second shot to lay-up short of the creek, or burn if we were in London. Then I hit a 7-iron in there, and I really thought I hit a good shot, and it came up 25 feet short, maybe 30 feet and made that. Great surprise there. It was beautiful. 
 The next hole is probably the best hole I played on the course today, at least tied for the best. I hit a really nice drive. Wind's into us. I think I had maybe around 200 yards to the pin and hit a 3-iron to two and a half or three feet, and that was just a great shot I hit in there, and luckily I hit it in the middle of the green and that's where the pin was. It was good fortune.

 Q. Where did Gunner go to school? 
 MARK WIEBE: Gunner went to University of San Diego. He's now a professional, and he's graduated and he has a degree. Not that I'm a proud father. Yeah, that's my boy right there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT