THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 29, 2013
Mark Wiebe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   First senior major championship, try to describe your motions right now?  
MARK WIEBE:   I'm a little tired, I'll tell you that.   You know, I don't know.   I was surprised that Bernie missed hit putt‑‑ he's a great player.   It just was my time.  
   
 Q.   Briefly talk us through last night from your point of view, playing two holes in the dark.   
MARK WIEBE:   Well, that was unusual.   Obviously it was really dark on that second hole.   You know, we had nothing‑‑ Mother Nature always wins, and I've watched it win on our tour this year and we've a had a lot of rain delays.   So I figured this was par for the course, and go out again at 8.00, and here we are.  
   
 Q.   How much pressure did you feel in a major championship:   One poor shot, you go home; one good shot, you can win.   
MARK WIEBE:   Yeah, you know, I don't know.   The golf course is just unbelievably demanding, whether it's a playoff or during the round.   I tried to play the playoff like I was playing in the tournament.   I just got a few extra holes in.   
I didn't do anything‑‑ you know, match play is different, but this was‑‑ I had never been in a playoff in a major championship, either, so I was a first‑timer.   I just tried to play the golf course as good as I could.  
I'm speechless.   Shocked, too.   I just planned on Bernie making that, and I actually was thinking, what hole do we go to now, do we go back to 18 or do I start on a new hole.   I just planned on him making the putt.   It didn't go in.   
You know, it's always‑‑ I think it's always better for both players had there been a birdie to win the playoff instead of a bogey, but right now, I don't really care.   I'm glad it's over, and I'm honored.   
   
 Q.   Coming into the week, the expectations because of the year, the injuries that you've fought‑‑ just the gratification going forward to win your first major championship, the Senior Open Championship, can you put that into words?  
MARK WIEBE:   Not really.   It sounds cool, though.   I mean, that sounds awesome.   
You know, as I told you earlier in the week, I got a couple injections in my back, and I came over‑‑ once I realised I could play and it didn't hurt very much to swing, I was instantly in a great mood, and I knew I was playing good.   
I had been playing with my son who kicks my rear end a lot, and he even said, "Dad, you're playing great."   I said, well, it's something that I can do when I'm not having this pain and I think that helped me so much with my attitude, just being able to swing a golf club.   
And I love playing over here.   I just love it.   It's the greatest.   So I didn't have many expectations or very high expectations, but also, my confidence was high.   If I could just get rid of these injuries, I knew I could play good, because I started the year, thought it was going to be great, and then all of a sudden I was struggling.   I'm just tickled.   
   
 Q.   Looking forward, 51 weeks, you get to play in The Open Championship at Hoylake.   
MARK WIEBE:   That's not something you're thinking about as you're playing these playoff holes.   I just was so busy trying to play the golf course and make a par.   I mean, 18 is unbelievably hard, even when it's docile.   I had not even thought about that, but thank you, I'll be thinking about that later on today and tonight.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT