THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 29, 2013
Mark Wiebe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you sum up this wonderful victory?   
MARK WIEBE:   How do I sum that up, I just was luckier today and last night than Bernie I guess.   I also feel like Bernie has won, what, a couple hundred tournaments.   You know, he's won so many, I feel like this was my turn, that's what I feel.  
   
 Q.   You've won tournaments down the years, but we haven't seen you at this kind of stage aside from Turnberry last year.   
MARK WIEBE:   Well, you know, I love playing here‑‑ I only played in two or three British Opens on the regular tour because of family obligations and I have not missed one on the Champions Tour or Senior Tour, and there was no way I was missing because I knew about the history of the golf course.   Just made it work, and like I said, I got my back worked on and everything I could to come over here and be able to compete.   
   
 Q.   You seemed to really get a taste for it at Turnberry last night, and you love this place, don't you.   
MARK WIEBE:   It's unbelievable.   For the people that are over here, and maybe they do understand, but we don't have golf courses like this.   I mean, we have some, but we don't get to play them, and this is just‑‑ I've said it to you all week, it's the most demanding golf course I've ever been on.   There's never a second that you can let up, and it just keeps coming, and that's with the wind not too high.  
So it's just a true test of not just your golfing ability, but your imagination and coming up with golf shot that you need to hit with certain times and had to hit those.   There's so much that goes into it and I'm just so fortunate.  
   
 Q.   I take it was a restless night?   
MARK WIEBE:   It was pretty restless.   I was on the computer; I was on the phone.   My wife and son were helping me get flights rearranged and cancel reservations and get new ones.   I don't even know what time I got to bed but when that alarm went off this morning‑‑ I said, I hope my adrenaline kicks in because I'm going be to be pretty tired.   I have a feeling I'm going to crash and burn in a couple hours.   I can't tell you how tickled I am right now.  
   
 Q.   As for the playoff itself, seemed like you challenged each other with exactly the same shots and then you had the wonderful approach when it really mattered.   
MARK WIEBE:   That shot in there is so hard and so difficult.   I actually‑‑ I don't know, the hole before the last one, when we were both in the trap, and I thought I hit one of the all‑time great shots.   I loved it and apparently it was about a yard or two too far to the left, but I just liked the strike I had on it and it was just right of the pin and I really thought it was going to be good, and those bunkers, we saw last night with Bernie, and you just never know.   
So you have to really pay attention.   Par it's just funny how things work out.   I just had no idea this was going to happen.   
   
 Q.   The shot ‑‑  
MARK WIEBE:   I have to tell you, my back has been sore, but that shot hurt me a little bit because of the way I had to hit it.   I was not going to hit a fade there because I needed the ball to, I just kept hitting shots like it was the tournament, and not worry about the playoff and all that stuff.   It just worked out for me this time.  
   
 Q.   I know you've been looking at this trophy, something special, isn't it?  
MARK WIEBE:   Beautiful.   It means so much.   It's beautiful, too.   But it means a lot, that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   Looking forward to defending your title at Royal Porthcawl next year?   
MARK WIEBE:   Yeah, unbelievable.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT