THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2013
Mark Wiebe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the way today has panned out, sir?  
MARK WIEBE:   Well, I don't know what to say.   I feel like I really played a nice round of golf.   Just added up to 70 today and I'm happy with that.   I played some good golf.   Didn't hit it as close today probably as I did yesterday.   
I missed a couple short putts and a couple mental errors and all of a sudden‑‑ it's tough to go without a mental error on this golf course.   You know, I only made a couple, so I have some work to do tomorrow.   But I'm still in the running, so it's exciting.  
   
 Q.   It seems that there are up‑and‑downs, you'd expect those, but also you should take so many positives, battling, holding in there and keeping going especially when there's a guy alongside you doing so well.   
MARK WIEBE:   Well, I've played with Bernhard a lot, back when we were on the regular tour, so I know what to expect.   He's a great player.   He's a world player.   And it was a good day.   You're right about the up‑and‑downs.   He played great.   I played great.   
You know, I just looked at it, I hit the last ten greens in regulation, so I give myself opportunities.   But I need to eliminate‑‑ for me to be at my best, I have to play error‑free and I made some errors today.   But I have to tell you, I'm happy with even par.   I didn't do anything wrong, and I like the way I'm playing golf right now.   
   
 Q.   Is has the course been any different today, given the sun has not shone nearly as much on?  
MARK WIEBE:   The ball doesn't go as far.   It's rolling a lot, but it was just‑‑ you know, it seems like the overcast is more of the British Open/Senior British Open look, so it kind of fit more than yesterday.   Like I said, I was squinting yesterday.   
But the course, I've got to tell you, the course is such a challenge.   It is so hard and difficult and demanding; I'm worn out.   I'm tired of making decisions.   I don't want them to say, what kind of beer do you want.   I just want them to guess, that's all.   My decision‑making is over for the day.   
   
 Q.   What is needed for the final day?  
MARK WIEBE:   Well, Bernhard is playing awful well but like I said this golf course is awfully demanding and one slip‑up, and you're behind the 8‑ball a little bit.   
So I need to play some good golf.   And if I play like I did the last couple days, actually all three days; if I can play that way and maybe get lucky and hole some putts, chip‑in, bunker shot, I don't care how they go in.   But it's going to take a good round of golf to maybe even be in contention, so I'll be dreaming about that tonight.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT