THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2013
Mark Wiebe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on shooting the low round of this tournament so far.   That's terrific golf?  
MARK WIEBE:   Well, thank you.   I didn't know it was the low round, and that's great.   I played nice golf on a pretty nice golf course.   This is very difficult.   Yesterday I thought it played a little harder but it was beautiful today.   We wore our sunscreen, which was a little different.  
   
 Q.   I daresay there were so many highlights but particularly the way you finished the tournament today, just wonderful, wasn't it, birdie after birdie.   
MARK WIEBE:   Thank you, I really got my irons zoned in on the back nine.   When you're landing the ball short of the green, you need a fortunate bounce, and it just was perfect on 18.   It just landed great and rolled up great.   
I knew that was a tough pin.   I watched players today hitting in the left bunkers and hitting it over, and I thought, can it be hit, can the green be hit.   It was a bonus to have a birdie putt, I just wanted to hit it on anywhere and hopefully make a par.   I had a run at birdie and when I hit it that close, I thought, I have a shot at birdie, so why not.   I'm real happy with the way I played, though.  
   
 Q.   I know it's only the halfway stage, but do you have an appreciation of where you are on that leaderboard?  
MARK WIEBE:   It's great.   Any tournament you play in, especially this one, I'd like to be in the hunt.   I don't care how many rounds or anything.   
So you know, there's a long way to go but I'm tickled to be where I am.   You know, last year, I think I tied for sixth at Turnberry and I fell in love with the golf course.   It was unbelievable.   I had never played there, and I had never played here, and I have some same love affair going this week.   It is just a real test of everything in your bag, including patience.   
You just have to plod along, and everybody says one shot at a time, you really have to play one shot at a time.   You really have to be totally into this shot right now, not what happened or what's going to happen.   You just have to be in the present, and I was very good at that today.   I'm proud of myself for that.   
   
 Q.   I gather it's not been the best of year health‑wise, so this is even nicer.   
MARK WIEBE:   I've struggled.   I've had elbow issues which led into back issues.   In fact, I got two injections about a week and a half ago at home just to be able to come over here.   I definitely love this tournament.   It's the best.   The back injury was a drag and the shots hurt.   
But I feel better, and I just told Phil, it's nice to swing a club without getting the wind knocked out of me because it hurts so much, so it's been wonderful.  
   
 Q.   So it was beneficial having the shots; it wasn't a risky decision simply because you wanted to play here?  
MARK WIEBE:   Well, I've had injections before, and you never know if they are going to hit the right spot.   I'm still sore to walk but swinging‑wise, I feel free, and it is really fun.   In fact, health is underrated for sure.   
   
 Q.   Quickly run through the closing, you birdied four of the last five.  
MARK WIEBE:   I birdied four of the last five?   Really? Okay.   I birdied 13, which was awesome.   That was a driver, 3‑iron to about 15 feet.     
14, I hit 7‑iron to about four feet and missed.   
15, I hit it right.   Had to lay‑up, hit a 9‑iron four feet, exactly the same length I had on the par3.   Made that.   
16, I hit a great drive right down the middle and hit just a little wedge probably to about 20 feet.   
18 was awesome.   That was driver, 5‑iron, and what was that putt, about 15 feet.   You know, it was pretty straight.   
   
 Q.   So four of the last six.   
MARK WIEBE:   Sweet.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT