SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2013
Mark Wiebe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your start today.   A birdie on 1. 
MARK WIEBE:   Well, actually, I hit my drive left in the rough, couldn't get to the green, I hit a 4‑iron and tried to run it up on the green and it's too wet to do that, so it stayed about eight paces short.   Didn't like my lie.   So I chipped with a 4‑iron and just tried to hit a chip and run shot.   And made a great shot and it went in.   So I went, oh, well, it was looking like bogey, right?   And it turned into birdie.

Q.   That had to make you feel good for a great start. 
MARK WIEBE:   No doubt.   Well, it's been a scramble for two days.   So I'm really, I've been struggling off the tee and not hitting many fairways, not hitting it very solid.   But I'm playing really good.   There's a big difference between hitting it good and playing good.   And I'm playing the game good. 
Not hitting it very good.   So it's been a struggle.   But I'm proud of myself for, to be 1‑under after two rounds is, wow, that was no bogeys yesterday, I had one birdie, and I hit like eight or nine greens yesterday.   So.

Q.   How did the course play today overall?
MARK WIEBE:   It's a hard golf course.   It played a little dryer, I would say, than yesterday, which is hard to believe with all the rain they had.   But it's a hard golf course.   If you're off line, it's tough.   The rough's penal, at least. 

Q.   How do you feel going into the weekend, right in contention?
MARK WIEBE:   Well I feel like if I can find out how to hit the ball in the fairway a little bit and maybe hit a couple more greens I think I would have a shot.   But that's a long way away for me right now.   Roger Maltbie, I've known for 30 or 40 years, and he just told me some stuff that he saw, because he was following our group, because of Duffy, and he gave me a couple tips to work on on the range.   So I'm going to go have lunch and try to relax for a second and then I'm going to be right back at it, trying to figure it out.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT