U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2012
Mark Wiebe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Mark Wiebe shot a 68 today and finished 5 under par for the Championship.  
   
 Q.   Good finish on Sunday.   
MARK WIEBE:   Thank you, yeah.   It was good.  
   
 Q.   Tell us what was the best about what you did today.   
MARK WIEBE:   Oh, boy, I had some mental discipline.   I talked to my son a lot about my putting, really was bad yesterday.   Really bad.   I think I had 35 putts yesterday.  
I just needed to change, and it was hard.  
   
 Q.   What did he tell you?   
MARK WIEBE:   Oh, my gosh.   He told me so many things that I was doing wrong and try to remedy it.   Hold still, line up the ball in the middle of the club.   I was too far open, and it was kind of cutting across it, and I was taking it inside because I was shut.   So I had to feel like the club face was open, like I was taking it outside, like I had it lined up on the heel, and it was hard.   That was hard today.  
But I did it, so that's good.   And I played well.   My ball striking definitely was the highlight of my week.   My putting was not.   Very happy with my play today, though.  
   
 Q.   So in essence, you taught your son the game.   Basically, he was telling you what you told him?  
MARK WIEBE:   Well, he's my teacher.   I'm his teacher, and he's my teacher.   So I was talking to my teacher last night on the putting green, while on the putting green.   In fact, he sent me a video while I was on the putting green, something to look at for reference.   
We took some videos, sent them back to him, made sure I was doing the right thing.   And it was better.   It wasn't great today, but it was better.  
   
 Q.   I think I heard that you weren't sure really whether you liked the golf course or not, but you were successful anyway.   Is that true?   
MARK WIEBE:   I like the golf course.   I didn't know if it suited my game.   I'm driving the ball really, really well right now.   So that part of it really was good.   I didn't know how my irons were going to react on the greens this week, and I didn't know how I was going to putt this week.   I haven't been putting well.  
So I liked the golf course, like I said.   I just didn't know if it was going to like me.  
   
 Q.   Great finish.   Thank you.   Congratulations.   
MARK WIEBE:   Thank you very much.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT