NBA DRAFT
June 21, 2018
Collin Sexton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COLLIN SEXTON: I'm very excited.  I'm glad the Cavs picked me at No. 8.  When I was working out for them, I felt like that was one of my better workouts, probably one of my best workouts actually.  So I'm very excited to be a part of the organization.   
 Q.  How would you describe your game and what you'll bring to the NBA level right away?  
COLLIN SEXTON: Just being able to play both ends of the basketball court, being able to go out there and play defense and also being able to score the ball.  But the most important side is the defensive side just because of all the players you have to go against night in, night out.   
 Q.  Obviously you don't know what the future is going to bring with free agency and everything and what he might do, but what is the opportunity to potentially play alongside LeBron James in Cleveland mean to you?  
COLLIN SEXTON: It means a whole lot just because he's one of the best players to ever play basketball.  Just being able to come in and learn from him, it'll be big for me and big for my growth.   
 Q.  You said you worked out in Cleveland.  Did you get a chance to see the city at all, Rock & Roll Hall of Fame?  
COLLIN SEXTON: No, sir.  When I was there, it was more strictly about business and being able to have a good workout.  But I did get to go to Game 4.   
 Q.  Did you have an opportunity to meet LeBron James?  
COLLIN SEXTON: No, I didn't meet LeBron.   
 Q.  You played for an NBA coach in college, Avery Johnson.  What did you learn from him in college that could possibly help you at this level?  
COLLIN SEXTON: Man, he taught me a whole lot on the court as well as off the court, but on the court he taught me how to run the pick-and-roll, also how to make sure my teammates and everybody was in the flow of the game.  Off the court, he always just told me be respectful to everybody, and also just make sure that you're aware of your surroundings because you never know what's happening around you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT