NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 26, 2008
Jason Maxiell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jason, I wanted to ask you about the block on Kevin Garnett. He had inside position. It looked like in his eyes he knew he was going to slam down a dunk. I wanted to ask you how you got to the play and were able to be strong enough to block it.   
 JASON MAXIELL: Well, I saw him in transition ahead of me and decided not to give him and give him an easy lay-up, and I decided it was a perfect time to block a shot.   
  
  Q. What was the difference tonight for you? You seemed to be more successful with what you were doing, getting more shots and so forth. What was the difference tonight for you as compared to last game?   
 JASON MAXIELL: The same as Dyess said. It was more focused on Rip, Chauncey and Tay and Sheed, so with the help, just stepping over there and knocking down shots.  
  
  Q. After you returned back to the bench, it seemed like there was four or five games where you really didn't do much offensively and rebounding. The last couple games there seems to be more energy and stuff. What have the last two games been like for you and why the big difference in production for you?  
 JASON MAXIELL: It's mentally, and also I feel that we have a chance to get to the Finals, and I want to feel what everybody else has felt.  
  
  Q. Could you just talk about what winning this game, knowing the 2-1 series deficit coming in here, what does this win mean to you and this team at this point?  
 JASON MAXIELL: Right now I personally just follow behind our bench right now, knowing that they've been there before, know how it feels. Coming out tonight, especially tonight with Dyess showing how hard he played, it was amazing how the atmosphere was, to play every day like this. Getting this win for us, going back into Boston trying to do the same.  
  
  Q. When you have games like this when you're making an impact, do you get a sense early on that it's going to be that kind of night for you or do you have to play it out?  
 JASON MAXIELL: Play it out. Our opponent's defenses mindset is to focus is on Chaunce, Rip and Tay. So if the shot is there, I knock it down. If not, I go to the boards.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT