JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
September 27, 2011
Justin Timberlake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: All right. I'd like to welcome our tournament host. He's been host here for four years now, Justin Timberlake. Justin, I think the question everybody wants to know is how is your golf game coming into this week?   
 JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: It's nonexistent. I'm going to say a couple prayers tonight, and we'll see what happens. I mostly -- I don't play golf. I just play at it, so I don't know -- who knows what's going to happen? It'll be entertaining.  
 THE MODERATOR: Also, on Sunday you had a chance to meet the two Shriners Hospital patient ambassadors. If you want to kind of talk a little bit about that, and obviously Shriners Hospital does a lot of great things.   
 JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: Sure. Well, every year -- every year we come back you get to see a little bit of the benefits of the Shriners' hard work. And you know, that's the reason I'm here first and foremost. I mean it's fun to host a PGA tournament, but to know that you're sort of doing so much good. And meeting the two ambassadors this year and seeing -- actually I met them -- I met one of them last year, and seeing some of the work that the Shriners have done over the year, it's just really mind blowing, and such a worthy cause, and it makes you proud to be a part of what we're doing out here at Timberlake.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. We've got time for a few questions.   
  
  Q. Justin, your obligation to this tournament ends in 2012. Have you considered extending that relationship with the Shriners, or are you now quite sure that your schedule in the future will permit you to maintain?  
 JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: Yeah. We haven't really talked about it. We haven't really talked about it. I think, you know, every year it comes up our conversations and time is spent trying to figure out what we can achieve with what we have here.   
 I love the organization, and I every year have said that. So I'm not sure. I'm not sure, to be honest. But we haven't had that conversation, no.   
  
  Q. Do you anticipate that conversation taking place in the next couple months?  
 JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: I don't know. I don't know. I welcome it.   
  
  Q. What got you started in golf to begin with?  
 JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: My step dad. My step dad's always been a diehard golfer, and when I was younger, he tried to get me into the sport. But my attention span, like most young people, was not equipped for such a thinking game.   
 But I think really when I fell in love with the game was just being on the road so much. You're inside arenas. Coming through Las Vegas, you end up playing MGM Grand or Mandalay Bay. You end up playing so many indoor arenas. And just road life is tough, so any time you can get outside, you kind of cherish it.   
 But I had a stage -- my stage manager at the time, I think I was about 20 or 21, and he said, you should come out and play golf with us. And I went out and played and hit a couple balls, and immediately just became a thing where I could kind of get away. So that's what I love about it is it's kind of individual, and you're obviously playing against yourself, but it's my escape more or less.   
  
  Q. What's your best score?  
 JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: My best score? My best score that I've ever shot is even. Even par.  
  
  Q. Pretty good.   
 JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: Yeah. It's pretty good. For me it's damn good.   
  
  Q. Justin, Tiger Woods has contemplated maybe playing here, and there was some speculation that you were going to try to get him to come.   
 JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: Really?   
  
  Q. Yeah. Did you ever pick up the phone or contemplate picking up the phone to try to reach out to him to come play here?  
 JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: You know, the first couple years that I hosted this event I reached out to a lot of golfers to try to get some sort of -- you know, you want the field to be as big and bad as possible. I know that obviously we'd love to have Tiger out here.   
 I think it would be a nice homecoming for him. I mean he won out here in '96. This course was his first win, so we'd obviously -- we'd love to have him out here, and I'm sure the crowd would love to see him. I'm sure the town would love to see him play out here again.  
  
  Q. Did you try to reach him? Did you try to call him?  
 JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: I don't have any -- I don't have any sort of information on him. You know, like I said, we'd love to have him out here, but I didn't reach out to him this year. I was sort of aware of his injury and didn't know -- I think we're all kind of --  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: Yeah. I was just trying to be respectful of that. For someone that's dealing with an injury I don't want to make them feel terrible because they can't make it.  
  
  Q. The reason I asked is because a lot of people believe that of anybody associated with this tournament you have the best opportunity because of who you are to possibly convince Tiger to come play here.   
 JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: I don't know. All I can tell you is that I'd love to have him out here. I've reached out to him before, as like I said, many other golfers the first couple years that I hosted this event.   
 And you know, I mean I think it would be great for him. I think it would be great for him to be out here. Like I said, he won here in '96. It was his first win. I'd love to see him play this course. I'm sure he'd tear it up. And I'm sure I speak for all the fans as well when I say that. So we'd love to have him out here.   
 THE MODERATOR: All right. You guys all good? Thanks.   
 JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE: Thanks, guys. Have a good week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT