ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 1, 2020
Guy Forget
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GUY FORGET:   I'm going to start in English, maybe a few words.
Welcome, everyone.  I'm delighted to be here.  As you all know, it's been pretty hectic in the last few weeks, although you could say days now.  But there we are, the tournament is going to start.  It's on its way.  Qualifying are still playing right now.
You know, we are thrilled to be able to host the Rolex Paris Masters 2020.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.
Q. I wonder if I could ask you a question about Roland Garros.  If we are in the same situation next year in May and June, with the pandemic, with the restrictions, are there things that you think you learned at Roland Garros this year that might make you do things a little differently next year?
GUY FORGET:   Of course.  That's a good question.  I know we have been criticized when we moved the dates of Roland Garros.  We did it in a very quick way.  You know, we got some people upset.  Some players were really surprised.  We did it on our own.
The positive thing is now those same people, and especially players, you know, told us that it was the right thing to do.  So it worked.
So let's say if tomorrow, which would be next year, we are facing the same issues, we would probably try to do the same exercise probably.  But we will of course, now that we got together with the ATP, WTA -- and actually the confidence and the relation that we got throughout those difficult times was very positive.  They will probably be the first people we will be talking to and we will have their support.
At the time I think we were a bit worried about what was going to happen?  If we want to wait for the positive signals from all the different governing bodies, our concern was will they say yes?  That would have been possible or not?  That's the questions we had at the time.
Now we know they have been very supportive, and if that would happen again next year, we will probably in an earlier stage to try to imagine to again move Roland Garros a bit later in the season.
I think it's in best interest of everyone, players, WTA, ATP, the other tournaments, as well, and facing those big issues I think only -- not only, but basically the bigger tournaments are the ones who can afford to still pay decent prize money, to pay with very, very little spectators and still maintain a good audience for television, which is sad.  But, you know, I think in those times the biggest tournaments can survive where a lot of other ones will face, I mean, probably more difficult issues.
That's why we have to be supportive as well with the ATP, to the smaller tournaments, as well.  And we have quite a few in France that have been canceled.
Q. Did anyone from Tennis Australia come to Roland Garros?  Have you been talking to them, telling them things that you have learned, for example, this year?
GUY FORGET:   Well, we have done numerous discussions with the people from Tennis Australia, and they have been really supportive.
I don't think they could leave their country, so the one who came were players and coaches.  Ashleigh Barty unfortunately couldn't make it this year.  We are very sad, because, you know, she won our tournament in a wonderful manner last year.  Hopefully she'll be back next year.
Now we can only wish for the best for Australia, because they have had a pretty severe lockdown.  In a couple of weeks, three weeks from now, the season will be over, and the next probably goal will be, tennis goal, will be toward Australia.
I hope they will get good signals towards quarantine and most of the players will be able to go there, and they will be able to have spectators.  Because once again, the Australian Open is one of the four pillars of the game, and players need to play those events.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT