U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1994
Guy Forget
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How does the knee feel? 

GUY FORGET: Well, you know, it's -- it's okay, it's getting better. You know, once
again, it's -- my most important concern is to have it improving week after week and
that's what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to think about my tennis not my knee. I'm
careful, but I don't want to think too much about it. 

Q. Guy, two years ago you were four in the world and you've been up there and done it
and now you're about to be 30 in a few months, why go through all this again, what
motivates you? 

GUY FORGET: Because I love it. Because it's -- I mean, at that point I don't see myself
doing anything else. I know that once I stop my career, I will never find anything as
exciting. There's nothing more exciting in life than winning a match on a stadium like
this or winning tournaments, even though I didn't win as many as Mats. But it's thrilling
and so exciting that you do the best job you can ever find. As long as I'm healthy and
young enough to compete, I'll do it. I'll have time to retire and I'll go home and do
something else. 

Q. Do you see signs that Mats has his game back on the right track? 

GUY FORGET: Mats is not -- Mats has stopped a lot more than I have, so, it's -- you
know, I'm sure he went through very, you know, difficult stages like I did. You know, in
that match today, many times he made a lot of unforced errors which I used to do, but he
did. But I think, you know, when Mats stopped, he realize how exciting the game was or
that he really loves tennis, that's why he came back. The same reason, mine was an injury,
but all together, I'm back and even though Mats is not as competitive as he used to be, he
is still -- he can still hit some pretty good shots. 

Q. Is the opportunity to playing Agassi in the next round something you really relish;
is that a great chance for you? 

GUY FORGET: Well, you know, I wish I could have played someone not as good, but
unfortunately you have to play someone and I will still try my best. I know I will have to
play better than today if I want to have a good chance. I don't know what to expect. I'll
go out and try to enjoy myself and try to have the best possible game and -- but, you
know, I don't want to put any pressure on my shoulders going into that match. I haven't
won a lot of hardcourt matches and Andre is a great player. So, my main concern is going
to be going out and hit good shots and try to play my best, and I'll worry about the score
as the match goes on. 

Q. Do you have a coach this week? 

GUY FORGET: No, my wife, my wife. 

Q. Is there any reason why you don't have a coach now? 

GUY FORGET: No, that's a good question. I really have to think about it. I didn't want
to get involved with a coach until I was sure I was going to be able to play for, like, a
long period of time. With that injury, I didn't want to tell someone, quit your job, come
with me and after one month say my knee is wrong, Chao. I've been helped by a few guys,
though. I was not just on my own, though. But it's something I might want to consider in
the next few months or the next few weeks. 

Q. Is there a stage in your career when you really just don't need a coach? 

GUY FORGET: Well, you always need someone. When you are injured, you need a physio
doctor to help you out. When you feel sad, you need someone to cheer you up and for tennis
it's the same. When your game is not together, you need someone to help get you back on
track. Through the years, it's my experience. I can do a lot of it by myself, but
eventually, sometime, you know, I need someone to -- from a tactical point of view -- from
a technical point of view I need someone to correct the mistakes that I'm doing. That's
why sometimes it's good to have someone. But to find the right person -- it's someone you
have to live with and someone you have to get along with in front of other people. 

Q. Guy, why is it you're the only one that seems to be using that racket? 

GUY FORGET: Well, don't tell anyone, otherwise I'd probably be playing a lot better --
it is a really strange shape, but it plays solid. You have great control with Lacoste. And
I had a great relationship with it over the years and all the guys that tried my racket
loved it. So I'm pleased with the way it's working. 

Q. Mats talked about his psychological game being there. You haven't played him in a
while; do you sense a different player on the other side of the court? 

GUY FORGET: I played mats five time before, I never won. I was close sometimes, but
like a few years ago when the game was not as really powerful as it is now because of the
rackets, because of the balls, because of the surfaces, Mats would never miss a ball. Like
he would miss one because you played a great shot that he couldn't get it and then she was
so fit, once again, you really had to go for the lines or a risky shot to make a point.
Now, he's -- first he's been out of the tour for a while, you lack confidence. So now he's
making a few errors, his foot work is just not right, and he switched rackets and tried to
be a bit more aggressive sometimes. So all together makes him, you know, better in some
areas of the game, but on the other ones, you know, he is not as strong as he used to be.
You know, I'm glad because otherwise I would have lost, but, you know, I remember playing
so many times and just coming on the court and saying, well, there's nothing I could do.
There's just nothing I could do. Sometimes he would miss a little bit under the
conditions, and so, that was nice. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT