COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1992
Guy Forget
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Playing against Goran Ivanisevic, you must sometimes feel very helpless.  Don't you feel from a player's point of view, tennis should be influenced to a somewhat different style? 

GUY FORGET:  Well, I tell you, sometimes it's even worse for me than it is for the spectators.  That is the problem, you know; sometimes rallies don't see a lot of things going on, you know, even more frustrating for the guys in front, because you don't get to play at all, and I mean, actually against Goran when he serves well, it seems that the court is very, very fast. 


Q.  Why did you lose to him today? 

GUY FORGET:  Well, every time I lose a match, if I know exactly the reason why, I wouldn't lose as many, but I think once again he served better than I did.  Physically I am still not 100%.  I suffered from my hip still and yesterday and even this morning, I could barely move on the court.  This afternoon, taking a lot of, you know, pills to make the pain go away, I felt much better, but still I don't feel physically 100%, but once again even when I was in good shape, I lost to him on some fast courts.  When he serves like he does, it is, you know, he plays his own game.  He just doesn't care what the points, what the score is, whether he is up 30-15 or down 30-40, he just plays a shot that comes to his mind, just at that exact moment without -- it seems like without any doing any of it in a constructive way, even though I am sure he does.  So it is very difficult to -- to know what to do when you play him, when he plays like this.  You might as well drop three games, making errors every time and hitting doublefaults, and then you just concentrate and play your own game and then he hits aces, winners, and just like this, just without no reason. 


Q.  At the press briefing, Goran said it wasn't fun today to play on this fast surface and you are complaining about it, and it is no fun to spectators.  Do you think this type of surface has got a future here? 

GUY FORGET:  You know, I mean the court itself is a very comfortable court and it is very fun to and nice to play for your legs and everything because it is kind of, you know, gives a little bit.  But the problem I think the tournament director can solve that a little easier just to get another court, something slower, try to get indoors the ball that is just a little bit slower and that way, I think people will enjoy themselves more and even the spectators will.  Once again, we are professionals and we have to go with the flow and the court as it is now is, besides the fact that it is fast, it is a good court, we have to get used to it, but I hope in the future that the people that are running this tournament and the other tournaments that are on this same kind of surfaces will remember what some players have told them and will try to slow it down.  At least when the court sometimes is too slow and you play a guy like Michael Chang or Emilio Sanchez, even if it's too slow, you still have rallies, you still sometimes enjoy yourself.  Where here, you get very frustrated sometimes.  I mean, if Goran gets frustrated, imagine how it must feel sometimes. 


Q.  French questions, please. 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT