LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 6, 2020
Ivica Zubac
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clippers 126, Mavericks 111
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Zu.
Q. You tied a franchise record today.  How did it feel today doing as well as you did?
IVICA ZUBAC:   It felt good, man.  I just kept doing my job, rolling, in the paint.  My teammates kept finding me.  They had confidence in me.  Got some easy offensive rebounds, putbacks.  It just felt good.
Q. You had your season high in points and rebounds today, following that up off of last game.  What has been the biggest difference for you over the last two games?
IVICA ZUBAC:   Just my conditioning, conditioning and practicing with the team.  I'm getting the feel.  I'm starting to remember what guys like, what's the best spots on the court for me.  My conditioning is getting better each practice, each game.  I'm feeling like I can stay on the floor for a while.  I can run the floor.  I can fight in the post with guys.  I can rebound.  Everything with my conditioning getting back, I can get on another level in every aspect of my game.
Q. After last game, Doc kind of said you played well but there were some areas where you could still have improvement.  What were those?  How did it feel to make those improvements in this game?
IVICA ZUBAC:   It was different game with some different coverages.  It's just communication on the floor, knowing what Kawhi and P.G. like, knowing how to get a better angle on a screen.  Just the plays we run, got to have better understanding what's good at the time.
It's mostly communication on the floor.  That's going to get better with each practice, each game.
Q. What do games like this do for you and your confidence and progression in your young career?  Do you realize when you're in the game, you haven't missed a shot like that?
IVICA ZUBAC:   Yeah, yeah, yeah, I was pretty sure I was 100% from the field.  Sometimes they give you some tips you might have got your hand on, they count it as a miss.
But it feels great, you know, to get rewarded by my teammates after doing all the hard work.  I had to do this after that turnover against Phoenix.  P.G. was on me the whole time (laughter).  I had to do a good job this game.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.  Have a good night.
IVICA ZUBAC:   Have a good night.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT