LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 5, 2020
Ivica Zubac
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Zu.
Q. Yesterday, what was the plan in the final play?  Was it to not call a timeout?  Can that serve as an experience now instead of in the Playoffs?
IVICA ZUBAC:   That was the timeout before we said we're not going to call a timeout.  I rushed my decision.  It was a learning experience for me.  It's not going to happen again.
Q. How has everything been going, conditioning, since you've had a couple games back since you returned?
IVICA ZUBAC:   It's much better.  It's much better than when I got here.  I can feel it getting better with each practice, each game.
I think I'm in a good shape right now.  It's going to get much better.  But, you know, I felt really good on the floor last night, the game before.  It's only going to get better.
Q. With so many moving pieces, you coming in, Sham coming in, Lou getting back, Trez not there, Pat getting hurt, how has the progress been for you guys?  Has it been slow because of all that going on?
IVICA ZUBAC:   I mean, yeah, it's slower than we want it to.  It's hard to get to where we want as fast as we want with some guys just returning, some guys still missing, guys being in quarantine for a few days, me and Sham not being in a shape that we're supposed to because of the virus.
We know we're going to get there.  We're slowly all coming back.  I think it's just a matter of days until we get where we want to.
Q. During the hiatus, when everything stopped, how were you able to keep up with your teammates?  Did you learn anything new about your teammates?  Even when you were in L.A. and the team was in Orlando, how did they check on you?
IVICA ZUBAC:   No, we was talking, like, all throughout when the NBA stopped.  We was in a group chat.  We even talked more than we used to.  I think we kind of grew closer during that time, learned a lot of stuff about what guys like to do in their off time, how they're spending their time.
I think while I was back home and they were here in Orlando, it was same stuff.  They were checking in on us every day, all the players, all the coaches, the whole staff.  We was watching their practices through the Zoom app.
I think the team did a great job of keeping us involved.
Q. You talked about your conditioning.  Are you feeling any aftereffects from the virus itself?
IVICA ZUBAC:   Not really.  After I first started getting back in shape, after I was cleared, I felt like I was out of shape.  My chest was a little tighter when I would do some stuff.  But, you know, I feel great right now.  I don't feel anything.  I'm getting back into the shape.  I'm almost there.  It's going to take some more time.
I don't feel any pain from the virus.
Q. What is the strangest part of this experience so far?
IVICA ZUBAC:   Orlando or the virus?
Q. The bubble.
IVICA ZUBAC:   I think it's just, like, seeing all these players and the staff from another teams walking about, seeing them every day.  It's just weird.  Or after a game, you come back, you're seeing the team you just played.  The feelings are a little bit after the game, if you lose or the other team loses, you have feelings you don't want to see those guys.  That's the strangest thing to me is seeing all those dudes after the games just walking around.
Q. Did you have that when you ran into the Lakers after that game?
IVICA ZUBAC:   No, I didn't really ran into them or anything.  No, I kind of got used to it now, seeing all these guys.  The first few days, you see some guys from Celtics, guys from Raptors, Heat, Lakers, everyone.
Q. When you see all those guys around, do you talk to them, talking trash, saying what's up?  I wanted to ask you about the 'Enough' on the back of your jersey, why you chose that?
IVICA ZUBAC:   I don't know.  It depends who you see really.  Some guys, you don't want to talk to them.  Some guys you know them from before, you stop by and talk a little bit.  Some guys you just say, What's up?'  It really just depends who it is.
About the message on my jersey, I'm grateful I got a chance to give support to my teammates and to the African American community.  Choosing 'Enough', it's enough of all this happening to their community.  It's time after so many years that everyone should get equal opportunity and there shouldn't be one side getting more opportunities than the other one.  It's just everyone should be equal.  It's enough of the killings that are happening, police brutality and all that stuff.
Q. It seems like Marcus has looked more comfortable in the bubble.  What have you noticed from him, the adjustment from being the No. 1 option in New York to being the fifth option with you guys?
IVICA ZUBAC:   You know, it takes some time to adjust to the new team, to the role.  He had a much bigger role in New York.  We got so many great players on this team, it's hard to keep the same role.
It just took time and practice, just talking to the other players, understanding right spots on the court, where other players like.  Just understanding his role more.
I think Marcus has been great for us.  He's going to be great for us.  I love that big man connection that I have with him.  I love stepping on the court with him.
Q. About the bubble, we've heard some guys compare it to an AAU tournament almost.  You were on the national team, traveled to events.  Is it anything like that?  What is the vibe like?
IVICA ZUBAC:   It's really similar when I play with my national team, in the European Championships, World Championship, whatever it is.  It's super similar because everyone's in the same hotel, you run into those guys every day.
At the end of the day you go to the gym, you play them, then you come back to the hotel, you see them in the elevator, you see them in the lobby.
I get that kind of a feeling that I'm with my national team.  You know, it's a tough situation.  Everybody got to adjust to that.  I think guys don't have problems with it now.
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Zu.  Have a great practice.
IVICA ZUBAC:   Appreciate it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT