LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 27, 2020
Ivica Zubac
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Kings - 106, Clippers - 102
 Q. Just what was it like for you not only being out there but just in the process of being away from the team and still trying to keep up to date?  Doc mentioned that you'd been watching the practice calls live on Zoom.  What has the process been like for you and being out there again today?
 IVICA ZUBAC:   I mean, it's been tough when you've got all of your teammates and everyone on the other side of the country working out, trying to get better, trying to get in shape.  I was stuck at home, and I was working out, but you know, you can't get much work.  You know, they were always sending us links for the practice, so we was able to watch the practices every time.  We tried to get the plays down.  It helped out a little bit.
 Q. Doc had mentioned he thinks you and Noah are going to be a great pairing.  What's your relationship like with Noah already?
 IVICA ZUBAC:   It's great, man.  Joakim ever since he came to the team, we've been close, and we've been talking a lot about the game.  Even when I was at home and he was here in Orlando he was hitting me up every day, talking about everything we did at practice, lots of stuff here in Orlando.
 I think he's been through a lot.  He's got like a lot of experience, one of the best defenders in this league, and I think I've got a lot to learn from him.
 Q. You guys were really hitting your stride before the hiatus.  Where do you feel like you guys are at right now, and what do you take away from these three scrimmage games?
 IVICA ZUBAC:   As far it goes that I still haven't even practiced yet with the team and this is the first thing I did, you know, I think right before the season stopped, we was getting really good, right before the Playoffs.  But I think we are on the right path, and when we all get back together, we're all going to work.  We're all going to grow through these season games, and by the Playoffs I think we're going to be in good shape.
 Q. What were these last few weeks like for you?  How are you feeling?  What were you experiencing?  What did you go through these last few weeks?
 IVICA ZUBAC:   I feel good, man.  I know no one has said it, but I had the virus.  I tested positive the week before fourth of July.  I didn't have any symptoms.  I felt a little tired for two or three days, but other than that I was good.  I was getting tested daily, and I was waiting to clear all the protocols to join the team in Orlando, but it was tough because I didn't have any -- I couldn't get in a gym.  I couldn't stay in shape.  I mean, I did some stuff, but it's hard to replace the practices and these games.  I did as much as I could, but I wish I was with the team from the start.
 Q. You didn't look like you were out of shape today, running up and down the court.  Could you assess how long until you feel like you can get back to that mid-March form, not just the team but yourself, when you'll feel physically fine again?
 IVICA ZUBAC:   I felt good out there.  I could feel I was a little out of shape.  I'm a little winded.  There's some room to get in better shape, better conditioning.  I'll be working out every day trying to get into that game shape that they need me to.  Every day I'm going to get better and better.  You know, I think it's not going to take long, probably a few days.
 It's hard to say like this, but I'm finally here, and I'll get to practice and work out every day, so I think I'll be good in a few days.
 Q. I don't know that you realize this, but while you guys were playing, Kendrick Perkins had some tweets and had a back-and-forth on Twitter with Lou Will, sort of critical of Lou Will's actions, and right away Trez and Pat Bev and Jerome Robinson all jumped to Lou's defense on Twitter.  What does that say to you about Lou, that all these guys kind of come forth like that?
 IVICA ZUBAC:   You know, that says everything about Lou.  I played with Lou in my rookie year with the Lakers.  I've been here with Lou for a while now, and Lou was my bud.  He's been a great guy.  Everywhere I've played with him, he's the guy that -- one of the most liked guy in the whole organizations.  He's always trying to get everyone together on the road.
 Lou is a true leader, and the fact that all the players are coming to the defense of him, that speaks everything about him.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT