MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2016
Derek Bard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How were the butterflies on the first tee?
DEREK BARD: There were a lot of them. Just kind of that walk over to the first tee, it was a little nerve wracking. A lot of people. 

Q. Did the birdie on 2 maybe settle you down, too?
DEREK BARD: Yeah, I was trying to lay up short of the green on my second shot and hooked it way left on number 8. So I had a decent angle there and I put one down there close. 
And after that, I kind of a bad bogey on 3 and I played pretty solid on the front nine. Slowed my swing down a little on the back nine.

Q. Describe the moment being out there with your brother, walking up to the first tee, walking the course, playing. Just kind of that. 
DEREK BARD: It's really cool. We had a special week so far. I'll never forget this. I think we make a good team. He knows me really well, he knows my game, kind of how I think and stuff. And to have somebody on that level already to carry the bag, it was huge. And that's really something that I'll never forget. 

Q. Did he come with you on all your scouting trips here?
DEREK BARD: No, my dad came with me in November and early March. And the first time he saw it was this past Friday actually. So that was the first time he was with me on the property. But after ‑‑ I probably played 90 holes from Friday until this point, so he's seen it plenty of times.

Q. What was the first thing he said when he walked down and saw the course?
DEREK BARD: He was nervous. We pulled up to Magnolia Lane and he's, all right, turn around, just joking around. But, no, he was kind of nervous. It's been so fun to have him on the bag, my whole family. A lot of relatives here. Brothers from back home are all staying together in a big house. So to have them all here supporting me this week is awesome.

Q. You're staying in a house, but did you stay in the Crow's Nest?
DEREK BARD: I stayed there Sunday night. That was the only night I have done it so far. I was actually the only amateur up there that night and I had the whole place to myself. That was kind of cool. I was creeping around in maybe some spots I shouldn't have been. But, no, it's been cool. That's where it all hit me that, wow, you're actually in the Crow's Nest, where all the great amateurs have stayed. You're actually at the Masters. 

Q. So you were the only amateur, but there wasn't any other person up there?
DEREK BARD: No, I was the only one staying up there that night. I think Bryson stayed the next night. But the next night I moved my stuff into the house. I might go back this week, I'm not sure. 

Q. Can you stay the whole week?
DEREK BARD: You can if you want, stay Sunday through Saturday, so. 

Q. Did anything surprise you about this experience so far?
DEREK BARD: Surprise me? Nothing surprised me. I knew it was going to be new for me, just playing in front of all the people. Just being on the first tee at the Masters, that's kind of a surreal feeling. I kind of expected it. 
But I played pretty well, I wished I played a little better today, but I think I have a good chance at making the cut.

Q. Do you feel comfortable on the greens?
DEREK BARD: Yeah, actually on the front nine I hit the ball really, really well and didn't make a thing. Probably could have been a couple under. 
On the back nine it flipped flopped. I didn't really hit it that great at all and the putter hung in there and kind of saved me. So the back nine could have been much worse than it was. But, no, it was nice to make a few putts on the back nine. A couple of those mid‑range par putts and kind of hold me in there and make the round kind of salvageable.

Q. How hard has this college season been this spring and stuff to stay a hundred percent focused?
DEREK BARD: It hasn't been too hard. I'm very committed to the team, already had four events, so I kind of treated it like I've been preparing for a college tournament, preparing for those events, and then I had my schedule that I was kind of preparing for the Masters, too, so I've kind of been preparing for both of them in a way, so I think I've handled it pretty well.

Q. And then so you have one more tournament before ACC?
DEREK BARD: Yeah, we got one next weekend and then ACC after that.

Q. And you're probably done playing after this?
DEREK BARD: I think so, yeah.

Q. What are your plans after that?
DEREK BARD: Hopefully make a run in the postseason. And then play The Opens. 
And then I'm going to stay, graduate next spring, and then play the amateurs that summer. Try to make that Walker Cup team. But we'll see.

Q. Obviously, Walker Cup's a big deal. A lot of guys have stayed amateur for that. Talk about that. Why do you want to do that?
DEREK BARD: I think it's really cool to represent your country against GB&I. My buddy did it this past fall and he said it was the time of his life. So I was kind of the first man out off that team, which kind of stung a little bit, after the Amateur, but yeah it's been one of my goals in amateur golf to play on that team and represent the UnitedStates.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT