U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2014
Derek Bard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Derek, congratulations on the 2-under, well played.  DEREK BARD: Yeah.   Q.  How about the birdies?  How did you do the birdies?  DEREK BARD: Yeah, we started off on the back nine, birdied 11, 12 right out of the gate, hit two good shots in there.  I made a two-footer on 11, a four-footer on 12, just knocked them in and then the other birdie was on 5.  I actually sliced one off the edge of the bunker and had to lay back.  I hit a good 8-iron there about 15 feet and rolled it in.   Q.  So a 2-under par on the first day of stroke play when everybody says I just want to get to match play, that's got to be a big hurdle for you?  DEREK BARD: Yeah, for sure.  This is my first Am too.  It's my first time qualifying for it, so I didn't really know what to expect coming in.  No, I was very patient out there, stayed very calm.  My dad was on the bag and he helped me with that.  We started on the back nine, so that is probably the tougher nine out here of those finishing holes, and I played those pretty solid, pretty steady. Yeah, you can't get too far ahead of yourself.  Obviously, making match play is the goal because anything can happen.  But you've got to take the first two days of stroke play seriously and just play every shot.   Q.  What's dad's name?  DEREK BARD: David.   Q.  Has he caddied for you before?  DEREK BARD: Yeah, he's caddied for me a few times this summer and some other tournaments.  Then before that, you can't caddie in junior golf, before that was when I was a little kid.  So, yeah, he's been on the bag a few times.  He knows how I work, so we make a good team.   Q.  Very good.  On the first two holes, starting out with two birdies right out of the box, that's got to give you a bunch of confidence?  DEREK BARD: Yeah, it did.  I was a little nervous on that tenth hole, my first hole.   Q.  First U.S. Am?  DEREK BARD: Yeah, first U.S. Am, exactly.  Hit a good drive, kind of shanked an iron up there to the green and two-putted.  That calmed me down.  Then I hit a good drive on 11, and hit an 8-iron there to about three feet, so that really calmed me down knocking that one in.  So from there on I just tried to stay calm and patient and took my chances.  I got a few breaks out here today.  I hit a few errant shots on my back nine.  It all worked out in the end, so we'll see tomorrow.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT