AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 16, 2017
Lance McCullers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
New York - 8, Houston - 1   
 Q.  When you got the word that you were going tomorrow, what were your emotions, your thoughts at that point?  
LANCE McCULLERS: I was throwing in the field, actually.  Because they had told me that I was hot today, just if the situation called for it.  So I threw after the game and Cora came out and Strom came out and told me.  But I was aware that Game 4 was a good chance for me.  A.J. told me before the series that was most likely going to go at 3 or 4.   
 Q.  How special is it for you to be out in this situation?  
LANCE McCULLERS: It's a big game for us.  It's a big game for the team.  Yankees have a great home record.  And are a great team.  And we do the job putting ourself in the situation getting up 2-0.  We knew it was going to be hard-fought innings, hard-fought games.  It's a big situation to be able to pitch in, put us within a game of the World Series.   
 Q.  After all you've been through in this season?  
LANCE McCULLERS: It's awesome.  I was here before in 2015, when I had the opportunity to help us get to the ALCS.  And I felt good in that game.  And I've been feeling like myself a lot more lately, just preparation and the way my body has been feeling.  Pretty excited to be probably the best I've been and get the ball.   
 Q.  That's what I was going to ask you.  You're back to where you felt like when you were at your best in the first half of the season?  
LANCE McCULLERS: Absolutely.  The last game in Boston, I know those two runs came across after I got taken out of the game.  But up to that point I just felt like I was in control again.  I felt like I was dictating the game on my terms a lot more.   
I felt like I have been in a whirlwind that second half when I've been out there.  I just feel confident with my pitches and my stuff again, and I'm ready to go out there tomorrow.   
 Q.  I know it's a different situation, but you were very strong back here in May.  Do you take anything away from that start as you prepare for this one?  
LANCE McCULLERS: I was pretty good in May this year.  Thankfully.  But, no, this is a different time.  It's a different game.  I think the only thing to take away from that is I've already pitched in Yankee Stadium in front of a pretty big crowd.  This is New York, this is the biggest and brightest lights.  I've already been able to go into that game and come out with success.   
Tomorrow is a different animal.  I don't think anyone is kind of shying away from the magnitude of the revocations that tomorrow can bring.  But at the same time I look forward to the challenge.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT