NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 12, 1998
Mike Eagles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE EAGLES:  The guys aren't skating, so, gives them an opportunity to come down and those kids, they love to be on the ice and when I was a kid, if he had been playing in the NHL, I know exactly where I would want to be.  So, something the kids enjoy.


Q.  Skate 3 a must-win?

MIKE EAGLES:  Obviously if you look at history over the years, I don't know how many teams have come back from 0-3.  So tomorrow night is a big, big game.  You can call it a must-win, yeah.


Q.  Do you just blank it out?  One of the things people who do dangerous things have to do is not think about it otherwise you couldn't do it.  What do you do to prepare for a game like this that is a must-win?

MIKE EAGLES:  Well, obviously you just got to focus on what you have to do.  I think it is a lot of times, thinking of the consequences or whatever has a negative impact on your performance, so you basically have to focus on what you have to do and not exactly what the results need to be.


Q.  Have you talked to Hunter?  How is he feeling about this?

MIKE EAGLES:  I just got in.  I think he is in the building, but I haven't been there to see him.


Q.  A lot of the guys are hoping they can win this one for him in some ways?

MIKE EAGLES:  We all want to win it for each other. We want to -- I want to win the Cup just as bad as Dale and Dale wants to win it just as bad as Oatsey and Oatsey wants to win it just as much as Kelly Miller.  All of us feel that it is a once-in-a-lifetime shot so we have to try to take advantage of it.


Q.  What do you guys have to do better to win this thing?

MIKE EAGLES:  I think, as I was saying before, I think obviously I think the coaching staff will be reviewing tapes.  Defensively I know we are going to -- we are not going to want to give up 50 shots again tomorrow night.  So I am sure today they will be reviewing tapes and making adjustments and you know, how we are going to play you know, tomorrow night defensively anyway.
 

MIKE EAGLES:  Well, it is -- a lot of times I think we came up short -- on the short side a few times along the boards and that is something that we definitely have to improve upon, no question about it.


Q.  How much of a difference do you think having home ice and last line change, changing the matchups, do you think  there would be a lot of big changes in that area?

MIKE EAGLES:  It is hard to say what -- Detroit is a team that all their lines are strong, so I don't know, you know, a team like this, same as like when we played against Buffalo matchups are not as important, but you know, it is hard to say what is going to transpire tomorrow.  To stay fresh when they are skating 30 minutes.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT