NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 14, 2014
Boris Diaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A lot of you guys, Tony made the comment the other day, that sometimes you guys play better on the road.   You certainly did in the last two games.   How do you get that mentality here at home?   
BORIS DIAW:   Yeah, it depends.   For us, we have the same mentality coming into a game whether it's at home or on the road.   We're going to come with the same focus and energy.   It's obviously better to play at home because the crowd is behind you and all of that, but on the road it doesn't affect us much.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised‑‑ not surprised.   Maybe that's the wrong word.   But how you guys were able to win in Miami?   
BORIS DIAW:   Well, we were looking for that good game.   The first two games‑‑ we won the first one, lost the second one.   But it was not a good game, not a good performance.   We didn't play as good as we did against OKC, and we were looking to have a good night.  
So we are not surprised.   We just wanted to get back to what the Spurs are used to doing in the whole season, and that's what we felt we did for the last couple games.  
   
 Q.   Did you play any better than you did in 3 and 4?   Do you have a higher gear than that?   
BORIS DIAW:   We did, hopefully.   We made some mistakes.   Nothing is ever perfect.   But offensively we made some shots in those games, and you never know the way it's going to go.   But we're going to keep moving the ball the same way, and put ourselves in that position that we can have some easy shots so we can have high‑percentage shots.   And on defense, we're going to try to be even better, yes.   
   
 Q.   How does this offense suit you?   What strengths of yours do you bring?   
BORIS DIAW:   It's pretty good.   I mean, it's pretty easy to adapt to that kind of basketball.   It's just moving the ball, playing with everybody.   There is nobody really just watching.   All the guys are playing one‑on‑one.   Everybody's involved, and everybody gets the ball at some point.   So it's been good.  
   
 Q.   Does that help make the offense unpredictable?   
BORIS DIAW:   Yes, I think so.   I think so.   Because everybody's dangerous on the team.   Everybody can score at any time, and it's not like a pattern.   Sometimes you do scouting on the team, and you say, okay, this is the head and this guy and this guy is going to score.   If you keep them from scoring, you're going to win the game.   
But this is a little bit different.   Everybody can score on any given night.   We saw it in the whole regular season.   Sometimes Patty scores on our team, sometimes Kawhi, sometimes Danny, sometimes Tony, sometimes Manu, sometimes Tim.   So it can come from everyone.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT