NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 24, 2006
Boris Diaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Boris, can you just take us through that last play, how it worked out? 
 BORIS DIAW:  Actually, that wasn't a play for me when we started this play.  It was more of the second option.  We do a play for Steve, but that's a play we did maybe two or three times during the season.  And I think Dallas saw it and they knew what we was about to do.  And when Tim Thomas got the ball, the coach from the bench said what's going to happen and that Steve was about to back door to get lay-up.  So he kind of stopped the play right here, but Tim Thomas didn't see that they knew. 
 So we kept doing the play and when I had the ball, Steve couldn't back door anymore because they knew what we was about to do.  And with seconds going down, I took the shot. 
 Q.  Boris, Steve Nash only had two points until the last three and a half minutes.  Was it something conscious that he was doing to try to take over for the game when he scored 10 points in the row there at the end? 
 BORIS DIAW:  I mean, you know, that's what he's doing.  Steve, he's just a great player.  He's going to do what he has to do to win the games.  Sometimes he's going to be making big shots at the end of the game and sometimes it's just going to be just creating to find open men. 
 Q.  Boris, everyone keeps saying the Suns are overachievers.  Do you feel like a win like this gives you more respect? 
 BORIS DIAW:  Of course.  I mean every time we hear something about us, it's, yeah, we are underrated, I think.  Everybody said it wasn't about to do the play-offs when Amare got hurt but was lose against the Lakers and Clippers and everybody said we're going to lose against the Mavericks.  We'll take the game one by one and see what's going to happen. 
 Q.  Few minutes ago the coach said when you came to the Suns initially your reputation was they were getting a soft player and nothing could be further from the truth and how hard working and what a great player you are.  How come you've worked so well in the Suns system? 
 BORIS DIAW:  I think maybe the fact that the coach been playing and coaching in Europe, kind of knew the way I was playing and what I was looking on the basketball court.  Just gave me his trust and his confidence and also came with my teammates. 
 And just the way we play.  I like the way we play, the first team in assists in NBA, very unselfish team and very enjoy to play like this. 
 Q.  Could you contrast, you know, a year ago what you were doing right now versus you're in the Western Conference Finals?  What was it a year ago having missed the playoffs in Atlanta, what were you doing? 
 BORIS DIAW:  A year ago I was in France on the French Riviera.  So it's really different.  I really enjoy being here and you know it's been a big difference.  And I just take the challenge and try to help my team going as further as possible. 
 Q.  Boris, you all really got to the rim tonight.  Do you think the Mavs main focus was to take away the three-pointer? 
 BORIS DIAW:  Of course, I think they stayed home and that's why I had so many inside because they didn't want to help that much.  And we had many drives and many with them staying on the three point shooters.  So it's been working out a little for us.  We had a lead for about three quarters.  Now we have to do the same thing.  I think it's on their part to adjust. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT