NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 12, 2014
Boris Diaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Talk about going home and having a chance to close these guys out?   They've never been in this position before and you guys have a chance to shut the door. 
BORIS DIAW:   Yeah, it's great that we get the opportunity to go back home for this game.   At the same time we know it's not going to be an easy game.   We are not going to make the mistake to think it's going to be an easy game because we're playing at home.   We know they're going to play for their lives, so we've got to be ready for that.

Q.   Talk about, again, another amazing start for you guys again, and kind of just never let them get into a flow. 
BORIS DIAW:   Definitely.   That was the game plan was to play the same way that we did last game, and that's what we did.   The game is pretty similar.   Starting the game it was kind of tight, and we took the lead, and then they tried to make a run in the third quarter, but we hung in there to keep the lead. 
So it was pretty much the same game, same game plan, and that's what we were going for in today's game.

Q.   Pop talked about wanting to play a harder game defensively than you did in Game 3 the other night.   Can you talk about what you guys did better from the defensive end of the floor tonight. 
BORIS DIAW:   Yes, we looked at some plays on tape, watching film and some mistakes.   So it was a pretty good game, Game 3 already.   But we felt that we did some mistakes that gave them some easy shots, and the main thing we focused on was not let them have anything easy; make them work for every shot.   And that's how we were going into this game and we did it?

Q.   When you were inserted in the starting lineup before Game 3, did Pop say anything to you?   And how has your confidence changed ever since being a starter in the series? 
BORIS DIAW:   Yeah, Pop just told me that I was going to start the game and trying to be a facilitator out there, just trying to make plays for others and try to make the right choices.   So I was just focusing on that role.   Being able to be a relay.   They're pretty aggressive on their pick‑and‑rolls, so just try to be somebody that gives an outlet pass and looking for the open man.

Q.   Coach Spoelstra said he was pretty surprised with the way this game started and the way it unfolded.   Were you surprised as well? 
BORIS DIAW:   Well, not really because it was pretty much the same game as the last game.   We were expecting a reaction from them, but we were ready for it.   So we just did the same thing.

Q.   Did you get the sense that their reaction just wasn't big enough? 
BORIS DIAW:   Well, I think the reaction was there, but we matched it.

Q.   I know that the constant ball movement is kind of basically what you guys do, that's a big part of who you are offensively.   But could you see last game and this one just that constant, quick, finding the open guy over and over again was kind of gradually wearing the Heat down, that you guys always seemed to be one step ahead or one pass ahead? 
BORIS DIAW:   Yeah, but we have to.   I mean, obviously we were looking to pass the ball to each other.   But they forced us into that, too, because they are very aggressive on the pick‑and‑rolls.   They don't let us have any air, any space.   So we've got to drive, we've got to kick, and we've got to make a few passes before we get an open shot.   If we would have to do only one dribble and find somebody open and shoot it, we'd do it, too, but they force us to make three, four, five passes.   But at some point we find somebody.

Q.   You feel like this really caters to you in particular, that this is a team that really fit you because of your passing abilities? 
BORIS DIAW:   Yeah, I think so.   I always try to read on the floor who is going to be open.   We all try to make good passes.   Everybody on our team is reading, including me, but we don't want to go for the home run pass.   We try to make the right pass, and sometimes the easy pass is the right pass.

Q.   Talk about Kawhi.   The other night and again tonight just phenomenal. 
BORIS DIAW:   Yes, after Game 2 Pop definitely told him he had to play better, and when he's more aggressive, we are a better team, and I think that's what showed in the last two games.   When Kawhi is aggressive and he's playing defense the way he's been all season, and when he's attacking the rim, he really helps the whole team. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT