NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 11, 2014
Boris Diaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. When Pop talks about the ball getting stuck, could that not necessarily just mean in one guys hands, but maybe on one side of the floor?   
BORIS DIAW:   Yeah, on one side, if you just stay on one side.   Usually nothing really good happens unless sometimes you get a shot out of it.   But the more you move the ball, the more you move their defense, the more vulnerable they are.  
   
 Q.   Chris Bosh had about a third of the touches that he had in each of the first two games.   Do you think that was a product of the way you guys were playing them or did they just not go to him as much as they've been?   
BORIS DIAW:   I'm not sure.   I mean, it's probably a little bit of both.   I think the defense was better overall anyway.   We saw him make a lot of shots, especially from the outside, in those first two games.   So that is something that we focused on.   He didn't get easy, open shots.   So it's probably a little bit of both.  
   
 Q.   Do you view him as central to their offense?   It seems like when they're not playing as much one‑on‑one, he ends up getting more touches.   Do you view him as important?   
BORIS DIAW:   He's definitely a big piece of their offense and what he's doing and we view him that way.   That's why we give him so much respect.  
   
 Q.   Miami was creeping up in the second half, cutting it to single digits.   But how were you able to keep your guys composed?   
BORIS DIAW:   Well, in the third quarter it's been our worst quarter during the whole playoffs.   So we have a pretty experienced team, and we know how to not get crazy or too down when they get a run.   So using that experience we just get by on our shoulders and never give up.  
   
 Q.   What do you expect from Game 4 after a postseason loss they're always great at bouncing back?  
BORIS DIAW:   Yeah, they are, they're a great team and we expect them to react and give their all in the next game.   We've just got to be ready for it.   We know it's going to be a battle.   We know it's going to be a hard game.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT