NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 7, 2014
Boris Diaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The Heat don't lose back‑to‑back games in the playoffs.   
    BORIS DIAW:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What do you expect from them?   
    BORIS DIAW:   We expect them to come out hard and strong and hard as they should.   
   
 Q.   Danny Green was talking about how he struggled early in the game but his teammates kept telling him "shoot it, shoot it, shoot it."   What do you guys tell a teammate like that, knowing he is struggling, what do you say to him?   
    BORIS DIAW:   Of course we know he can hit them.   He is one of the best three‑point shooters in the league.   He's has been great all season, we know he's a great shooter, and we always have confidence in him that he's going to make the next bun.   
   
 Q.   What do you tell him when he comes over to the bench?   
    BORIS DIAW:   "Keep shooting."   
   
 Q.   That simple?   
    BORIS DIAW:   The odds, if you miss three in a row and you're shooting 50%, the odds are he's going to make the next three.   
   
 Q.   Do you overthink stuff when you get this much time off between games?   Can you start thinking about things too much?   
    BORIS DIAW:   I don't think we overthink stuff and the staff don't let us any way.   We have precise points that we've been working on especially yesterday.   And we didn't need to go over again today, so we know what we need to do.   
   
 Q.   Ball movement is something everyone stresses, especially you guys.   Is the key, that extra pass that you guys make, is that court awareness or knowing the sets more, knowing how to make the extra pass?   
    BORIS DIAW:   It is key and you gotta have some players, first of all, willing to make the extra pass and capable to make the extra and the vision.   It's something that we have been working on.   The team is built that way, and obviously we have been doing it for years being the team that is able to play that kind of basketball.   
    So it's something that we focus on and sometimes we go away from it, too.   Some games we're like, okay, the ball movement wasn't that great, we can do better.   
   
 Q.   When LeBron goes into the jab step what are things you guys are trying to concentrate on in the triple threat?   
    BORIS DIAW:   Try to disrupt him as much as possible, don't give him any easy looks.   If you give him an easy open shot, he's going to make it.   And if you give him open space for a drive, he's going to go and lay it in.   Just try to make it difficult for him.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT