NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 4, 2014
Boris Diaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you think when you hear Pop say something like that about you?   
    BORIS DIAW:   It's a nice compliment, I just try to give my best.   Year after year you get better.   As you get older you gain more experience, so yeah, I'm just trying to play the best I can.   
   
 Q.   How are you playing better this year?   What's clicked for you?   
    BORIS DIAW:   Compared to the last playoffs, I think I'm more involved in what the team is doing is, and it's been the mindset of this season trying to keep it more to the team, being more present, help, motivate more than last year.   
   
 Q.   Tony said it clicked in the Euro Championships over the summer.   How did that jump start things for you?   
    BORIS DIAW:   After the Finals last year, you know, when you lose a series like that, you ask yourself what you could have done better, and that's what I felt that I could have been more aggressive and give more to the team.   And, yeah, right after the Finals, the European championships was the first time since then.   
   
 Q.   How does being in the system and the continuity of being here another year help?   
    BORIS DIAW:   Yeah, that helps, too, but, you know, I felt that I kinda knew the kind of style of play that Pop wanted last year, also, but when the team is together for a long time for sure they play better together, and we should do it again this year, because it's almost the same team as we had last year.   We are used to play together, and it helps.   
   
 Q.   Tim has done so much over his career.   Is it almost like doesn't even matter if he wins another title, his legacy is secure but do you feel like this is important to him? BORIS DIAW:   It's really important to him, you can tell.   Tim is really‑‑ he's really the kind of competitor that's going to give his all, you know, you see him play right now, he's playing the same way that he was playing a few years ago.   He's just giving his best and I think everyone wants to get that ring as much as the younger guys that don't have any yet.   
   
 Q.   What are the keys when they go small?   
    BORIS DIAW:   Depends.   I don't think there is one way to play it.   There is different ways.   You can match it by playing small or you can use your actually your size and length and play inside, because they're going small and we might be comfortable playing big.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you guys are better bench‑wise heading into this match‑up than last year?   
    BORIS DIAW:   I think last year we were, you know, as good.   Maybe not as good.   It was pretty much the same team that we have this year but I think the players on the bench got better, and, you know, the starters.   I wouldn't call ourselves a young team but we got some young players that got better.   Kawhi Leonard is getting better and better every month.   Guys like Patty Mills played a big role compared to last year.   So even though we are the same players, we play better.     
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT