NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 24, 2014
Boris Diaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Going up there I'm sure you've heard about two years ago.   Tim said they had talked about it, Manu said they had talked about it, maybe not as a team but talked about it a little bit.   What's the mindset going up there?  
BORIS DIAW:   Definitely we know it's going to be harder over there.   They play better at home.   There's a lot more energy, so we've got to be ready for it.   Definitely we all talked about that we were in the same position two years ago and then we pretty much lost our identity and didn't play the same way.   It's a good thing that we can learn from that and don't make the same mistake.  
   
 Q.   Talk about what kind of energy their home court gives them and their fans give them.   
BORIS DIAW:   I think they just overall play better when they play at home for some reason.   They make more shots.   I think their fans help them.   They're more confident.   They shoot with a lot more confidence, and so we have to do the same job defensively to disrupt them as much as possible.  
   
 Q.   Are you kind of tired of hearing about the whole Ibaka, is he going to play, is he not going to play saga?  
BORIS DIAW:   I don't know, I don't really listen.   
   
 Q.   Not just with your experience, but you guys have also had a pretty good amount of success on the road this year.   Do you feel pretty confident going up there that you can at least steal one if not finish them off?   
BORIS DIAW:   Yes, playing on the road it's never easy, but at the same time our team has been pretty consistent as far as playing on the road or playing at home and playing the same way, so that's what we've got to do for sure in the playoff.   The successful teams are the teams winning on the road, so it would be great to get at least one over there.  
   
 Q.   Have you talked to Tony?   He was hoping to be 100 percent, and he's looked pretty good in these two games, but he said he was hoping to get to 100 percent for Sunday.   Have you talked to him about how he's feeling at all?  
BORIS DIAW:   Well, you know, he just was trying to come back.   He was a little tight in those first games, so I think he's going to be ready.   We had three days in between, so that should be good enough for him.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you guys caught‑‑ obviously it might benefit the Thunder with Ibaka, but do you feel like you caught a little break to give Tony an extra day or so to rest up and get healthy again?  
BORIS DIAW:   Yeah, definitely so.   He played great the first games anyway, but definitely when he's aggressive and when he's able to get to the basket, we're a whole different team and even better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT