NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 23, 2013
Boris Diaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk a little bit about Tim making first‑team all NBA and Tony making second team?   
BORIS DIAW:   Yeah, it's great that they get honored because they have their team.   It's a team sport, and what they did this season for the team, for the teammates, for the organization was great.   They play at a high level.   They are the reason why we're here today in the Conference Finals.   So it's a great honor.   
So I think the whole team embraces it, and we're just happy for them.   
   
 Q.   What's it been like for you to play with Tim Duncan?   Can you talk about his professionalism, how he approaches everything, practice and games and stuff?   
BORIS DIAW:   Yeah, he's great.   He's really what brings everything together.   He's the leader.   We have three leaders on the team:   Tim, Tony and Manu, and they're the guys that we follow.   The whole organization is very professional, and these guys, too, and that's what brings all the other players to follow their lead.   
So it's great to play with them.   They're great role models.   
   
 Q.   In the time you've been here what sets Tim Duncan apart from the traditional 36 year old in the post?   
BORIS DIAW:   Well, he just makes everything easy.   He's always calm and he's always going to do the right thing at the right moment.   He always does everything we need on the court to help the team at any time, so he's going to play great defense and get all these rebounds, set great screens, make great passes, too, so he's doing everything.  
   
 Q.   What are you expecting once you get to Memphis as a team?  
BORIS DIAW:   Well, it's going to be hard, and we know that.   They play great at home.   They have a great crowd, and they seem to be more pumped up when they play at home.   They're probably going to make more shots, so we've got to be ready for that.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the job that Coach Hollins has done with Memphis, not just this series but overall?  
BORIS DIAW:   Right, great, great.   We seen this team coming up, not only this year but the past years they've been playing great together from the beginning of the season.   They have a great team defensively.   They really play as a team.   There's not really one guy dominating, it's everybody playing together.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT