NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 29, 2006
Boris Diaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









    BORIS DIAW:  Definitely a (inaudible) for them because he's really long, got a lot of (inaudible) and inside when he's in the paint you think twice about going for the basket because he's (inaudible). 
 Q.  (Inaudible) things pretty good last night or did you think it was you guys? 
 BORIS DIAW:  I think it was a long time in the paint.  I don't know if he was guarding somebody. 
 But, yeah, of course when he's in the paint he drops a little bit on offense because we can't get to the basket that easily. 
 Q.  How (inaudible) you guys are -- have you thought about that? 
 BORIS DIAW:  Of course.  We know each other.  We speak French.  We speak French together and I knew him before and from (inaudible) seen him over there too. 
 Q.  Yeah.  (Inaudible)? 
 BORIS DIAW:  Yeah, their family, know each other. 
 Q.  So these playoff series have been just amazing, have you been watching the other series, too, that you guys have been going through, all the Game 7s and everything that's been going on? 
 BORIS DIAW:  Yeah, sure.  (Inaudible) I've been watching a lot of the Spurs because Tony Parker was playing.  Series against Sacramento and good series against Dallas.  And also watched -- I like this series, Cleveland and Detroit.  That was a good series, and now Miami. 
 Q.  Why do you think that (inaudible) playoff time, (inaudible) constantly? 
 BORIS DIAW:  Because every team get a chance, I think, to be close playoffs.  See one team pretty dominate the championship this year and it's very interesting. 
 Q.  Boris, (inaudible) last night giving you any advice (inaudible)? 
 BORIS DIAW:  No, no, he came to watch the game.  Not to be coaching. 
 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 BORIS DIAW:  Not really. 
 Q.  What was the main (inaudible) let's talk about that (inaudible)? 
 BORIS DIAW:  Yeah, I think maybe the first time this season that (inaudible) about the game, yeah, since everything just showed we moved the ball. 
 We used to move the ball a lot and I think it's going to be good against a team like Dallas because once we get two or three past, then I think we (inaudible). 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT