NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 6, 2008
Sasha Vujacic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How important is it to get those easy baskets?  
 SASHA VUJACIC: It's important. You know, as much as it's important to play together on offense, move the ball from one side to the other.  
  
  Q. It seemed like the bench struggled and you guys didn't seem to find your rhythm.  
 SASHA VUJACIC: I think it was good. They catch up the third quarter, so it was kind of hard to take the crowd out of the game again, and we've just got to do a better job than we did last night.  
  
  Q. What did you learn last night?  
 SASHA VUJACIC: We learned that playing together really we can compete, and we played together for three and a half, three quarters, and when we move the basketball we make them work on defense, and that's what they don't want to do. But I think we can do a better job.  
  
  Q. Kobe is not getting the dribble penetration that he likes. What does he need to do differently?  
 SASHA VUJACIC: I don't know, I think their defensive rotation played good. As a team we have to be ready and find opportunities for him.  
  
  Q. Was it a problem with the spacing, or was it the shots just weren't going in?  
 SASHA VUJACIC: The shots didn't go in. We had a bunch of in and outs and they outrebounded us, so I think we just have to improve that for Game 2.  
  
  Q. How do you fix in and outs?  
 SASHA VUJACIC: You just make that. You just take extra shots in practice and just make them in Game 2.  
  
  Q. Do you get the basket to the rim or is there any familiarity that you gain?  
 SASHA VUJACIC: I mean, the baskets here are different than in any other arena. You can see that they are much farther. You've got to get used to it and make those in and outs.  
  
  Q. Because they're much more what?  
 SASHA VUJACIC: They're much farther than the usual baskets, much longer. It's just different. You've got to play with them because you've just got to make them.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT