NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 4, 2008
Sasha Vujacic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about having Kobe as a teammate. 
 SASHA VUJACIC: He's very competitive. He's a unique basketball player. He never gives up, he just wants more and more, and I'm the same way. Being here for four years learning everything that I could learn about basketball was great, and playing the same position it's even better.

 Q. How demanding is he? What does he expect of you?
 SASHA VUJACIC: Very demanding. He's very demanding, and at the beginning, my first year, I had to understand his way of being competitive and the way things are. But after a while I kind of realized that for the good of the team, for the good of every individual and to win something together.

 Q. Would he yell a lot and you just got used to it?
 SASHA VUJACIC: No, it was not yelling, it was more the way he was playing, being aggressive, being hard-headed, stubborn, just going through the walls, but being in a good way. I learned a lot from him, and it's good.

 Q. How intimidating is it for a new guy coming in four years ago?
 SASHA VUJACIC: It was bad. You know, especially for me coming from Europe, and it was kind of different over there, and I didn't play at all my rookie year. So my perspective of it was more narrow, and I was frustrated on top of it trying to go out there and practice, and I needed a while to come to understand all that. 
 But it's good. I think it caught me a lot.

 Q. Do you think that's one of the reasons your bench has been so good this year, is that you have adjusted to his expectations?
 SASHA VUJACIC: No, I think that the reason our bench has done so well is because we are playing as a team and we are playing team basketball, and that was the key of our success. Whenever you have an opportunity and when you have guys that want to play together, it's good.

 Q. If you've got a bunch of guys that are scared of Kobe or whatever, they're not going to play their best. 
 SASHA VUJACIC: That's why we have the team that we have right now. No one is scared of anyone. We just love playing with each other. We are really unique, and even off the court we are good friends. That's where the success comes from.

 Q. In the first three series obviously you guys went 2-0 against Denver, 2-0 against Utah, 2-0 against San Antonio, the difference being all three of those series you had home court. How is the feeling different now starting on the road?
 SASHA VUJACIC: Well, we are really excited about it. We know we're going to start it on the road, and we want to start with a win. That's the philosophy. I don't want to give no predictions, nothing, but it would be great to finish it at home.

 Q. Is "pressure" the right word, to try to snag, take one of these first two games here?
 SASHA VUJACIC: I think it kind of helped us winning in Denver, winning in Utah, winning in San Antonio, it's going to give us some kind of expectation we need for this kind of game tomorrow. Tomorrow coming into the game we know what we've got to expect, we know how we've got to play, we know we've got to put on-the-road mentality, and if we stick with the game plan we'll be okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT