OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE PRO-AM
February 16, 2007
Johnny Harris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH:  John, 2-under 69, given the conditions earlier this morning, I'm sure you'll probably take it. 
 JOHN HARRIS:  Yes, it certainly wasn't easy out there.  And I felt like I had a good day ball-striking, made some nice putts, so I'm thrilled with 2-under. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Maybe talk about the conditions, you're from Minnesota, you might be more used to it. 
 JOHN HARRIS:  Even if you're used to it, it's still not fun.  I feel bad for the people from Outback and all of the fans that come out here; they have been unlucky with the weather here.  You know, it was tough out there, a little bit of mud on the ball; the wind was blowing and it was cold early.  But it actually warmed up, and the back nine was a little nicer and it didn't make it easier, but it was a little warmer on the second nine. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  You want to just take us through your round, obviously the birdie eagle. 
 JOHN HARRIS:  Drove it in the fairway on 3 and got a little too aggressive and made a bogey. 
 6 was straight downwind 140 yards and hit a 9-iron in about five feet and made it.  The wind was probably blowing as hard as at any time on 7.  I hit a good drive and had 200 yards to the middle of the green and hit a 4-iron in about eight feet or ten feet and made that for a 3.  All of a sudden I was going pretty good and one of the keys to my round was on 10, I hit it over the green in the swale and got that up-and-down and made a nice 10-footer there. 
 Then made a birdie on 12, so I was going pretty good.  Another poor shot off 16 for bogey.  I hit it in the bunker and didn't get it up-and-down. 
 Overall, I was thrilled with the round.  A lot of nice 2-putts.  I didn't hit the ball very close to the hole and putting was hard out there. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Last year was a big year for you with the win, Commerce Bank.  Talk about playing here after a victory the year before. 
 JOHN HARRIS:  I was very disappointed in my second half of the year last year.  I think I tried too hard and pushed too hard.  So. 
 I reflected a lot over the break about how I was going to be better, and tried to be a little more patient, tried to let it come to me rather than force it.  I'm thrilled the way I started the first few tournaments.  I played a lot steadier and a lot more patiently and I've kind of gotten some nice opportunities already early in the year. 

 Q.  I know you said it doesn't make it any easier, but being from Minnesota, have you played in a lot of cold weather, and does that give you any advantage on a day like today because you've done it maybe more than some guys or you deal with it better perhaps? 
 JOHN HARRIS:  I might deal with it better.  You know, no, these guys have been professionals for 35 years.  Some of them played in weather like this last week out at Pebble Beach.  So they know how to play in this weather.  It's not fun, but you have to do it.  If you're complaining about it, it doesn't make it any easier. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  On the stat sheet it says you hit 12 of 14 fairways. 
 JOHN HARRIS:  I don't hit 12 off 14 fairways when there is no wind blowing, so I did have a nice day with my driver and that really makes it easier.  I thought the pins were relatively difficult and the greens, I hit a lot of compartments and a lot of tough spots to get at.  If you don't drive it in the fairway, it's difficult. 
 I found it difficult even though I did drive it in the fairway. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT