NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 25, 2012
Landry Fields
Allan Houston
Cappie Pondexter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Hitting that shot from half court, was it like you haven't left the arena?   
ALLAN HOUSTON:   I have to say, we have been practicing a little bit.   Heck, we came up with a good strategy, everybody hit their shots, and once you get to the half court, just kind of have to hit the first few and then it could take you a little while.   
   
 Q.   Landry, can you describe the process of this event.   I know you guys warmed up, but when you actually go and the clock is going, is it a lot more intense?   
LANDRY FIELDS:   Yeah, tons of pressure, Finals pressure.   But no, Cappie started off strong, he finished, I just had to play my part in the middle.   
   
 Q.   Where does this rank on your all‑time list of accolades?   
CAPPIE PONDEXTER:   It's super.   It's a great competition, of course during All‑Star Weekend.   This is great for our organization, just taking momentum back to the second half of the season for the Knicks.   
   
 Q.   In your other job, just working with the D‑League and being the general manager of Erie and it's gotten a lot of publicity with Jeremy, did you see that game when he was out there with the triple‑double?   
ALLAN HOUSTON:   Yeah, I watched it live on Futurecast.   Look, it was good opportunity because one of the things that you want to make sure, if you have an affiliation with the D‑League is, you have a coach that's trying to run the same style, same terminology, and fortunately, our coach Jay Larranaga was doing that.   So when Jeremy and Jerome came down, Jerome almost had a triple‑double, too, so they were running the same things, so when they came down they were prepared, and they came back in practice, and he got a wonderful opportunity and took advantage of it.   
   
 Q.   Just watching this unfold in the last three weeks, have you seen anything like this, where he went from Erie to what's going on now?   
ALLAN HOUSTON:   No.   I don't know if anybody has seen anything quite like this.   But again, he's brought a humility to the team and everyone is just happy not for him, but everyone is happy for the energy and the excitement of just playing as a team unit.   And I think that's what's exciting.   So going into the second half of the season, Landry could probably speak for it more than me, but that's what everybody is looking forward to riding.   
   
 Q.   You hit both half‑court shots, did you shoot half‑court shots in warm‑up?   
ALLAN HOUSTON:   Yeah, I didn't make my first in the warm‑up.   You just go out there and try to prepare, and like you said, fortunately everybody made their shots and it gave us enough time to do it.  
LANDRY FIELDS:   Yeah, we've been here since 6 a.m.  
   
 Q.   Do you know how many half‑court shots you've hit during your career?   
ALLAN HOUSTON:   I don't know.   I don't remember hitting any.   
   
 Q.   You occasionally scrimmage, right, don't you?   
ALLAN HOUSTON:   Yeah, every once in a while.   Every once in a while.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're in shape where you could almost‑‑  
ALLAN HOUSTON:   Stop.   Stop it right now.   This was fun.   This was a lot of fun and a good‑‑ just good being here.   I have my son with me.   It feels good to have a uniform again, but that's about it.   That's about the limits of it.   
LANDRY FIELDS:   He's not taking that uniform off tonight.   
   
 Q.   Cappie, so I talked to someone from the Orlando team, and she said that this is just Linsanity continued, New York is taking over.   What do you think about that?   
CAPPIE PONDEXTER:   Just a great buzz around this, great energy, we're just excited to be here and just taking advantage of it, just having fun.   
   
 Q.   Now that your weekend is over, what do you have planned and how does it feel?   
CAPPIE PONDEXTER:   Just going back overseas and just continuing to prepare for my season in the WNBA.   That's basically it, just working hard.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT