WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL B: MEXICO CITY
March 12, 2009
Vinny Castilla
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We're going to start by getting your take on the game. 
 VINNY CASTILLA: No, I want to start with questions, please. 

 Q. My first question is, you just spent one week with the best fan base attendance in the first round. I just left two minutes ago. No player, and you yourself did not walk out to say goodbye to your fan base. Do you think that's a great message after no one abandoned you? We all went through rain, through the weather. Why didn't you walk out to say goodbye?
 VINNY CASTILLA: Well, we said goodbye yesterday. We said goodbye yesterday after we were able to get the break we needed, and today after the results that we saw today, it's really, really difficult to go out. The only thing you want to do is kind of go back in. That's why we didn't do it. 
 We are very grateful with everyone. I thought we said it yesterday. We thanked everyone. We thank them for their unconditional support, and it's really difficult to do something like that today because our spirits were definitely not the way they were yesterday. 

 Q. Fortunately actually this allows us to cancel this round and go on to the second round. You know what the rivals are like. Do you see there's a possibility that you can actually make it to the semis?
 VINNY CASTILLA: The further we continue playing, things will continue to get tougher. We really know about the Korean and the Japanese level of playing. We know what the Cubans are like. Those are three very strong teams. But we need to repeat - these are short tournaments. Anyone can surprise. Mexico has a good team, and unfortunately we weren't able to show it off today. But we're in the second round, and we're going to give our best. 

 Q. Two questions: So this is the end of the first round. You've got two wins and two losses. The second time you're going to go into the classification. Dennys Reyes, why did you leave him on the mound for so long? He was definitely making too many mistakes. 
 VINNY CASTILLA: I don't like to lose. I don't like to lose the way we did. We're in the second round. That was the goal. That was the objective. Yes, we would have liked to go on to the second round in first place. 
 Dennys Reyes, he hadn't pitched much. He needed to work. He needed to get his pitching in, and that's why I left him there after he started making all the mistakes. I pulled him off, but he needed to work. He had been on the bench for three days. We're going to have two more days of rest, and he needs to be active when the second round comes. 

 Q. What positive things are you walking away with, thinking that you might face the Cubans again in San Diego?
 VINNY CASTILLA: You learn a lot from your mistakes. You learn every day something new. The more games you play, the more games you lead and manage, the more you learn. I'm going to learn you can't make mistakes. You can't make mistakes against the good teams because they will come back and bite you. 

 Q. Today's environment, were you surprised with what you felt out of the stadium?
 VINNY CASTILLA: I'm very grateful, very grateful for their support, for the fans' support, and especially with the rain, they stayed there. People weren't moving from their seats. They backed us up, and that's what we're leaving with. The ballplayers, the technical team, that will continue feeding us with energy so we can continue wearing the name of our country.

 Q. Your first rival in San Diego will be Korea. What do you know about the team? What will you have to do to win?
 VINNY CASTILLA: Korea is a very strong team. They know how to play baseball. They know how to play small ball. They're very fast runners, great pitchers. They know how to field greatly, and they know how to win. They know how to play baseball. 
 You can't make too many mistakes with them. Like I just said, you really cannot make mistakes with teams that are playing at that level because they'll make you pay. 

 Q. You have Karim Garcia, he's played with the Korean team. Will that help you face this first team? And do you already have your pitching roster for the next round?
 VINNY CASTILLA: I do. And of course, yes, the entire year he spent in Korea is going to help because he knows what pitchers are like. He knows what their pitching is like, and he knows who we're going to be facing in San Diego. It's absolutely fundamental. There's more scouting in that sense, and who better than Karim, who's faced them and who can give you a deeper type of information. 
 No, my roster for the next round is going to be Oliver Perez, Jorge Campillo and Rodrigo Lopez.

 Q. You're not going to be playing locally anymore. How is that going to affect the team?
 VINNY CASTILLA: We can't think about negative things. If you start thinking I'm not going to be going local anymore, we're still going to have a chance to bat, so I won't worry about those small things. 
 San Diego also has a really important Mexican fan base, and that's going to make us feel like locals. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT