WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL B: MEXICO CITY
March 9, 2009
Vinny Castilla
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Vinny, start with some comments about this game.   
 VINNY CASTILLA: Well, here we are after our game yesterday. Of course the team wanted this victory, and we really can't go hide in the sand after we lose. We learned a lot from yesterday, and we felt very motivated to do our best today.   
  
  Q. How do you learn a lot from yesterday? What exactly did you learn?  
 VINNY CASTILLA: Well, lots of things: Not to make mistakes, not to make high pitches. That's why we weren't able to launch the lower balls yesterday, and relays did a great job and we were able to win.  
  
  Q. There were doubts, doubts throughout the game because it wasn't until 7th inning when you began having better -- the guys hitting the home runs hadn't woken up. Did you doubt your team's ability, because there were several errors like Sandolval and Jorge Cantu.   
 VINNY CASTILLA: I've never had any doubts about them. They have records that certainly prove as professionals. They hold my entire trust.   
 Again, the South African kids, boy, they really fought, and we did use to our advantage the errors they committed with first base.  
  
  Q. Now, are you over the fan base yesterday after they practically went down on you guys? How did you guys prepare mentally for today?  
 VINNY CASTILLA: I have real short-term memory. I have no idea what happened yesterday. Yesterday is gone. Like I told the guys yesterday, we haven't even lost anything, so don't start hiding. We can still do lots of things.  
  
  Q. The idea that Australia might just beat Cuba, what adjustments might you make when you face them again?  
 VINNY CASTILLA: Hit better, pitch better, play better. That's the adjustment we need to make. Yesterday's pitches were really, really high and Australia used them all.   
  
  Q. Durazo and Amezaga, talk to us about them.   
 VINNY CASTILLA: They're both out. They both had injuries, suffered injuries, so they can't play. Durazo broke his wrist. Yesterday's injury was a knee injury.   
  
  Q. (No microphone).  
 VINNY CASTILLA: Yes, of course. These are two ballplayers that are very important. Amezaga gives us the necessary spark that we need, both in centerfield as well as leadoff. The DH and pitchers, those are two players that are really going to impact the Mexico team.   
 I cannot substitute them right now, yet. We need to conclude the first part. When we're done with this round, then I'll think about what we do in San Diego.  
  
  Q. Canada was eliminated by Italy. You lost and Dominican Republic lost against the Netherlands. What can you tell us about those teams that didn't enjoy those levels?  
 VINNY CASTILLA: No one expected Netherlands to beat Dominican Republic; you're right about that. Yesterday, likewise, we were the favorites against Australia. Right now there's no small enemy. We really fought hard against South Africa all the way through the 7th inning, and the tournament is definitely giving us our money's worth. You can't just trust; you've got to go out and play 100 percent professionally.   
  
  Q. Yesterday's pitching, what ideas do you have for the next game? Who can start? Do you think they're very tired, and if these pitchers are so tired, is this going to impact your team?  
 VINNY CASTILLA: Yes, they are tired, but they're resting. I have not used them in such a way that they can't be out of the game for four days. They may not play for one day, but on top of everything, more than anything we want to win.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT