THE 147TH OPEN
July 20, 2018
Rhys Enoch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RHYS ENOCH: I mean, the way it worked out, that's what happened.  The last four holes were not easy, and I played them so well.  I'm just so happy.  The second shot to the last was unbelievable.  So really happy.
Q. Obviously, you knew where the cut was coming because you're like the second --
RHYS ENOCH: I didn't even know.  My caddie, that was his job.  Around there, there was no need to know until 18.  I went to the pin and said good luck getting to that.  He said, you don't need to.  Okay, I knew it was 3 then.  He had a double-check when I hit my second shot.  Hit an unbelievable shot to 25 feet.  He double checked it was 3.  So just trying to cozy it up there, and my hands were shaking.  It was easy.
Q. It wasn't like at all?
RHYS ENOCH: It was the hardest thing to get the ball in the hole.  Oh, it's crazy.
Q. That's fantastic.  What does it mean to you, though?  I know the feeling's good, but what about finances?
RHYS ENOCH: It's massive.
Q. But for you now, what does that do for you?
RHYS ENOCH: So getting out of the red, which is nice.  It helps.  It helps a lot.  Yeah, I don't.  I'm trying not to think about the finances, but, yeah, it helps massively.  So that's one thing.
I just found out it counts to the challenge tour as well, which is also good because I've missed two, maybe three weeks on the Challenge Tour in preparation for this and after this.  So that's handy as well.  So, yeah, it's all fantastic.
Q. That's great.  And in terms of just the feeling of achieving this moment as well, how does that feel for you?
RHYS ENOCH: Yes.  It's fantastic.  I knew I was more than capable of making the cut the way I've been playing.  But to actually do it is just fantastic.  I just hope I can figure some putting out over the weekend and push up.  I've hit it good enough to be well under par.  So, yeah, it's exciting.  It's good.
Q. So the putting is just -- is that the short form of the game at the moment?
RHYS ENOCH: It's been a bit -- it's been up and down for the last sort of two months.  But to get into The Open, I had 50 putts for two rounds.  Holed everything.  And then I've probably had 65 putts, 65, 66 putts for two rounds here.  So frustrating.  But, putting is normally a strength.  I putted poorly, but it is what it is.  I can't control that.
Q. So will you go and do something to try to practise that tonight for an hour or so, or do you just rest now?
RHYS ENOCH: Tonight I won't at 9:00, but I'll come out a little bit early tomorrow.  It's not far away.  The greens are okay, but when I'm not quite striking it, they're a bit bouncy.  I just hit -- I must have hit five edges, and I thought they were in and just missed them.  If I can just start striking out the middle, I can have a chance.
Q. Tell us what's happening around you on the course.  Did you hear some support for you today?
RHYS ENOCH: It was good.  My folks from home stuck with me, and I got a gallery a bit at the end.  That was really nice.  I'm just over the moon for everyone who followed me.  They made a long trip up to Carnoustie.  It was nice to give them something to cheer about.
Q. In terms of your golfing career so far, where would this moment rank then, Rhys?
RHYS ENOCH: I suppose reasonably high up here.  First cut in a major.  So pretty high, yeah.
Q. So finally, what is your goal now for this weekend?
RHYS ENOCH: Just want to push on as much as I can.  I've hit it really quite nice for two rounds.  I got a little loose on the back nine today.  I managed to calm it down for the last few.  Now that I've learned to relax, I can be a bit more aggressive and hole some putts and see what I can do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT