US OPEN
September 3, 2005
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  Nick says you are training harder off the court, perhaps more than any time in your career.  Do you agree with this? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Hmm, no.  
 
Q.  Pretty close? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Uhm, I wouldn't say harder, just different.  I used to train really hard when I was younger as well, like eight hours a day.  I now train really hard, too, you know, on the court, off the court.  Everything that I do basically -- in my 24-hour day, everything I do is to be the best I can be. 
 
Q.  Have you recently embarked in an off-court training program that's been different than what you've been doing in the past?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Over a year ago, last year, after the French Open, I started working with a new physical trainer in Paris.  With him, he's just been fantastic.  He's helped me so much.  You know, I've just been able to have, you know -- get in really good shape.  He's put a program together for me for whenever I'm not in Paris, when I'm on the road at tournaments or in Florida training.  He's had such a great impact. 
 
Q.  How do you feel today physically after a year of this kind of training? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  You know, I mean, much better.  I mean, I think it's also, you know -- I can see it, I can feel it.  You know, I feel a lot fitter and stronger, faster, lighter.  
 
Q.  Can you talk for a second about what makes Jelena's game dangerous and hard to sort of get abreast of. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, she's a good player.  I have never played her before in singles.  You know, she's quick.  She hits a really good ball, really solid, you know, all her strokes - serves and returns, forehand, backhand.  You know, makes a tough opponent. 
 
Q.  Is it hard to tell where she's going with the ball, problems reading it at all? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, I can't tell where she's going to hit the ball.  
 
Q.  Could she tell where she's hitting it? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't know (laughing).  You have to ask her.  
 
Q.  So now you get a chance to play Justine on a court surface that you might like to play her on a little bit better than the last time you played her.  What do you foresee?  Something other than 1-1? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  Clay is my favorite surface.  And, you know, is this a better surface for me to play against Justine?  I don't know, maybe.  What is her favorite surface?  Of course it's going to be different.  There's been some time passed since that match.  I feel like I've improved a lot since then.  You know, different surface, different tournament.  You know, a lot of things have happened for her as well as for me.  I've been playing pretty well lately and, you know, just I really have nothing to lose.  There's no pressure on me in this match.  Can't be too much worse than when I played her in Paris, so I just am looking forward to that match.  I just really want to have a great match and a great fight out there.  We'll see what happens.  
 
Q.  It would just seem that hard court against her would fit you better than clay because you could hit through the court better. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Uh-hmm.  
 
Q.  She's less able to use one of her biggest weapons, which is her quickness and footwork. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Uh-hmm.  Well, you know, Justine is small, but she's powerful, you know, and she hits a good ball, too.  She has a really dangerous backhand down the line and good serve, too, and good second serve as well.  You know, she's small but she's powerful and she's quick.  You know, she's a champion.  She's been No.1, won big tournaments, Grand Slam tournaments.  On any surface she'll be tough to play.  You know, I just look forward to this match and just hope we play well.  
 
Q.  Could you talk a little bit about I believe that -- I've heard you have a very strong faith in God.  How does your faith affect you as a tennis player? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Uhm, how does it affect me as a tennis player?  I guess basically I don't really worry about winning or losing.  I know that I don't have control over that part.  There are a few things I do have control over and I try to do them the best I can.  You know, it takes pressure off.  I don't worry, really get nervous.  I mean, humanly, you get excited to play and stuff, but I'm just a lot, uhm, calmer and just know that whatever happens, it's for the best for me in the end, so... 
 
Q.  Like a lot of players who have been on the tour for a long time, try to avoid using the number 30...
 
MARY PIERCE:  It's okay. 
 
Q.  You've done a good job of spacing out your tournaments so you don't come in here with dead legs or tired legs.  Did you come in here and did you feel any rust at all after not playing for a few weeks?
 
MARY PIERCE:  A little bit.  You know, my first match was mainly just like with the focus and concentration, finishing the match off a little bit.  But, you know, other than that, I've improved with each match really, so it's been okay. 
 
Q.  How are you hitting the ball right now?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think I'm hitting the ball pretty good.  Could be better, you know.  Little bit more aggressive, not hold back too much on my shots.  Just really hit through them a little bit more, I think. 
 
Q.  You look back at your last 24 matches, you've only lost three times. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  That's pretty good. 
 
Q.  Three pretty good players?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  How are you feeling about that?
 
MARY PIERCE:  That's pretty good.  I don't know if I've ever done that in my career before, I don't know.  That's pretty good, actually. 
 
Q.  The streak? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, yeah.  So that's pretty good. 
 
Q.  Is it because of the fitness work you've done or... 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, definitely.  You know, my game is a very physical game.  I need to be in good shape.  I need to have my legs, be strong and, you know -- yeah, being fitness has just definitely helped a lot.  Just being -- having my brother, you know, coaching me since last year as well.  Uhm, you know, it's just been great.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT