WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2005
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Can you talk a bit about the match, especially about the second set.  That was pretty good effort. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Thank you.  You know, I had a difficult time getting going today in the beginning of the match.  It took me a little while I think to get used to the elements and the environment.  I hadn't played on that court in I think it's about five years.  Usually we get to practice on the court sometimes before we can play on it, and I didn't get a chance to do that.  So it took me a little bit just to get used to the environment.  And Venus played very well from the very beginning, was hitting very hard and very deep.  You know, I just -- I've already felt like last couple days that I was having a little bit of trouble getting going.  You know, my legs didn't feel totally powerful, dynamic today.  If you're a little slow against someone who is going to be hitting very hard and aggressive and deep, it shows a lot more.  Second set, I started to feel better and started to play better.  I was making a lot of unforced errors, as well.  That was my legs, you know, just not moving.  You know, second set, I started playing better.  I still missed some shots that could have made a difference in maybe me winning the second set.  If I win the second set, it's a totally different match.  So, you know, I just try to learn some thing from every situation.  I'll definitely watch the tape of this match.  You know, I know I was a little bit tired and that played a big factor in that match today.  And also Venus played great.  
 
Q.  Five set points.  How long are you going to remember it?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't even know how many I had exactly.  I know for sure I had three, three or four.  You know, what can I say?  On grass, points go by very quickly.  Anything can happen.  I did the best that I could.  I know that I hesitated a little bit and I needed to be more aggressive basically on a few points.  You know, I think that's also why I missed a few of those shots, because I just hesitated.  
 
Q.  You, Lindsay and a couple of players in the latter stages of their careers are playing now really well.  What do you think contributes to it? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  That's a good question.  Each person I think is different individually.  You know, experience helps a lot, you know, with just daily doing things and training, important points in matches, things like that.  You know, I don't know.  I guess we just have experience, and that helps.  
 
Q.  In the '80s, we have Martina and Chris playing till their 30s, then it stopped.  Do you think that kind of era is coming back? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  I really don't know.  It's tough to say because now women's tennis is so much more demanding, you know, physically there's more injuries than back then.  We play a lot more.  The matches are a lot more difficult and a lot more physical.  I would be really surprised to see players having a long, long career.  This is my 17th year, and I want to play a few more years.  To really see girls playing 15, 20 years, I think I'd be surprised.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT