WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2005
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Mary.  
 
 
Q.  Are you surprised by your rich vein of form toward the latter part of your career or like the rest of us, as you're older, you're working smarter, not necessarily harder?  Is that the secret?
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, I'm working really hard.  Finally I'm able to work hard.  I've always worked hard.  Just when I had my injuries, I wasn't obviously able to.  I had to take time off.  Then coming back from that took quite a long time until I was able to train normally for me.  So now I've been able to do that for, yeah, almost a year.  I feel really good.  I definitely feel the difference.  I see the difference.  I feel that I'm on the right path.  I feel like I'm actually improving every day.  You know, I'm very happy.  For me, I don't want to say that this is normal.  It's just actually just a gift from God, because I wasn't sure I was going to be able to play again.  Being injured, not being able to be physically fit and in shape to play my game was very difficult for me.  And now I'm able to do that.  So I'm very, very happy with that.  
 
Q.  Would you say you are a craftier player? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Smarter.  More mature.  Obviously, experienced, you know, with the time and the years, you learn something.  I feel like I've learned quite a bit in my career.  
 
Q.  How do you feel about playing Venus next?  What do you make of Venus and her recent career?  Where do you think she is now?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think the last time that Venus and I played was at the Olympics last year, and I won.  It was on hard court.  We've played so many times.  She's beaten me; I've beaten her.  You know, like I say, every match on grass is not easy.  They're all difficult.  You know, Venus is an excellent player.  You know, definitely on grass, it's a good surface for her I think as well with the fast pace.  You know, we know each other's games really well.  I've seen her play.  Obviously she's playing well to be here in the quarterfinals, as well.  You know, I'm just going to do my usual thing, just play my game, see how it goes.  
 
Q.  In your previous matches with Venus, what have been the main challenges that you've found in her game?
 
MARY PIERCE:  You know, Venus is just a solid player.  She's real aggressive and powerful, athletic on the court.  She has a great serve, great groundstrokes.  She's a great competitor, as well, on the court.  You know, that's why she's also a champion and one of the best players in women's tennis.  She's been No. 1, won Grand Slam tournaments.  You just don't achieve those things for no reason.  
 
Q.  We saw you in Paris.  You were very sad.  How do you come back from that?  Was it difficult to come back from that?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I was sad and I was also very happy and very proud of myself.  It was actually mixed emotions for me.  I was only sad -- I was more disappointed with my performance at the finals because I felt that those two weeks of the French Open, I had just really been improving and had some great matches and played some great tennis.  I felt the finals was a letdown because that wasn't good tennis on my part.  Justine played a really solid match, so it made it very difficult for me.  And, you know, just very happy to reach a Grand Slam final again, especially the French Open, my favorite tournament, which just means so much to me, with the fans and the crowd there.  It was a lot of emotions, and it had been a lot of emotions the second week of the French Open for me.  And it was all good.  You know, so I just took a week off after that.  It took me about three or four days to feel back to normal again.  
 
Q.  Can you remember back to the Olympics against Venus as to whether or not you felt her serve and her forehand in particular were weaker than they were when she was beating you pretty regularly in '99?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Hmm, that's a good question.  No, I can't remember.  
 
Q.  Do you remember, thinking back to that match in particular, what were the keys for you? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I just felt like I played well.  You know, I mean I had beaten Venus once indoors in Moscow, as well.  I feel like when I can return well, take her serve away from her - it's a big part of her game - so I think I did that pretty well and moved well around the court, just played solid from the baseline.  
 
Q.  Will you try and dictate the pace from the off with Venus, being you're both very aggressive players?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yes, we both are.  That's what I really do with anybody I play really.  That's my game, to be aggressive.  You know, that's what I always try to do.  
 
Q.  You hit some outrageous winners off either side today.  Was that kind of in your mind against a less experienced player today to try to shorten the rallies?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think that's mainly my tactic on grass.  I'm just trying to use it to my advantage really.  I'm understanding it more and more and actually enjoy playing on it.  
 
Q.  Why do you think Lindsay Davenport has never really gotten the attention?  She's won a lot of matches, Grand Slams.  She's No. 1, the No. 1 seed.  She doesn't seem to get as much attention from fans or media.  Why do you think that is?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, I don't think she wants it.  I don't think it makes a big difference for her and her life.  You know, I think that Lindsay's the kind of person that looks at things probably as differently.  What's important for her is not important for others.  I respect that.  She just comes here, plays her game, also has a different personality.  You guys know.  I mean, personality on the court, what you say.  I mean, just how you look.  There's all kinds of different things that the media and the press like to do and use.  Players in particular, some really want attention, need attention, and they do dress certain ways or say certain things, provoke that and create that.  So it's all a personal thing, what you want.  
 
Q.  Teenagers get a lot of attention when they first come on, the breakout players.  When you look at the latter halves of most draws, the veterans are coming through, with Sharapova being a slight exception.  Is it really more of a veteran players' game, a smarter players' game, a craftier players' game?
 
MARY PIERCE:  You know, I don't know.  It's tough to really say.  I wouldn't say all the time the veterans are coming through.  You know, there's a lot of great players that are pretty young that have been on the tour for a few years already now.  Uhm, you know, experience does play an important role.  I've actually come to realize that at this point in my career because now there's a new generation coming in.  And you see, now that I'm on the other side of that, what the difference is when you have the experience.  
 
Q.  You had two great matches today, mixed doubles.  Having a lot of fun with Mahesh.  You beat the second seed.  Did you expect this to be an easy match?  Are we likely to see the two of you together in other Grand Slams?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  This is our first time playing together.  I'm really excited.  It's an honor for me.  I'm very happy to be playing with Mahesh.  I wanted to play with him for a while and finally it worked out here at this tournament.  It's been great playing with him because obviously he's a doubles player.  I've learned a lot from him, the way he communicates in doubles.  You know, today's match was really good.  I feel like we both played really well.  I felt like I played well.  You know, I don't think we're a surprise.  I think we just go out there.  We have fun.  We play our best.  We'll see where that takes us.  Hopefully, you know, we'll do well here.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT