TELECOM MASTERS ITALIA
May 12, 2005
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 

Q.  I think you played well.  What do you think?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Thank you (smiling). I think I played good.  I think I can play better.  You know, I think tonight was a good match for me just to see where I am, see what I need to work on, and I definitely saw some things that I need to work on.  So I think that's all positive.  It's very good. Physically, I feel great.  You know, I was hoping and ready for a third set. You know, what can I say?  I played the No. 2 in the world, No. 1 seed here, who's maybe close to being the No. 1 in the world.  You know, I feel not too far away.  So I think for me it's very positive. You know, I've just been improving all year, and I feel like I'm getting better and better every week.  You know, I was a little bit slow, a little bit weaker running to my right side because I had my leg injury last week so I wasn't able to do a lot of, you know, footwork and leg and running drills.  So that I felt today.  Then I felt my serve, I need to improve my serve:  More first serves in and improve my second serve, be more aggressive. You know, these are all things to be competing and beating the top players.  For me, it's all very positive signs.  You know, of course I would have loved to have won this match, but, you know, I gave everything I had.  I did my best.  And, you know, like I said, it showed me things I need to work on. 
 

Q.  Will we see you next year here?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Of course, yes.  I love playing here.  The people are just so great and the food is fantastic and most of the time the weather's been really good, you know - warm and sunny. You know, how could I not come back?  The fans are amazing.  I mean, when I was walking off the court, they were cheering for me.  You know, that was just amazing.  I totally didn't expect that.  I was very, very touched by that. I felt like, you know, even though I lost the match on the court to Maria, I felt like I won in a different way, you know?  So still feel like a winner (smiling). 
 

Q.  In a way, some people were surprised because they thought that Maria Sharapova is the new-coming star, everyone talks about that.  Then we discover tonight that the crowd was more with you - not because you were the underdog in my opinion.  That was a surprise for you, too, in a way, or not?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, I think I expected maybe the crowd to be like equal, you know, 50/50 for both.  But it was more like 80/20.  I mean, that's what I felt. And... 
 

Q.  How do you explain it?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, you know, I just love the people here, and I've played here so many years and I've done well and I've actually won this tournament.  I just play with my heart.  You know, I live out on the court and I show everything.  I think the people enjoy that.  They love to see that and how I play.  Yeah, it's just great.  Great feeling. 
 

Q.  Apart from people being supportive of you, with you, do you think that Maria Sharapova, maybe she doesn't seem too nice to the crowd or to the people?  I don't know about the players.  Do you have an idea that they don't like her that much because they think she's cold or she's arrogant or whatever?
 
MARY PIERCE:  (Shrugging her shoulders). 
 

Q.  I'm blind (laughing)?
 
MARY PIERCE:  (Laughing).  I mean, what can I say?  People's hearts speak for themselves, I think.  People either like what they see and what they feel, or they don't, you know. I'm not really going to say anything about Maria's behavior on the court because she's very young and inexperienced.  I don't want to say she's immature, but she's still young, you know.  How I was when I was young, I don't know.  I'm more mature and have a lot of experience.  You know, I'm not a perfect person so I can't say anything about her and judge her for who she is, so, you know. But just to keep it really simple, I mean, I think that makes a difference on the court, your attitude and your behavior towards everybody, you know:  The fans, the ball boys, ball girls, the line judges, the chair umpire, your opponent, you know? 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT