OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 18, 2004
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Mary.  
 
 
Q.  After her 6-love, 6-love win yesterday, we were expecting her to be in better form.  Did you have an answer to that?  What made the difference today?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I feel, you know, I'm playing really well.  I felt for a little bit last couple - month, I guess - that physically I've started to feel really good and that my game has been starting to come together.  So it's just very pleasing to finally have it all kind of come together at tournaments and matches and in competition.  Really, you know, I really feel like physically I'm starting to feel good and my game as well.  Of course I have still, you know, a lot of progress and improvements to make in those areas.  But, you know, I feel mentally very strong, and was very consistent and stable throughout the whole match.  I felt like I returned Venus' serve really well, which is very key.  And, you know, I've had some, you know -- I felt some things on the court today playing, hitting and moving that I haven't felt in a few years, couple years.  So it's very encouraging and very pleasing.  
 
Q.  So is this the culmination of 18 months, 24 months of hard work from a low point? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Perseverance and patience, definitely.  And, you know, just the belief in myself, that I know what I still have inside of me.  So it's, you know, like I said, it's very pleasing.  It definitely helps, you know, my confidence.  You know, it just shows that I know inside of me what I've been feeling is right and just that I'm on the right path. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about the fact that you've had to pull out of the doubles because of Amelie's allergic reaction. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, I think we're all disappointed - Amelie, myself, the team, the country, her fans, our fans, our hopes of having a medal here.  We both felt we had a really good team and hoped for a medal in doubles.  I think everybody's disappointed except for Martina and Lisa (smiling).  You know, but health is the most important thing, really, when you come down to it.  For Amelie, as a person, I really like her a lot and I appreciate her and, you know, want the best for her.  You know, definitely have to make the best decision as far as that goes.  You know, health is the most important thing, so we just need to take care of that, whatever's the best decision. 
 
Q.  When did you hear about it?
 
MARY PIERCE:  After my match when I was in the gym they said she had an allergic reaction.  You know, you have to really take those things seriously and take care of yourself, so... 
 
Q.  How did you feel that Venus was actually playing, number one? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, I think you'd probably have to ask her that question.  You know, for me, when I'm on the court I'm focusing on myself and what I need to do and I'm not too concerned about my opponent really.  You know, maybe she was surprised that I was returning her serve so well and that I was -- you know, I was just playing my game.  Just be aggressive, try to come forward as much as I can.  
 
Q.  You've heard about all the big names that have crashed out today.  Obviously, you're responsible for one of them.  Andy Roddick went out. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Okay, I didn't know.  
 
Q.  You didn't know.  I was wondering if you have a thought for all the Americans that are dropping out?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  It happens.  You know, in tennis, you never know what can happen.  I mean, I just go out on the court and give my best and fight and enjoy it.  You never know what's gonna happen in the end.  I don't have control over that part about the outcome, win or lose.  I just have control over myself as far as giving the best that I have.  And, you know, whatever happens in the end, it's meant to be.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT