US OPEN
August 28, 2003
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Mary, please. 


Q.  Nice going.  Were you trying to build up the suspense or what? 

MARY PIERCE:  No, I didn't need any more than was already going on.  So just happened that way, I guess.  Made the victory sweeter.

Q.  But at 5-1, are you thinking about a warm shower or...? 

MARY PIERCE:  No, cold shower, actually. But 5-1, yeah, see, I didn't realize it was 5-1.  I knew it was 5-2.  You know, I just tried to just stay calm and just told myself to just fight, you know.  Just kept repeating that one word to myself.  You know, you never know what can happen in tennis, so...

Q.  English or French? 

MARY PIERCE:  English. 

Q.  This hasn't been a great year for Dokic.  She's one of the few seeded players that has a sub-500 record coming in.  Are you at all thinking as you begin to rally in the third set that maybe her confidence is not that high in general, if you can get something going, maybe she'll go to pieces?

MARY PIERCE:  I was thinking that more in the beginning when I first came out.  Jelena hasn't been playing as well as she had in the past. But needless to say, she has been starting to play better again.  I'm starting to play better.  So, you know, I just thought it was real important in the beginning to just start off really well and, you know, maybe that issue of her confidence level would come up and that would be a good thing for me, so positive for my side. But, you know, definitely in the third set I thought that she looked pretty confident.  I think that she thought she pretty much had the match.

Q.  She won only four points of the next 24. 

MARY PIERCE:  Okay.  I didn't know that (smiling).

Q.  Was that you or was that her, that statistic?  Was that you all of a sudden raising your game, or did she go off into another planet there? 

MARY PIERCE:  I went to another planet.  No.  You know, like I said, I just tried to stay calm.  I really just went for my shots.  I think in the big moments of the match, you know, it seemed to me that Jelena really stepped it up and played some good tennis.  She hit some shots, you know, there was nothing I could do. I was being a little bit tentative when I had my chances, maybe vary.  Started to miss a few shots that I wasn't missing in the beginning, like in the first set.  You know, I'm still not back to the level where I want to be; it's still a process for me.  So, you know, the fitness and my physical level is getting better, but it's not there yet.  So that was also an issue for me. My legs kind of weren't there in the third set, so I just said, you know, "Just start going for your shots," you know. 

Q.  You worked so hard to get back from the injuries, get your fitness back.  You've won a Grand Slam, you've done a lot.  What is your motivation?  Why do you want to keep doing this instead of going on to something else?

MARY PIERCE:  Because when I won the French Open, I just felt like I was starting to scratch the surface of coming into myself and my potential and being the best that I can be.  Then, you know, since then I, you know, had some injuries, I've been out for a while.  So I just feel like I haven't really done everything that's in me to accomplish in tennis.  What that is, I don't know.  But I just feel like I have more in me.  I just want to continue and try to get back and just be the best that I can and just see where that takes me, you know.  Whenever it's time to move on and stop or do something else, I'll feel it and I'll know.

Q.  You've had so many ups and downs, highs and lows from when you started.  How has your relationship with the game changed as you've matured and grown up?

MARY PIERCE:  I really appreciate what I do a lot more.  I love it.  Where at times, it's really difficult, you know, always traveling, being away from home.  There are times when you just want to be home, you know. And so when I had the injuries and I was out, I really wanted to play because I was really starting to play well and just do well and have fun.  It was a really difficult thing for me.  Sometimes you don't want to play but you're doing fine and you're healthy, so you've got really no reason to stop.  So it really, you know, made me think a lot and just really miss it and realize what a great life I have.  I don't really think I have a job, you know.  It's just something that I do that is just great.  I appreciate every day more than I used to.

Q.  Can you remember the last time you came back in a match like this, third set from that sort of deficit, especially in a Grand Slam?

MARY PIERCE:  Two matches come to mind that I played.  I played Lori McNeil here at this tournament, down 6-3 in the tiebreak.  I don't know if I was down a set and 6-3 in the second-set tiebreak or if it was just the third set.  I don't remember. Then I played, I want to say...I don't have a good memory with my matches, actually.  I think Hingis in San Diego.  I was down in the third.  I came back, I think, and won.  I'm not sure.

Q.  Looking at saying you're in this process of coming back, you've felt your legs, for instance, in the third set today, realistically speaking, what are your expectations in this tournament? 

MARY PIERCE:  In this tournament?  I don't have any at all.  I just take it day by day and match by match.  I already did better than last year, you know.  Last year I lost in the first round.  It's not like, "Okay, I'm satisfied, if I lose I'm happy."  That's not how I feel.  I just know that I'm in the process of working back to getting to the level that I want to be and need to be to compete in the top. So I'm just going out and trying to improve every day and every match.  When I step on the court, just to enjoy it and give 100 percent.  You know, whatever happens, happens. Like all the girls out here, we all want to win.  We're competitive.  No one likes to lose.

Q.  In a sense you've rolled back the clock.  You're back to somebody, I suppose, experiencing some sort of rebirth and starting again? 

MARY PIERCE:  In a way, I mean, yeah.  I had to start back basically from zero, you know, a year or two ago.  So it was kind of like starting from zero all over again.

Q.  Conchita Martinez is another veteran player who is trying to get back to where she once was.  She's done a pretty good job of regaining her fitness.  She may have just sort of topped out as a Top 20 player rather than Top 10.  Do you feel it's a long shot to get back into the Top 10 for you, but 20 will be more realistic for you?

MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  I just want to be the best that I can be and maximize myself and my potential.  Whatever that is, that's what it is. I know that the game is a lot stronger and the girls are a lot better and faster and hit harder.  I also know that, on any day, I have and can beat anybody.  So only time will tell.

Q.  Can you be satisfied at No. 18 or 16 if you're playing as well as you can and still not Top 10? 

MARY PIERCE:  Probably not.  Probably not.  I'd have to see. 

Q.  You won the Australian, you won the French.  Will you ever embrace the US Open like you would these two tournaments? 

MARY PIERCE:  The Australian and...

Q.  The Australian where you won your first major.  And the French, winning it in Paris.  Will you ever embrace the US Open?

MARY PIERCE:  Every Grand Slam is, for me, special.  They're like the ultimate tournaments of the year.  Those are the tournaments that I really get excited about the most and that motivate me the most.  Each one is so different.  Just the fans are different and everything about every Grand Slam is different.  So, I mean, each tournament is special to me.

Q.  Could you have done this without Sven? 

MARY PIERCE:  I couldn't have done it without God, that's for sure, with my faith and the help and the strength that I get.  Without Sven, I have to also say that I have to give him credit as well because he is here with me and he is working with me.  So he's definitely been helping me and it's working out great.  I'm very happy with it. 

Q.  5-1 is obviously a remarkable comeback.  In some way you located your weak point.  Your problem is not fitness.  Does it mean in the third set you needed five games to recuperate and recover your energy maybe before you won? 

MARY PIERCE:  Well, I didn't really recuperate and recover, so... I just really just tried to stay more calm.  I kind of just went for my shots.  I think that helped to conserve my energy and not trying to get too uptight or upset if I lose a point or too emotional about the match.  So I mostly just stayed calm. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT