WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2003
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Mary Pierce, please.  
 
 
Q.  You've had so many injury problems and everything.  You've come into Wimbledon with no expectations.  You're looking very good.  Do you feel good?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Oh, thank you.  Feeling better.  
 
Q.  Yeah?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Definitely better.  You know, happy to be here and be competing.  
 
Q.  Can you tell us what the last couple of years have been like? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, I mean, imagine having a few injuries and not being able to go to work every day, so...  Maybe you could imagine what that would be like.  But everybody's different.  So, for me, it was difficult.  You know, I always try to learn from situations in life.  And, you know, I believe that everything happens for a reason.  And, you know, one day I'll be able to look back and know what that is, hopefully but...  You know, I just took it day by day and tried to do the best that I could every day, really. 
 
Q.  Did you think you might not come back?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Those thoughts do come in your head every once in a while.  I know there was one time where I was doubtful if I would be able to play again with my back injury.  But, you know, that's  all humans, I think.  We're emotional  - especially I am, and, you know, a sensitive person.  I take things very to heart, and I do things with, you know, my heart.  You know, I like to do something either full-out or not do it at all, and I'm very passionate about what I do.  So, yeah, I mean, it was difficult.  But at the same time, I spent a lot of time at home so... 
 
Q.  How did you stay positive?  What did you do to stay positive during this time? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, I just did what I had to do and a lot of that was just rest and not really able to do a lot.  So, you know, I have two dogs and  -- well, I had one dog and I got another dog, so they kept me busy.  
 
Q.  How far do you think you could go conceivably this Wimbledon, this fortnight?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I have no idea.  I mean, I'm just, you know...  I've won two matches.  I'm happy.  I'm just taking it day by day and match by match and just really try to do my best.  You know, I wasn't sure if I was gonna come and play here or not.  Just, you know, like you said, no expectations and just going out and competing.  I know I'm not at my best form right now.  I'd like to be able to give myself probably at least six months.  That's probably, you know  -- I feel like that's what I need to be back to where I want to be.  So, you know, in the meantime, I'm just happy to be healthy and competing and doing my best in all my matches, and, you know, using matches as well to get back in shape and, you know... 
 
Q.  Does it alter your perception of your own career?  Because people with talent, sometimes  they take the talent for granted until they have a shock like that and think they might have to give it up.  Has it changed your whole approach to your career? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, no.  It hasn't changed my approach at all.  It's just, you know, like you said, I guess with the talent, you take things for granted.  I never took things for granted; I just didn't realize how easy it was for me before (smiling).  Just because it seems a lot harder now, being out of it and having to kind of really start from zero again.  It's difficult, and I guess the older you are, the more difficult it is as well.  So, yeah, it's interesting.  
 
Q.  You must have quite a lot of motivation to get yourself fit to go out on court and play after so long?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, that would be the hardest thing, with what I've achieved in my career so far and the age that I am and how long I've been on the tour.  But I can definitely tell you that that's not a problem for me, and that's not something that is a problem.  You know, it's just kind of weird how my career has gone.  I felt like when I won the French Open, I was starting to play my best tennis - just starting to.  I kind of feel like I've just kind of left from that point and not much has happened in those last three years for me.  I just feel like, you know, all I need to do is be healthy again and be fit, and I feel like I can be even better than before.  So that's my motivation. 
 
Q.  With the perspective you have now, do you feel more relaxed on court?  You used to suffer from being quite nervous on court. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, it was kind of like I was saying earlier, I really take to heart what I do.  I kind of get ahead of myself.  I still have to now, you know, not try to get ahead of myself because I feel like I'm playing pretty well.  And I, you know, start to think, "Okay, well, you know, I could do this," start about winning and things like that.  That's not good for me.  So I just have to not put pressure on myself and just go out and do my best. 
 
Q.  Can you almost want it too much?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Oh, definitely.  That's possible.  I mean, of course.  I think everybody really wants to win, and no one wants to lose.  You know, being an individual sport, you're competitive, you know.  But that's the thing that I have to let go of and that I've learned  - that I don't really have control over the outcome.  I just can control, you know, giving my best and having fun on the court.  And whatever happens, happens. 
 
Q.  How important has your faith been?  I think at the French Open you said you believed there was a reason you won that.  Now you lost two or three years.  Hasn't been so good.
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, well, I've had injuries.  But other than that, I'm fine so... 
 
Q.  I'm just wondering, your faith made you strong.  Is that what's kept you going?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think definitely that has helped me get through all the difficult times.  And just to continue to have faith and believe and to trust that, you know, that this all happens for a reason and that I have to just do my best and know that everything's going to work out. 
 
Q.  Your being coached by Sven, I gather?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Uh-hmm. 
 
Q.  He was very supportive on court today, I noticed.
 
MARY PIERCE:  Uh-hmm. 
 
Q.  Do you think that will also bring dividends?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Definitely.  You know, it's important, the people that I have around me.  Environment is important.  So, you know, I'm really happy to be working with him again.  We've worked together in the past and done really well.  So it's just  -- I was looking for someone that knew me, that I felt cared about me  - not just as a tennis player but as a person, and, you know, wasn't  -- that person had the courage to be brutally honest with me and tell me what I need to hear.  And I think that that was the only things that would help me.  You know, I don't need to hear whatever, you know, so...  That's important for me.  
 
Q.  The court itself, that court, which you've sometimes had good luck and bad luck on, what is your feeling playing out there on Court 2?
 
MARY PIERCE:  To me, every court's the same. 
 
Q.  Really?  There's nothing to the reputation?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I know that I guess here they say it's the "graveyard court," and a lot of seeds go down.  It worked today in my favor, so...  I don't know.  I think things like that happen on other courts as well, so, I mean, I don't believe in luck.  
 
Q.  You say like you appeared to have almost stopped when you won the French Open.  How far do you think the game itself has moved on since then?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Oh, it's gotten a lot better.  The girls are a lot stronger, they move better, they hit harder.  The game has definitely improved.  
 
Q.  When you're away from the game that you learned to play very young and you spent so much time with, what do you really miss  - the sensation of playing in front of people and having it matter, having the result count?  What do you miss the most about the game? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I couldn't really say one thing in particular.  It's just everything that has to do with it.  You know what I think I missed the most was the sun and sweating, being out and exercising and just being able to run and jump and, you know...  I just, I missed that. 
 
Q.  Without pain, you mean?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Martina Navratilova said something interesting last night about the court being a haven for players; it's somewhere where they can push away, perhaps, anything on their mind.  Do you share that view?  Is it like that for you?  You say you missed the sun and running around.
 
MARY PIERCE:  Sorry?  
 
Q.  You said you missed the sun and running around.  Is it a haven for you?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think the sun and sweating, my body is so used to exercising.  You get used to that, and when you don't, I just don't feel good.  But as far as the court being a haven for me, I mean, yes, when I do go on the court, I think I'm able to put everything else aside and just focus on my match and what I need to do.  So I kind of, yeah, whatever's going on, I kind of forget about it.  But I think if I have issues or problems or something bothering me, I wouldn't want to just go on a court to forget about them.  I think I'd want to have a quiet place and, you know, deal with them. 
 
Q.  Did they ever interfere with the way you played, if you had any worries?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Sometimes, yeah, it happens.  I mean, we're all human.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT