TENNIS MASTERS SERIES - ROMA
May 16, 2002
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Mary, please. 


Q.  What happened to you out there?  Any excuses, any problems? 

MARY PIERCE:  I think the main thing tonight is I put too much pressure on myself and thought that I had to play too good.  And instead of just having fun and just playing my game, you know, I think I took it a little bit too serious.  And that was the main thing. 

Q.  Is that the worst feeling for you? 

MARY PIERCE:  Oh, no.  No.  I mean, you know, it's a part of my life, it's not the end of the world.  You know, of course I don't like to lose.  I don't think anybody does.  But, you know, obviously tonight was definitely not my night.  Made a lot of unforced errors.  You know, of course, Jennifer played a good match.  But, you know, nothing that I'm impressed with.  I didn't feel overpowered.  I didn't feel under pressure.  I felt like I was more dominating and in control, I just made mistakes  - shots, to be back in the top, not to miss those shots. 

Q.  Have you ever been beaten 6-love, 6-love before or on the tour? 

MARY PIERCE:  I'm not sure.  I don't think so.  I don't know.  I don't know.  You'd have to check history stats or whatever. 

Q.  Would you not remember had it happened before? 

MARY PIERCE:  I don't know. 

Q.  So it's fair to say you can't remember whether you've ever been beaten 6-love, 6-love before?

MARY PIERCE:  I don't remember.  You'd have to check it. 


Q.  And when you won maybe 6-love, 6-love, were you feeling some kind of embarrassment for your opponent, or you wouldn't really care that much? 

MARY PIERCE:  No.  Not really.  I mean, it's just a sport.  It's points that you win, you know.  If someone just looks at the score, they go, "Wow!" you know?  Even for me, it's kind of ridiculous.  And, you know, there were a few games I had game points.  There were a few games I was up 30-love.  There were many games 30-all.  There were close games, but not a close score at the end of the day. 

Q.  Do you have an idea how long it could take for you to get back to the top, I mean, more or less?  A few weeks, months? 

MARY PIERCE:  That's the magic question, isn't it (laughing)?

Q.  Are you optimistic about it? 

MARY PIERCE:  Of course.  If I'm not, if I wasn't optimistic, I wouldn't be alive, I wouldn't be playing the game, you know?  I really don't have  -- I don't have an answer for that question.  I just take every day and do the best that I can.  Obviously, the sooner, the better.  But, you know, it's just ...all I can do is just the best every day. 

Q.  You can say that after a match like this, 6-0, 6-0, your relationship with Jennifer would be the same? 

MARY PIERCE:  I don't see why not (laughing). 

Q.  I ask you.  Good friends? 

MARY PIERCE:  I don't see why not.  It's just a tennis match, you know...

Q.  Do you think that a defeat like this might affect your confidence going into the French Open? 

MARY PIERCE:  No, not at all.  Actually, it will probably surprise you what I'm going to say, but it does give me a lot of confidence.  Because I did feel in control of a lot of the match and points and rallies, and I didn't feel under pressure.  And I was able to really come forward and be aggressive and hit the ball.  Just made a lot of unforced errors.  So it showed me, you know, Jennifer is a fantastic player.  She's been playing awesome the last few years, she's won many tournaments, has been No. 1.  Just shows me that I have the game like all the players on top.  


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT