AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2001
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question in English for Mary, please.  
 
 
Q.  Nice win for you.  You have to be happy with that.  Didn't seem too difficult for you. 
 
MARY PIERCE: Yeah.  I feel that with every match that I am playing better and better.  So that's my goal.  
 
Q.  I was here last year, you were certainly a fan favorite.  I know they seem to really love you in Melbourne.  Is that something you like to feed off with this tournament?
 
MARY PIERCE: I just always enjoyed playing in Australia since I came here in the beginning.  I just love the country and the people are very friendly.  I just always had a lot of fun here.  I feel very relaxed.  The fans have been great, great supporting me and they really help a lot.  
 
Q.  You think you have a relatively easy draw?
 
MARY PIERCE: I have not looked at my draw really.  I just take it match by match, so... 
 
Q.  Physically you're happy with the decision to just kind of rest in the winter and not get surgery on the shoulder?
 
MARY PIERCE: Well, I wasn't happy to rest but it was my only choice.  The doctor told me that I really didn't need an operation unless I didn't get better in a few months so I got better, and I was glad because I really didn't want to have an operation.  That's not one of the things that I was looking forward to.  So I was glad that I got better after a few months and that I've been playing now, this last week in Canberra and here, my shoulder's been great.  
 
Q.  100 percent?
 
MARY PIERCE: Yeah.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about having Robbie with you, how that makes, I'm guessing, makes things more pleasant going on the road. 
 
MARY PIERCE: It's nice to  -- it's not so boring, you know.  
 
Q.  Do you play better in front of him?
 
MARY PIERCE: The same.  The same.  I mean, it's fun, you know, not to be alone doing  some things.  Sometimes it gets boring or lonely on the Tour.  It's just nice to have somebody to do things with.  
 
Q.  Mary, without delving into anything too deep, has Jelena Dokic talked to you at all? Has she asked you for any advice?
 
MARY PIERCE: No, we haven't talked about anything if you're talking about her situation and what's going on right now, no, not at all.  
 
Q.  I'm sorry if you were asked this the other day.  But what did you think of Venus' outfit?
 
MARY PIERCE: I like it. 
 
Q.  You don't think it would be uncomfortable to play in. 
 
MARY PIERCE: I don't know.  I'd have to try it.  I wouldn't know until I tried it.  But I like it.  I think it looks pretty.  
 

FastScripts by ASAP Sports….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT