US OPEN
September 4, 2000
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Mary.  
 
 
Q.  How bad is it?  Is this something that now your year has ended?  Just going to take it a month at a time?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Just going to take it, you know, a day at a time, day-by-day.  That's all I can really do, you know, is just to go back home and rest, you know, continue the therapy.  That's all I can do, take it day-by-day. 
 
Q.  Is it something that can be surgically repaired?  Is it a choice between rehabilitation and surgery?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think the first choice is rehab and rest, and see how that goes.  
 
Q.  When did you know in the match that it was going to be a problem?  When did you first feel something there?
 
MARY PIERCE:  In the warm-up this morning before my match, it was sore from just the very first serve that I hit.  With each one, it just kept getting worse.  I started compensating with other areas and other muscles in my shoulder, and other things started hurting.  I didn't feel like I had control over my arm.  Just hit a lot of double-faults because I just couldn't control my arm to serve, just kept getting more painful with each serve I hit.  
 
Q.  As a result of that, did it ever cross your mind not to play the match, bearing in mind it's a problem you had before?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, it's a different pain I'm experiencing than in the past.  I always like to give myself a chance, you know.  
 
Q.  How is it different?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, this is a pain I'm experiencing in the back of my shoulder.  In the past few months, it's been in the front.  You know, it's just compensation, I guess.  
 
Q.  How disappointing is it to you?
 
MARY PIERCE:  It's quite disappointing because, you know, I just really was looking forward to playing here, very eager.  I missed playing when I was out six weeks.  I felt like I was playing well.  You know, I felt really good against Raymond.  I was serving a hundred percent, had no pain.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT