US OPEN
September 2, 2000
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Seemed like match point, you had a pretty good understanding of what Lisa has been through.  Have you understood what Lisa has been going through?  Do you have any sort of sympathy?

MARY PIERCE:  What has she been through? 

Q.  With the Olympic team. 

MARY PIERCE:  I don't understand your question. 

Q.  Do you have sympathy for what she's gone through for the Olympic team?

MARY PIERCE:  I really haven't  -- I'm not really up to speed.  All I know is she wasn't selected for the team, that she has said her being No.  1 in the doubles, she feels that she has the right to be selected on the team, and she wasn't.  That's basically all that I know.  I don't think that really has anything to do with our match today.

Q.  Last time you were here, you talked about how all you needed was a little more match experience because you haven't played that much this summer.  Did today help you out a bit more?  Do you feel more comfortable with your game right now? 

MARY PIERCE:  Not really.  This is a good match for me.  It was good just to have a little tougher match, spend some time on the court, play some important points.  But I definitely have some things to work on still. 

Q.  Is your shoulder fine?

MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, it's doing pretty good.  I'm very happy about it. 

Q.  What helped you get through that second set, down 4-1?

MARY PIERCE:  Just my intensity dropped.  I just really told myself, "Okay, let's just try really hard for this next couple games," just to try to get my intensity back up, try to stay there.  As I started coming back, I just tried to keep my intensity up for every point. 

Q.  Do you like the fact that most of the attention in the tournament is on Serena and Venus and Martina, not on you?

MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, it doesn't matter for me.  I'm here to play.  I love what I do.  I have fun every time I go out on the court.  I just am here to do my thing, you know, play every day.  That's what I'm here for. 

Q.  Is it still a process to get your rhythm back when you haven't played since Wimbledon?

MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, I'm just getting used to playing matches.  Nothing takes the place of that, no matter how much you practice or work out, whatever.  I just feel with every match, hopefully I'll just get better. 

Q.  The plus side is that you're relatively fresh in terms of not being too beat up through the course of a long year.  The minus side is, as you say, match experience.  Does one outweigh the other in your mind, or not?

MARY PIERCE:  Well, like everything, it has its advantages and disadvantages.  The thing is that I haven't played a lot of matches, so I'm not really match fit, per se.  I mean, I've worked out really hard off the court, but nothing takes the place of the conditioning on the court.  Just, you know, playing matches, just being match tough.  Other than that, yeah, I really missed it when I wasn't playing.  I'm really eager to play. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT