US OPEN
August 31, 2000
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Mary, please.  
 
Q. How is your health and how do you feel physically?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I feel great.  
 
Q. Obviously Mr. Dokic has been in the news overnight. That's put the spotlight on
Jelena. Could you offer her any advice about how to deal with this sort of pressure?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, I think if Jelena wants some advice, she can ask me, if she wants
anything. You know, like I always say for everybody, you know, everybody's situation is
different. I don't know exactly what's going on or what's happening, so it's really hard
for me to say anything and comment about it. 
 
Q. Could you tell us how you dealt with your particular situation?
 
 MARY PIERCE: How did I deal with my situation? I kind of forgot about it, you know,
it's been just a long time. I kind of put it behind me. You know, everything always
happens for a reason. I always say that. You just take every moment moment by moment. 
 
Q. Is that the kind of advice, if Jelena did come to you, that's the sort of thing
you'd say to her?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I don't know. I'd listen to her first. 
 
Q. Did you find that it adversely affected your game back then?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, you know, I don't want to say it was negative or it helped me play
better or it hurt me, you know, because I don't know. I have no regrets of my past. You
know, I think that's part of me, and that's part of what got me to where I am today. You
know, I don't really look back on that that way.  
 
Q. Can you feel for her at the moment? You obviously can relate. 
 
 MARY PIERCE: You know, I relate to anybody in this world that goes through any kind of
challenges. It only makes you a stronger person.  
 
Q. Just in general, how do you feel about the way you're playing right now? Is your
game where it needs to be to progress into the second week?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, I have a lot to work on still. This is my first tournament since
Wimbledon. I feel that I just need some matchplay, that that will help things fall into
place more, you know, so I've just got to keep working. 
 
Q. So is a match like today good for you because you had to kind of work through it?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah, definitely. You know, more court time. I was out there hitting more
balls and running around. I wasn't happy with my performance, but it's days like those
that you really have to try to make the best of what you have.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT