US OPEN
August 29, 2000
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Mary. 

Q. It seemed that every time you appeared to take control of the match, she would sort
of get back into it. Was there any point toward the end that you realized you finally were
in control?

MARY PIERCE: Was there any point where I realized I was in control? 

Q. Yes. 

MARY PIERCE: I just think from the very beginning of the match. I just knew that it was
important to be focused for every point. You know, I never played Alexandra in a match
before. I just played her in a charity event, SMASH Tennis, over a year ago. So I kind of
knew a little bit more or less what to expect. I saw her playing some matches. I knew I
needed to be really focused because she could play great tennis or make a lot of mistakes.
I think today is pretty much what happened. When I'm ahead, then I guess she felt more
relaxed, she had nothing to lose, not make so many mistakes, get a lot of balls in the
court, get first serves in and serve well. When it was close or she got ahead, maybe she
got nervous, thinking too much, got tight, and she made a lot of errors. 

Q. Can you talk about the shoulder, being off for so long?

MARY PIERCE: I really missed playing. I just needed to rest, to rehab, which I was
doing about three hours every day. I had a great therapist back home in Cleveland who took
great care of me every day, tried to get me prepared and ready for this tournament.

Q. How is your shoulder? I can see you're icing it. Is it 100% or nowhere close?

MARY PIERCE: Let's just put it this way: if I didn't think I could compete and play, I
wouldn't be here.

Q. But how does it feel when you serve, all of that?

MARY PIERCE: It's been worse; it's been better. 

Q. But coming in, you haven't had any matches since Wimbledon, you've been rehabbing,
did you seriously think, "I can go in and compete for the title"? 

MARY PIERCE: Definitely. I wouldn't be here if I didn't think that way. I miss playing
so much. I just want to give myself the best chance possible.

Q. This venue, playing here at the US Open, what does that do for you? Does it get you
charged up?

MARY PIERCE: Yeah, it's a lot of fun. It's a lot of fun. Every Grand Slam tournament,
every tournament actually is different, wherever you go, the crowds. The crowds here are a
lot of fun. They're a lot of fun to play in front of. They really get into the matches.
They really support the players that they enjoy watching. I enjoy that. It makes it
exciting. It's a good energy to play in front of.

Q. When you were young, the USTA decided not to work with you because your father was
an unpopular figure, if I have it right. Now the FFT has decided not to choose Nathalie,
the No. 2 player in France, for the Olympics. Do you think in any way that was an unfair
move by them? What are your thoughts?

MARY PIERCE: An unfair move on whose part? 

Q. On the French Federation's part. 

MARY PIERCE: I really don't have any comment on that subject. 

Q. You have no thoughts on that?

MARY PIERCE: No. Doesn't involve me, so...

Q. Has she been a supportive person on the tour?

MARY PIERCE: Has she been a supportive person on the tour? 

Q. In Fed Cup situations, in the locker room. 

MARY PIERCE: All of my experiences with Nathalie have been positive in person, on the
tour and in Fed Cup. 

Q. I think you had laser eye surgery this year. How has that worked out for you?

MARY PIERCE: It's been great. I'm really, really happy I had it done. It's fantastic.
It's changed my life not to wear contacts or glasses anymore. It's great.

Q. Is it that much easier to see?

MARY PIERCE: I just don't have to worry about, you know, contacts and cleaning them,
glasses, "Where are my glasses? I can't find them because I don't have my contacts
in." Things getting in my eyes when I'm playing, the contacts drying up if it's
windy. A lot of different things that were bothering me. It's great. 

Q. What exactly is wrong with the shoulder? What are the doctors telling you?

MARY PIERCE: Lots of stuff (laughter). Age, I'm getting old. Too many years of tennis
(laughter). 

Q. Is it rotator cuff? Is there a small tear somewhere?

MARY PIERCE: Internal impingement basically in my shoulder.

Q. Is there any chance for surgery in the future? 

MARY PIERCE: No. Basically they just said I need two to three months of rest and rehab.
I was only able to have about five or six weeks to do that. You know, it just made it
really close. I just want to play here and see how I do. After this tournament, I'll see
how I feel for the rest of the year.

Q. How frustrating was it for you sitting home, knowing you were going to miss most of
the summer?

MARY PIERCE: Very. I missed some of my favorite tournaments, San Diego, Montreal. It
was tough to kind of watch. I've just been really enjoying playing, been doing really
well. At the same time it was really nice. I got to be home and spend time with some
friends and family, spend some time with Roberto, go to see his games. You know, I had a
good time also.

Q. Were you responsible for pulling the Indians back into the wildcard race?

MARY PIERCE: No (laughter). That's all their doing. 

Q. What is your favorite part of baseball games? 

MARY PIERCE: My favorite part? I don't know. It's just a totally different atmosphere
than tennis. It's interesting to see another different sport, professional sport, how it
is, how the crowds are. Obviously watching Roberto play.

Q. How do you think hitting a pitcher like Clemens compares to a strong first serve
like Venus?

MARY PIERCE: I have a lot of respect for those guys. It's extremely difficult to hit a
baseball. Roberto and I go in the backyard. He'll throw it to me, I'll hit it. He throws
to it me slow, no spins or anything on the ball. Once he starts to throw a curve, I
totally whiff the ball. Those guys don't know what's coming at them, what speed. It's
really tough. You have to have good eyes and good hands.

Q. Did you watch any tennis during the last six or seven weeks, any of the finals?

MARY PIERCE: The only thing I saw on TV was Martina and Serena, finals of Montreal.
That was it.

Q. Nothing of Venus?

MARY PIERCE: Huh-uh. 

Q. With your great win at Roland Garros, do you now have a feeling that anything from
now on this year is gravy? 

MARY PIERCE: No, you can't be satisfied. If you're satisfied, you're not hungry. If
you're not hungry, you don't have -- you just go out there and go through the motions.
It's motivated me even more to try and do better, to improve, just everything, to be
stronger, faster, just improve my game more, just to really know if I put my mind to it, I
can do anything I want to. That doesn't mean winning every tournament. That means making
Mary be the best that Mary can be every day. 

Q. Not counting Roberto Alomar, if you had to choose one baseball player who could be a
pretty decent tennis player, who would you choose?

MARY PIERCE: Roberto (laughter). 

Q. The attendance in women's tennis has a lot to do with the look. Have you seen Serena
Williams' dress?

MARY PIERCE: I didn't get to see the whole dress. I saw a little bit in the locker
room. She had a jacket on. I got to see the color. I didn't see the cut or style.

Q. Black and pink?

MARY PIERCE: Black and purple, I think.

Q. What do you think about this type of dresses?

MARY PIERCE: I think it's cool. 

Q. Yeah?

MARY PIERCE: Yeah. 

Q. You don't think there should be a limit in tennis?

MARY PIERCE: Colors? 

Q. More a little bit conservative. 

MARY PIERCE: No. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT