WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2000
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Mary.  
 
 
Q. How disappointing is that?
 
MARY PIERCE:  It's okay.  It just wasn't my day today.  It wasn't meant to be.  She played really well.  She served great.  There were a few - not very many - but a couple chances in the first set and the second set.  You know, it was just close.  Like I said, today wasn't my day.  Just kind of wasn't there all together for me today. 
 
Q. She got so many balls on the lines.  Were not you surprised?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I thought they were out, honestly.  You know, maybe I saw them wrong.  They were close calls, a few close calls. 
 
Q. Is she a difficult opponent for you to counter because she beat you in Roland Garros, as I remember?
 
MARY PIERCE:  She's very talented.  She can play well.  I think today she served really well.  She played well, so.  
 
Q. How big of an advantage is it to have a good slice backhand on grass?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I guess it helps, you know, to have all shots, if you can hit them, yeah.  
 
Q. How disappointed are you?
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, that was the first question he asked me.  I said it's okay.  Just wasn't my day today.  Wasn't meant to be.  That's all I can do, you know.  I'm looking forward to playing the doubles still with Martina, to do the best that we can. 
 
Q. It must have been, being on the court, an entirely different feeling to be struggling, which you haven't done in a while.  You've been sort of on a roll. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  That's how grass is.  It's a struggle every match.  It's something that you can't do anything about.  That's just what it's like, you know, playing on grass.  You have tough matches.  Anything can happen. 
 
Q. She mentioned that she had better preparation on grass than you did because she obviously didn't go that far at Roland Garros, had time to play the two warm-ups.  Might you think of doing that next year?
 
MARY PIERCE:  No.  Maybe she didn't know what I did.  Obviously, she was well prepared.  I did what I wanted to do.  I don't have any regrets. 
 
Q. You played an exhibition?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I played a charity exhibition match. 
 
Q. So you felt like you had enough time on grass before you got here?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I felt fine, yeah.  Yeah, I felt fine in my first match, felt okay.  Today I slipped in the second game.  First time I slipped on grass.  My footing today kind of wasn't the same after that.  Like I said, I just was a little bit tired, kind of not into it, a guess a little out of it today.  
 
Q. You heard of the problems today with Jelena's father.  As someone yourself who has had history in that direction in the past, can you identify with what she's going through?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't know what happened today. 
 
Q. He was escorted out of Wimbledon after smashing a reporter's mobile phone, apparently drunk, said many abusive things.  He was in custody for 45 minutes or so.  The question is, with all due respect, is there any advice you would give Jelena about her situation?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, is Jelena having difficulties?  
 
Q. She went into the area where he was held in custody.  All of us who were there thought she looked really shaken, upset. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't really care to comment because I don't know their situation.  If you're saying that Jelena went where her father was, obviously she's concerned for him, cares for him.  That's nice to see.  I don't know their situation at all.  I really can't say anything. 
 
Q. You're widely applauded for your tremendous ability to deal with your situation, overcome it, triumph.  What would your thoughts be for a teenage player with a really difficult parent who seemed substantially out of control?
 
MARY PIERCE:  All that I really can say is I wish them the best. 
 
Q. Is there any general conclusions one might have on parental influence on players whilst on tour?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't understand your question.  Can you repeat?  
 
Q. Any sort of general conclusion you can draw on parental influence whilst players are on tour?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Parental influence while players are on tour?  You know, you have situations where it works and where it doesn't work.  For some it does and for some it doesn't.  It just really depends on the individual and their situations. 
 
Q. Do you support the WTA extension of the rule, further elaboration of the rule that now keeps apparently parents and coaches out of the of the locker room?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Parents and coaches out of the locker room?  I think the locker room is for the players.  That's where we get ready for our matches.  Sometimes we're in small locker rooms.  We don't have enough space for ourselves.  I didn't vote for this or against this in any way.  That was just taken care of by whoever takes care of those situations and those issues on our tour.  
 
Q. Do you think it's a good rule?  Do you think it's helpful to everyone from all angles?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  I don't really know. 
 
Q. What is your explanation for these things basically happening on the women's tour rather than the men's tour?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Maybe because the men are older than the girls in general.  The girls are 14, 15, 16.  You don't see that many guys on the tour that young.  They're a little bit older.  Maybe that's why the girls have their parents maybe traveling with them.  
 
Q. Have you completely reconciled with your father?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Have I completely reconciled with my father (laughter)?  I have, yes. 
 
Q. Nice to know. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Thank you.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT