WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2000
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Mary Pierce.  
 
Q. How difficult is it to switch from clay to grass for you?
 
 MARY PIERCE: You know, I think a lot of it is mostly in your mind. I think you try to
forget really what surface you're on, play normally like if you're on any surface really.
Of course, you have to be ready for anything on grass. There's some bad bounces sometimes.
It's just very different than playing on any other surface. I don't play many weeks out of
the year - only three a year on grass. It's not much to be able to get used to it. But
every year I play on it, I feel more and more comfortable. I enjoy it more and more. 
 
Q. I know it's a quick turnaround. Outwardly and inwardly, what kind of effect has the
win in Paris had for you? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: It's given me confidence, of course, in myself - on the court and off the
court. It's also just taught me that when you do all the right things, you know, the hard
work pays off. No matter what, winning or losing, that's great, but just knowing you're
doing the right things to help me improve every day pays off. Also it motivated me even
more to work even harder, because I remember some moments during the French Open when I
was having some tough matches - maybe feeling tired, when I was cramping - I was thinking
back in moments when I was home training, working really hard. Those moments made me
stronger, I guess, on the court. So it's made me motivated to work even harder to try and
be even better. 
 
Q. Has it had a different impact than the first win at the major?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yes, definitely. 
 
Q. How?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I let -- it's something you can never prepare yourself, no matter who you
can talk to, give you advice on what it's like to win a Grand Slam. It totally changes
your life. When I won the Australian Open, I guess that I got overwhelmed with a lot of
demands. You know, you kind of think, "Okay, I made it, I did it." You tend to
not maybe work as hard. Then everything started to seem more like a job instead of playing
tennis and having fun. I learned from that lesson, and that was five years ago. A lot also
has happened between that time. For me, it's a completely different experience. It's
fantastic. It was a dream come true for me. But that's the past. Those feelings that I had
are over. It will always be in my memory, always be in the history of tennis. But, you
know, I have to move on and stay in the moment. 
 
Q. In a way, you feel like the first time around you won it, and that whole moment was
sort of controlling you; this time you're a little more in control of the moment and the
result of it?
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, I don't control anything. I don't have control. Like I said, I think
at the Australian Open, I think I probably did too many things and did not focus enough on
myself, giving myself free time and training and really doing what I'm doing, which is
being a tennis player. You kind of just have to forget. I mean, I won the French Open two
weeks ago. It's great. But I'm at Wimbledon here. It's another tournament, there are other
matches. 
 
Q. Does it have an impact on opponents because it's been a recent title? Is it more
intimidating now to play against you?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I don't know. I don't play against myself. You'd have to ask them.  
 
Q. You said you did all the right things, and if you did them, you'd emerge triumphant.
What were the right things?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Just all the little things that add up. You know, just eating right,
recuperating right, stretching, getting treatment. It's just monotonous things that you
have to do every day, day in and day out. They make a difference. 
 
Q. What's recuperating right?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Like I said, eating, resting, sleeping. What else is there that you can
do? I don't know. I was in Paris for two weeks. I didn't go shopping one time. I didn't go
to a museum. I went out to dinner one time in the first week when I first got there. You
know, that was it. I had a lot of friends and family. There might have been times when I
wanted to walk around, go shopping, but I didn't because I knew I needed to rest and I was
there for a purpose. I have plenty of time to do other things like that in the future. 
 
Q. This tournament has a very strong identity. Players tend to love it or hate it.
Seems like the players who like it here do well; the players who don't, don't do that
well. You expressed some mixed emotions about this tournament a couple weeks ago. Is it
really important to have the right mental attitude here to be successful?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah, I think so. I think it helps. I mean, if you're at a place that you
don't really want to be and you don't enjoy it, it makes it more difficult, you know, to I
guess bee motivated, want to do well. I think my comments kind of got blown out of
proportion a couple weeks ago. It made me seem like I really don't like this place and I
don't want to play here, things like that. I was just saying that it's difficult, that I
respect their rules, that it's tradition and I respect that. They have that right. That's
what makes Wimbledon Wimbledon. That's why it's special. That's why it's the most
prestigious tournament of the year in tennis. I'm really impressed with the new building
here. It's beautiful. I think they did a great job. Our locker rooms are great. We have a
nice place to sit outside. We have a great gym. It's a nice facility. It's made it
enjoyable.  
 
Q. Which other traditions or habits here are the most difficult to adapt to when you
come here?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I don't know. I don't know. They just have a whole bunch of rules. Nothing
in particular.  
 
Q. How long did you stay in Paris afterwards?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, I played the finals, the doubles on Sunday, then I left Monday. 
 
Q. Lindsay won here last year. You guys play a pretty similar style. Is there any
reason why you couldn't win the title this year?
 
 MARY PIERCE: You know, I don't know. I felt really good today on the court. I think in
the past, like I said, it's kind of more of a mental thing. I thought, "Okay, I'm
playing on grass now. I've got to serve-and-volley. I've got to try to come in, hit
dropshots, do different things." I realised today really that grass suits my game
well. It actually makes it easier for my game if I do the right things and play smart.
Yeah, I just have to play my game. I don't have to change my game. I think that's why it
was difficult for me before, because I thought I had to do something different, try to
come into the net all the time. I just feel like if I just play my game, I can do well. 
 
Q. Do you pretty much figure after winning Paris that there's not a player out there
that you can't beat if you're playing a hundred percent?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I think that's been proven in the past. Years ago when I did well in '94,
I beat Graf twice, she was No. 1. Over the years I've been able to practically beat
everyone on a given day. It was a consistency really missing from my game. I think I'm
improving on that. I still need to continue to improve, but it's getting better. 
 
Q. What would it mean to you to go back-to-back?
 
 MARY PIERCE: It would be incredible (laughter). It would really just be amazing. I
don't know. It would be great for sure. I'm going to try my best, but definitely not look
far into the future; just take it match by match. Every match is difficult here on grass.  
 
Q. What were your first impressions of this tournament? Do you remember when you first
played here?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I know for many years I didn't want to come and play here. Just playing on
grass wasn't fun to me, it didn't appeal to me. It was just very, very difficult, getting
used to running on it, how it bounced. It was just real hard for me. I feel, like I said,
better and better every year I play on it. More comfortable, I'm enjoying it. I had fun
today on the court. 
 
Q. You were just talking about how incredible it would be to go back-to-back, yet Borg
did it three times, if I have my figures right. Is that to you one of the most incredible
accomplishments?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah, I think it's amazing. To win a Grand Slam tournament, it takes so
much out of you physically and emotionally. To only have two weeks to recuperate your body
and your mind, and to adapt to a different surface and win that again two weeks, it's
incredible.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT