TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 17, 2000
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WTA: Questions for Mary.  
 
Q. Fast start, but once she got her teeth into the match, didn't seem like you could
get anything going?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I don't think that was the case. I think, like you said, fast start. I
started off really well. There wasn't much that Martina could do. It was the same when I
played Serena. And then Martina just played two really good games at 4-1, just really made
me work a lot for the points. I probably just dropped by intensity a little and wasn't as
aggressive or coming as forward as I was in the beginning of the first five games. I just
kind of rallied with her those two games. That probably took a little bit out of me. My
legs were already a little tired, kind of heavy. After those two games, it was 4-3. I just
didn't feel like I had the energy that I needed today to be able to perform like I did
against Serena or in those first five games today. I was just, you know, missing some
shots, just going for it maybe a little bit too much, you know, too soon. I just was a
little tired, I guess. Martina, I definitely give her credit, because she stayed in the
match the whole way through, played consistent. Just, you know, did what she needed to do,
bring the balls back. 
 
Q. You talk to her playing doubles with her; she knows you well. But you know her well.
Is that a disadvantage on your behalf?
 
 MARY PIERCE: No. It doesn't really matter. With Martina or Lindsay or Monica, I mean,
anybody, we all know each other, we've all been on the tour for years, played each other
many times, practiced together. There's really no secrets, I think. I mean, when you get
out on the court, it's just play your game, each one tries to win and do their best. 
 
Q. It seems like that Martina and Lindsay seem to be a step above the rest. What's the
difference between you guys and those two?
 
 MARY PIERCE: They're just solid, you know, kind of really consistent, every week able
to produce day in and day out basically. 
 
Q. Is it a mental thing?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, I guess, yeah, mental. This sport is very mental as well as it is
physical, even more mental. They have to have something special, you know, definitely for
them to be 1 and 2 all the time.  
 
Q. Did you go into today's match thinking you could carry on with the way you played
against Serena? Did you go in feeling had you a good chance of beating Martina?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I like to put it a different way, I guess - to go on the court believing
in myself, just having confidence when I step on the court, no matter who I play, what
round it is, what match it is, what tournament it is, just always take every match with
the same mentality, just feeling like I'm prepared. Just go out there, like I said,
believe in my game, play my game the best I can, and have fun. 
 
Q. Do you have an explanation as to why you felt tired after having a day off
yesterday?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, it could have been the mistake that my hotel gave me a wake-up call
at 6:45 (laughter). Besides that, I have no idea. 
 
Q. What time were you planning to get up?
 
 MARY PIERCE: 8:30 (laughter). I had a little trouble falling asleep. No, that's not a
reason to make my legs heavy today. Maybe just playing, you know, this whole week. I've
had some three-set matches, playing singles and doubles. When I look back on this week,
I'm really happy with the matches that I've come through and won in three sets, the match
I played against Serena. I've been working hard lately, and it's starting to pay off. I
know I still got to work harder, just keep doing what I've been doing. Just, you know, it
hopefully can continue to pay off. 
 
Q. Are you sure it wasn't your fiancee calling you?
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, it wasn't him. Maybe I would have been able to go back to sleep a
little better, but I was mad after that. 
 
Q. What time are you playing doubles?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Third match on Court 2.  
 
Q. Plenty of time?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Uh-huh. 
 
Q. Talk about another famous sporting couple, Andre Agassi and Steffi Graf. If they get
married and have a child, if you were playing 20 years from now, how would it be facing
Ingrid Graf or Ingrid Agassi?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I don't understand your question. 
 
Q. If they had a child, how would you foresee that child's ability to play tennis, if
it was a woman?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Don't know. Can't answer that question.  
 
Q. Do you see anybody who can get involved in this race for No. 1 other than the two
this year?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I never want to count myself out in anything. Monica is starting to come
back. As long as she's healthy, able to work hard, she can always play some great tennis.
Of course, the Williams sisters, you know, depends if they're healthy and hungry to play
the game. They're very athletic, hit the ball hard, great tennis. You never know.  
 
Q. What do you think Martina needs to do to beat Lindsay tomorrow? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: I don't know (laughter). I haven't seen their matches. 
 
Q. If you could have one wish within the world of tennis, what would that wish be?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Maybe I'd ask for ten more wishes, I guess. That's a good question. I
don't know.  
 
Q. Since you played Martina last, do you see any improvement in either the serve or her
forehand?
 
 MARY PIERCE: She's pretty consistent on her forehand. I'd have to say she's more
consistent on her forehand. Her serve hasn't gotten more powerful. She places it well.
That's what she does on most of her strokes, good placement. But her forehand is more
solid. It used to be a weakness where she would make mistakes once in a while.  
 
Q. Could you see yourself perhaps getting to No. 3 this year, depending upon what
happens with Venus?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Like I always say, you never know in tennis. My dream, of course, is just
to improve every day, just to keep going forward. I just always think that anything's
possible if you work hard and believe in yourself. I don't see anything specific. But I
was 3 in '95 after I won the Australian Open. The competition is much tougher now than it
was then, definitely. You know, like I say, you just never know.  
 
Q. Is there such a thing as a safe lead against Martina Hingis?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I guess not, being up 4-1 (laughter). Geeze. You never want to count
anybody out. I mean, I've come back this week being down 5-3 in the third set. Someone
who's No. 1 is definitely never going to give up, no matter what the score is , 6-0, 5-0,
40-Love. You always have to believe you have a chance.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT