US OPEN
August 29, 2006
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






THE MODERATOR: Questions for Mary. Q. After the final here last year in which you played Kim, you offered no explanations of any injury you might have had. But watching you, I got the feeling you were hampered, that you were just being noble. Is that incorrect? MARY PIERCE: Well, I consider that when I go out on the court, if I'm requesting to play, I'm able to play. I mean, most of the time we always have a little something somewhere. That was a year ago. I don't have the greatest memory. I don't really remember (laughter). I do remember when I played Kim that she played differently than I had expected and I wasn't kind of expecting that, so I was a little bit impatient, I think, when I played here. Q. What are your expectations here at the Open? MARY PIERCE: You know, I just hope to do one match better than last year, not much more. No, just always the same: I just always take everything day to day, match by match. I definitely haven't had the same season this year as I did last year. It's a different draw. We've got a lot of new girls out there, too. Like the girl I'm going to play today, I've never played her before. I don't really look too far ahead. I just take it match by match. Q. Last time you were out here was an electric environment. Is it frustrating to be having to hang around with the rain delay? MARY PIERCE: Well, there's not much you can do, and there's not a lot of places you can go. I just try to stay in the locker room, make sure that I drink, make sure that I eat, rest, take naps, listen to music, read, maybe make some phone calls or send some text messages. Just wait (smiling). Q. Do players find it difficult to get up for matches in this kind of weather? I ask because I note Mauresmo, at the moment, is having a problem with a player that you would not expect she would be having a problem with. MARY PIERCE: Well, I mean, of course everyone is different. I don't know how other players feel, how they deal with these situations. It can be tough when you're waiting around all day. When it's your time to play, sometimes you have to be ready in 20 minutes when you've been waiting for a few hours. Sometimes it's tough to get going after that. It's not the first time I've been in these situations before. It's just good training for your patience and your mental training, I guess. FastScripts by ASAP Sports

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT