TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 15, 2000
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Mary. 

Q. Pretty strange match out there. Do you feel like you won it or that Serena lost it?

MARY PIERCE: Well, I think if you want to ask that kind of question, you should maybe
look at the statistics, the unforced errors and the winners. I think that I played well. I
did what I set out to do. I executed my game plan pretty well. I think that pretty much
says it at all.

Q. You obviously played well, I wasn't meaning that. It wasn't the Serena that you
probably expected on court, was it?

MARY PIERCE: I didn't see like the raging intensity of Serena that I played against
twice in the past. She was serving great. I mean, in the beginning of the first set, it
was 1-All, 2-All. There's nothing I could do on her service games except for when I got my
racquet on it to try and make the best shot that I could to give myself a chance in the
point. Then I felt once I was in the point, I had a pretty good chance of winning it. When
she serves well, there's nothing you can do. I thought I returned really well today. The
key for me was to return well, to serve well, get a lot of first serves in because I knew
she was going to attack my second serves, just to, you know, keep her moving and hit the
ball deep, play my game, just keep coming forward.

Q. You were pretty successful on your second serves. 

MARY PIERCE: I was going for it more. I said, "If I'm going to put it in, I'm
going to lose the point anyway; she's going to go for it." I just added at least ten
miles an hour more to my serve and tried to hit it deeper.

Q. Serena was very complimentary, to say the least, about your game. The gist of her
comment was that she's never seen you play this well. She said that she's never played a
match where her opponent played that impeccably. Could you comment on that?

MARY PIERCE: I thank her for her compliment, first of all. Secondly, I was just really
relaxed out there. I played her twice; I lost both times. There's nothing for me to really
lose. I was looking forward to this match. I've been working really hard, just trying to
get my game back to where I feel that I can do what I want to on the court mentally,
physically, with my game. You know, today I just felt like that all came together pretty
good. You can always get better. I want to take this match and not make such a big deal
out of it, just to use it to see that my hard work is paying off and to keep going from
there.

Q. You were out there and said you felt you didn't see the intensity that you usually
see from Serena. Do you feel that she's gone down a notch in some way? Can you assess her
game?

MARY PIERCE: No, I don't even want to go there. That's her. You've got to ask her that
question. 

Q. I know on Monday you were on the brink of being upset, then now all of a sudden you
just turned it around and played a dominant match. Can you tell me the difference with
what happened?

MARY PIERCE: I just had a really nice day off yesterday, you know, just practiced and
relaxed in the afternoon. That's what I needed. I've played every day since I got here. I
think that day off just really helped me to relax and just think of other things for a
little while, then get ready to refocus again for today. 

Q. Did you do anything specific yesterday?

MARY PIERCE: Just practiced with my brother, then I just relaxed, took a nap, went
shopping a little bit, spent some time with some friends, had dinner. That was really it.

Q. Can you remember another match when you played that well?

MARY PIERCE: Oh, yeah. I can remember matches I think I've played better, as well. You
always try to improve. I mean, there's always things you can improve. You know, nothing's
ever perfect.

Q. If a perfect is 10, where are we on the scale with today's match?

MARY PIERCE: You know, I feel like you guys are all trying to make this match like I
played unbelievable because I beat her 2 and 1. The score has nothing to do with it. 

Q. I just asked you to rate this match. 

MARY PIERCE: I know, I know. Every point I still had to play, and play hard. If I kind
of just put the ball in the court, I would have got killed. I mean, today's match, it's
hard for me to say right now. Maybe if I watch the tape and look at that, I could go,
"Oh, that was a 50." Today, I feel like an 8, 9. Felt okay. 

Q. This match actually put what you were telling us, the mental part together, you had
some fun. I believe you mentioned that. Still I have to ask you, I'm sure you want to win
the tournament. 

MARY PIERCE: That's not in my mind. That's like the back of your mind. When you play a
sport, you want to win. I mean, you don't want to go out there and lose, everybody, no
matter who you are. That's kind of not what I'm thinking about when I go on the court. I
can't control if I'm going to win or I lose. The only thing I can control is myself and
giving a hundred percent, trying to do the best that I can every point. 

Q. If you play Martina in the semis, is it something special for you?

MARY PIERCE: Is it something special? 

Q. Yes. 

MARY PIERCE: It's just like every other match for me. It's another match; it's another
opportunity to play a top player. She's No. 1, so it's a challenge for me. You know, from
here on in, you know, it's tough matches, exciting matches, it's what you work hard for,
what you look forward to at a tournament, to just try and keep playing your best. You
know, I'm excited now about playing in the semifinals, hope to keep playing well.

Q. You've always been a somewhat streaky player against the other elite players. Do you
think you've hit a point in your career now where you can be more consistent?

MARY PIERCE: I feel like I am more consistent. I'd like to be more consistent. I
definitely didn't start the year off very well this year. I feel good now. You know, it's
part of sports; it's part of life: you have good days, bad days, up-and-down. You have to
keep going through it, working hard.

Q. You said on court, "I did what I had to do, I stayed focused." Was the
focus part against a player like Serena perhaps as important or more important than the
physical part of it?

MARY PIERCE: Yes. The mental part, when you get in matches like this against the top
players, we all can hit the ball good, we all can hit big serves, groundstrokes, we all
can play tennis. Basically it comes down to the mental aspect, just staying focused,
concentrated, calm and relaxed every point for me is the key. 

Q. Are you moving about as well as you ever have?

MARY PIERCE: I don't know about that. I don't think so (laughter). I think I'm moving
okay, but I don't feel -- I feel like I can move faster, yeah. 

Q. How helpful was it to work that week with your dad in terms of training on your
speed and strength? 

MARY PIERCE: I think, like I said, I didn't start the year off very well this year.
Like I said earlier, I've been working hard. There's no secret in anything that you do,
hard work always pays off. Not that I wasn't working hard. I was before in the past, but
it wasn't the correct intensity, the correct training. I feel now the training is what I
need to get the best out of me, to train hard and have the right intensity, to have fun on
the court. Those are important things, I guess, for anybody.

Q. Do you feel that the time spent with your dad --?

MARY PIERCE: I answered your question already. 

Q. Was there a point in the match where you felt like everything was going your way? It
started out with Serena serving incredibly. Was there a point where it turned around?

MARY PIERCE: 2-All, I think when I broke her serve. Is that right? I know when I broke
her serve in the first set, that's kind of when I felt like I had a little opening in the
door, I guess, then it held. I went up to 5-2. You know, against a top player, especially
Serena who has a big game, can serve big, can come back, all of a sudden you can be even
against. I kept telling myself, "The match isn't over; keep playing every point. It's
not over till it's over." Basically 3-Love in the second set, obviously 4-1 was a
nice feeling when I sat down, two more games. I said to myself, "Just keep
concentrating." There was never a point where I said, "Okay, you don't have to
worry about it." 

Q. You may not want to answer this question, but --?

MARY PIERCE: How do you know that (laughter)? 

Q. Were there feelings of gratification working with your father? Can you share
anything with us?

MARY PIERCE: I think the best way for me to answer this question, and probably any
question on that topic, I don't want you guys to think that you can't ask me or that I
don't want to talk about it, but the way I feel about it is that the relationship that I
have with my father has been and always will be something very personal for me and
private. I think the best for us is to keep our relationship that way, you know. It's
always been in the public eye. It always probably will be. I can't prevent that. But for
me, for my family, I think that I would appreciate it if you all, the media, would just
respect that sense. It's probably hard for you guys not to ask questions, because that's
your job, but I would appreciate it if I just could keep my relationship like that and
just keep it private and personal, something special for me and for my family. I think we
would respect that. 

Q. Did the new facility help your game at all here today, playing at this new facility?

MARY PIERCE: I can say that center court was really nice to play on. I really like the
center court a lot. The other courts I've been playing on have been a little difficult.
The time of day that I was playing, the sun would kind of come on the side and be hard to
see sometimes. This court was really, really nice, had a great feeling, and I liked it a
lot. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT