TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 12, 2000
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WTA: Questions for Mary.  
 
Q. I hope it's a precaution, a question about your ankles (referring to ice packs). 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah, they're okay. Just a little sore. I don't know why.  
 
Q. You don't do that often?
 
 MARY PIERCE: No. 
 
Q. What do you think of the new venue and the new stadium, the whole surroundings?
 
 MARY PIERCE: It's pretty big. I haven't really got to walk around the Stadium Court
very much, see what there is. I can't really say much yet until I probably see more of it. 
 
Q. You picked your game up at the end of the second set, at the start of the third.
Anything specific you did?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Picked my game up, sorry?  
 
Q. You picked up your game. Was there something specific that you did?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Just basically relaxed more. That was really it. 
 
Q. Is there a difference now when you get into those situations than maybe a few years
ago? You seem to close out matches now that you might not have in the past. 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah, I think it just basically comes down to my mind frame, I guess. It's
more in the head; it's not really my game, not my shots. Why I miss a shot, it's not
really technical. I mean, it is why I miss it, but it's more a reason - just in my head.
Just being relaxed, have fun, have confidence in my ability and my game, and to play, not
worry about the score and winning, losing, what's happening, you know.  
 
Q. You were saying actually you matured, but your game is pretty much what you always
had?
 
 MARY PIERCE: My game has improved also. I've worked a lot on my game, my footwork, my
serve, trying to come to the net more. But the thing that's hardest to improve is your
mind, at least for me. Anything physical is pretty easy for me because it's just physical
work. I work very hard. I think that part - the mental part - just comes with experience
and matches, practice and matches, things that you look back in a match - what you did,
whether you win or you lose. You usually learn a lot more when you lose. Then, when I feel
like I'm getting in the same situations in matches again is when I try to just work on
what I need to work on, and that's the best practice. That's improved also. Also, you
know, you can always improve and get better, so...  
 
Q. That frame of mind, there must be ambition for this tournament, you want to win the
tournament?
 
 MARY PIERCE: There's always ambition. Every tournament I go into, I don't think,
"Oh, God, I'm going to lose first round," or, "I'm going to win the
tournament." I just go there and let happen whatever's going to happen. I prepare the
best that I can. When I step on the court, I just have confidence in myself, just give a
hundred percent and have fun, and that's it.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT