CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE WTA TOUR
November 18, 1999
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Was she that much better this time than before or what about the match was it? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, I think if you watched the match, you could probably answer that
question for yourself. I just think I made a lot -- a lot of errors. I didn't give myself
a chance in the match, and then I came up there, going for my shots like I usually do, but
I was missing everything today. I just don't think today -- tonight was my night.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)
 
 MARY PIERCE: Not really, because you just say to yourself, "It's the last
tournament of the year." So every match is your last match of the year. 
 
Q. Is there anything you can put your finger on as to why it went like that?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I don't think I played badly. I think I had many opportunities. I think it
was closer than the score. The rallies were close. I was playing the way that I wanted to.
I'd come to finish the point off, and I'd miss all the easy shots. That just makes a
difference when you're playing against the No. 1 in the world. You can't afford to make
any mistakes, first of all, and miss easy shots and any opportunities you have, you can't
let them slip away. 
 
Q. How sharp is she playing?
 
 MARY PIERCE: She's No. 1 in the world. I think she's playing pretty good. She's
consistent.  
 
Q. She seemed like she came out in a lot of force, on top of her game?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Martina is pretty much always on top of her game. That's what it takes to
be No. 1. You have to be consistent.  
 
Q. You had a couple of opportunities in the second set when she was serving; you had
two breakpoints. Do you feel like you were kind of rallying at that point?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah, I think that was a really important game of the match. You know, if
I would have been able to tie it at 3-all, I think it would have been a different story.
At least I would have given myself a better chance. Each time I had a breakpoint, I made a
mistake. That's pretty of the story of the match. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT