CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE WTA TOUR
November 15, 1999
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Marry, at 2-5 in the second set, you're about to lose the match, what did you do to
turn the match around?

MARY PIERCE: Not a whole lot. I just really told myself to just try to just play every
point point-by-point. Just think, concentrate point-by-point. I sat down and just tried to
think what's going on. I wasn't moving well at all today. I was making a lot of mistakes.
I was missing easy shots, I think. But it's difficult. Anna is a great player. She hits
the ball really flat and deep, and heavy. It doesn't seem like it's coming that hard, but
it is. She was playing well. I was making some mistakes, and, you know, she's a tough
opponent. I just tried to get my game together. I just tried to play more consistent, just
point by point. You know, that was it. 

Q. Was this one of your best matches recently in--?

MARY PIERCE: No. 

Q. -- Coming from behind?

MARY PIERCE: Coming back, yes. I haven't come from behind in a while. Yeah, that's a
good feeling. I'm happy about that. But I'm not really happy about the way I played. I
need to work. I've got a couple days off so that I can work on some things. You know I am
happy that I won and just looking forward to my next match. 

Q. Did you have a sense of what was going on with her in that third set that she was
not able to play with any kind of --?

MARY PIERCE: I mean, yeah, you can see her -- try to read the player. But I tried to
focus on myself and my side of the court. Just keep doing what I'm doing, play point by
point. I just said to myself, "Anything can happen. Just play every point the best
you can," and that's it. 

Q. In the tiebreaker it seemed that you started to go for her backhand. Is that
something that you planned for?

MARY PIERCE: My plan was to play more to her forehand. You know, her backhand is solid.
Her forehand is more erratic, hits it harder and can make more mistakes on the forehand. I
just tried to change it up a little bit and play her backhand and do something different.

Q. Did you expect the third set to go as quickly?

MARY PIERCE: I didn't put any expectations; so I just, you know, it could have been
easy; it could have been tough. Like I said, the only thing I did is just think about
point by point and just playing it the best I could each point, and whatever happens,
happens. 

Q. How has Roberto Alomar helped you in your competing if you're not giving away any
secrets?

MARY PIERCE: It's very interesting. I think that, you know, it's been great to have
somebody who also is a professional athlete and someone that understands and someone that
you can talk to about things. Sports are very similar, no matter what sport you play. When
you come down to it, it's basically all mental. You know, it's just been a lot of fun.

Q. Is he here today?

MARY PIERCE: Yes.

Q. Is there an age or level when you can start thinking when I was young, I used to do
this; a lot of younger players just sort of give up--?

MARY PIERCE: I don't know. I can't answer that question because I'm not too sure if
people younger will give up or not. I think it really just depends on the individual. 

Q. What about you? Was there any transition with you or were you always --?

MARY PIERCE: I had a tough time coming back from when I was down before. I wasn't able
to just take a step back and really try to think and analyze what was going on and I think
that that's something that I've been working on and can still improve on. I've been
working on that. 

Q. I see you play doubles with Martina, what can you expect from this new duo?

MARY PIERCE: What do you think I expect? I'm not the kind of person to put expectations
on anything because I think if you put expectations, you're only setting yourself up for
disappointments. I look at things with a different mentality. I look at it like this is a
great opportunity. I'm very excited to play with Martina. She's a great player. I think
that I can learn things playing doubles with her. She's won a lot of tournaments. I look
forward to having a lot of fun with her. Of course, when you step on the court, everyone
wants to win. It's just going to be a lot of fun. I look forward to it. 

Q. Are you glad to see how many French players are here?

MARY PIERCE: I think it's great to see how many French girls are here and how well
French tennis is doing. It's fantastic to see how many girls. That's going to bring a lot
more interest into the younger girls and especially getting tennis more popular in France
again and just to have a lot of kids playing the sport again.

Q. Are there promising kids coming up in France?

MARY PIERCE: I'm not really the right person to ask. I am not in France. I don't live
there. It's hard to say. I'm not there enough.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT