COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
September 30, 1999
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WTA:  Questions for Mary.  
 

Q.  Can you compare this match with the one of the US Open?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Not really.  I think I every match is different.  That's how I look at it anyway.  Every time I go to play somebody, I just take it as a different match. 
 

Q.  I think it's safe to say you're sort of in your mid career.  Tough match at The Open.  Is that something you can learn from with the two match points or is it just something you put behind yourself?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Definitely something that you learn from.  You always want to learn something.  Every day you want to try and improve.  Yes, definitely I learned a lot from that match, and this match today, too, of course. 
 

Q.  What did you learn from both matches?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think I learned that after watching the tape that I need to improve on my second serve, just to stay aggressive.  Really that's it.  You know, just try to limit my unforced errors.  Try to come into the net more.  
 

Q.  I don't want to take this too far, but you and Amanda both have celebrity relationships.  Were you surprised to hear about Andre and Steffi?  Do you see them being able to bring good qualities to their relationship, qualities that would be mutually - what's the word - acceptable?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think it's a very personal question.  It's tough to ask me that.  I just wish them the best.  I'm very happy for them.  You know, as long as they're happy, that's all that matters. 
 

Q.  You've faced a lot of questions in situations like this.  If you had to give them one piece of advice, what advice would you give?
 
MARY PIERCE:  The same advice that I would probably give anybody:  just to enjoy every day and every moment that you have.  
 

Q.  Are you disappointed that the WTA does not have a sponsor as yet?  What do you think can be done about that?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, the only thing that I can really say on that is that I'm surprised and, yes, disappointed.  I really think that we should be able to get a sponsor hopefully very soon because I think women's tennis is at the best it's ever been right now.  It's exciting, has great depth, we have a lot of great personalities.  You can look at the TV ratings.  You know, they're just getting better and better.  So I think we'll definitely be getting a sponsor very soon, we should.  As far as what we should do to get about doing that, that's nothing for me to say.  We have our business people; that's their job. 
 

Q.  We are coming up on the millennium.  Where do you think women's tennis will be in ten years' time?
 
MARY PIERCE:  That's scary.  I don't know.  Probably going to be younger, stronger, taller, hitting harder.  Who knows?  
 

Q.  Do you think there will be a lot of top players who will be in the 14 -, 15-year-old range?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  It's hard to really say because with the new rules that we have, that would be almost impossible to do because they're limited in how many tournaments they can play, what level tournaments they can also play.  
 

Q.  What racquet are you playing with?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Old Wilson racquet that they don't make anymore, unfortunately. 
 

Q.  What type is it?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Wilson Pro Staff. 
 

Q.  Have you asked Wilson to produce some new ones for you?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Uh-huh. 
 

Q.  And they said?
 
MARY PIERCE:  They said no, then they said maybe.  We'll see.  
 

Q.  You mentioned that the women's game seems to be more popular than the men's game right now.  Why do you think the women are eclipsing the men?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Why?  
 

Q.  In your opinion, why?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think it's pretty obvious if you look at the Top 20 and the Top 10.  Every girl who is playing now is playing great tennis.  Every week, a different player could win the tournament.  Even in the first rounds, we don't have easy matches anymore.  Everybody is getting stronger and hitting the ball harder.  I think for the fans, it's more exciting for them.  For a player, for me, at least on my behalf, it's more challenging.  It keeps you on your toes. 
 

Q.  If you have the possibility to play clay or hard places, what do you prefer?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I like both.  I like clay.  It's different.  It's a lot of fun.  You slide around.  I like hard court, as long as it's not too fast.  
 

Q.  Where are you going to play next week?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Filderstadt, Zurich, Moscow, Linz, Leipzig.  
 

Q.  What is your one favorite part of being a woman's touring pro? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  That's a really tough question.  I don't think I have one thing.  I really couldn't put my finger on it.  There's just so many things that I love about it.  Probably just competing, I guess, if I had to really say.  That would be the one thing. 
 

Q.  Of the people in the game, all the players, officials you've met, is there one who you particularly respect the most, who you have a particularly high opinion of?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I really admire Chris Evert a lot.  I watched a lot of her while I was growing up, playing tennis.  She's always seemed very poised, very feminine.  Her game was just amazing, how consistent she always was day in, day out, very accurate.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT