US OPEN
September 4, 1999
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WTA:  Questions for Mary.  
 
 
Q.  Up a break at 3-2 in the second.  What was going on?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think in the first set, my opponent was not playing very well.  She just made a lot of mistakes, just made the match very easy for me.  First time I played her, so we didn't know how each other was going to play, what to expect.  I knew more or less what to do.  Second set, she just played much better.  I guess when you win a set 6-Love like that, you kind of say to yourself, "I have nothing to lose."  She really started playing much better, getting a lot of balls back.  I give her a lot of credit.  She competed the whole match.  I think that was just the difference.  
 
Q.  You had a bunch of unforced errors in a couple of those games towards the end.  You were up 5-3.  What was going through your mind?  Were you thinking that it was almost over with?  How were you dealing with your own frustrations?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Did I look frustrated?  I really wasn't that frustrated.  I would have preferred to finish in two sets than in three.  If I had to, you know, I would have played three sets, that's not a problem.  Like I said, there wasn't really any rhythm in the match.  She just made a lot of mistakes in the first set.  The second set, she played better, I played a few loose points.  That's what happened, so. 
 
Q.  That rally you had, you seemed pretty excited in the tiebreaker. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I didn't think it was going over the net, so I tried to reach  -- you know when you hit it, you just hit it a second time for fun.  I wanted to do that, and I couldn't reach it.  It went over the net.  I was surprised (laughter).  
 
Q.  You're playing doubles a couple hours from now.  What might that do for you and what might that take away from your game?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I love doubles.  I just love playing tennis.  It's fun.  It helps my game in the sense of working on my serve-and-volley, returning, being aggressive, working on my net game, which I'm trying to incorporate into my singles, coming to the net, moving forward.  All those things I work on in doubles. 
 
Q.  What do you know about your next round opponents?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I've played both of them before.  Both lefty.  Both really, you know, good competitors.  Appelmans, I've played many times.  Serna, you know, they're both kind of the same, more or less.  I just have to play my game, like every match really.  I just have to be aggressive.  That's it.  
 
Q.  I don't know if you've looked further in the draw, but there's a possibility that Lindsay will still be there, and that's who you'd meet.  You haven't played her this year. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Lindsay, I guess not. 
 
Q.  Would you look forward to that match?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Definitely.  That's what it's all about, trying to get into the second week, playing those matches.  That's what you get all pumped up about, excited, that's what you work hard for.  It's those kind of matches where you're challenged, and you feel like you're bringing the best out of each other.  That's exciting to me.  That's fun.  I have another match to look forward to, and just take it match-by-match.  
 
Q.  Jennifer Capriati is on Arthur Ashe Stadium Court.  You're playing Grandstand Court.  Do you mind that?  Do you mind that the attention is shifted away from you?
 
MARY PIERCE:  It doesn't matter to me one way or the other, you know.  
 
Q.  You talked the other day about realizing, "Oh, my gosh, I was a ten-year veteran," all the young kids were coming up, Hingis, Venus and Serena, they're getting attention, grabbing the attention.  Do you like the fact that they're doing that, and you can just play tennis?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, you have to look at it in the sense that when I was 16, 17, 18, 19, whatever, their age, I was getting a lot of attention as well.  I think everybody has their time.  They deserve it.  If you're playing well, you're exciting to watch, it's natural.  It's normal that you get attention. 
 
Q.  Do you still feel like it's your time?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Do I still feel like it's my time (laughter)?  You know, I don't really think about that or think of it in that way.  To me what's most important is when I step out on the court, I have a lot of fun and I work hard, just try to do my best to win every match, you know.  Everything else will come with it. 
 
Q.  You've been here many times before going into the fourth round of a Grand Slam.  How do you feel generally physically and mentally right now?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Pretty good, very excited.  Very excited to be into the second week.  That's what it's all about for me, so I'm looking forward to it. 
 
Q.  Are you playing well enough to beat Lindsay Davenport?  How is your game right now?
 
MARY PIERCE:  You never know.  Every day's a different day.  In tennis, you never know what can happen.  I step on the court with confidence in myself and belief in my game, just try to go out there and just take it match-by-match like I do every match, just try to do the best to win.  
 
Q.  Can you say something about the dangers that fall upon a tennis player, being famous, like the examples of Agassi who has been falling back, and the example of Jennifer Capriati who is now coming back?  What's happening once you become famous?  What's the danger that you have to encounter?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't personally think there are any.  
 
Q.  Are you saying it's just as easy to play when you're a famous person as someone who's not famous?  There's no more pressure when you're famous?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Of course, there's pressure, of course.  You know, even if you're not famous, you put pressure on yourself.  There's a lot of players, athletes, that put pressure on themselves, too.  Different kinds of pressure, I guess. 
 
Q.  When you're not famous, you don't have the media and the fan pressure?
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, you don't have the media and the fans.  You don't have everybody watching your every step, what you're wearing, what you're eating, where you're going, what you're doing.  It's something that's different. 
 
Q.  Is it difficult to maintain the same kind of intensity after so many years?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yes.  I think everybody goes through periods, like I'm sure you and everybody else who works in any kind of job, you have your good days and your bad days.  But when you come down to it, it's something that I love to do, always find pleasure in doing that.  
 
Q.  When you see the examples of Jennifer and Andre coming back from that far behind, having a real great comeback, do you think it's more difficult to do this comeback once you have fallen back, or is it easier than it was the first time, rising? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  It's more difficult, I'd have to say, because once you're at the top, you get used to a certain level.  When you come back down, I guess it makes you realize what you really want, where you're at, where you want to be.  You know, it's more difficult in the sense that you just have to be patient.  In a sense, it's easier than the first time because you've been there and you know what to do.  You've been through it; you have the experience.  You know, I can speak a little bit on that because I had a shoulder injury and I was out for three months in '96.  You know, my ranking had dropped down into the 20's, something like that.  You know, there was nothing about it.  I didn't play.  I just worked hard, had confidence in myself.  I believed if I worked hard, it would pay off, and it did.  
 
Q.  Mary, the US Open is often considered the most challenging of all tournaments.  Did the announcement of retirement on the part of Steffi Graf surprise you, the timing specifically?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yes.  I was thinking that Steffi was going to at least play the US Open, maybe The Championships, end the year.  But that's her decision, and I'm sure she feels good about it.  Knowing Steffi, I'm sure that it's the right time.  I'm happy for her that she does feel comfortable enough that she's ready to retire and go on to the next level, the next stage of her life. 
 
Q.  Do you think it's the right timing?
 
MARY PIERCE:  That's not for me to answer.  That's her decision.  She made that decision, so obviously it is.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT