AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2006
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Mary, please. 


Q.  She said you could play a lot better than that. 

MARY PIERCE:  That was nice of her to say that, because it's true, I believe.  Definitely I think so too. 

Q.  What went wrong today? 

MARY PIERCE:  What went wrong?  Kind of like what didn't, I think.  It was just one of those days.  One of those days.  Not my day really, so... 

Q.  No explanation?

MARY PIERCE:  You know, what can I say?  I think we all have a bad day sometimes.  It wasn't my best day today.  You know, I did my best, tried to get into the match.  I felt confident in the second set when I went ahead.  Thought I was going to win the second set, then felt pretty confident if I did that I would win the match in the third set.  A bit surprised that didn't happen.  You know, what can I say?  I tried my best, but it definitely wasn't a very good match on my part. 

Q.  The heat, we saw you putting ice on your head.  The heat affects both players.  You seemed to have trouble with your eyes.  Was it the glare, dryness out there?

MARY PIERCE:  Well, when it's hot, it can dry my contacts out.  When it's windy, it dries my contacts out.  When it's hot and windy, it makes it very difficult to see the ball because they dry out and it gets kind of blurry.

Q.  Might that have affected the timing?

MARY PIERCE:  It didn't help.  It didn't help. 

Q.  Disappointing way to start the year, especially the way you managed to finish off last year. 

MARY PIERCE:  Well, I got one round farther than last year, so that's a positive thing.  And I haven't had a bad match since probably, I don't know, I can't remember, March -- probably April or May was my last bad match.  If it goes only every, you know, how long has that been, I don't know, nine months or something.  If I only have a bad match every nine months, it's okay.  I'm human.  It happens. 

Q.  Are you a bit disappointed not to have the chance to play Martina again?

MARY PIERCE:  You know, I think a lot of people were talking about that.  I wasn't thinking about that.  I was just sort of taking it match by match really.  You never know what can happen.  Today kind of proves that.  I'm not disappointed about that at all.  You know, I would have liked to have won my match today.  Tried my best; didn't.  It wasn't meant to be.  It's the beginning of the year.  It's not a big deal.  If Martina's going to continue playing, then maybe we'll meet in the future and play each other again.  Maybe not.  You never know. 

Q.  What will you do now? 

MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  Have something to eat, have a massage, sleep well, then tomorrow talk with my brother and my trainer and figure out what we're going to do next. 

Q.  Did you feel this coming at all in any way?

MARY PIERCE:  No, no, no, not at all.  I felt really confident.  Feel good.  I was playing well.  Was hopefully looking forward to getting pretty far in the tournament.  I love playing here.  So, you know, those things kind of happen sometimes. 

Q.  What kind of match do you think Benesova played against you?  You said you thought you played a bad match. 

MARY PIERCE:  She played well.  I definitely have to give her credit.  She played solid.  She came up with some really good shots at times.  It's difficult.  I didn't give her a chance to play much, as well.  If you make 41 unforced errors, it's really tough to win a match, too. 

Q.  You said earlier you thought if you won that second set, you would have gone on to win the match.  Is that a bit of a missed opportunity?

MARY PIERCE:  I just felt confident about that, you know, so... 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT