EVERT CUP
March 10, 1999
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What can you do against somebody who is playing with that much confidence? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Just play your game. 
 

Q.  What makes the difference?  You had two really close sets. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  My unforced errors, I think, made the difference today. 
 

Q.  How well is she playing right now?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think she's playing some pretty good tennis.  You know, she's definitely on a roll.  She's confident.  You know, there are always  -- she's always confident no matter what anyway.  I think she's definitely improved since the last time I played her, which is almost a year, two years ago, year and a half ago.  She's getting better and better.  She's powerful, powerful player.  I'm just disappointed today that I didn't play as well as I could.  I'm not saying I would have won or the outcome would have been any different, but I would have liked to have played a better match.  
 

Q.  When you're playing somebody that hits as hard as you do, do you have to guard against the tendency to turn it into a shrugging contest ^ ?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Not really.  If you start to do that, that's when the unforced errors come in.  It's not a competition of who has more power, who can hit the ball harder.  I think it's who plays smarter, who makes less errors, and really who takes charge of the point first, you know.  If you give a short ball or easy ball, it's really hard to win the point after that.  
 

Q.  What happened in the tiebreaker?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Same as the whole match, I guess.  I didn't feel really like I was hitting the ball very solid.  I was just miss-hitting a lot of my shots.  You know, they were just off center and without pace and not really what I wanted to do with the ball.  You know, I think she just kept playing the same.  
 

Q.  Do you think No.  1 is wide open this year?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yes, I think so. 
 

Q.  So you don't think that Hingis has gotten back to where she was, say, a year, year and a half ago, was winning consistently?  You think we could see a new No.  1 every other month or so?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, a new No.  1 every other month or so, I don't know, because the way the point system is.  Lindsay and Martina are pretty much close, they're pretty much a little bit farther than everybody else.  It's going to be interesting at the end of the year to see who is in the Top 10, at least Top  5, who ends up No.  1. 
 

Q.  Would you be surprised if Martina stayed No.  1 from this day until the end of the year?
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, I wouldn't be surprised.  But that means she'd have to be producing some pretty good tennis, because there are a lot of other girls playing some pretty good tennis, too.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT