CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 20, 1998
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can you tell us about the ice, what the problem was with you today? 
 
MARY PIERCE: I wish I knew.  Well, I don't want to make any excuses for myself.  I just have to give Martina credit.  I haven't really seen her play that well in a long time - since beats her last year and I played her again in San Diego, beaten her there. She really stepped up her game.  She played really well - hitting the ball; playing aggressive.  I don't know if she has a new racket but definitely hitting with more power than the last few times I played her.  Martina played a great match.  But definitely I wasn't very happy with the way I played, so I know that I need to learn from this match and work on a few things. 
 

Q.  Not really the answer to the question.
 
MARY PIERCE: No, it wasn't because I told you I don't want to make any excuses for myself.  I wasn't feeling well this evening, that is all. 
 

Q.  I haven't seen you in a couple of years.  Your game is very well rounded now.
 
MARY PIERCE: Thank you. 
 

Q.  You are true all-court player.  I see by the statistics you won 88% of the time, you came at the net?
 
MARY PIERCE: I should have come into the net more.  That is something I have been working on, coming into the net.  But I definitely didn't do it that much this evening compared to like I have done this year earlier.  I think I need to try and do that a little bit more next year; come more in, even though I have been doing it more than in the past, but definitely I still could be working on that. 
 

Q.  I know you don't want to make excuses but you were sweating a lot early in the match.
 
MARY PIERCE: You noticed? 
 

Q.  Yeah, which I have never seen you sweat like that before even late in matches.  Do you think you got a flu bug, you think you feel bad now even --
 
MARY PIERCE: Yeah, I really don't know.  I could have eaten something before the match that didn't really agree with me.   But yeah, I just definitely wasn't -- I felt heavy, my legs felt really heavy like I couldn't really move very well.  Just light-headed, dizzy.  My heart was beating more than normal.  I was breathing harder.  I feel like I was tired for some reason, but I am not. 
 

Q.  You didn't seem to be doing your stretching exercises the way you did last year.  You were bending and doing more things. Is that out of your game now or what?
 
MARY PIERCE: I guess it is something that I really didn't  know that I was doing until I really watched myself and, you know, I just try to eliminate any unnecessary waste of energy; that is even including technique in my shots, so, any energy I can save the better so try to eliminate all of that. 
 

Q.  Any physical problems using the ice packs?
 
MARY PIERCE: It was just to help me cool off, because my body was very hot, so.... 
 

Q.  Do you feel you kind of let her off the hook the first set (Inaudible.) --
 
MARY PIERCE: I actually felt very lucky to be at 6-All in the first set.  Feeling the way that I did, this match could have been very easily won by Martina and, you know, I get like -- I had my chances, set point in the first set; made a mistake on my forehand.  I am very disappointed about that.  If I was going to lose a point, I should at least have it that she would have won it, instead of me missing.  But -- I forgot what I was going to say. 
 

Q.  Where do you go from here, the Australian or taking a break?
 
MARY PIERCE: I have about six weeks, I believe, until I start playing in Australia, so I am going to take a little bit of time off and just let my mind and my body rest. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT