CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 18, 1998
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  She said it went pretty quickly out there. Must have felt really good.

MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, matches like that, I just try to stay concentrated and focused for each point because it is easy to get  - I wouldn't say distracted, but lose concentration and against someone like Amanda, if you do that and if you give her a chance, then she gets back into the match; then it can become a very tough match.  So just I really tried really hard to stay concentrated.


Q.  You have been playing really well lately, I know.  But what was the difference out there today?

MARY PIERCE:  I just had a good day, I think.  I played really well.  All my shots worked for me basically.


Q.  Talk a little bit about Martina next.  You have a winning record over her.

MARY PIERCE:  I am looking forward to it.  I have played her a couple of times this year and I remember playing her here last year.  It was a great match.  We always have great matches, fun matches, exciting matches for me.  Like I said, I am looking forward to it.  She is a a tough person to beat.  To beat her I need to be at the top of my game and playing well.  So I am just going to go out there and give it my best shot and have fun.


Q.  A lot of the girls are saying they are tired at this point of the year but you have been playing really fantastic the last few weeks.  Are you tired?

MARY PIERCE:  No, I am not tired at all.  My body feels like it needs a vacation, but other than that, it doesn't feel like the end of the year.


Q.  Would you say your confidence level is the highest it has been all season right now?

MARY PIERCE:  Not really.  I mean, just because you win -- of course winning helps to bring your confidence higher, but you always have to have confidence in yourself and believe in yourself and every time I step on the court I do that.  I believe in my game and you can't control winning or losing.  You can just control giving one 100% on the court and if you do that, you usually play well.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT