US OPEN
September 7, 1998
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you account for the change at all from the first set to the second set, how much
better you played in the second set?

MARY PIERCE: Can I account for the change?

Q. Just in your play from the first set to second set after the break, maybe what you
did during the break.

MARY PIERCE: Nothing special. I just had a snack and laid down, listened to music,
talked to my coach a little bit. That was about it.

Q. Had you been getting some treatment in that first set?

MARY PIERCE: Uh-huh, on my wrist.

Q. Then I didn't see anything in the second set.

MARY PIERCE: I had some treatment during the rain break, then I had it taped for the
rest of the second set.

Q. What did you talk about with your coach during the rain delay?

MARY PIERCE: There wasn't really much to say. I was just playing really poorly in the
first set. Just to get my feet moving, basically that's about it. Just really basic stuff.

Q. Were you thankful that the rain came at that point?

MARY PIERCE: Yes, very much so. I think that definitely helped me. I started off really
slow and just it was like one of those days where you're totally off, you just feel like
it's not your day. You know, I didn't really feel my strokes. I didn't feel like I was in
the match. Every point was going by too quick without me really realizing what was going
on. I was just, you know, grateful for Mother Nature to let me have that break.
Unfortunately, I started off a bit too slow today. I felt like I was getting better and
better as the match progressed. You know, I would have liked to have won the second set,
and it would have been a whole different match in the third.

Q. What was it like playing those last few games before the rain delay when the wind
was blowing, the people were bailing out of the stadium?

MARY PIERCE: It just was -- I was wondering if it was going to rain or blow by. It
already had been dark for about ten minutes or so, and it hadn't rained or anything hadn't
happened yet, just kept getting darker and darker.

Q. Do you think you played enough matches during the course of the year to be sharp
coming into a Grand Slam like this?

MARY PIERCE: No. This particular year, I have not. I missed a few tournaments earlier
this year when I had gotten sick in Europe. Then I injured my groin in San Diego. I missed
LA. Then Montreal I lost first round there. So I feel like matchplay itself, yeah, I could
have used a little bit more. But being physically healthy and able to train and prepare, I
think is more important. You know, today was the first day in about -- I would say since
San Diego, which is almost maybe a month or three weeks, since I really ran around on the
court. You know, I haven't really been tested that much in my previous matches, really
running and hitting. You know, I felt that that was a part of my game that really wasn't
up to par as much either. So that was a bit unfortunate.

Q. Do you think the groin injury, was that bad luck or could you be trained harder than
you did?

MARY PIERCE: Could I be trained harder?

Q. Yes.

MARY PIERCE: No, I don't think so (laughter). I don't think so.

Q. You were up 4-1 in the tiebreaker. Did you find yourself looking ahead to a third
set at that point or how did Venus come back and win all those points?

MARY PIERCE: At that point, you don't really think about a third set or her coming back
or anything like that. You just take every point, point by point. You know, that's what a
tiebreaker is all about. Each point really counts. That's all I was thinking about.

Q. When she got the mini break, I think it was at 4-4, did you sense the momentum then
on her side?

MARY PIERCE: No, huh-uh. I mean, it was even. It was 4-All. Every point counts. That's
what I was telling myself.

Q. There were a couple shots it seemed you thought had sailed long. You didn't say
anything, but you just -- did you think they were long?

MARY PIERCE: I thought that one ball was out. It was close. Then there was another ball
that I totally had a mental lapse on. I thought it was going out. The wind was blowing
hard, the ball flying, I thought it was going to fly out. Then all of a sudden the wind
died down and it fell right into the court. I wasn't ready to hit the ball, so.

Q. How passionate are you about tennis? How important is it in your life?

MARY PIERCE: It's the most important thing in my life right now. This is what I do.
This is what I love to do. You know, I feel very lucky and very fortunate to be playing
tennis. You know, I'm having a lot of fun. I go out there and I try to do the best that I
can every match, and I enjoy doing it.

Q. Can you give us a sense just of how intense those last few games were? You had that
one that was 20-something points long. How intense was it out there?

MARY PIERCE: It was a great feeling. I mean, that's what all the hard work is all
about, to get to matches like this. To me, you know, that's what it's all about, these
kind of matches. It's where the challenge is, where you bring the best out of each other.
You know, like I said, I think Venus played a great match. She was aggressive throughout
the whole match. You know, I felt she may be getting a little bit tight in the second set,
wasn't hitting as aggressive, that's why I tried to be more aggressive. I think I should
have come into the net a little bit more as well. Definitely, those last few games were
intense. They really counted. It was either a third set or the match.

Q. What did you think of Venus' dance? After she won, she didn't seem to know what to
do --

MARY PIERCE: She didn't know what to do?

Q. She kind of stopped. 

MARY PIERCE: I was really just walking to the net. I kind of saw a little bit. I didn't
pay a lot of attention.

Q. You had Love-30 against her serve in the first return game of yours after the rain.
Then the next serve game, you also had a couple chances to get some breaks. Did you think
it was maybe really important to get a break early in that second set when maybe she
wasn't completely back in her rhythm after the break?

MARY PIERCE: I think it's important to get a break any time you can. But, yeah, it was
just kind of one of those days where I felt that I was off. When you play someone like
Venus, as good as her, you need to be on for every single point. You know, like I said
before, I felt like I was getting better and better. Unfortunately, I had a slow start,
so.

Q. Have you ever played anybody who covers the court the way she covers court?

MARY PIERCE: Yes.

Q. Who?

MARY PIERCE: Her sister and Arantxa. They move -- I mean, yeah.

Q. Those three are among the best you've come across?

MARY PIERCE: Uh-huh. 

Q. You seemed to have a lot of success going to the net. Were you conscious, especially
in the second, of trying to do that more?

MARY PIERCE: Yes, and I didn't do it enough. There were a few times when her balls were
just kind of floating in the air, and I was running back to hit the ball. You know, that's
not my game. I should have been coming forward, taking those balls in the air. You know,
wherever I was coming into the net is when I was playing well. That's important for me,
and I didn't do that enough today.

Q. Why not?

MARY PIERCE: Because I'm expecting her ball to be maybe a little bit harder and maybe a
little more aggressive. So that's why I was a little bit going backwards. But then all of
a sudden, you know, the ball is just kind of floating. I didn't expect those kind of balls
from her.

Q. Do you consider her to be a big match player after today's match?

MARY PIERCE: A big match player, you mean?

Q. Yes.

MARY PIERCE: Well, you don't get to be ranked as high as you are -- I mean, as she is,
if you're not. But, like all young players -- not all. Martina is young. But when you're
young, I think it takes a few years or a few matches or a few big tournaments just to get
used to that. And I think Venus is a great player. But I could sense that she was getting
a little bit tight at one point in the match.

Q. Briefly back to the tiebreaker. It looked like from the stands, you had it under
control at 4-1. She did hit four winners I think in five points to take the match. Does
that impress you, or did it just go by too fast?

MARY PIERCE: Honestly, I didn't realize it. No, I mean. I was just trying to play each
point, point by point, so.

Q. That game when she broke you to go up 6-5, is that the longest game you ever played
in your career?

MARY PIERCE: Didn't seem that long to me (laughter).

Q. Looked like you were having fun out there.

MARY PIERCE: I was. I was enjoying it. I felt like I was playing better and better.
That's all I was hoping for, was to win the second set, get into a third set. You know,
anything can happen then.

Q. Do you think you'll finally play Lipton next year?

MARY PIERCE: I don't know. I haven't done my schedule yet.

Q. How do you avoid a big tournament like that? 

MARY PIERCE: How do I avoid it?

Q. Yes.

MARY PIERCE: How do I avoid? I don't understand your question.

Q. It's a major tournament on the route. Every major player that has any pretension to
be a champion plays Lipton.

MARY PIERCE: Really?

Q. You don't play Lipton.

MARY PIERCE: Maybe I don't have pretensions to be a champion then, I guess.

Q. Did you sense the crowd getting on your side at all?

MARY PIERCE: Yeah, the crowd was great today. They were really, really behind me. That
was nice. You know, they really got into the match. I think they had a good time, too.

Q. You think that would have happened a year ago when Venus was on her run here?

MARY PIERCE: I don't know. Who knows?

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT