TOSHIBA TENNIS CLASSIC
August 9, 1998
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Please tell us about the ingury.  How did it affect your play?

MARY PIERCE:  Definitely, you know.  I was quite upset about it after the match; not before.  I tried to do what I could with it during the match.  But afterwards, yeah, frustrated.  I'm disappointed because I've been having a great week, feel like I'm getting better and better every day.  That's part of the sport, that's part of tennis, things like that can happen.  It's out of your control.

Q.  What was the injury?

MARY PIERCE:  This morning, at the end of my practice, when I was hitting serves, I hit one serve and felt a pain in my leg.  I think it's my adductor, either my quad, groin.  Pretty high, pretty deep.  It's a tough spot to really get to.

Q.  How did it affect you?  What did it keep you from doing?

MARY PIERCE:  Everything.  You know, serve, just moving.  You know, to play against someone like Lindsay, you  need to be at the top of your game.  You need to feel like you can do what you need to do to compete, give yourself a chance.  You know, I have to give Lindsay credit.  It's always difficult to play against someone you know that's injured.  She had to come on the court and make me move. She did.

Q.  What was your mind set going in?  Did you think with the injury you had a chance to beat her?

MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, you never know.  Like I said, I always go on the court with a positive attitude, I believe in myself.  I just try to go out there and realize, you know, see what I can do, try to keep her in rallies, hit a few dropshots, try to make her move so she doesn't make me move too much.  It's really frustrating.

Q.  At what point did you feel it was going to be difficult to beat her, with the injury it was going to hamper you?

MARY PIERCE:  I knew it was going to be difficult from the beginning.  I tried to see what I could do with it, make the best out of it.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARY PIERCE:  I think the trainers and doctors, they gave me treatment before the match, iced it.  I had it  wrapped so it wouldn't get worse.  If I did feel it was getting bad, I would have thought about it then.  Never got to that point where it was bad enough where I couldn't walk or couldn't play.  But it was at the point where it was annoying, it was bothering me.

Q.  Did you take any medications before?

MARY PIERCE:  Just anti-inflammatories.

Q.  At one point, the second set, you took off one of your wraps and threw it in the corner.  Were you kind of saying that was of no use?

MARY PIERCE:  I already had my leg wrapped underneath, had it taped up.  Then the trainer gave me like one of those wraps, groin wrap, with like Velcro.  Tried that for added support.  But it didn't make any difference.

Q.  Do you feel you're getting more than your fair share of injuries?

MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  I guess everybody does to some degree.  Everybody has always got something.  No one's ever like perfect.  You don't have some little thing here and there.  You try to keep the momentum, keep it strong.

Q.  What about LA? Will this affect you?

MARY PIERCE:  Well, hopefully I'll get back, see how I feel tomorrow morning, continue treatment, hopefully it will get better. 

Q.  Coming off of your performance last night, how frustrating is it not to be able to come back and play?

MARY PIERCE:  Pretty frustrating.  I tried to not let that really play a role during the match.  Just tried to kind of take my mind off t.  It's really hard to do because I was unable to get to a lot of balls.  That was frustrating.  I really feel like I've been competing well this week, playing well.  You know, just did the most I could do.  It's disappointing for me.  Kind of admit it's a blow in my spirit.  I want to get to a ball, but I can't.

Q.  Do you feel you have gained a lot this week?

MARY PIERCE:  Definitely.  I feel I've had a great week.  I feel like it's a great tournament for me.  My first tournament back since Wimbledon.  My first tournament on hard court, getting ready for the US Open.  So I think I played a lot of great matches this week, I've learned a lot, I know what I need to work on for the future.  Hopefully I will get better.  Looking forward to my next tournament and the US Open.

Q.  When you say you learned a lot, what have you learned?

MARY PIERCE:  Well, like I was just saying, consistency is the thing that's missing in my game.  I think that's improving.  I think I showed that this week.  Even  when I was down, even if I'm losing, that, you know, I can just stay calm, focused for each point, point by point. That was always difficult for me.  I think I've had a lot of practice at that this week.

Q.  Was there any point where you considered retiring?

MARY PIERCE:  No.  It's the finals.  You just have one match to play.  I convinced myself just to play and try ignore any pain or whatever, play the whole match.  You know, I don't know what could happen.  I don't wish anything bad on anybody.  But like Venus, she got hurt.  You always have to hope that you always have a chance, never give up.  That's what I did today.

Q.  She said she was glad she broke you 4-1 because she didn't want to give you a chance to come back?

MARY PIERCE:  That's true.  You never know what can happen.  If I would have had a chance to go 3-2, I was able to get the second set, one shot, one point here and there, it could be 3-All.

Q.  You have a new coach.  Has he changed your game any?

MARY PIERCE:  Well, I don't think there's really anything that I want to change in my game, just to improve and to add.  You know, we've only been working for about a month  now.  Good hard work pays off.  We've been working hard for a month and a half before coming here, so things are going well.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT