AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2006
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Mary, please.  
 
 
Q.  A 6-1, 6-1 win is a nice way to start.  Can you take anything out of it for the rest of the tournament?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Definitely, it's a good feeling.  It's a good start.  My first match in a couple months competitively.  It's always good to just kind of get going, get used to the environment, get used to competing again.  I was very, very happy with my play today.  I was able to be focused.  I felt like I moved well and I played well.  So very happy. 
 
Q.  Been a while since you performed well.  Obviously, you won a few years ago.  How long has it actually been since you felt you could win the tournament coming to Australia? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  I don't really come to a tournament thinking I can't win.  You know, I think I've just been getting fitter and fitter as the time is going over the last two years, working very hard for the last two years.  It started to pay off last year.  I'm feeling really good still.  Hopefully I'll continue and be even better this year.  
 
Q.  Do you feel in your bones this might be one of your best chances in the last few years?
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, I don't think about that.  
 
Q.  After last year's successes. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, you know, I don't know.  I just really take it day to day.  I just enjoy every day and what I do.  I just do my best.  Just really leave the rest to God and His plan for me.  You know, I just have a lot of peace in what will happen.  Not really concerned about winning or losing really.  That's not why I'm playing.  Just enjoy to be out here, you know, to serve the Lord with the gift He's given me to play tennis.  After that, whatever happens is the best for me in the end anyways.  
 
Q.  Your comeback has been cited as an inspiration by Hingis, Seles and Dokic.  How does that make you feel?
 
MARY PIERCE:  I mean, I guess in a way surprised and pleased.  Different emotions, I guess, to have your peers be inspired by yourself.  I mean, I know I've been inspired by others.  It's a very powerful thing.  You know, I think it's great also in a way because I've been through difficult times and I've worked really hard.  I persevered.  I never gave up.  You know, I guess it's a great thing that if that can help others. 
 
Q.  Have you spoken to any of those players about your comeback, about their own comebacks? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, you know, Martina and I, we talk once in a while.  Monica, as well.  We keep in touch.  With Jelena, I haven't seen her in a while.  I've just seen her since I've been here in Melbourne, but we haven't really talked about that.  
 
Q.  When things are going along, a Grand Slam champion like you, making a lot of money, then you go down, the money doesn't come in, people don't talk with players of your caliber.  Making $2.5 million, does that make you appreciate it more?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Does it make me appreciate?  
 
Q.  Is it nice?  Is it helpful, sort of give you a greater appreciation that it just doesn't always flow in because it didn't flow in for a few years? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  You know, I'm not sure I really understand what your question is.  
 
Q.  Most players, the superstars, make a lot of money, then they stop.  Then they realize maybe what it's like not having it come in.  You've kept on, went down, all of a sudden it came in big time last year. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Okay.  Yeah, you know, I've never played for money.  That's not what motivates me.  You know, I mean, I don't even know how much I made last year.  It's not really an issue for me.  Of course, we all need it to live.  I think I'm very blessed, overly blessed, with what I do and how much money I guess I make.  You know, I just want to actually use those finances in the best way possible, and also be able to bless other people, as well.  
 
Q.  She said something after the match that seemed to make you laugh.  Can you share that with us?
 
MARY PIERCE:  Nicole?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  You'll have to ask her that (laughter).  
 
Q.  Has anything changed in the past 12 months as far as just being more relaxed out there?  Is that something that comes with having been around, perhaps getting to the latter stages of your career?  Do you feel sort of like, I don't know, more relaxed?  You talked about being more peaceful, et cetera. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, you know, the peace in my life and just the happiness and joy and all that kind of stuff, not worrying about anything, that just comes with my relationship with the Lord more than -- that's pretty much it.  Being at peace on the court, it all comes together.  Being off the court or on the court, personally and professionally, that's the most important thing for me in my life.  It's really made a difference, changed me as well over the last few years.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT