US OPEN
August 31, 1997
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Mary, pretty well a perfect first set, then it sort of started to go wrong. What
happened?

MARY PIERCE: I think in the beginning I played really well. You know, I did exactly
what I needed to do. I felt Monica wasn't being too aggressive. It's what I expected, you
know. When I played her the last two times I was really surprised, I was expecting more
pace on her balls, her being more aggressive. This time I knew what to expect. Everything
went well. She started playing more aggressive in the second set, even towards the end of
the first set she started playing more aggressive, hit the ball harder, took the ball
earlier. You know, I just have -- just have to give her a lot of credit. Since that point,
she didn't let up. You know, I didn't raise my game to another level that I needed to. I
think also I played the first set really well, I gave a lot in that first set. Second set
my intensity dropped a little bit and hers went up. I think that's what made the
difference. Then in the third set, you know, it was really close. Not much I can say. I'm
still pretty upset at this point. It was just a really close match, even though the scores
don't say so. You know, every point was tough. Just a few shots here and there, the
unforced errors that I didn't make in the first set that I made in the third. You know,
things like that. She had some great serves, great shots on the line. That's why she's No.
2 in the world. I think she hit some great shots. I think, you know, I didn't make the
shots that I was making in the beginning.

Q. So how big a deal was the overrule by the chair on that one line shot in the third
set, your first service game of that set?

MARY PIERCE: Which one?

Q. Her first service game of that set. You were at breakpoint, I think, would have had
the advantage if the chair had not overruled.

MARY PIERCE: I don't remember.

Q. Not a big deal.

MARY PIERCE: I don't remember. There were a lot of bad calls. Some overruled, some she
didn't. You know, it's not her fault. It's the lines people. You can't really rely on
things like that, but they do make a difference in the match.

Q. Monica early in the summer had a real problem closing out matches, no matter how far
ahead she was. Do you sense that she is sort of rounding back into her old mental form? Do
you see she's getting back to that level?

MARY PIERCE: Yes and no. I mean, when I won the first set, I really felt like -- you
should never say you have the match won. The example is today. I really felt that her
intensity -- not her intensity, just like her will. Her serves were like ten miles per
hour slower. I hit a dropshot, she didn't run for it. There were a few times I felt,
"Stay on top of her, don't let her back in." I made a few mistakes, she got back
in, then she got going into the match. Once she is on a roll, she doesn't let up.

Q. You played Monica as far back as 1992, how does her game now compare with what it
was before the stabbing?

MARY PIERCE: I would say basically her serve has improved. But overall, you know, she's
not as aggressive as she was before. I think, you know, she tends to just let the ball
drop a little bit. I mean, she still hits amazing shots, but it's not like before.

Q. What do you come away from this game with in terms of what you feel you may have to
work on now or what you didn't do that you may have wanted to do this time around? 

MARY PIERCE: That's a tough question for me to answer right now. You know, I'm going to
go back and probably watch the match. You know, there's a lot that I can learn from it.
You learn more from your losses than your wins. But, you know, right now I'm still pretty
upset, so I'll think about it later.

Q. Mary, in five of the times you lost to her, each one has been so incredibly close.
Has there been some sort of common thing that you think back through all those matches?

MARY PIERCE: I guess basically it just came down to she won the important points, the
ones that counted, just a few shots here and there basically.

Q. Anything shot-wise or stroke-wise, you think?

MARY PIERCE: No.

Q. Mary, what kind of effect did Seles' breaking you early in the third set have on you
emotionally or mentally, when she went up 3-1?

MARY PIERCE: Well, I mean, it's not always good to be down 3-1, 4-1 in the third set.
It's not really over. I kept telling myself not to worry what the score was; just to fight
for the point, to stay in there till the end, anything can happen.

Q. Mary, players speak about winning the important points a lot. You obviously have won
a lot of matches in your career and have won those important points. But when you're
playing a top or an elite player, what's the difference for you mentally when you're going
for a shot down the line or when you're being a bit more defensive? Do you feel different
at all or is she just hitting a better ball when she has to?

MARY PIERCE: What's your question basically?

Q. My question is: Why do you win the important points in your earlier round matches,
but when you're playing a higher seed, why is it more difficult?

MARY PIERCE: It's more difficult. It's natural. You're playing against a better player,
a higher level. That's why we're at the top. There's only a little difference from all us
girls at the top. The ones who win more of the points, important points, are one, two,
three. That's what makes the difference. "Why" is the question. I don't have the
answer.

Q. Mary, all the attention that's been given here to the teenagers, you're still only
22, do you feel like you've got something to prove now that you're still here, still
around, still got a lot of good tennis left in you?

MARY PIERCE: No. I mean, I never feel like I have anything to prove to anybody or to
myself. I think I'm very fortunate to do what I'm doing. I love to do what I do. Have a
lot of fun, train hard, look forward to playing my matches, tournaments, traveling. I just
go out there and give it the best that I have, you know, try to win every time.

Q. Nevertheless, you've had a game which probably is worthy of a semifinal. Must be
disappointing to go out this quickly when some of these other girls are still around.

MARY PIERCE: Yeah, it's pretty tough. I mean, it's probably one of the toughest
matches, I guess I'm in third round, that there is. But that's just the way the draw was.
You know, unfortunately that's where I was seeded at this tournament. Just how it happens.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT