US OPEN
August 29, 1997
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Well done.

MARY PIERCE: Thank you.

Q. Were you requesting what I thought was reasonable, a default of your opponent?

MARY PIERCE: Well, I didn't know exactly like what had happened. Then when I had heard
what happened, I thought the rule was a default. But then I learned from the chair umpire
that it's up to the referee to make that decision. So they decided just to give her a
warning. I didn't see what happened, so.

Q. You didn't see it?

MARY PIERCE: No, huh-uh. That's why I was real curious. All of a sudden the chair
umpire said, "Play suspended." It's not raining. The only time in my career when
we had suspension of play was when it rained.

Q. Suspension comes from the referee?

MARY PIERCE: Yes, from the referee.

Q. Do you think she should have been suspended?

MARY PIERCE: I can't comment. I didn't see what happened.

Q. I mean default.

MARY PIERCE: I don't know.

Q. Saw you make a very nice volley a couple of times.

MARY PIERCE: Thank you. I've been working on that quite a bit lately, in the past
month, coming into the net more, volleying more. I'm pretty happy. I think I did that
pretty well today. I could have done more of it in the first set. But, you know, already
for me to have as much as I did today I think is a good step, so.

Q. Think that will make life easier for you?

MARY PIERCE: Definitely. I mean, it finishes the points off a lot quicker, a lot
sooner. So it saves my body and my arm, not having extra shots. You know, saves energy.

Q. Mary, sometimes your body language almost says, "I give up," even though
we know you don't. How did you pull yourself out after making some unforced errors and do
so brilliantly the next few shots?

MARY PIERCE: I guess you could say that I'm an emotional player. I play a lot on my
instincts and my feelings. Maybe it's a good thing or bad thing. Sometimes it's a bad
thing, I guess. I try to use it all towards a positive energy. I guess that's about it.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT