US OPEN
August 26, 1997
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 VERONIQUE MARCHAL: Questions for Mary. 
 
Q. Comfortable first round for you?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah. I'm pretty happy. You know, I think playing against Gigi, it's
important to stay concentrated, make some good first serves and return well and pass well.
Those were my goals for today, I guess. I think I put my shots in well, I think I served
well. I think Gigi missed a few easy shots. Then again, that's what happens sometimes.
That's what she can do sometimes. I just basically tried not to let her get back into the
match, especially second set she started to come back a little at 3-1, 3-2, almost 3-All.
I just tried to stay focused. When you have a match that's pretty easy like that, you can
lose concentration for a little while, a girl can get back into it. Just tried to stay
focused. 
 
Q. Do you feel almost like it's a new tournament here because it's so different to what
it's been in the past, almost like a new facility?
 
 MARY PIERCE: It actually does feel a little bit different, especially since I didn't
play here last year, I was injured. For me not to be here a year, then to come and play in
a totally different facility, it does seem really, really different. It's a lot more
enjoyable. For me it seems like there's more open space, less hectic, less stressful. It's
pretty nice. 
 
Q. Is it like settling into a -- like when you go to a tournament for the first time,
takes a while to settle in? Do you get that kind of impression here?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Not really. I think more or less just kind of knowing where everything is,
kind of walking around and knowing where the locker room is, players' lounge is, just
things like that. 
 
Q. How much better has Martina Hingis played than the women's field over the last
several months, and if you could describe what it's like for the rest of the field to sort
of be pursuing Martina the way she's playing?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I think Martina has improved a lot over the years. I remember playing her
here in her first professional tournament in Switzerland where I beat her the first time I
played her. You know, the first few times I played her, I beat her. Lost to her the last
few times this year. She's definitely been improving more and more. You know, she's a
very, very difficult person to beat. You have to really be on and be focused, be
aggressive. I think it will take someone with an aggressive game to beat her. 
 
Q. Mary, that is a new outfit you're wearing?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Uh-huh. Yes. I've been wearing shorts since Wimbledon. It's just a
different color and a different top, just for this tournament. 
 
Q. Is it going to be a different color every day?
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, this is it (laughter). 
 
Q. It's an unusual color. How do you describe it?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I think it's Chili Pepper Red. 
 
Q. Did you choose it?
 
 MARY PIERCE: No. The designers did. I saw it way beforehand, before I wore it. They
choose it. 
 
Q. Do you like it?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I like it, yes. It's different. I think it looks good on someone who is
tan. You know, I think Mary Joe also the other day, she had on like blue and I think it
was green, blue and green dress. On her it looked great, dark skin and dark hair. You
know, it's summertime, the sun is out. I think those are good colors. 
 
Q. For someone who is interested in fashion, do you get to put any input into the
designs, suggestions?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yes. I get to meet with the designers a few times a year and talk to them
about a lot of different things: colors, styles, materials, things that I like, don't
like. I feel pretty fortunate to be with Nike. 
 
Q. Is Chili Pepper Red to your liking?
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, it was their idea. 
 
Q. Mary, how do you feel about the state of your game right now?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I feel pretty fit, you know, fairly healthy. I've been working pretty hard
over the last months trying to get used to the hardcourts. It was a hard transition for me
this time. Why, I don't know for sure. I think I got such in a good groove in the clay in
Europe, that it took me a little while to get used to the hardcourts here. But I'm really
starting to feel very comfortable out there. I'm just going to take every match at a time
and see what happens. 
 
Q. Mary, what do you feel about all the media attention that Venus Williams is getting
at this stage of her career? She's only won a couple of matches in the Grand Slams. She's
older than Martina Hingis. There's a huge amount of interest in her. Do you think that's
justified, and is it good for her? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: It's hard to say. I mean, our lives are out there in the spotlights, from
you guys. I would say it's really hard. I mean, it seems like she's having fun out there
no matter how she does, so that's the most important thing. You know, not having really
played any matches ever before becoming a professional, not playing a junior competition,
it's extremely hard. You lose a lot of experience. I think that shows a little bit in her
matches here on The Tour because, you know, I didn't even play that many junior matches
either. I only play two years of juniors from ten to 12 years old. That was only two years
of match experience before I turned professional. I turned professional when I was 14. I
feel like I'm learning every day. I think maybe it was because of that lack of competition
when I was younger. So to answer your question more specifically about the media and
stuff, you know, I don't know what to say to that. I guess a lot of people saw her playing
and thought she was going to be a great player and put a lot of hype into her, like you
guys do with other players like Jennifer, players like that. So it's nothing new, you
know. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT