XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 26, 1996
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Mary, did you feel you were mentally ready for this match or was there a concentration problem or any kind of motivation problem?

MARY PIERCE:   No, not at all.  I don't know, it was kind of a weird match, I guess.  I started out fairly well in the beginning.  I was up 2-Love and just felt like -- I guess today my serve wasn't there, and I missed a lot of easy forehands that is usually my favorite -- one of my favorite shots.  So that was really important.  I had a lot of easy shots and I missed those.  Just felt like I made a few mistakes when I shouldn't have; not to make her play enough; didn't make her move enough - just things like that. 


Q. You have played before with Ines Gorrochategui?

MARY PIERCE:   No, that was the first time today.


Q. What do you think about Gorrochategui?

MARY PIERCE:   Well, I know Ines' game.  I have seen her on the tour before, and she has a really good game.  And she can be a dangerous player if you let her be.  She has a good serve, and she got quite a bit of first serves in today,  so that made it a little tough for me to try and attack her serve.  She has solid groundstrokes, and she is a fighter, so she really didn't give me any chances.  I gave her all the chances throughout the whole match, and that is really hard to win a match against anybody that way. 


Q. Were you tight or sore at all?  Were you having cramping problems?  You were stretching a lot towards the end of the match. 

MARY PIERCE:   Just my stomach was getting a little tight, that is about all. 


Q. You have had a bit of an up-and-down year.  I imagine some disappointments, particularly in the Grand Slams.  Can you explain why things haven't been very consistent for you?

MARY PIERCE:   Well, if I would have found the answer already, then that wouldn't -- I don't know.  I mean, I guess, there is probably a reason for it.  Probably maybe a few reasons for it, I don't -- I guess there are -- not really much I can say to that question because, you know, I figure that everybody is human and you can't always be 100%, especially tennis.  It's a pretty tough season, you have to practice and be ready every day.  You have to be on top of it every day, and I guess that is kind of hard.  And I think I had a hard year last year, even though I won the Australian Open and won the tournament in Tokyo.  I had a very hard year mentally.  It was very stressful for me.  So, you know, I feel like I have been  practicing well the last few months, and feeling like my game is starting to come back together again.


Q. Mary, can you explain for me, you are born in Canada, you live in United States, but you play for France.  Can you explain me that, please. 

MARY PIERCE:   How many times have I been asked that question? 


Q. The first time I asked it of you. 

MARY PIERCE:   Didn't read much about me yet, have you? 


Q. I admire you.  I follow you.  I went to Australia when you were there. 

MARY PIERCE:   Oh, okay.  I was born in Canada, Montreal.  I have lived there for about five, six months; moved to Florida; lived there for -- you know, I grew up there and moved to France when I was 13.  And because the Federation was helping me to practice and everything and I started playing Federation Cup at like 15 or 16, so I have been playing for France ever since then. 


Q. What is your usual language?

MARY PIERCE:   English is my first language.  It is more natural to me.  I learned French when I was 13, but I have no problems communicating or anything.


Q. You can speak frequently with both languages?

MARY PIERCE:   Right.  


Q. Did you feel fairly confident in the third set when you had her at 5-All; you had just broken her and you were serving, you looked like you were just dominating the match.  Was there a change?  What happened?

MARY PIERCE:   Just was not making as many mistakes before, that is just all.  There is nothing special, you know, about it.  If when I was winning or if I was losing, I mean, it was just, you know, me making my shots, playing a little deeper or doing more with the ball.  That is all, really.


Q. Did the momentum kind of change after that wild rally when you were both at the net --

MARY PIERCE:   That was probably the point in the match.  That was the most important point of the whole match.  It was kind of stupid, I was on the forehand side of the court and hit a backhand.  I didn't know why I bounced it in the first place.  I should have taken it in the air.  That would have given me the break and I would have served for the match.


Q. You had another breakpoint after that, had you just sort of lost the momentum by then; you couldn't capitalize on it?

MARY PIERCE:   No, I kept trying even when I was serving, trying to even it out; get back into the match, but.....


Q. What did you expect of the Olympic games?

MARY PIERCE:   What did I expect?  


Q. Yes, about your matches, what did you expect?

MARY PIERCE:   What do you mean? 


Q. How far did you expect to go?

MARY PIERCE:   Every tournament I play I try to do the best I can.  I believe in myself and I think I have the best game in women's tennis and I think I have proved that to everybody and to myself that I can win big tournaments, but, you know, I go in having the confidence.  I don't put pressure on myself saying, okay, "I want to win this" or "I should win this."  So I just take every match as it comes. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT