WTA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 13, 1995
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Mary, was it where you couldn't find any consistency tonight

MARY PIERCE:  Well, maybe that was one of the things. I think -- I just felt very heavy, and my legs weren't moving well at all.  I just felt like nothing was really there tonight.


Q.  Is this a disappointing way to end your season after it began with such problems in Australia?

MARY PIERCE:  Well, I can't say I'm happy about it. So, it's probably disappointing.  Maybe it's more surprising than disappointing.  I started the year really well.  And I've had a really tough year.  Even though I won a tournament last month in Tokyo.  I was hoping to be able to play well and play well here and finish the year good.


Q.  Does it sometimes seem like you're struggling more with yourself, or at least as much with yourself, as your opponent?

MARY PIERCE:  I don't really know, I couldn't answer that. 


Q.  You said you had a problem with Anke, what is it about her game?

MARY PIERCE:  She's a tough player.  She's very aggressive, hits hard from the baseline.  She handles my pace well, and not many girls can.  That's why I get surprised or not ready for some of the shots she hits back.


Q.  Do you think you're hitting harder today than you were a year ago?

MARY PIERCE:  I don't think so.  Maybe -- it's hard to say, I'm not playing as myself.  So it's hard to know how fast my balls are going.  Maybe they're going stronger and heavier, because I'm getting stronger every year.  But I think I'm hitting the ball just as hard as I did when I was 12 years old.


Q.  Mary, as you say, it's been a tough year, why do you think you've sort of stood still since the Australian?

MARY PIERCE:  Well, I think the easy explanation is I got injured.  And I also got sick twice.  So I was never really physically at the top.  And to play percent on my game I have to be physically at the top.  It's very demanding of my body. But that's really the only reason why.


Q.  Looking to next year there are rumors that some players might not play the Australian Open.  Do you have any thought about that in your mind?

MARY PIERCE:  I think those are all rumors and talk.  You know, I think that the players want to make a point and stand strong for womens tennis.  But I think hopefully at the end there will be a better solution for that.


Q.  What's your personal opinion about maybe womens winners not getting as much money as the men?

MARY PIERCE:  The winners in the final will get the same as the men, it's just the rest of the rounds they don't. What can I say?  We've increased our prize money for this year.  But if you're equal with the men and then, you know, the next year you're not, of course we're not going to be happy with that, especially when womens tennis is starting to do so well again and create so much excitement, maybe more than the men.  So it's a little surprising.


Q.  What's the status of your lawsuit --

MARY PIERCE:  Excuse me?  I'd rather not talk about that, thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT