U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1995
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you tell us what happened, Mary?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, let us see. I think first of all, I have to give Amy a lot of
credit. She played a great match. Because given the circumstances today, the wind was
really tough, for me especially. It was swirling a lot. So I never felt that I could get
used to it or get my rhythm or, you know, just get in the groove with my strokes at all.
So I think I made way too many mistakes. 
 
Q. Mary, you broke her in, I think, in the first game of the second set after she was
up 40-Love -- then you ran, you won your serve at Love and it seemed as if the kind of the
tone and feel of the entire match had changed at that point. Did it seem that way to you,
and did you think you were kind of on your way at that point?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, the first set was totally like I was swimming up creek. Nothing was
working. I was making -- missing all my shots that I was going for. Then after the first
set, I felt like I started getting used to it a little bit, and I started feeling at least
I was playing a little bit better; second set was better. It was close. I felt I probably
could have won the second set. Then hopefully start feeling better, better in the third
set.  
 
Q. Mary, given the reception that you received when you walk on court at Roland Garros,
did you get the sense that the crowd was wildly with her, particularly, at the end; is
that a little tough for you because you are part American as well?
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, not at all. I felt that there were people out there cheering for me
too, so.... You know, those are things that me, personally, as a player, doesn't consist
of winning or losing a match if I have got the public behind me or not that is just bogus.
If they are behind me, it is even better, so... 
 
Q. Seemed like you were missing your forehand a little bit long. Was that due to the
depth of her shots or were you just...
 
 MARY PIERCE: Just my forehand? Wow. I wish it was just my forehand. I think I was
missing everything, my forehand, backhand. I think, you know, like I said before, she
played a great match. She played deep. She didn't make that many errors which was tough
today with the wind. I just tried to keep fighting for every point and tried to get in the
groove and stayed down and stay with the ball and keep it in play, but it just didn't
work. 
 
Q. Starting the season the way you did and ending it this way, can you just assess --
 
 MARY PIERCE: I think the season is not over have got --. 
 
Q. The Grand Slams --
 
 MARY PIERCE: I have got five tournaments left. Well, yeah, I am really disappointed, I
have to be honest, because I started the year off better than I expected. And the rest of
the year didn't go as I expected. So it is a little bit disappointing; especially for here
which hard court is a good surface for me and I like to play here in New York. You know,
for me losing the third round is just -- unexpected for me personally, from my
expectations. I really felt like I was playing well, working hard, and I felt like I was
ready.  
 
Q. Why do you think it is that you have these days when you are just there and play
great tennis and then there are days you just seem to be out of it, hitting a lot of
errors?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I don't know. I hope to find the solution soon, so I don't do it anymore.  
 
Q. Is there something that you can work on with Nick or anybody else to try to get more
consistency? What can you do about it?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I don't know.  
 
Q. Mary, going into the match, what did you think of Amy Frazier; what was your opinion
of her and how did -- did you know what her game was going to be and --
 
 MARY PIERCE: I played Amy once two years ago in Philadelphia, lost the match. I think
she won in three sets. I think, so, I mean, I knew that it was going to be a very tough
match. I knew that she was going to be ready, and I knew that the way she played today was
the way she was going to play. So, you know, just more on myself, I never could get my
rhythm. 
 
Q. You said the rest of the year could never go as well you as you expected after
Australia. What were your own expectation for the rest of the year?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, I mean, after winning the Australian, which was just like
unbelievable which I didn't expect, it was like a dream come true to win my first Grand
Slam tournament, the very first major of the year. It was just amazing when you win
something like that; then you start to believe that you know you are finally ready to be
able to at the top and play consistently week in and week out and be in the top with the
other girls, and then the injuries and ilnesses I got made it hard for me to do that, so
now I have been feeling well for the past two months, that is why I was really excited to
play here.  
 
Q. Even though the tennis starts well, sort of tails off, how would you rate 1995 as a
year in your life?
 
 MARY PIERCE: Not bad. Not bad. Pretty good, I can't complain, I guess. It has been
okay, but, you know, little bit of -- not pain and suffering, but I mean, when you are
sick and you are hurt, you can't really training or practice, that is probably a little
tough to deal with too.  
 
Q. Who do you pick to win the tournament?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I like Amy to win -- no, I am just kidding. I don't know.  
 
Q. Why not? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: That is hard to say. I mean, it is really hard to say. There is Steffi,
Conchita, Arantxa, there is probably a lot of other girls out there that I can just go on
and say lots of other names. It is hard to say.  
 
Q. You were seeded 6th here, so you should have gotten to the quarters. Would you have
been happy just get to go the quarters or in your own mind would have been --
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, got to the quarters last year, I think, so I was counting at least to
do that well. But you know, when I go to every tournament I have the confidence that I
believe I have the game that I can win the tournament, but I don't think to win the
tournament. I think to just go out there and try play the best every match. 
 
Q. Amy says she feels very differently; she doesn't go into any match thinking about
winning or losing or upsetting or anything else. She just sort of goes out to play. Is
that the difference between you as a top 10 player and a champion and Amy as somebody who
waffled around the 15 to 20 mark?
 
 MARY PIERCE: That is hard to say. For Amy, personally, I couldn't really compare us or
other players, but I mean, maybe in general, I mean, there is something different in the
players in the people like Monica, Steffi and Martina and Chris Evert; that is why they
were the top, that is why they are No. 1. There is something different in them than the
other players which is obvious. That is what makes them a champion. I think if you go on
the court and if you have the attitude to just go out and play and don't care if you win
or lose, I mean, that is good, you probably are never nervous and you don't really care;
it doesn't matter, but I think at least, me, personally, I go on the court and I really
think I mean, I want to go out there and win and play good, and I just get really excited
about it. 
 
Q. If Australia was a dream, what is this?
 
 MARY PIERCE: What am I supposed to say, nightmare??  
 
Q. You could say whatever you want. 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Let us leave it at that.  
 
Q. What is it like after such a tough loss like this, and going out and playing mixed
doubles especially with a fun loving guy like Luke?
 
 MARY PIERCE: I don't want to think about it today. I am glad in a way that I am not
playing mixed today. But, you know, it is going to be definitely fun.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT