AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2006
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  It's been a long time since you won an Australian Open title, but you made two finals last year.  Do you think you have a realistic prospect of winning again here at Melbourne Park?

MARY PIERCE:  I hope so.  You never know.  I come into every tournament confident, feeling ready to play, eager to compete.  You know, why not?  You never know what can happen.  The field is very open.  There's a lot of strong girls playing well.  There's a lot of depth in the game.  You never know.  We'll see in the end of two weeks. 

Q.  Looking at the draw, having all 20 of the top 20 players in there, you've been on the circuit for a long time, can you remember a time when a Grand Slam tournament has been so open with so many potential winners in it?

MARY PIERCE:  No, not really.  Like I just said, it's really open, but at the same time we have so many girls that are playing so well.  It's going to be really exciting, I think, to actually see how the tournament unfolds.

Q.  What do you think of Martina's comeback? 

MARY PIERCE:  I'm happy.  I love Martina.  Played doubles with her for a year in 2000.  Had a great time.  I'm personally just happy to see her back because I missed her.  I enjoy her.  I'm happy for her. 

Q.  Where do you think she fits into the pecking order at the moment?

MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  I haven't seen her playing, you know, lately.  Beginning is always tough more physically.  Mentally, as well.  It's tough in the beginning to come back.  I think in about two or three months it will be easier to kind of tell.  She's a champion.  She's a great tennis player.  Like I said, it's pretty open right now, so it's a good time actually for her to be coming back, seeing if she can be back in the top again. 

Q.  What are your goals for the new year?

MARY PIERCE:  Just basically it's always the same, not because it's just a different number of the year or day, every day for me is pretty much the same.  I always try to improve my game and myself as a person.  Just do my best and see what happens.  Of course, you know, I can tell you specific things like I did last year ranking-wise, tournament-wise, things like that.  I think those are kind of secondary.  If I always do my best, everything else will kind of follow.  Of course, I have goals.  Of course, I have dreams in a certain way.  I'd like to be No. 1.  I've never done that in my career before.  And play well at Wimbledon.  Hopefully make a finals there in singles.  I've never been in the finals in the singles in that event.  Kind of looking for new experiences, things that I haven't done in a career of I guess 17 years, and to have firsts that are still achievable is exciting and motivating.

Q.  Grand Slams are so hard to win.  How far do you need to go in the next fortnight for this tournament to be successful?

MARY PIERCE:  How far do I need to go?  What do you mean? 

Q.  In terms of like, is making the quarters a good tournament?  Is it all or nothing?  Unless you win... 

MARY PIERCE:  Well, no one likes to lose.  Everyone wants to win, every person that's here competing in this event.  And there's only one that comes out a winner in the end.  That's just how it is.  I know there's a plan already set in place for me.  As long as I just do my best, that's all I can really ask of myself.  I enjoy it.  I love what I do.

Q.  What can you tell us about your record against Nicole? 

MARY PIERCE:  The only thing that I can remember is last time I played her was in Canada, and I won that match.  I think it was over a year ago.  That's all I can think of tennis-wise. 

Q.  In all the talk about injuries, you've certainly had your fair share.  Everybody is trying to figure out what is wrong, what they can do.  You think back to before you started to get hit, '98, '99, still fairly healthy, do you see anything you could have done to avoid what happened after that?

MARY PIERCE:  No, not at all. 

Q.  You think you did the max to prevent everything that ended up happening?

MARY PIERCE:  Yeah.  I always believe that I'm always doing the best I possibly can all the time.  There's nothing I can think of.  I wouldn't do anything differently. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT