U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1995
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How do the courts here compare to the Australian?

MARY PIERCE: Well, first of all, it is a different surface. Australia is a bit softer,
and it is a little slower and its bounce is a little bit higher. But you know, I really
like hard court. It is a lot -- it is a good surface. There is no bad bounces and stuff,
so it is a surface that I feel very comfortable on.

Q. There is a lot of excitement over the return of Monica Seles among fans. What about
her opponents, her potential opponents?

MARY PIERCE: I don't know. Like another players --

Q. Yourself and the other players?

MARY PIERCE: For myself, my opinion is I am happy to see her back. I think first of
all, like everybody says, "great for women's tennis." Of course it is great for
women's tennis and I think it is great for the competition of the players themselves.
Because I am looking forward to hopefully having a chance to play against Monica. You
know, we played three times before her incident and I lost each time, but our last matches
were a little bit close, so for me as a player, I would be very excited to play her again.
So I think it is good. I am glad she is back which means that she is mentally and
physically healthy, so I mean, that is just a very important thing.

Q. Were you surprised at the ease with which she won that first tournament back and
would it surprise you to see her do as well here?

MARY PIERCE: Yeah, honestly, I was surprised to see her win her first tournament back,
but I wouldn't be surprised if she won here because I think of what she has done, you
could say "Monica is back." Not playing a tournament for over two years and
winning the first one is impressive. That just shows you how much of a champion she was,
is, and will be because, you know, I think she has one of the strongest mentalities I have
ever seen probably for a tennis player.

Q. How happy were you with your game today?

MARY PIERCE: Not too pleased, actually, the first set. It was, you know, really
difficult, the wind, it was swirling around and Mariaan was playing well. She was hitting
some very, very good first serves. I felt I wasn't serving that well today the whole
match. Second set, I felt I started playing better from the baseline; played a little
deeper and aggressive; that is why it was a little easier the second set.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT