VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 19, 1994
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Mary, do you feel just a little bit overwhelmed by it? 

MARY PIERCE:  Not at all, not at all.  It might have looked that way, but, today was kind of -- I don't know, it's hard for me to swallow this match a little bit.  I'm a little bit disappointed.  I just felt from the very beginning I was never really into the match.  I didn't have the energy as I did when I played Steffi and it was also tough for me to get into it.  Lindsay played so well, hit the ball so deep and so hard, it was hard for me to take the initiative on the points. 


Q.  Lindsay talked about the fact that she had everything to gain and nothing to lose, coming into this match; would it seem like more of the pressure was on you?  Was that on your mind that you were maybe in a little harder position? 

MARY PIERCE:  Not at all.  I had a great tournament, here coming to the semis, I beat Steffi so anything I did from today on, was like a bonus, so, I didn't really think about that at all. 


Q.  Is it difficult to come out and play the next match after you've had a really big win as you did against Steffi? 

MARY PIERCE:  Not really, because I've been able to do that before.  I don't really know, you know, today I was a little surprised, I never really felt like I got into the match. 


Q.  Mary, do you feel like you've lost this as opposed to Lindsay winning it? 

MARY PIERCE:  Well, no, I'd have to say a little bit of both.  I wasn't in there, and I made some mistakes; I was moving a little slow; but I have to give Lindsay credit because she was there playing so deep and hitting the ball so hard and she never let up and she just played really well. 


Q.  How would you sum up your year as a whole now that it's over? 

MARY PIERCE:  I'm glad you asked me that question.  I think this year for me has been a great year.  You know, if I -- think back on it, I had a lot of good times and I think I've learned a lot on the tennis court and also off, and I think '94 for me was a great year. 


Q.  Can I ask you to be a little specific in what you've learned? 

MARY PIERCE:  I think I've gained more experience in my matches and I've learned that, you know, the tight points you need to stay calm and that's when I do my best.  To not take things so seriously; to enjoy myself on the court and also off. 


Q.  Mary, you really challenged her serve in the last game of the first set and she still held; was that demoralizing to you? 

MARY PIERCE:  I think that was a turning point in the match that could have changed things in the first set when she was up 5-3.  I could have gone to 5-4 and had a chance, I think, and then I would have served, so, I could have gotten to 5-4 in the first set that and would have changed a lot of things. 


Q.  Mary, where do you go from here?  You made strides this year five finals this year, semifinals here, what do you expect the next level will be for you? 

MARY PIERCE:  Maybe to win the finals next year.  I'm just going to take a little break-- and train really hard this winter and get ready for next year. 


Q.  Is there a part of your game you'd like to improve to reach that? 

MARY PIERCE:  I would to say I want to improve everything.  The main things are still my serve and definitely my footwork. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT