VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 17, 1994
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  The new quarter back? 

MARY PIERCE:  No, it's nothing really, just my shoulder is a little tight. 


Q.  That must feel pretty sweet? 

MARY PIERCE:  Very, very good.  I was extremely excited.  I was so happy after winning that match tonight, I just felt -- I felt so great, I felt that I was moving really good and I felt like all my shots were working well. 


Q.  I thought the difference tonight and Paris was that you were much more patient tonight; you probed for the openings rather than just blazing away all the time? 

MARY PIERCE:  I don't know, in Paris I think I played really, really good, but today, I was focused and very determined and I really wanted to win the match tonight.  I told myself I'm going to try to do the best I can and play the best I can to win tonight and, you know, not to get upset if she hit a good shot or anything. 


Q.  Is this more satisfying than Paris? 

MARY PIERCE:  I think so -- well, you know, I can't really say that because playing in Paris, winning and beating Steffi there was unbelievable because I was playing in the French crowd, but I think this one was also great because, you know, I kind of did it two times instead of one, and it's always good to be able to do that. 


Q.  Having now done it twice, does it seem less unbelievable to you? 

MARY PIERCE:  No, because, you know, to beat Steffi is a very difficult thing to do.  You have to really be playing well and it's a tough thing to do.  So every time I can beat her, is -- it would be a great match for me. 


Q.  Is there any part of your game tonight that you were especially happy with?  It seemed like you were just nailing one backhand after another. 

MARY PIERCE:  I'm basically happy with everything I did, and because, you know, I really wanted to serve well it was important for me to get first serves in and start to attack her second serve which I think I did pretty good.  You know, I'm just basically really happy with my whole game tonight. 


Q.  This is getting to be a favorite venue, a couple of great wins last year-- 

MARY PIERCE:  I love playing here.  The crowd, they're really into it, really having fun; different than any other tournament and I really enjoy that.  So maybe that's one of the reasons I play so well. 


Q.  Mary, a year ago you come in with no wins over a top ten player; this year, two now, it's two wins over the number one; can you take us through what's happened during the year? 

MARY PIERCE:  I think I've changed quite a bit on the court and off the court, you know, I'm enjoying things a lot more in my life and I'm enjoying tennis a lot, having fun.  I've worked really hard physically, so I'm in better shape.  Also I think those things make a big difference. 


Q.  Can you explain how radically different this match was from the match with Coetzer? 

MARY PIERCE:  It was like night and day, actually. Yesterday I felt like a totally different person than today, today I felt like the real Mary, and the real Mary was out there tonight; an awful of energy and I was concentrated the whole time and yesterday I was -- I felt very slow, lethargic, wasn't concentrated, I felt tired, but, today I just felt really good. 


Q.  Did you follow Nick's advice? 

MARY PIERCE:  Sorry. 


Q.  Did you follow Nick's advice? 

MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, I talked to Nick this morning and also my other coach, Sven and I played Steffi once before, so basically I knew what to do.  Just play my game. 


Q.  The first set especially did you feel like you were in the zone? 

MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, you could say that throughout the whole match, actually.  Being in the zone I would have to say is when you're really mentally focused, very determined that you don't really notice a lot of the things outside, that I just see the ball coming to me and I think that throughout the whole match I was doing that really well. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT