VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 16, 1994
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Mary, the same question I asked Amanda, what made the difference in such a close match? 

MARY PIERCE:  I think at the end I seemed to play a little better and make fewer mistakes than I did in the beginning. 


Q.  Mary, do you come away feeling better that you fought your way through it or are you disappointed about the 49 unforced errors; how do you feel coming out of it? 

MARY PIERCE:  I probably have to say more or less I'm kind of unhappy the way I played, because, you know, I feel that in practice, I'm playing well, but in the match, you know, I think a lot has to do with my physical condition right now.  I don't feel 100% healthy, so it's tough to play your best tennis that way, but again, it's always good to see if you're not 100% that you can pull out some matches. 


Q.  Is it a cold that you're troubled by? 

MARY PIERCE:  I had a flu last week. 


Q.  It's still bothering you? 

MARY PIERCE:  I'm just coughing a little bit, but basically I don't have any symptoms of the flu. 


Q.  Mary, obviously you had that great win at the French Open, has it been a little difficult to live up to expectations of what you did then? 

MARY PIERCE:  No, not really.  You can't really think about those things because it's true that ever since that tournament, everybody expects me to play unbelievable and to win all the time, and for anybody, that's impossible because we're human, so, basically I don't talk about that.  I just try to think about my game and try hard and improve and play the best I can for every match. 


Q.  Mary, you seemed to dispute a lot of calls tonight and you had the caution late in the match; did you get a sense of feeling that that unnevered her; the way the match ended seem as if she did feel that way? 

MARY PIERCE:  That Amanda felt how? 


Q.  That it unnerved her? 

MARY PIERCE:  I don't know, I didn't pay attention to how she was. 


Q.  Mary, is there a particular reason for all the errors in the first set? 

MARY PIERCE:  Like I said earlier, I think it's my physical conditioning because I don't feel I'm moving as well, and when you don't move as well you don't get to the ball and set up well enough to hit the ball, especially for me, and-- because a lot depends on my foot work. 


Q.  Did you try as many dropshots to try to get those points over quickly? 

MARY PIERCE:  No, not actually, because I tried to do that to keep Amanda kind of guessing a little bit because she was playing pretty far behind the baseline and, you know, she was getting my shots, so I had to try to hit dropshots sometime. 


Q.  Obviously the highlight of that run in Paris was the defeat of Steffi.  I know you've played since in Montreal, but you are playing here on another big occasion -- 

MARY PIERCE:  I'm very excited.  I'm happy I got through my match tonight and I get a chance to play Steffi again.  I always enjoy playing against the top players.  I played Steffi once since the French Open on hardcourts outdoors in Montreal and I lost, and, you know, to beat Steffi, I really have to be playing well, and very focused, you know, hopefully tomorrow, I'll be feeling a little bit better, and you know just try to play by best. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT