U.S. OPEN
September 7, 1994
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What went wrong, Mary? 

MARY PIERCE:  Things, but not too much.  I started off kind of slow in the beginning of the match, and that's something tough to do because I knew Jana was maybe a little nervous, so, you know, I mean she just played a great match, have to give her credit.  She played real-- really tough.  I was surprised she stayed on the baseline as much as she did.  I thought she'd come in more and she played tough, never gave me free points. 


Q.  Was it discouraging when she was returning all of your best shots? 

MARY PIERCE:  A little bit.  I was hitting really -- I thought I was hitting great shots, and she kept hitting them back and deep.  So it was really hard for me to finish the point. 


Q.  Do you feel you're a better tennis player than you were in Paris? 

MARY PIERCE:  Sorry? 


Q.  Do you feel you're a better tennis player than you were in Paris? 

MARY PIERCE:  At the French Open? 


Q.  Yes. 

MARY PIERCE:  No, I don't think so.  I would not say that.  I'm not as happy about how I played here the whole tournament except the match against Majoli the other day.  That's the only match I really felt close to the French Open.  I think at the French Open I was playing a little better than here. 


Q.  Was Jana playing that well or was it mostly frustration on your own part? 

MARY PIERCE:  It was a mix of both things, of her playing really well and of me maybe being a little impatient was because she was getting so many balls back. 


Q.  There was a couple line calls you objected to at 5-4 in the first, did that have a carryover effect when those calls didn't go your way? 

MARY PIERCE:  No, because I've learned not to let those things bother me anymore.  You know, it's just so tough, I was down 3-Love and came back to 3-2, fought back from Love-30 to 30-All and, you know, and then  give away to miss two returns two of the shots, you know.  It's kind of tough when she was up 4-2 and you had a chance to go, 3-All and same thing, you know, 5-4 had a chance to go 5-All.  Yet those are games that I think before that I would convert, you know, that I would win those games.  I think  that's the difference in the match. 


Q.  Given her history and when you came back to 3-2, did you think you had a fighting chance at that point? 

MARY PIERCE:  Definitely.  I mean, even when I was down 3-Love, that's why I started coming back. So, it definitely would have changed things in the match if I would have-- even things out at 3-All or 5-All. 


Q.  Is that the best you've ever seen her play from the baseline? 

MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, I mean, she usually just doesn't stay on the baseline very much that I know of. She has good strokes from the baseline, but she always used to come to the net a lot, so, you know, she played really well. 


Q.  If she would have played that way against Graf, do you think -- 

MARY PIERCE:  I don't see why not, if she plays as well as she did again against me today, I think she'll give Steffi a good match. 


Q.  What took you out of your game, dropshots, hitting the ball soft, was there ever a point where you were saying "Maybe not today I'll move on and leave this match behind"? 

MARY PIERCE:  No, never, uh-uh. 


Q.  It kind of looked that way? 

MARY PIERCE:  It did? 


Q.  Yes. 

MARY PIERCE:  When? 


Q.  Middle of the second set. 

MARY PIERCE:  No, I mean, I just tried different things, because you know I kept hitting the ball and she kept hitting them back and playing well and seemed to be in a rhythm and I thought I had to change the pace a little, hit some high balls hit a little short or hit in some dropshots. 


Q.  Mary, you're represented by IMG, you are to be aware of IMG's thoughts regarding women's tour, aborted thoughts, what are you thinking about that? 

MARY PIERCE:  I have heard about it, but I really don't know enough yet to be able to, you know, answer any questions or to give you any answers about that.  I don't really know enough yet. 


Q.  Are you satisfied with WTA tour as it is now? 

MARY PIERCE:  I mean, yeah, I really don't see anything that I'm not satisfied with.  I just go out and play my matches, basically.  I'm not into very much the politics of what's going on. 


Q.  At this point of your career, in the progress that you've made, obviously, no one goes into a big match today thinking something like this might happen, but especially the second set, does that kind of come out of the blue or did you have some sensation early on that things haven't been okay lately and something like that might happen? 

MARY PIERCE:  I know that I haven't felt like I'm playing my best, but you always think that, you know, you might wake up the next day and everything is going to be okay or you're hitting better.  I am a little disappointed.  Like I said before, I tried, there wasn't much I could do and Jana played a great match. 


Q.  She's a very experienced player, did she outthink you there today?  Did you feel like she outthought you on most of the points? 

MARY PIERCE:  No, I don't feel like she outthought me.  I did play a couple of stupid points, which now, when I think about it, I knew I shouldn't have done it, but during the match, I guess I wasn't thinking very much. 


Q.  As you came back in that first set, did you ever think that she's had that one big fold at Wimbledon last year, that maybe she'd get tight again or does she have -- did you have any thought about her getting tight? 

MARY PIERCE:  Well, I mean, no, that really didn't come into my mind, but I do know that sometimes she can get nervous.  But those are the kinds of things you hope happen, because you can't rely on things like that to happen if you want to win a match or things like that.  So, you know, I really try not to let those things play in a match. 


Q.  But you -- there is a -- does she have a reputation by the other players-- do know that she can get tight? 

MARY PIERCE:  Everybody is human, everybody can do that, I guess. 


Q.  Have you had a chance to talk to your father this week? 

MARY PIERCE:  Uh-uh. 


Q.  Has that been tough? 

MARY PIERCE:  Can we go to French questions, please? 


Q.  You passed up opportunities to come to the net; if that you wanted to replay, in hindsight-- 

MARY PIERCE:  I could have maybe tried to come to the net a little more, but a couple of times I did, I didn't win the points and that didn't discourage me, but, I mean, I did try to come in a couple times. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT