U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1994
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Were you expecting a tougher match against that particular opponent? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, I was because I played Iva the last time last year indoors and it was a pretty tough match, but I think I just played really well today.  I felt like I was moving great.  I feel like this is the best match I have played so far in the tournament.  
 

Q.  Mary, since you have been working with Nick, what things in your game have improved and what has changed and how do you feel out on the court? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, I think that tennis has become, you know, my first priority in life, but also something very fun for me, I am enjoying it a lot.  Nick and I have been working a lot on my serve, also with Sven on my footwork, and my forehand a little bit.  You know, just basically everything.  Those are the main things.  
 

Q.  Do you feel like your game has improved? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I feel like I am playing more consistently better.  I am not mentally -- my mind doesn't wander as much.  I think I am more focused.  
 

Q.  How much do you think-- the fun you are having out there and everyone can see it, how much do you think that helps your consistency? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  A lot.  A lot.  Because you know, tennis is very difficult and very demanding mentally and physically, so if you make it easier on yourself you can last longer and you don't go out there some days and you are kind of tired, oh no, whatever.  So, if you really go out there and enjoy it, don't take it too seriously, and, you know, just go out there and every day I look forward it to.  I think that helps a lot.  
 

Q.  Along those lines, what is it like to play doubles with a Jensen brother? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Unbelievable.  It is so funny.  I mean, I played with Luke at the French Open.  I am playing with Murphy here.  You know, I know the whole family.  They are great people, and just to play with them.  It is lots and lots of fun.  It is great to be able to play matches like that in a Grand Slam tournament.  
 

Q.  What have you learned from playing with Murphy? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  What have I learned?  I don't know.  
 

Q.  Have you learned to maybe enjoy it a little bit more? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I have already been enjoying it before I have been playing with them.  I don't think I am enjoying it just because I am playing mixed doubles with them.  I kind of learned to joke around a little bit and probably just joke around while we are playing.  
 

Q.  A year half ago if someone said you will zip into the quarters here and you will be smiling a lot and in a good frame of mind, what would you have said? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I would have said, "I hope you are right."  I mean, it is hard very, very hard to say what can come in the future in tennis because you never know what can happen, you know, physically if you are still in shape and who comes along. There are a lot of good players.  I guess you just have to take it -- take the opportunities as they come.  
 

Q.  The WTA is considering raising the age limit for the women to play.  What are your views on that? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, I get this question asked quite a bit, you know, so it is very easy for me to answer.  It is for me, I don't really feel that there should be a certain age because I think that if the girl is good enough, I don't see why not -- don't waste her time and her talent and not let her compete against the pros.  I think it is more for her to develop her game.  But I feel strongly that they should stay in school until they graduate from high school or if they are in Europe, whatever, high school they are in, but whatever age they are, they can only play a certain amount of tournaments.  If they are like 13 or 14, maybe three, four tournaments, something like that.  The older they get; the more tournaments they get.  
 

Q.  Do you feel like you went in too early? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  No.  I don't honestly think I turned pro too early.  I just think that maybe I played and travelled here round too much and I didn't really have a home to come back to or base.  I think that is something really important when you are young.  
 

Q.  Has the Sports Illustrated story played a part in your life?  There was a recent story about tennis which, of course, has had a lot of impact on tennis.  Have you seen any changes since that article was published, are people? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Which article?  
 

Q.  The cover story on Sports Illustrated magazine which said "Is tennis dying."  Maybe you were overseas. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think I was.  I didn't read that, sorry.  
 

Q.  You are seeded fourth here.  Do you feel like -- has it hit you yet that you are now one of the top a players in the world? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I mean, yes and no.  I kind of feel I guess -- first of all, I haven't really realized yet.  I don't think it has sunk in that much yet. I do feel that I am capable of being in the top five.  To stay there, it is something very difficult.  You have to consistently play well, and that is something that I think I can do.  But it is not easy.  
 

Q.  It hasn't sank in.  Is it something that maybe you weren't ready to -- Nick has said in the past that he didn't feel you were ready to accept being a No. 4 or No. 5 until your game caught up or mental attitude caught up with you. Do you feel that is true? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, that is true because it comes with a lot of responsibility when you are in the top five a lot of the other people, you know, young girls, younger people, look up to you and you have to consistently, you know, behave and play well, and that is something that comes with maturity and experience.  I am only 19, so I have only been on the Tour for four, five years, so...  
 

Q.  Who is the one person that has the most positive influence on your life and why? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I probably have to say that would be my mom because basically she has been with me my whole life and in my tennis career.  Probably the person that I am closest to and my best friend; she has helped me a lot.  My mom has been there you know, when I needed her all the time, so she has really helped me.  
 

Q.  What would winning the U.S. Open mean to you?  Would it means more than winning the French Open or how does that balance out for you right now? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Gosh, winning any tournament would be just great for me, but you know, I think my dream is to win the French Open one day, but definitely, I would definitely try my best to win here for sure.  So. . .  
 

Q.  Do you think in English or French? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think probably 99% of the time English.  Sometimes in French.  It just depends.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT