U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1994
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Mary, Wiesner said that you played unbelievably well in Montreal, but she had
noticed a difference in all three rounds in your confidence and said it has been reflected
in a little bit more shaky play. Do you feel that is true and do you have an explanation? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, I think I played well my first match -- except my second match it was
very windy, so conditions were very difficult. I wasn't feeling well. Today I didn't think
I played that well. So I think today was the first day I was little bit unhappy with the
way I played. I have to gives Judith credit because she played a tough match. She played
-- let ball very deep, that was also very difficult for me to attack.  
 
Q. With all those many breakpoints there that you faced, did you know that when you had
to, when you absolutely had to, you were able to come up with the big shot? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah, I think that made the difference in the match. That is the
difference from the top players to the other players-- is when it comes time where you
have to win the point, you have to make the shot, the better player comes up with it.  
 
Q. Your father has been giving out interviews in the press criticizing your second
round match. Did it affect you at all? Did it not in some way? Do you pay attention to it
knowing that he coached you as a child and that it still has an effect on you? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, honestly, because I don't really read the press too much. So didn't
know about that.  
 
Q. You did not read it? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: No.  
 
Q. Has your game changed; he says that some of your strokes have been changed by Nick
Bollettieri; do you feel that that is true? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: None of my strokes have changed at all. I have just worked on my serve. My
serve has changed a little bit. I think it has worked better than before.  
 
Q. You did move? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: True, not as good as I can.  
 
Q. How would you compare this U.S. Open experience so far with those past, the respect
or the feelings from other players toward you as the fourth seed and the whole experience
in general? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: I think the difference with the players-- really, I don't think there is
really a big difference. I get along well with all the other players. I think they respect
me more and I respect all of them just as much. And I think the only difference has been
just when I play with the crowds, the crowds have really been great, really been
supporting me.  
 
Q. Do you feel the confidence that you felt apparently during the French; do you feel
that here or are you still getting your stride? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: I mean, I feel it, but it is a little bit different. I mean, I just felt
so great playing and moving around on the clay court and I think that is just the
difference. I don't feel like I am moving as well on these hard courts because you have to
take a couple of extra steps. You can't really slide into the ball as you can on clay
courts. I think I just have to get used to it.  
 
Q. Mary, I understand is that you said if you were to do it over again you would have
gone back and finished high school; could you comment on the age eligibility rule that is
under consideration now? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah, well, I have answered that question many times. For me it is a
simple thing to answer. I feel that, you know, there shouldn't really be an age where the
girls are allowed to turn pro or not. I think that if she is 12, 11, 15, 16, however hold
she is, if she is the best junior or the best player in the world at that age, I feel that
it is a shame to just to waste that talent and not to play and compete against the top
pros. So I really don't feel that there is any age, but I do think that the kids should
stay in school because you are only young once. You should be able to enjoy those things
when you are young not to try to grow up to soon, but only be allowed to play only certain
number of tournaments. If you are 13 or 14, only maybe three or four and if you are older,
more tournaments.  
 
Q. You do regret not having gone further in school? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: I don't regret anything. I just might have thought it would have been, you
know, fun, or a little bit better because you grow up so fast on the Tour, you have to
mature so much sooner.  
 
Q. I would just like to ask one more question. There has been a lot of talk not only on
your part, but about many players having fun on the court. When you are a 4th seed or an
8th seed and you get out there and you get down a break, is it still fun? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah, I mean, well, you can't really say, yeah, you just have to keep it
fun. You can't take it too seriously. You have to know that you are giving it your best
and that you are trying and just to enjoy it.  
 
Q. Is that the biggest thing you think you have learned since your experience at the
French, to relax a little about your results? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah, I feel that you know, playing at the French Open was a really
unbelievable experience for me in my tennis career. I think I will never forget it. That
really helped me to learn that I play my best tennis when I am relaxed when I am just
trying to doing my best and enjoying it.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT