U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1994
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Everything seem to change in the second set. 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah, it sure did. She played really well. I mean, the conditions were a
little bit tough, it was very windy, so you had to adapt almost every time you changed
sides, but she really never gave up she played very, very deep and her forehand, she had a
lot of good shots-- my shots I kept on missing few inches every time, so...  
 
Q. Were you guys trying to fool with the wind, too, sometimes loop the ball a little
bit; what was going on there? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, I was doing that a little bit to try and change the pace because she
was really hitting the ball well and so I didn't want to keep doing the same thing. She
had a good rhythm.  
 
Q. What about the cramps, stomach cramps? Was that what it was? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: I don't know what it is with my stomach. I might have probably just ate
too much before I went out and played.  
 
Q. What did you eat? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: I just had pasta.  
 
Q. It seemed to me you two looked an awful lot alike. You both got on white dresses,
you're both blonde, you both had the same color bandana; did you ever get the feeling
you're playing yourself? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, her backhand is a little different than mine.  
 
Q. How well are you playing, Mary. 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, I feel great, great shape and I feel, you know, in practice that I
was a little sour, but tonight it's hard to say how good I'm playing because the
conditions were very tough. It was very windy, so I wasn't happy about how I played
tonight, though.  
 
Q. Do you feel you're playing well-- have played well enough to really challenge and
contend here? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: My first match I thought I played pretty well. I just have to play a
little better than tonight, but I feel I'm concentrating well.  
 
Q. At 2-1 did your trainer give you something to try to settle your stomach? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yes, I couldn't tell you what it is. I don't know what it was. These
little chewy things, like Sunburst.  
 
Q. Why didn't you play a lot this summer and do you think that was part of a plan or
was that because of -- 
 
 MARY PIERCE: I felt that after the French I needed a little bit of a break and, you
know, I don't regret anything. I enjoyed every day that I had and I think I spent them
well. I took a little rest and also worked very hard in Florida.  
 
Q. Mary, would you say the courts are playing fast or slow; and are the balls heavy or
light? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: I try not to pay too much attention to those things. The courts aren't
very fast. They're medium, I would have to say, and the balls, I mean, just like when it's
windy, they were flying a lot tonight. But I like the balls, actually, a lot.  
 
Q. You said on the television you have to play with your instinct? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yes.  
 
Q. What is your instinct? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: My instinct is just when I'm out there and moving and see the ball coming
to me, I don't really think, well, she's there, here's the ball, let me hit over there.
It's like I already know and I just hit the ball and it goes there.  
 
Q. You seemed to be playing to the crowd a little bit at times, like high-fiving a
member of the audience; is that something you've done much in the past and is that
something we can expect to see more of? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: I haven't done to much of that in the past. I feel more of my personality
of how I am off the court is coming more on the court. So maybe those are things,
hopefully, that you'll be seeing more in the future, because I really enjoy it out there
and I have fun and it's nice to know and feel the crowd is having fun too.  
 
Q. Any chance you'll stick around and watch Mr. Personality out here now? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: It's close to my bedtime.  
 
Q. What time is bedtime? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: 10:00.  
 
Q. Mary, in your free time do you enjoy playing any other sports just for fun? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yes, I do, actually when I'm done at the tennis academy in Florida I play
basketball a lot with the guys and some girls there, I ride bikes, a little bit of soccer.
 
 
Q. Can you win here; can you win this? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Can I win --  
 
Q. Can you win the tournament -- 
 
 MARY PIERCE: I understand the question. Those are tough questions. Do you want me to
say "Yes"? I'm not going to say "No." I have confidence in myself, but
I'm not going to say "Yes." There are too many girls playing too well.  
 
Q. Did you come in here for the first time with expectations or hopes of actually -- 
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, I never do. I come to every tournament wanting to win, but not
thinking I'm going to win or lose. I just go after every match and concentrate and give it
my best and that's basically all. I don't really think I'm going to go out there and beat
Gaby today, or lose to Steffi, I just think I'm going out there and see who I'm playing
and I just try to win. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT