U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1994
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What did you think about the quality of the game today? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: I thought we had some really good points. It was -- I had a lot of fun out
there. I think in the beginning, I think Andrea made quite a bit of mistakes. After that
she really started to play a lot better.  
 
Q. Are you happy with the way you played? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah. I mean, for a first match, I think overall I did okay. I made quite
a bit of stupid errors, had some easy shots and just overhit hit, tried to go for it too
much. Overall, I am pretty happy.  
 
Q. Mary, it has been a little bit of a long Grand Slam layoff. Do you have to remind
yourself that, hey, this is a Grand Slam again? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, not at all. I mean, everything about New York and this tournament
reminds me of it; lots of people, and it is really busy. Just kind of hectic so it is kind
of like a feeling of a Grand Slam, so I am used to it.  
 
Q. When you look back now on Wimbledon -- you think about the French, look back at
Wimbledon, are you sorry in any way that you didn't play it? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: That I didn't play Wimbledon?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, not at all. I don't regret the choice that I made because at the time
being that it was the correct thing to do.  
 
Q. Do you feel like there was no decision; you didn't have any choice at all? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, I thought that I -- I digested all of the issues at the time. I
thought at that time I made the right decision.  
 
Q. What have you been doing? I know you played the Canadian and Fed Cup. What are you
doing to work on your game right now? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, I took quite a bit of time off which I needed, and then I have been
working very hard physically, try getting in better shape and get quicker and work a lot
on my serving.  
 
Q. What did you do during that time off? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Basically, most of the time in Florida at the Tennis Academy in Bradington
training.  
 
Q. It wasn't a vacation? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: No, hard work.  
 
Q. Mary, why did you decide to drop from Wimbledon? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, I like to tell you that I had that question asked me many times
since then and I have said the same thing every time. I have said that I have done an
article about it and I really prefer not to talk about it anymore because it is more or
less in the past. I have had a lot of things in the past that I like not to go back to. I
feel like I have been playing really well; I am finally getting the good press that I
like, and I just kind of like to turn the pages on those kinds of things off the court,
and on the court and basically look more at the positive things in my life.  
 
Q. Has your life changed since the French like kids' reactions to you? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yeah, I mean, it has a little bit -- actually a lot. I mean, a lot of more
people have come up and wanted to talk to me; get my autograph; a lot more people
recognize me, so I mean, it is is a bit more demanding of myself.  
 
Q. Think you can win it all here? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: That is a good question. I mean, I like to be able to say yes and then I
win it, but it is not easy as that. I feel that I am in good shape. But you know, there is
a lot of other players that are playing really well. It is not easy. I am just going to
try take every match as it comes and play my best.  
 
Q. When you look at a draw that conceivably puts you against Steffi at a major stage,
does that help had you tremendously? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, I mean, I beat Steffi at the French Open on red clay but I played
her just recently two weeks ago Montreal hard courts. She is definitely a more-- she is a
difficult player to beat on hard court. I think that is her best surface. For me to beat
Steffi on hard court I really have to be physically in good shape and very concentrated
and for every point because she doesn't give away points.  
 
Q. You said you want to concentrate on the positives in your life. What is the most
positive of all those positives? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: The most positive of all those positives? Nothing special really stands
out. I think basically everything in my life, being surrounded by people who I really love
and who love me and who are taking good care of me, and I think that is the most important
thing.  
 
Q. Mary, last year here you lost fairly bad. What is the difference between Mary Pierce
and the player who we saw last year and today? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: I probably have to say Mary Pierce last year was also in very good shape,
but I am a lot stronger now; a lot quicker, and I am playing a little bit more smarter,
you can probably say, I really -- also there is another factor that I don't have many
things bothering me right now so I am more relaxed.  
 
Q. Talk a little bit about today; how you feel you played? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Well, I feel that -- I felt that I played pretty good. I made a few stupid
errors, but for the first match I am very happy.  
 
Q. Do you have any feeling about what your national Grand Slam is, like this as opposed
to the French? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: My what?  
 
Q. National Grand Slam, which Grand Slam do you feel more of an affinity for? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: It is hard to say. I'd probably say the French Open right now the way--
just probably because I did so well and I also played for France so it is more of a home
feeling probably and the crowd really supports me very well there.  
 
Q. How did you find the crowd here? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Today actually I thought this -- that they were great. A lot of people
were out there cheering; pulling for me, so it was a good crowd.  
 
Q. I hope I am not repeating some question which was asked. You weren't at Wimbledon
this year? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: That is correct.  
 
Q. Special reason for that? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: Yes.  
 
Q. Can I have your side of the story? 
 
 MARY PIERCE: I am sorry but he asked me that question before and I already answered
that. Thank you.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT