FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 2, 1994
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Just the difference between the first  set and those last two, very easy time in the  first set.  What happened?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  I played great in the first set, like I  have been playing.  I guess, after that, I ran out  of gas a little bit.  Today I woke up -- I mean, I  was feeling a little bit sluggish, a little tired,  a little sore, but I mean, Natasha, she just came  out fighting.  She never gave up.  She played  really, really well.  She played some good shots  from the baseline and just started to dropshot  me.  I had a little -- I had a tight muscle up  here in my legs.  It was kind of hard for me to  move a little bit quicker.  I was about 2 steps a  little slower today, but I can't take anything  away from Natasha, she played really, really  well.   
 

Q.  What happened during the timeout, what  were they working on during the --  
 
MARY PIERCE:  I have a muscle right up here, top of  my leg that was a little tight.   
 

Q.  Will it affect your doubles play?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Hopefully not.  I only have to cover  half the court.   
 

Q.  Do you have any sort of a let-down  after winning the first set so easy, do you think?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, not at all.  I mean, just  physically I am a little bit tired, but I tried to  keep playing.   
 

Q.  Is it fatigue due to having played so  many matches?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, I mean, it has been about two  weeks I have been playing singles and doubles and  I have been playing a lot of matches.  I mean, I  feel fine.  I am in good shape.  I am not tired.  I think it was just just my muscles got a little  bit tight, a little sore, so that makes you a  little bit slower.   
 

Q.  That started happening after the first  set; do you know when they started tightening up  on you?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, they were tight ever since this  morning.  The more and more I kept playing, the  tighter they kept getting, so I continued  stretching; you only can stretch so much.   
 

Q.  Did it surprise you that she dropped  shot you so much?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  No.  Because she was smart.  She saw  that I couldn't -- I wasn't moving as quick-- she  knew, from the baseline; she had to change it up a  little bit.  That was really smart.   
 

Q.  I know that today has to be  disappointing for you, but this week has been good  for you?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, I am not too disappointed about  today.  I played really well and feeling very  confident.  I mean, Natasha played a great match.  There is not much I could have done.  I did the  best I could under the circumstances.   
 

Q.  The upset factor that has been going  on, is that something you were thinking about at  all before the match?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  No.   
 

Q.  Seemed like you had in the second set  there were like five breaks in seven games.  Didn't seem like either of you could either grab  hold of the second set?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, I wasn't holding serve too well  in the match.  The second set was really close;  came back; it was 2-All; then 3-All.  The second  set was really close.  I could have won the second  set.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT