US OPEN
September 10, 2005
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Mary, please.


Q.  You obviously touched Kim very much with what you said to her after the match based on, you know, her comments in the ceremony.  Without asking you to divulge what your remarks were, your thoughts on Kim as a champion.

MARY PIERCE:  She's a great girl, you know.  She's a champion.  She's been No. 1 in the world, now she has a Grand Slam title to her name.  You know, I'm happy for her.


Q.  How much did the leg injury inhibit your play?

MARY PIERCE:  Not at all.


Q.  You're not just saying that?

MARY PIERCE:  Oh, no, no (laughing).  Not at all.  I was able to get through my match against Mauresmo, able to get through yesterday against Elena.  It was not a factor why I won or, you know, lost today.


Q.  To have gotten as far as you did, I know it's hard to reflect at this particular point, but can you take some positive from it?  I mean, you performed so well here the last two weeks.

MARY PIERCE:  Thank you. Definitely.  Of course, uhm, big disappointment right after the match, even during at certain times.  But that lasted for a few minutes and, uhm, you know, then I just really have everything in perspective in the big picture of things.  You know, there's always a reason for everything.  I firmly believe in that, and it's always for the best. Maybe it's not exactly what I would like at the time and when I would like it, but I believe strongly in that.


Q.  When you broke and then held serve to get to 3-4 in the first set, it probably was - hate to say it - your high point of the match, but did you feel you had momentum at that point or did you feel it would be extremely difficult to beat her still?

MARY PIERCE:  You know, I knew in the very first game, when she came back to 30-All, I knew it was going to be tough, a very tough match.  She's got a different style than any girls I've played against this week, or these two weeks.  You know, haven't played Kim in over a year and a half. And, you know, last time I lost to her was completely different, you know.  It was indoors and I was a different person, player, I guess athlete you could say, at that time.  So I came in probably expecting something a little bit different and, uhm, you know, I knew it was going to be a tough match in the first game when she got back to 30-All, so...


Q.  She's essentially the same player that you played against before her injuries?  Is there anything different about her on the court since?

MARY PIERCE:  I don't really see anything different.


Q.  Amelie had said after she played you that she felt you were as confident as you've ever been in her estimation.  Did you have that sense of self-confidence in this match?  Did you come into it, or did you feel it leaving you at times?

MARY PIERCE:  You know, not really.  I don't think anything really had to do with that in particular.  You know, before this match, I felt really good, you know.  I was ready for it, I was looking forward to it, I really wanted it. And, you know, just today was definitely not my day.  And I'm looking forward to see the tape, watch the match and see the stat sheet, very curious about my unforced errors. But, you know, I give all the credit to Kim because today, you know, she was obviously the better player; that is why she won.  She made me play bad, I guess you could say, because she is quicker than all the other girls that I've played so far.  She got another ball back every time.  And even when I would hit a good shot that usually would either win a point or set up a winner for the next shot against other girls, you know, Kim would hit another ball back and, you know, I'd know I'd just made a mistake. That was basically how I felt how that match was going.


Q.  Do you believe she's the best defensive player in women's tennis?

MARY PIERCE:  If not the best, one of the best, definitely, yeah.


Q.  How does Kim's quickness compare with all the other players on the tour?  Do you classify that as her greatest weapon?

MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, Kim is fast, you know.  There are fast girls out there on the tour as well, but, you know, Kim is just solid, you know.  I think she gets real far behind the baseline and she slides, even on hard courts, and gets balls back.  And not just get them back but, you know, hit a fairly decent shot, and deep. So, you know, I would definitely say that that is probably her strength, yeah.


Q.  Overall, this year, in terms of Grand Slam finishes, this was the best overall year of your career, even though you didn't win one, but the two runner-ups and the quarterfinal.  Is this a starting point for you at age 30?

MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  I thought it was going to be an ending point if I won it, but I guess not.  I guess this is a key point, right (laughing)? You know, it's just been amazing.  It's just been a great year, especially this summer since the French Open.  Since then, you know, I've only lost, you know, two matches basically. So I'm feeling really good, and I think I'm playing well.  You know, I just really feel like having a break right now, and not thinking about anything to do with tennis for the moment.  Then figure out -- well, obviously, hopefully my next goal for the rest of the year that would motivate me would hopefully be to be in the championships at the end of the year.  So hopefully to do well in other tournaments to hopefully do that.


Q.  Are you serious about that, if you had won this, would you have walked in and said goodbye?

MARY PIERCE:  Oh, I don't know.  I mean, I don't know.  I really just keep playing because I feel like that's what I should be doing right now with my life. Once I feel that I should be doing something else, then I will do that.  But, obviously, I'm supposed to keep playing some more, so I'm not done yet.


Q.  Obviously, players go through this a lot.  Do you find what Andre's doing at 35 astonishing?

MARY PIERCE:  You know, I really, in a sense, in a way, I don't.  Because it's all -- the only thing I think is that we talk about, is age.  And it's a number.  You know, I'm 30; he's 35.  I really don't put an age on anybody, you know.  Because even there are some kids that are doing great things at a young age, you know.  So I think we look at age a lot and, you know, maybe, maybe not, that makes a big deal or not. But, you know, Andre is fit, probably as fit as he's ever been.  You know, he's playing great tennis.  It's an amazing ball.  So I'm not surprised that he's doing so well.


Q.  When you consider Kim at 22 and she's playing so well, I know it's hard to speak for other people, but talking about possibly leaving the game in two years, how does that strike you?

MARY PIERCE:  Hey, you know, it's her life.  She can do -- she can live it however she wants and whatever makes her happy, you know.


Q.  You think the pressures on tour for somebody right now are different than, say, eight years ago?  Do you think it's greater?

MARY PIERCE:  It's definitely different.  It's changed a lot.  It's a lot more intense, it's a lot tougher, the competition's tougher week in, week out.  It takes a lot out of you mentally, physically, emotionally.


Q.  After the match was over, did you see Kim climb up to the fence box on the rail?

MARY PIERCE:  I did.


Q.  What were your thoughts then?  Did you think she might hurt herself?

MARY PIERCE:  No, not at all (laughing).  She's a great athlete.


Q.  Pretty good athletic feat, though.

MARY PIERCE:  (Nodding).


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT