FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 1, 1994
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mary, how big a win is this for you?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think it is probably a really big  one, I could say.  I mean, I just feel so happy, I  feel so great.  In the first set I played great  tennis.  Second set, I didn't play too badly, made  just a couple much more mistakes than I did in the  first.  Then the third set I just told myself to  try and really stay calm and to keep playing  aggressive.   
 

Q.  Did you get nervous towards the end?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  A little bit at 4-1, but I told myself  to try and stay calm because when I get nervous is  when I don't play my best tennis.  It wasn't easy,  but I think I handled it okay.   
 

Q.  Mary, the momentum swing between the  second and the third set just seemed tremendous.  What was --  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, in the third set, after I lost  the second set, I told myself to stay really  positive and to just keep playing my game, keep  playing aggressive and not to worry, and just to  still enjoy it, to have fun in playing.  I think  the second set I started to get a little bit too  serious about it.  That is when I made a couple of  more mistakes, but in the third set I was just  really concentrated.   
 

Q.  Also it didn't appear that she was  maybe running as hard after some of your shots;  did you feel that way, or --  
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  I mean, I was really  focused on my side of the court more.   
 

Q.  Mary, how exciting is this for you?  I  mean, huge win, how do you feel?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  I just feel great.  I mean, I just feel  so happy.  I just worked really hard when I --  last month for four weeks at home in Florida and  hard work pays off.  I just feel so happy because  it is a great feeling.   
 

Q.  Any danger of getting so high on this  emotional trip that you won't be concentrated or  focused enough for the upcoming match?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, I don't think so because, you know,  I had two good wins in New York in Virginia Slims  Championships, and I kind of enjoyed the day and  just savor the match and enjoy it.  Then when I  wake up tomorrow morning, I'll just start over  like a new day.   
 

Q.  Have you seen Majoli play before?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, I have played Iva, I think, once  before.   
 

Q.  What do you think of her?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  I mean, she is playing pretty well.  I  know she is aggressive from the baseline, a tough  player, you know, I just have to go out and play  my game and stay concentrated.   
 

Q.  Surprised she beat Davenport?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, not really.  I mean, I know Lindsay  plays really aggressively and hits really hard  from the baseline.  I know Iva hits kind of high  top spins.  I think Lindsay wasn't as patient,  maybe made a few errors.   
 

Q.  In the second set - strange - you had  the overhead to go to a game point and looked like  you just -- you didn't put it away, and has that  really switched things, that was the point where  everything switched around and --  
 
MARY PIERCE:  There was a few points where I didn't  pick the right shot and execute it correctly and  Arantxa won the point.  That, of course, gave her  more confidence, so.   
 

Q.  Then in the third set, she had a game  point and hit a forehand long and that is when you  took off.  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  Sort of strange?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  All those little points can make a big  difference.   
 

Q.  From the standpoint of satisfaction,  you had the big wins at the Garden, what about  this one in relation -- this is a big tournament  and --  
 
MARY PIERCE:  I mean, this is just as good, I mean,  maybe better because I know this year I didn't  start off too well.  I had two really bad  tournaments earlier this year, and I went back  home, like I said; worked really hard and just a  great feeling to know it pays off.   
 

Q.  What did you work on while you were at  home?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Everything.  I mean, on the court; my  serve; my footwork.  Off the court, getting  stronger physically, you know, everything.   
 

Q.  What did Arantxa say to you after the  match?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Nothing, really.  I don't think I knew  what to say or she didn't either.  She just, you  know, shook my hand and gave me a kiss on each  cheek.   
 

Q.  What ran through your mind; you fell  back, looked towards the sky, what was running  through your mind?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Nothing, I just said "yes."  I mean, I  was just -- just happy that I finally won.   
 

Q.  You really mixed your shots up a lot.  Easy shots, hard shots, is that normally the way  you play?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, not really, but I think that is the  way that I have to start to play a little bit more  because all the girls are getting used to my game  a little bit that I am hitting the ball so hard.  So when I change the pace up and then if I hit a  few drop shots and then when I hit my ball hard,  it is more effective.   
 

Q.  How do you feel about your chances of  winning the tournament now?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  I just have to go  tomorrow and concentrate and play the best that I  can for tomorrow's match.   
 

Q.  You mentioned talking about trying to  enjoy the game more even when you are out there  competing.  Is that something new that you are  learning as well?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, sometimes I get a little bit too  hard on myself and too serious.  When I make one  mistake, I start to get a little upset; then I  might make a few more mistakes.  I just have to  realize that nobody is perfect; I am not like a  robot, so I can't make all the shots.  Just to  stay relaxed and just to enjoy playing.   
 

Q.  Mary, at a time when the U.S. tennis,  women's tennis is kind of lulling a bit - Jennifer  is out; Martina is talking about retirement; there  is Lindsay coming up - you played for France; how  do you see yourself in the context of -- do you  think of yourself as a U.S. player?  Where do you  put yourself in that --  
 
MARY PIERCE:  I played for France.  I have played  Olympics, Federation Cup two or three times for  them.  So I am playing for France, but I mean, you  can't really say that I am American or that I am  French because I live most of my time in America.  I mean, I don't feel either/or because I have been  travelling so much.   
 

Q.  Have you ever lived full-time in  France?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yes, I have.  I have lived in France  when I was 13.  I lived there for about a year and  ever since then, excluding this year I have been  living there for about four months out of the  year.   
 

Q.  Were you surprised at how the crowd got  behind you?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Why should I be surprised?   
 

Q.  I am just saying Arantxa seems to be a  big favorite around here?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Sure, but I think a lot of times the  crowd pulls for the underdog too sometimes.  I  have had that happen to me.  I mean, they see how  hard I am trying and I think that they enjoy not  just -- I think they enjoyed our match and thought  it was exciting.   
 

Q.  When you were growing up and  developing, how did you-- mechanics on the  forehand, was that something of just hitting out  or was there something particular that your dad  was working on with you in terms of getting that  whip and that ability to be able to drive it so  strongly?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  He just told me, my father, when I  started playing, just on both sides, forehand and  backhand, hit the ball as hard as I could; take  the ball on the rise, and they would all go out  but eventually he said, "one day, they will go  in."   
 

Q.  To what extent were you tuning out the  crowd or did that help you out?  
 
MARY PIERCE:  Sure, it helps, but also it can make  you a little bit nervous.  When I went up 5-1 the  crowd really got behind me so, you know, I tried  not to listen really to anything or see anything.  I just tried to stay focused on to the court.   
 

Q.  Thank you.   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT