FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 31, 1994
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  It seemed like a tough match, that  seemed like a tough match to put away?  

MARY PIERCE:  Yeah. I mean, I was waiting for a tough  match and in the first set I was playing really  great, and I was moving well, doing everything  right; I was returning serve really good.  But  then I think that Brenda started to play a little  bit more.  She is putting the ball in the court  more, wasn't trying to hit so hard. She was  hitting real deep.  After a while it got harder  for me to attack.  So, at the end, it was getting   -- it seemed kind of close.  


Q.  What about that very last game, I mean,  6 --  

MARY PIERCE:  I don't know.  It was tough.  I wasn't  really nervous.  It was tough to put her away.  I  was making a few more mistakes, but she was  playing the ball well.  She was keeping it deep.  


Q.  With 2 of the 3 seeds gone, does that  kind of open the door for some non-seeded players  from about five to ten, do you feel?  

MARY PIERCE:  I was asked that question earlier.  I  said that, first of all, the girls who are beating  those top players have to be playing pretty well  too to be getting there, so it is not that easy.  Second, I try not to think about that, or look at  the draw too much.  I try to just take each match  that I have as it comes, and play my best.  


Q.  How much more difficult is it with  Schultz; she is such a hard hitter.  Does that  change anything you do to make it more difficult  for you?  

MARY PIERCE:  No, not really.  I mean, I know that  she is going to hit some good shots once in a  while.  I know she will make some mistakes once in  a while also.  So I just have to play my game and  be patient?  


Q.  Do you skip the Key Biscayne tournament  to kind of -- took some kind of long break off;  what have you been doing during that time?  

MARY PIERCE:  I decided just to stay on clay to get  ready for these tournaments and also for the  Europe French Open.  I was in Bradington, Florida  training and I worked really hard.  I put a lot of  hours in and I feel a lot better physically.  I  feel I'm in good shape and that also helps  mentally, gives you more confidence.  


Q.  Can you talk specifically about what  Nick has been helping you with or can you tell  us --  

MARY PIERCE:  I mean, basically I have been doing --  he's helping me a lot with everything.  On the  court, we have been working a lot on my serve and  on my footwork, and I feel like I have improved  that.  Mentally, just believing in myself, and  having confidence, and knowing that I could play  well with the top players.  And to never give up.  And also, physically, off the court, I have been  doing a lot of working out in the weight room, and  running, and doing sprints.  


Q.  What about Sanchez Vicario tomorrow, or  whenever you play her, how do you see that match?  

MARY PIERCE:  That will be fun.  For sure, because I  mean I have played -- the last time I played  Arantxa was in New York.  We went three sets.  I  mean, I feel like I am playing just as well, maybe  better and, you know, I am going to go out there  and try to be patient, play my game and, you know,  see what happens.  


Q.  Was that -- you said New York, was that  the Slims, the Open?  

MARY PIERCE:  The Slims.  


Q.  Why is your emphasis now on clay, do  you feel that is your best surface?  

MARY PIERCE:  No, not really.  I just haven't played  on clay since the French Open last year.  I also  felt like I wanted to get back and practice on it  a little while.  


Q.  Do you like the clay?  I mean, it seems  like it might take away some of your power?  

MARY PIERCE:  I like it.  I like all surfaces.  Doesn't really matter to me.  To me, it is kind of  maybe a little bit more fun because you can slide  around a little bit, hit some drop shots, stuff  like that.  


Q.  Have you set any goals for this year  then?  

MARY PIERCE:  Yeah. Beginning of the year, after I  played so well and finished last year, I said to  myself that I believe that I can finish in the top  five, and I know that that is difficult because  you have to do really, really well consistently.  I know that I have the game to do that, and I can  be in the top five with the other players.  But,  you know, I am not saying it has to be the end of  this year.  I know that eventually I will, it will  just take time.  


Q.  What separates you from the top five  now; do you think?  

MARY PIERCE:  Honestly, I don't think too much.  The  top five, they have been playing on the Tour a  little bit longer and of course have more  experience than I do.  But as far as stroke-wise  and game, I think that I play just as well.  


Q.  Just the experience factor?  

MARY PIERCE:  Yes.  


Q.  It seems like the problems with your  father have been put behind you now.  Is that a  good feeling to start off the year?  

MARY PIERCE:  Yeah, I mean, that was about a year ago  almost now, and I feel very good about myself on  the court and off the court.  And I don't regret  anything.  I think last year was also a very good  year for me.  Decisions I made were not very easy  but I feel good about them and I feel happy about  how things are going.  


Q.  How you did in the Slims last year,  that gave you momentum, you think?  

MARY PIERCE:  I think it definitely did.  Whenever I  would play against the top players it was always  very close, so I was kind of asking myself when am  I going to finally beat somebody in the top 10 or  whatever, and I finally did.  So I think that that  showed myself and also showed a lot of other  people also that they know that I can play in the  top.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT