VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 20, 1993
Mary Pierce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What do you think this tournament does for you, do you believe in having a breakthrough at one week in your career? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I mean, definitely this tournament has been great for me and I mean I've just had so much fun the whole time and, you know, just, first of all I was really happy to qualify and play here, and then to play two great matches like that is just, it gives  you alot of confidence and makes me look forward to next year.  I know I have a few things to work on, so I look forward to that.  
 

Q.  You played two great matches, you don't consider this one -- 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Honestly, not really because the first set was pretty-- you know, it wasn't really that great.  I was making a lot of mistakes and I was a little bit tired, but, you know, I just-- I don't really like to make excuses like that, because if I was on the court, I'm there to play.  But, I mean, in the second set was a little bit better I was more concentrated and the third set in the beginning was a little bit close, but then, you know, Arantxa just played some really well points really good.  
 

Q.  When you say you were a little bit tired, does it make you just marvel at her after last night.  How do you view her? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Well, Arantxa is pretty amazing because I know like in the Grand Slam she plays singles, doubles and mixed doubles so she's always playing.  I guess she's always used to that, you know, I had two matches pretty tough and, you know, I had alot of adrenaline going and I got a little bit tired after that.  
 

Q.  Were you little down, after the win with Sabatini and Navratilova, do you think it was too much of a win? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, it wasn't really too much for me, it was just physically, I guess.  Mentally, I wasn't tired.  Normally, it's kind of opposite, mentally I'm tired, but it was physically.  My legs were a little tired, I wasn't moving as well as before.  
 

Q.  Mary, do you have-- it seems that you don't have a clothing contract at all. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  That's correct.  
 

Q.  Where are you getting your clothes, are you going to Herman's?  I don't mean that derogatorily, I know it sounded that way, but it didn't. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Sorry.  
 

Q.  I don't blame you for laughing. 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Any store, actually.  I guess in France or in the States.  My mom gets them for me.  
 

Q.  Sort of goes into the tennis shop? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Any sporting goods store.  
 

Q.  Do you have to take off the logos? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Sometimes.  She does that.  
 

Q.  Is there anything in the works for a clothing contract? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yeah.  This is this tournament has helped me alot, so hopefully, I'll have something next year.  
 

Q.  Can you put a percentage on your improvement since the U.S. Open? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  A percentage.  I have to say that's kind of tough.  I think my game is probably, you know, just the same.  I think just more or less me being more -- when I'm more concentrated and more focused and able to see the ball better and moving to the ball better, so I don't make as many mistakes and I'm just staying more relaxed in my head and with myself and so when I play those important points, I don't get as tense.  
 

Q.  She described your game, she said to hang in against you, you have to realize that you're going to make some unbelievable shots and then some easy mistakes.  How do you react to that; is it something you can address? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  That's true.  That's what I used to do a lot of times when I played my matches against the top players, you know, never feel dominated by them, always feel sometimes I was dominating them and then I make mistakes and miss some easy shots and I think that's what I'm doing a little bit better now.  
 

Q.  You seem to be enjoying your tennis a lot more than you used to? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yes.  
 

Q.  Is that true? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  That's true, I'm feeling more relaxed and I'm just very happy on the court and off the court.  
 

Q.  A lot of times when you win a big point you do this (Indicating fist) and you tend to do it in the direction of your opponent; is that just to psyche you up and you don't mean to sort of put it in their face? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  No, I don't mean it towards them, it's just for myself.  
 

Q.  It's a psyche-up; right? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Right.  
 

Q.  Having this tournament here come at the end of the year, does it seem like a reward for a weird year to you-- how will you view this year when you look back? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I look at this year as a very positive year, a very good year for me in different ways. You know, I think I started off the year playing pretty well and then in the middle of the year I got sick a couple of times and missed some tournaments, and you know with everything that's been going on I feel that, you know, the decision was the best for everybody and, you know, I'm very happy with how everything is going and I don't think it was-- it was kind of tough at times but I think it probably made me a better person to realize things in life, and just very happy about how everything went and with this tournament at the end of the year it makes it even better.  
 

Q.  Now that this tournament is over for you, what are you going to do? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I'm going to rest for a few days.  I would like to go somewhere for vacation, but I have to go to Europe to play two exhibitions and then I'll be back the whole month of December in Florida, practicing, getting ready for next year.  
 

Q.  Will you stay with the Bollettieri organization? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yes.  
 

Q.  Do you feel more relaxed through these couple of years, more used to the circuit and the life-style style or maybe because you're older and more able to deal -- 
 
MARY PIERCE:  I think a combination of everything, you know, when you first come on the tour you really don't know that much of what's going on. You don't know the players that well and now I've started to make friends with the players and, you know, just feeling very at home kind of with everything.  
 

Q.  Do you think maybe-- and not just you, but some of the people coming out are a little too young? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  You know, that's a tough question to answer, but, you know, I don't think it's that bad for a young girl to come and play on the tour, but I don't know if it is a good idea for them to play a full year schedule.  I kind of believe that, you know, when you're young you should go to school and still enjoy that, going to school and being with your friends, and if you're that good in tennis, to go out on the tour and play some tournaments.  But I don't think you should go the whole year.  
 

Q.  Did you feel a change in the crowd; I mean, not only did you beat two top ten players, but players that traditionally here are extremely popular and today-- it seemed like today the crowd was really in your corner; did you sense a change? 
 
MARY PIERCE:  Yes, I mean, the crowd here I guess they really didn't know me when I first came and started playing here, but after those two matches I guess they kind of liked the way I played and I guess it's kind of exciting for them to watch.  So I felt today that they were pulling for me and that's a good feeling to have.  
 

Q.  Thank you.   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT