JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 27, 2009
Ake Nilsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   AKE NILSSON: It was good. Playing really solid from tee-to-green. After having 34 putts today, I mean, I had five eagle putts today and having three 3-putts. I made some good putts, as well. But yeah, playing very good from the tee boxes and hitting the greens.  
  
  Q. It sounds like you gave yourself plenty of chances.   
 AKE NILSSON: Absolutely. Absolutely.  
  
  Q. On a course you like?   
 AKE NILSSON: Yeah. It's a good course. It's very long when it's wet, and I've been hitting the drives long today, so it makes it a bit easier.  
  
  Q. You almost hesitated there.   
 AKE NILSSON: No, absolutely, I like it, yeah.  
  
  Q. Is it one you're familiar with?   
 AKE NILSSON: It's the first time I'm here.   
  
  Q. Sometimes you turn up a new course, it immediately meets your eye and sometimes it takes a couple of days to learn it.   
 AKE NILSSON: I had a good practise round Tuesday afternoon, and a good session on the range yesterday. Just felt good this morning when I was warming up.   
 Unfortunately I started out with bogey on the first two, and just get the machine going.  
  
  Q. It makes it all the more satisfying when you come in with a score like that when you've had such a poor start.   
 AKE NILSSON: I just hope the weather keeps like this tomorrow as well. I heard it's going to be tough weather tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Gareth Maybin started similar to you. He had a double-bogey at the first but said he didn't get down on himself because this is the kind of course that gives you opportunities. I don't know if you were just so frustrated or thought there's always a positive here.   
 AKE NILSSON: I missed a short putt on the first and I 3-putted the second, and I felt I was playing good, just two stupid bogeys. So I gave myself chances, and 3-putted 12, as well, when the short tee was up in front.   
 And playing with Callum, he was starting out with four 1-putts, and he was six putts less than me in the first four holes, and he had me by three shots. I thought, okay.  
  
  Q. Time to get moving.   
 AKE NILSSON: Yeah.   
  
  Q. How have things been? We chatted when you played particularly well in Italy and you kept it going for a little while. Haven't seen you much since.   
 AKE NILSSON: No. On and off, and been trying. I'm realizing it's probably going to be Q-School for me. It takes a bit of the pressure off the way I'm playing now and just looking forward to Q-School and probably play a couple more Challenge Tour events now. Just see if I can keep this week going and see if we can find something to work with.   
  
  Q. Must take the pressure off because you're almost resigned to the fact that it's a likelihood now, rather than put the pressure on yourself to try to make your card.   
 AKE NILSSON: If I'm exempt for final stage, that's a positive thing now, so maybe I can skip the second stage. Right now it's looking like I'm going for second stage, as well. But just keep the good feelings for three more days here and see if I can do like Oskar Henningsson did.   
  
  Q. Absolutely. There are those chances there, and I guess if you're in a relaxed frame of mind, because you know what could happen, then you can just take everything fairly gently.   
 AKE NILSSON: Yeah, just going to enjoy the week and see what it gives to me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT