NBA DRAFT 2017
June 22, 2017
Lonzo Ball
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LONZO BALL: First off, I'm just thankful for everybody helping me get here, and I'm truly blessed to be able to play for my hometown, and I can't wait to get on the court.
Q. Lonzo, point guards taken 1 and 2, this is a point guard draft.  Can you just talk about how much pride you and the other point guards take competing against one another and how strong this draft is at your position?
LONZO BALL: Yeah, the point guard position is very strong, and it's even stronger in the NBA.  But I know the guys that got here worked very hard and they're all very talented.  I'm happy for them.  I know they're happy for me, and we're all proud of ourselves for how we got here.
Q. Lonzo, you and your family have talked about you being a Laker and it's been a dream.  What was the moment like when it actually happened?
LONZO BALL: It felt great.  You know, my dad was right there, my brothers.  I know mom is watching at home and all the rest of my family.  They're all supportive, and like I said, I'm just truly blessed to be in this position.
Q. What are you feeling right now?  What's going through your mind?
LONZO BALL: I feel good.  Tonight was supposed to be a good night.  Definitely was, and now I'm just focused on playing.  Just want to get on the court.
Q. You're going to be on the same team with players that maybe were your models growing up or in the past few years.  How do you feel about that?
LONZO BALL: That should be a lot of fun.  Looking forward to meeting all those guys and getting on the court with them and trying to win.
Q. I asked you this yesterday, but now that it's happened I'm going to ask you again:  Did you have a feeling?  Were you thinking this was what was going to happen today?
LONZO BALL: I had a good feeling about it, and I'm glad it happened.
Q. You're going to play point guard for the Lakers and now Magic Johnson is the general manager.  What is the No. 1 thing you're looking to learn from a legend like Magic Johnson?
LONZO BALL: I don't think there's one thing you can learn from him.  Just everything he's going to teach me is going to be useful.  Obviously he's the best point guard to ever play, so I'm looking to go in there and just learn from day one.
Q. What aspect of Magic's game did you admire the most and what parts of your game do you think are similar to his?
LONZO BALL: Definitely his playmaking ability.  He's one of the best to ever do it, and I can't -- there's never going to be another Magic Johnson, so I'm trying to be myself, but if I can come halfway short of him, you know it's going to be good.
Q. You started the night in some black dress shoes but now you have some purple and gold Big Baller Brand shoes.  When did you change your shoes and how long have you had the shoes?
LONZO BALL: I had them for a minute.  Just had a good feeling, and changed them five minutes before when they was on the clock, and I'm glad they called my name.
Q. On the topic of Big Baller Brand, a name that works on a lot of levels, obviously being in Los Angeles raises not just your profile but the profile of the brand, a lot of controversy on the high cost of the inventory.  Will you be trying to create lower the price, create more reasonably priced inventory for Big Baller Brand so more people can purchase them?
LONZO BALL: I'm not sure.  That's something we got to talk about further down the line.  But as of now are trying to be a premium brand, so we're trying to be at the top.
Q. To follow up on that, do you feel that kind of makes you a target for endorsers who wear other brands, the Nikes, et cetera, that they're endorsing, hey, wait a minute, let's make sure we stick with our brand and in a sense Big Baller Brand in the process, does that put a target on your head, so to speak?
LONZO BALL: According to the media I have a lot of targets on me, so probably.
Q. You mentioned everyone could be here tonight except for your mother.  I was wondering if she shared any words with you this morning or this afternoon, and what it's been like to be with her in this process as she has remained at home.
LONZO BALL: No, she still can't talk yet but she understands me.  So when I get home I'll get to talk to her.  I know she is happy at home for sure.  When I get back we'll have that conversation and it'll be a great time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT