NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: ST. LOUIS
March 17, 2016
Scoochie Smith
Dyshawn Pierre
Charles Cooke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're joined by the Dayton Flyers student-athletes, Charles Cooke, Scoochie Smith and Dyshawn Pierre.  Questions.
Q. What do you kind of remember about the game two years ago?  It was so close down the stretch, you got the lead, then they made a little comeback.  Take me through the emotions and closing out the win?
DYSHAWN PIERRE: I think the most memorable thing about it was how tough we played and there were a lot of runs, and there's a lot of ups and downs.  And we stuck together.  And that's the biggest thing that we need to bring from that game to this game.
SCOOCHIE SMITH: Most memorable part of that game for me was just having the momentum in that game, coming off a big win against Ohio State, and just our team staying connected and having the whole Flyer faithful support us as well.
Q. Do you have any specific memory of that shot going at the end and what the feeling was right after?
DYSHAWN PIERRE: It was definitely a relief when we saw the shot go up.  That's for sure.  But just relief.
SCOOCHIE SMITH: It was a little scary.  That was the second game in the row, the opponent got an opportunity to win the game.  So it was just a little nerve-racking, but it was a good feeling after I saw the missed shot.
Q. Charles, is today kind of the day that you were thinking about when you decided to come to Dayton?
CHARLES COOKE: Yeah.  Just really happy to be here with these guys and the team.  It's definitely something that I imagine, especially sitting out a whole year and seeing what these guys had accomplished even with seven players on the roster.  And I really wanted to be a part of it.  And I did everything I could do in the offseason, in the summertime, trying to make these guys better in practices.  So, I mean, it just really feels good to be here after a whole year sitting out.  And just really trying to make the most of it with these guys.
Q. You had a taste of the NCAA Tournament at James Madison when you were a freshman, I believe.  Does this feel different, though?
CHARLES COOKE: Yeah, it feels different.  Just because the amount of work that I put in, the goals that I set for myself, and just trying to play with the team and just figuring everything out, and just really meshing with these guys, just jumping ahead first.  I didn't know what to expect at all but it really worked out for the best.  And I think that's why I feel so much more work than had been when I was a freshman at James Madison.
Q. Dyshawn, how has this team developed since the first of the year, since January to where you guys are now, how far have you come?
DYSHAWN PIERRE: I think we came a long way since that point.  I think, with adding players and just having a couple of losses.  I think we've learned a lot from our mistakes and just learning that we have to -- we gotta stay together through everything, and we're going to play a lot of tough teams in the tournament.  And Syracuse is a really tough team and we've got to stay together like we have been throughout the whole year.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT