THE HAMBLETONIAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 2, 2011
Mauro Castano
Tom Charters
Cheryl Good
Grace Hanlon
Peter Koch
Sam McKee
Dennis Robinson
Ken Warkentin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  KEN WARKENTIN: The birth of this Classic was born from enthusiasm and ideas, and the Hambletonian has rightfully endured through changing times. From the New York State Fairgrounds to the Lexington Good Times in Goshen, to the Du Quoin Days and all the way to the New Jersey Meadowlands Racetrack where it's found a home. That's three decades at the Big M. 
 America's Trotting Classic has indeed been a miracle, and the 86th edition has been no exception. The trophy, the symbol of the sport's most coveted prize. The 7th time that the Hambletonian goes for $1.5 million at the home of the world's greatest harness action. 
 Hi, everybody, I'm Ken Warkentin, welcome, good afternoon to the media conference and post-position draw for the 2011 Hambletonian, and Hambletonian Oaks as we broadcast over the internet and Dish TV on RTN. A special welcome to all of our sponsors here today, our international guests here for the World Trotting Conference, and best of luck to our participants. 
 It's been 85 years of Hambletonian glory. This great event will be showcased here at the Meadowlands for the 31st time. That's thanks to the Hambletonian Society, the NJSEA and most recently, Jeff Gural and his associates along with Tom Luchento, and the New Jersey SBOA. 
 Hambletonian Day has evolved into an international spectacle, a day of tradition, a day of triumph, a day of celebration, a day of world class racing and family fun. It is truly the greatest day in harness racing. 
 Now it takes on an even greater meaning with the dawning of the New Meadowlands. Let's touch on some of the highlights that you'll see up here on your TV monitors of Hambletonian Day. Gates open mighty early, 9:30 a.m. We've got an early start. A Hambletonian parade at 10:10, that's always fun. Post time for the first is 11:30 a.m. we've got a cap giveaway, and we are so proud to be part of the Kings Super Market food drive, in addition to the family fun at Paddock Park and the giveaways, they offer a wagering bonanza, a wagering feast with a pick 4 guaranteed of $150,000, and a $200,000 guaranteed trifecta pool on the Hambletonian race itself, which is race 9 on a spectacular 15-race card. 
 We've got numerous stake races, $15 million in prize money. The HD telecast on NBC Sports from 3:00 to 4:00 Eastern, Sirius satellite radio, channel 93, XM 209, and today we'll be drawing the fields for the Hambletonian Oaks first and then the Hambletonian. 
 We're also proud of the fact that we have New Jersey breds in the Hambletonian this year, three in the Hambletonian and two fillies in the Hambletonian Oaks. 
 Well, it's certainly been times at the Big M of uncertainty, transition, and you all know about the challenging economy. We want to hear the words of a man who has guided this ship and done an amazing job through it all, the president and CEO of the NJSCA, the New Jersey Sports and Exhibition Authority, Dennis Robinson. 
 DENNIS ROBINSON: Thanks, Ken. It's great to be here. It wasn't always that I thought I'd actually be standing here, but I'm happy to say we are. On behalf of Governor Christie, Chairman Mike Ferguson, our board of commissioners and Jeff Gural, the newest member of the Sports Authority family, it's my pleasure welcome all of you to the 86th running of the Hambletonian, as well as the 30th anniversary of this great race at the Meadowlands. 
 I want to wish the owners, the trainers, the drivers all the best during this greatest day of harness racing. 
 As you know, this has been a year full of ups and downs and I especially wanted to thank all of those who played a role in ensuring the Hambletonian remains at the Meadowlands for the next 30 years. 
 First I want to recognize and thank the governor and his staff for supporting Jeff Gural in his pursuit of reenergizing harness racing at the Meadowlands by investing in and building a new Meadowlands Racetrack. Of course we want to thank Jeff for his love and commitment to harness racing and the Meadowlands itself. 
 I want to recognize and thank Tommy Luchento and the SBOA for their support and involvement and commitment to ensuring the Meadowlands remains the epicenter of harness racing. 
 I want to thank John Cashman and Tom Charters of the Hambletonian Society and their entire board for continuing to stand by us. And lastly, and perhaps most importantly, I want to thank all of our employees that are standing around here, working today to make this event happen, for staying with us and for doing their part to make this dream become a reality. 
 Nothing great ever happens without a real team effort, and believe me this was a real team effort. I want to thank again all of you for coming today. Wish you all the best, and I hope you have a wonderful time this weekend, thank you very much. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: Thank you, Dennis. I've lived in New Jersey for 20 years working here at the Meadowlands, there is so much in this Garden State that I've yet to explore. Grace Hanlon, the executive director of New Jersey Travel and Tourism can help me out. Grace, can you help me out with that? Show me around a little bit. 
 GRACE HANLON: Thank you, everybody, and welcome. I am so honored to be here on behalf of Governor Christie. About ten months ago I had one of the greatest days of my life and one of the scariest days of my life and that was when I was nominated by the governor to be the director of the Division of Travel and Tourism, but I also had to testify before the senate judiciary committee and I had to be confirmed by the full senate. 
 So I think I have something in common with everybody in this room, I know what it's like to almost have a heart attack. 
 So I'm here, I'm honored, I'm proud to be here on behalf of the governor. This state is wonderful. I'm honored to let the whole world know how beautiful New Jersey is, how many treasures we have for 130 miles of beautiful beaches, historic towns, great landmarks, and most importantly what we want to focus on today is the wonderful world of horse racing that is in New Jersey. 
 I believe that the horse racing industry is part of the soul and spirit of tourism. I know that you're attracting people from all over the world to watch the race, to come and see the race. I'm proud that Governor Christie has given me the ability to sponsor this race on Saturday. 
 These are tough times, sponsorships are not easy, and here we are today as sponsors to say we do believe in horse racing. We understand it's important to tourism, and we want to continue to support the industry. 
 I think the area looks terrific. I can tell you last week I had a meeting with Triple Five who is in charge of the American Dream, the Xanadu Building, and I'm telling you, they are ready. They are on fire right now. 
 This is going to be a premier tourism destination, and I am here to help create that buzz, make it happen, support you. I'm accessible. If you need anything, please reach out to me. And I would like to thank all of the owners, all of the trainers for their dedication to the sport. Good luck on Saturday. 
 I will be here. I have my dress and my hat picked out. I can't wait, I'm very excited. And I hope you have a great draw today. Good luck to everybody. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: Grace, we also have a Hambletonian hat for you too. You might have to wear that as well. 
 All right. I have a question for you, a quick question. How would you like to start a racetrack? Right, but you only have to hire one person. That's right, one guy. Well, at this time I'm going to introduce my colleague here to conduct the Hambletonian Oaks draw. You know, I know, he does it all. Sam McKee. 
 SAM McKEE: I hope Jeff Gural feels the same way about hiring that one guy. Welcome, everybody. Thanks for joining us for the Hambletonian, and Hambletonian Oaks press conference and post draw.  
At this time I'd like to call up our director of racing here at the Meadowlands, Mr. Peter Koch, along with our presiding judge John Tomasello, and I'd like to bring up Cheryl Good who is the manager of relations and consumer affairs at the Kings Super Markets. She's been here at the Hambletonian for the last seven years with Kings Super Markets and enjoyed that relationship and done a lot of good together for the community as well. 
 While they're making their way up here, one face you don't see today is our colleague, Bob Hollywood Heyden. He had minor surgery yesterday. He's home recuperating. Still has a sense of humor and hopes to be here on Hambletonian Day. So we miss Holly, but Darin's going to fill in for him. 
 One other note, Hanover Shoe Farms, one of our big sponsors, Murray Brown actually turns 70 tomorrow. That's hard to believe, and an early happy birthday. How about a nice hand for Murray Brown? Come on up here. 
 All right, Peter Koch, John Tomasello come on up. Cheryl, first of all, Kings Super Markets, we've had a great relationship with you, the Hambletonian Society, and the Meadowlands Racetrack. Most importantly we've benefited the FoodBank of New Jersey in a big way. 
 CHERYL GOOD: We have. We've collected tons of food for them over the past few years. We're delighted to be able to do that. We really thank those who are coming to be a part of this and donating the food. Even though we're in New Jersey, sometimes we think the need is not there, but the need is still great. So we want to thank everyone for making that possible. 
 SAM McKEE: A rather unique situation, the two elimination winners for the Oaks from the same barn of Jean-Pierre DuBois, the brilliant filly, Crys Dream and stablemate Iron Lady. 
 So since they won their eliminations, they'll get to pick their post positions. Gentlemen, are we ready to go? 
 Okay, Peter Koch, our director of racing, presenting judge John Tomasello. Cheryl, step right up here by me. 
 Now the post positions selected by the two elimination winners. Peter, do we have that information already? Do we have the information for the two elimination winners? 
 PETER KOCH: Yes, Iron Lady. 
 SAM McKEE: Iron Lady got to pick first. So post 1 for Iron Lady, and Mike Lachance has been named to drive. So elimination winner Iron Lady will start from post 1 with Mike Lachance driving. 
 And Crys Dream goes with post position 2. So Jerry and Theresa Silva, you're lining up side by side there with your winners. Crys Dream, of course Luc Ouellette driving from post position 2. 
 So we'll put the other eight pills in the barrel here. The Hambletonian Society providing us the pool ball pills for the draw today. Cheryl, we'll have you reach in and pick out the names from the sealed envelope. We'll open those envelopes, and one of these gentlemen will reach in and pull out the post position and we'll be good to go.
 All right. Cheryl, reach in and grab a post position. This will be post 7. So post position 7 will be the first one drawn. And we have Hey Mister, the Del Miller winner for trainer Ross Croghan, driver Brian Sears from post position 7. Post 7 for Hey Mister. 
 Okay, Cheryl, go ahead and reach in and grab another one. Post position 5 for the Hambletonian Oaks goes to Bold and Fresh, and Ron Pierce is named to drive for driver Doug Miller. Bold and Fresh from post position 5. Ron Pierce named, Mike Lachance had driven her in the elims, but he opted for the Iron Lady in the Hambletonian Oaks final. 
 And this is post 3, I believe. Post position 3 goes to Seducedbychocolate. Jonas Czernyson trains, Dave Miller drives, Seducedbychocolate, post 3. And Jonas Czernyson the only trainer with a finalist in the Hambo and the Oaks too. So we wish him the best of luck. 
 Post position 10, this is the post position nobody wants and it goes to Jezzy. Tim Tetrick driving for Ray Schnittker, huge recovery from Jezzy to make that final after that breakaway before the starts. 
 Of course, Jezzy co-owned by the new operator of the Meadowlands, Jeff Gural. Tough task there from post position 10. Does Jeff have any input on presiding judges, by the way, coming forward. I just thought I'd throw that out there. 
 We have post position 8 going to Wincinnatti. Brett Bittle and Yannick Gingras. Of course Brett Bittle won the Oaks in 2002 with Windylane Hanover, post 8 for Wincinnatti. 
 Post 6 is next. Post position 6 goes to Sashay and Ron Pierce is named on Sashay as well trainer Bob Stewart. So Pierce listed on both Bold and Fresh and Sashay who are both second in their eliminations. 
 Post position 4, post 4 will go to Lady Rainbow. Rick Zeron trains and drives, the Ontario star Lady Rainbow who was a rally third in her elimination. 
 Last, but certainly not least, we have a post position 9 for the 2-year-old Breeders Crown Champion, Martiniontherocks, trainer Dustin Jones and driver Trevor Ritchie, so Martiniontherocks draws post 9. 
 So let's recap the field. Iron Lady has the rail, with Mike Lachance driving, Crys Dream and Luc Ouellette from post position 2. Seducedbychocolate, driver Dave Miller from post 3. Lady Rainbow from Rick Zeron from post 4. Bold And Fresh from post 5, Ron Pierce named to drive there. And Pierce also named on number 6, Sashay. 
 Number 7, Hey Mister with Brian Sears driving. Wincinnatti the 8, Yannick Gingras. Martiniontherocks with Trevor Ritchie and post position 9, and Jezzy draws the outside post 10 with Tim Tetrick. 
 So that's the field for the Hambletonian Oaks. John and Pete, thank you very much. Cheryl always good to see you. We'll see you here Saturday as well. 
 So there is your field for the Hambletonian Oaks. Now back to Ken. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: We have our morning line from our morning line odds maker and TV commentator Dave Brower. Let's start with the Iron Lady here, 5-1. Iron Lady starts at 5-1. 2, Crys Dreams, 7-5. Morning line favorite, 7-5. 
 3, Seducedbychocolate, 20-1. That's 20-1 Seducedbychocolate, the 3. 
 4, Lady Rainbow, 10-1. 4, Lady Rainbow, 10-1. 
 5, Bold And Fresh, 12-1. Bold And Fresh the 5. 
 6, Sashay, at 15-1. Sashay at 15. 
 Hey Mister 4-1. The 7, Hey Mister, 4-1. 
 8, Wincinnatti, 15-1, and the same for the 9, Martiniontherocks, both 15-1. 8 and 9 are 15-1. 
 And Jezzy, post 10, 6-1. 6-1 for Jezzy. That is the field. That is the morning line for the $750,000 Hambletonian Oaks. 
 Once again, we have a great field for this year's Hambletonian. A wide open division this year, the usual array of intriguing story lines like how about the comeback of John Campbell. Twenty nine straight years that this race has gone for a million dollars or more. That's unprecedented in the sport. 
 Of course, the Hambletonian Festival, a very, very busy week; and nobody, nobody is more excited about it all than the long time president and CEO of the Hambletonian Society Tom Charters. Tom, where are you? There you are. Come up and say a few words, Tom. 
 TOM CHARTERS: Thank you very much, Ken. I guess I'd echo Dennis's remarks that there were times in the past year I wasn't sure whether I'd be up here or not, but we're glad to be here. Pleased that everybody here has shown up. We express our thanks on behalf of the Hambletonian Society directors and staff. 
 We'd like to express our thanks to our great partner, the Meadowlands, whose staff really you just -- it's a pleasure to work with them. They worked very hard on this event. It's a year round event for them as far as planning and we certainly look forward to working with Jeff Gural in future years for an extension of the Hambletonian here, and as Dennis said, another 30 years or more. It will probably be somebody else's job after that, I guess. 
 I'd also like to express my thanks to our sponsors, industry sponsors of Lexington Selected Yearling Sale and Hanover Shoe Farms. Hanover's been with us for many, many years, and we certainly appreciate their support. 
 And I'd be remiss if I didn't mention yesterday we were at the Hambletonian golf outing and thank all of the participants and sponsors there. I think everybody should know that over the past 20-some years that we've had the golf outing, it's a charity event that benefits the Harness Racing Museum and Standardbred Retirement Fund, and I've been told that we raised over a million dollars for those two charities as well as some other previous charities. 
 Last night I think we raised something like $38,000 charities. It's part of Hambletonian week, and we appreciate all the support that we've gotten. 
 Lastly, I'd like to thank all the participants and the connections that are here both today and those that couldn't make it. We wish you all well. We hope we see you in the winners circle. Thank you very much. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: Thanks, Tom. Just a reminder that our media relations department are on call 24 hours a day. Updates on our website, of course, meadowlandsracetrack.com, our nightly recap show racing from the Meadowlands airs now on SNY and TVG. And Darin Zoccali is doing a great job with drive time on TV as well. In addition to the nightly cometary, it will be wall-to-wall Hambletonian this week. 
 104 colts were eligible for this year's Hambletonian, and now there are just 10. 
 (Video playing). 
 Our thanks, once, again to the incomparable, incomparable Big M TV. It is a blessing to work with them. 
 Just before we get to the Hambletonian draw, one more item of business. We have something kind of fun here. Sam McKee has a sweet treat for us all. Sam? 
 SAM McKEE: That's right, Ken, this year at the Hambletonian, you can actually have your cake and eat it too. As all of you know, the biggest thing on TV right now is the Cake Boss. And we've got Buddy Valastro's right-hand man. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is Mauro Castano who is with us today for a sneak preview of what we have on Saturday. 
 We have a replica of the trophy of the Hambletonian. Mauro, what did you guys cook up there? 
 MAURO CASTANO: Well, Amy came to us and wanted us to do a cake for this great event, and we were happy to oblige. So we're giving everybody a big cake on Saturday, but we thought we'd give everybody a little taste today, a preview. This is a replica of the original trophy. 
 SAM McKEE: This cake on Saturday will be a little different and a lot bigger. I understand it's like eight feet long or something? That's a heck of a cake. 
 MAURO CASTANO: Yeah, we had originally planned on doing it on four by four. But after seeing everything, I didn't know this was such a big thing. I remember coming here when I was younger and going like this when they would lose, you know, it's such a big event. 
 What's his name? Webster or Donald or all those guys, that's the names I remember. I was like son of a gun, what the heck are they doing? But it was fun. 
 You come here and have fun. That's what it's about when you come here. It's all about enjoying watching the horses race and the drivers go at it, whipping away. It's always fun when we came here. 
 SAM McKEE: Are you kidding? It was fun when you cash the tickets. That's what you were here for to bet on the horses. Mike Gagliardi is one of your favorites too? 
 MAURO CASTANO: Yeah, I'm Italian, so. Mike Gagliardi, and who else? 
 SAM McKEE: Carmine Abbatiello. 
 MAURO CASTANO: Yeah, but I remember Webster, O'Donnell, and there was another guy too. But I remember Webster and all those guys I remember always beating me up. But it's okay. I paid the electric bill once or twice here. 
 SAM McKEE: The cake on Saturday by the way, what we're doing, everybody who enters the track receives a card with the numbers of the Hambletonian horses 1 through 10, and if you get card and the number 1 horse wins, you get a free apiece of cake on Hambletonian day, which is pretty cool. And you've got some cakes here today, so everybody gets a piece today. 
 MAURO CASTANO: Like I said, everybody's going to get a taste of what's going to happen in the big event on Saturday. 
 SAM McKEE: Can you believe that Cake Boss has taken off like it has? It's got a life of its own. What is this, your fifth or sixth year? 
 MAURO CASTANO: We're just finishing up our fifth season now. It's all good though for the state of New Jersey. That's what we want. New Jersey is number one for us. I came here from Italy in '76 when the Hambletonian was just getting started here in New Jersey. And I remember growing up and always hearing the racetrack and this and that, and we're proud to be from the state of New Jersey, and we're proud to do things from the state of New Jersey. And we were very happy to do this cake for you guys. 
 SAM McKEE: Now can you and Buddy Valastro and everybody at Carlo's Bakery go out in public, or do the paparazzi and media follow you everywhere? 
 MAURO CASTANO: You know, our show is a family show, like kids can watch it with mother and father, they can enjoy the show. It's not one of those negative shows on Italians, negative show on New Jersey, you know what I'm saying? 
 So people watch it and our fans are different. It's like kids, oh, my God, it's the Cake Boss. I remember that cake, I remember that cake. It's all good memories and we love that. 
 We appreciate you helping us out with the Hambletonian. Fans, how about a big hand for Mauro Castano of the Cake Boss. Can you stick around for photos afterwards.
 MAURO CASTANO: Be glad to. I'll stick around. 
 SAM McKEE: Ken Warkentin, I'm looking forward to that cake on Saturday. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: Get me a piece of that. Time now to call up our Hambletonian draw participants, director of racing Peter Koch, who was putting lights out yesterday at the Hambletonian Golf tournament, he really saved us and brought us to respectability. Presiding Judge John Tomasello, please come back up here, and our guest today, Suzann Shields will be assisting us. Susan Shields, the Eastern regional sales manager for Pfizer Animal Health. 
 Now our first task is to find out which of our elimination winners goes first to pick their post position. Sam and Darin will be standing by with the connections of Broad Bahn and Manofmanymissions. 
 John, we have the two envelopes with the horses' names in there. And Susan Shields? Susan would you be so kind? Welcome to the Big M, welcome to our press conference, and glad to have you here. 
 Would you be so kind as to pick out who is going to go first? Pick out a horse's name? Okay, open the envelope. You can open it, if you like. Of course then, John, you can get the other envelope. And that horse is? 
 Broad Bahn will go first. So the connections of Broad Bahn will go first, and Darin Zoccali has Noel Daley there. Which post are you going with and what is the strategy? 
 NOEL DALEY: We're going to pick the rail, we had a few people said one way, a few people said the other way. That was my first inclination to go for the rail. We want to be on the lead or close to it. We've got the gate speed, touch wood, he seems safe. 
 It came down to George, I had to ask him and Chuck Sylvester, and he just said it was a no-brainer to pick the rail. He's won four of them, so it's good enough for me. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: Okay, Sam McKee has Erv Miller, a trainer of Manofmanymissions. It's been a challenge to train this horse and get him this far. But he has the speed and talent, so he's going to go second. 

 Q. Erv, what post do you want and why? 
 ERV MILLER: We're going to take the 2 hole right beside the other horse just because we don't want to be out too far and get other horses in between us.

 Q. All right, post position 2 for Manofmanymissions. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: All right, we'll put the remaining horses back in the trophy here for the remaining picks of the Hambletonian. We'll pick out horses 1 and 2. 
 Susan, you'll draw the names, if you will. One at a time here. Peter, will you draw the numbers? So one and two are gone. 
 3, post position 3. Susan? Fawkes has post position 3. Fawkes third place finisher in his elimination for Jonas Czernyson who also has an Oaks entrant as well. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: Chapter Seven, 4. 4 for Chapter Seven third start off the bench for Chapter Seven, and Iron Mike Lachance and Linda Toscano. All the good ones are going to be gone. 
 Magnum Kosmos, George Brennan drove Magnum Kosmos to a second place finish. And I believe it will be Brian Sears, but not 100% there. Tony Dinges for the Whiz Kids Stable. Post position 8 for Magnum Kosmos, Pennsylvania Sire Stakes winner. 
 Opening Night, Opening Night, John Campbell and Jim Campbell, Team Tagliabue will reunite. Lucky number 7 for Opening Night, and John Campbell. 29 straight years in the Hambletonian Elimination and 27 of 29 finals. 
 Pastor Stephen, the two-year-old champion from last year, third in his elimination for Jimmy Takter from last year's winner, post 10. Pierce and Takter, if they want to repeat, they've got to do it from the 10 hole with Pastor Stephen. 
 Whiskey Tax, Tom Durand from Ontario, and I believe Randy Waples, Randy Waples will drive. Post 6 for Whiskey Tax with that good acclimating mile over the track and suffered some interference as well there, finishing fifth in his elimination. We've got two more. 
 Luckycharm Hanover, Tommy Haughton, Dave Miller, 9. Post 9. I believe eight decades of Haughtons in the Hambletonian. 9 for Luckycharm Hanover. And of course we've got one left. 
 Whit has post 5. There you go, Whit, post 5. Bionic Man, Tim Tetrick, and Homer Hochstetler for owner Robert Buddig. 
 So let's recap the field here: 
 1, Broad Bahn, George Brennan. 2, Manofmanymissions, Andy Miller. 3, Fawkes with Yannick Gingras. 4, Chapter Seven, Mike Lachance. 5, Whit, Tim Tetrick. 6, Whiskey Tax, Randy Waples. 7, Opening Night, John Campbell. 8, Magnum Kosmos with Brian Sears. 9, Luckycharm Hanover, Dave Miller, 10 Pastor Stephen with Ron Pierce. 
 We'll be right back with Erv Miller, Manofmanymissions.

 Q. Well, Erv, Manofmanymissions, many people think it's quite simple. If he trots, he'll probably win. You were not quite as happy with him as the elim the week before. Where is he and how do you feel about him right now? 
 ERV MILLER: I think he'll be pretty good this week. We had taken him down to New Bolton, and that was ten days prior to the starting the dance, so we repeated some of that work, so I think he'll be good.

 Q. Have you ever in your life had a horse that can trot this fast? 
 ERV MILLER: I don't know about that. He's an awful fast horse for sure when everything's right.

 Q. This has to be more special because your brother Andy is driving. Did you guys when you were growing up ever think you'd have the favorite in the Hambletonian together? 
 ERV MILLER: Probably not, not when we were growing up. 
 SAM McKEE: Okay, Erv Miller, best of luck with Manofmanymissions on Saturday. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: Darin, you have the man looking to roll the improbable 7.

 Q. It wouldn't be a Hambletonian without John Campbell who will be back driving Opening Night. First things first, great to have you back. Was it a goal of yours to try to make it back for the first Saturday in August, and if so, did you think it was an achievable one? 
 JOHN CAMPBELL: No, a month ago I was on crutches and never thought about the Hambletonian at all. I didn't think I'd be ready. But once I got off the crutches two weeks ago, the healing process just accelerated so quick. I was feeling better every day. 
 As I said before the elimination, it was a chance to drive my own horse, and in an elimination you don't get that opportunity. And I was very happy with the way qualifiers went for me physically, and I've got no issues at all and I feel great right now.

 Q. Might be a silly question, but did you have any butterflies in that Hambo the first start back? 
 JOHN CAMPBELL: Not too much, I own the horse, so I can't get fired. No, I've done it before. And as soon as I get back on the bike for the qualifiers, everything comes natural to you. I felt good going in, I just wish the horse had felt as well as did I.

 Q. How about the Hambletonian final, you get the 7 hole Opening Night. It looked like a horse with a sneaky late trot in the elimination. And you've gotten to know him from your brother Jim. Possibility of Campbell magic one more time? 
 JOHN CAMPBELL: I hope so. He raced very well in his elimination. I had raced him previous to getting hurt this spring and summer. He's got a lot of ability. I think he's matured a lot since that. He's a little immature mentally, but he's really settled down, and he knows what he's out there for now. I just have seen his replay. He reached very well and finished up strong. That's what you're looking for is a horse that finished up going into these finals. 

 Q. Thanks John Campbell hoping that the Hambletonian comes up a 7. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: All right. 2010 was a magical year for our Jimmy Takter, and he's on the ballot for the Hall of Fame this year. And he has a colt that's been battling injury, sickness, and now another mountain to climb, post 10, Sam.

 Q. This is a trainer that's never fired a driver in case John Campbell is wondering. But Pastor Stephen, post 10 obviously not the best draw. But if the horse is back on beam, you've got a shot. What happened to him after the Earl Beal up until the elims? 
 JIM TAKTER: He got sick and he was battling a virus. He wasn't really right so that's what happened to him.

 Q. Where do you have him percentage-wise, 80%, 90% or is he back on his game on Saturday? 
 JIM TAKTER: I think he's going to race good. The 10 hole, somebody's got to get it. Unfortunately, it was me this year. But we still have to race the race, and I think he's good. I think he can win the race, but it's going to be hard.

 Q. You're racing for a great cause, too. The Racing for Africa benefiting the villages and partnership. And the real Pastor Stephen is here from your Presbyterian church in East Windsor. Pastor Stephen Heinzel-Nelson, tell us about the charity and what's going on? 
 JIM TAKTER: Well, I've been involved with our church for over 20 years, and I named the horse after Stephen, and it turned out to be a good horse. You know, it got brought up that we can do something for Africa. Stephen spent the whole year down there, and hopefully it will work out. 
 We tried to give a little money to the people down there and the horse has been facing trouble, and so far hasn't been so good for us, but that might change on Saturday.

 Q. That could change on Saturday in a hurry. It's a great story. Best of luck to Jimmy Takter, Pastor Stephen, from post 10. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: This would be the richest race ever won by a female trainer. Karma, destiny, it's a script you just can't make up, Darin.

 Q. Absolutely. I'm sure NBC will probably be all over this one. They love the female trainer angles. Linda Toscano, Chapter Seven was a marvelous 2-year-old. He won 8 starts and had to overcome a bout with pneumonia. How did he come out of that. ? 
 LINDA TOSCANO: He's really a remarkable horse. After the start of this year, we weren't really sure. And to tribute the owners, they said take care of the horse, we'll worry about the racing when the horse gets right. 
 He's overcome so much to get to where he is, and what he's done in the last couple of weeks is nothing short of astounding.

 Q. Absolutely, he opened up a lot of eyes with the big three-wide sweeping move in the elimination. But you're very impressed with the trot he's shown, and you get in the 4 hole, so you're set up nicely there. 
 LINDA TOSCANO: The 4 hole, we sweated that out. That's good. It's not easy coming off three-wide on the last turn, and he wound up finishing. He's just a good horse. We thought the other horse would go a little further. We thought we were following the right horse, and we had to move him early. At that point we were looking just to get to the final, and he just finished up really well.

 Q. Mike Lachance is a pretty good pilot to have in the Hambletonian too. 
 LINDA TOSCANO: You know what they say, you drive for show and you putt for dough.

 Q. Would it mean more to you to be the first female trainer to win this race, or is it just the Hambletonian and that's all that matters?
 LINDA TOSCANO: They always ask me the gender thing, I don't think there is a person that does this for a living, man or woman, that wouldn't want to get to the Hambletonian. It's not an easy task to get to. So I think it's fun to be a girl, but I think it would be fun to be a guy in the Hambletonian too. 

 Q. I think Linda has a really big shot in the Hambo final. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: We love you Linda Toscano. Great answer. Trainer Jonas Czernyson, switching genders. Talk about a guy who has taken shots here, Sam. Five finalists in the last three Hambletonians. He's had two fifth place finishes, and he said that Fawkes is just getting into himself, going in the right direction.

 Q. The happiest guy after the post draw was Jonas Czernyson, the trainer of Fawkes. You guys got loud and were celebrating. Nice draw. 
 JONAS CZERNYSON: Yeah, we usually always pick the outside post, so we figured we should try for inside this time and it worked good.

 Q. Fawkes has been a work in progress for you and Yannick Gingras, and the horse seems to be coming at the right time. 
 JONAS CZERNYSON: Yeah, he looks like he's peaking right where we want him to peak, so hopefully we can get some luck.

 Q. Looking at the post draw and how it shakes out, you're going to use that to your advantage and sit close? 
 JONAS CZERNYSON: That's up to Yannick, I'm not the one driving, so whatever he wants to do.

 Q. Jonas, best of luck on Saturday. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: Really, I feel sorry for Homer Hochstetler. The horse race, well it cost you money with the elims, and now you raced well depend and you have to spend more money to get in the Hambletonian Final. Poor homer.

 Q. And he drew the 5 hole too which is one of the best post positions. How about Whit, a horse that seems to have come into his own of late. He won a New Jersey Sires Stakes Division two starts back. Seems to be coming into the final in good form. 
 HOMER HOCHSTETLER: He was real good last week, and he was real good the week before. Drew the middle of the pack, so if my driver's up to it, I think the horse will be too.

 Q. This horse kind of struggled to find his way. No wins and 11 starts, but he's come back much better at 3, you'd say? 
 HOMER HOCHSTETLER: Yeah, he's improved every week. The first week I brought him here, Timmy drove him and he was fourth. Trotted home 27, which I was really happy. Timmy said he's a Classic Photo, and I told Timmy, he doesn't know he's a Classic Photo. 
 So then last week I asked him what -- we won the Jersey Sire Stakes, and I said do you think I should put him in? Or I asked him would you spend your money? And he said, no, but I'd spend yours. So we took a shot and we're having fun with it. We started with a group of two tables of 6, and I think we're up to like four now. 

 Q. Classic Photo was second in the Hambletonian, so you'll try to one up the sire? 
 HOMER HOCHSTETLER: Maybe we'll do it, I don't know.

 Q. We'll see, Homer Hochstetler with a live long shot here with Whit?

 Q. We've got Tony Dinges, the trainer of Magnum Kosmos. Hambletonian debut for you, Tony. This is rare air for you, are you having fun? 
 TONY DINGES: Yes, absolutely.

 Q. And Magnum Kosmos went a long way in the elimination. What do you think your chances are in the finals? 
 TONY DINGES: Yeah, we were really pleased with his race last week. Thought the chances were pretty good. It's going to be tough from the 8 hole. But if the trip works out right, I think he'll show up.

 Q. Earlier this year you sent him to Andy and Julie Miller to train for a while. Why was that and what did the horse get out of that? 
 TONY DINGES: I sent him there for their opinion. He wasn't a hundred percent coming back. Just wanted some different eyes to look at him, and they did a really good job with him. But Andy had Manofmanymissions in there, so he said he was committed to him for the year, so that's why I got him back.
 KEN WARKENTIN: So last year's leading driver here at the Meadowlands next to you, and well, he did it in the elims. He went Minister. 

 Q. He certainly did. It's good to have Minister of Speed on a Speed Ball in Broad Bahn. This horse has been catching the eye of a lot of people, racing well. 
 GEORGE BRENNAN: He raced well, and really happy with him going in, for sure.

 Q. You don't want to give up too much in strategy. But you see a lot of ones in the start of his past performance lines. I guess it's going to be right off the gate and take him as far as we can? 
 GEORGE BRENNAN: He's been here a few times, two of his wins were right on the front. He certainly earned the pole position and he's got speed, and he's got the Minister of Speed, so you tell me.

 Q. That's a good answer, Georgie, I like it very much. Any other tactics if anybody comes first up? Do you think you'll have to release him and see what he can do? 
 GEORGE BRENNAN: We'll play that by year and see what happens.

 Q. George Brennan with a live Speed Ball fittingly enough with Broad Bahn. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: Darin, Sam McKee, one of the connections of Luckycharm Hanover.

 Q. That's right, this is Brian Owen, co-owner, and you weren't happy with the post draw the way things shook out, were you? 
 BRIAN OWEN: Definitely would rather be inside 9, but hopefully Dave will work us out and we can work ourselves into the race. 

 Q. Luckycharm Hanover has proven he can trot with the best, do you think he can be the best if things set-up right? 
 BRIAN OWEN: I definitely think we haven't seen him get a good trip so far this year, so hopefully Saturday will be our day.

 Q. You're due some big luck, Brian Owen, best of luck. 
 BRIAN OWEN: Thank you very much. 
 KEN WARKENTIN: All right, Sam McKee, that will wrap things up here for the post draw commentary and reaction. Let's recap the field here once more with the morning line odds from Dave Brower: 
 Starting with the 1, Broad Bahn, I'm going to have to get that right by Saturday. Broad Bahn at 4-1. I'll just think of Bobby Baun, the famous Toronto Maple Leaf that scored that winning goal with the broken leg. 
 Broad Bahn 4-1, Manofmanymissions, 9-5 morning line favorite, Manofmanymissions. 3, Fawkes, 15-1.
 4, Chapter Seven, 7-2 morning line. 4, Chapter Seven, 7-2. 5, Whit will be 8-1, 8-1 on Whit. 6, Whiskey Tax, 15-1. 15 for Whiskey Tax. 
 7, Opening Night. 10-1. 10-1, Opening Night. 8, Magnum Kosmos, 15-1. 15-1 as well for the 9, Luckycharm Hanover. So the 8 and 9 are both 15-1. And finally the 10, Pastor Stephen is 10-1 in the morning line. 10-1, morning line for the Hambletonian $1.5 million. 
 That's going to wrap things up today. We'd like to invite the trainers and drivers in attendance, on stage. We just wrap up here for a photo op with the trophy and the cake. Thanks for joining us. Best of luck, have a great time this week, and we'll see you on Hambletonian Day the greatest day in harness racing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT