BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 25, 2003
Jerry Bailey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JERRY BAILEY:  Well, yeah, I had a warning.  He said she might act up a little bit, turn circles around behind the gate.  You never know exactly how bad they're going to be coming from there, from Europe.  And a lot of things are different for them.  It's a lot for them to take in and adjust to.  So it didn't shock me.  I didn't think she would be quite that bad.  But obviously it didn't affect her race.  
 
JERRY BAILEY:  I had a conversation with Pascal Bary last night at the hotel.  And that was the main crux of the conversation is, how dimensional is she?  Does she have to be out the back or can I place her mid pack?  Can I do something on the cuff, if I have to change my mind as we go to the first turn?  Cuvee, he's one dimensional.  Halfbridled was just like him.  We had close to the same trip in the first turn.  Halfbridled was much better.  A horse like Six Perfections is a lot easier to work out a trip.  I ask for a little more and get over or take her back and get over.  It gives you some options.  It's not easy still, but it gives you some options.  
 
JERRY BAILEY:  Well, when you do that, you have to understand that you can ask for a 3/8th of a mile or a half mile run.  You have to conserve her energy for a shorter run if you place her a little closer, which I did.  And you just hope that any horses coming at you don't have a heck of a head of steam and run by you.  And to her credit she had tremendous acceleration, even though Touch of the Blues looked like he had a heck of a head of steam coming at me.  She was able to go ahead and out kick him.  
 
JERRY BAILEY:  Well I gave him the call for next year already.  The guy's pretty good.  
 
 
Q.   Pascal said earlier that you only spoke last night for about five minutes. Just curious what you discussed then?
 
JERRY BAILEY:  As I said earlier, I just wanted to know from him, it's hard to determine from the form and I can determine a lot but a European horse makes it more difficult.  Did she have to be out the pack completely or could I place her in mid pack -- could I adjust a little bit and cheat a little bit and place her forward.  He said no, she's adjustable.  You can put her mid pack if the race dictates that.  And it just made my job a lot easier, tucking in.  
 
JERRY BAILEY:  It was never in the race, to be quite honest with you.  Her break was good.  She got squeezed a little bit going into the first turn.  But that was fine with me.  I wanted to be behind the pace anyway.  But I was having trouble keeping up in the middle of the first turn.  I eased her back.  Sensing they slowed the pace up, but I was completely empty.  She just really didn't have anything to offer today.  
 
JERRY BAILEY:  Just too short for him.  I had to angle in a little bit alter course slightly.  Turn her for home.  He came flying.  The 16th of a mile past the wire he was heads up with the horse that won it.  So it's just -- we kind of knew that going in it's hard to catch up, especially on a track like this.  That's pretty much what it was. 
 
JERRY BAILEY:  Fair enough.  But you get quality speed horses it's going to carry better on this track than some eastern tracks.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT