AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2005
Barbara Schett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Obviously, as you all know, it was Barbara's last singles match.  She still has mixed doubles.  Questions for Barbara, please.  
 
 
Q.  How does it feel to be making a decision to quit, and why did you do it here so early in the season?  Is that something you planned? 
 
BARBARA SCHETT:  Well, the decision was made already kind of middle of last year.  I thought if I'm not improving, if the passion is not coming back, then I definitely want to quit.  I always thought that I should be ranked much higher than I was at the end now.  Yeah, it was -- for me, it was a clear decision.  Even if I would have played really well here, I would have stayed with that decision.  I played Australia because it was my favorite tournament, favorite Grand Slam tournament especially.  And, yeah, to escape a little bit from the winter in Austria.  Yeah, I always loved it here.  That's why I wanted to quit here.  
 
Q.  How emotional was the second set for you? 
 
BARBARA SCHETT:  Not very emotional until she had match point, then suddenly I was - I don't know - I had tears in my eyes.  I was like, "Oh, my God.  Where does that come from now?"  I knew that sooner or later I was going to realize, "Okay, this is going to be my last -- this is going to be the last point of my career."  It's been what I've been doing for all my life.  Yeah, I just suddenly realized that and it was very emotional.  
 
Q.  Were they tears of joy or tears of happiness?
 
BARBARA SCHETT:  Both (laughter).  Both, I would say.  I had a great time.  I mean, I think I'm very happy about my career.  Of course, it's going to be something completely new now.  I think it's going to be a big change, very exciting (smiling).  
 
Q.  What will you be doing now?
 
BARBARA SCHETT:  I'm going to take maybe a few months off and then I'm still going to be involved in tennis in some kind of a way, maybe like working at a tournament in Austria, in Linz, or maybe do some commentating.  I don't know, I'll find out in the next few months.  I'm going to see what options I have and what I'm interested in.  But I'm definitely going to stay involved in tennis.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT