NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
May 31, 2011
Tyler Seguin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Tyler Seguin.

 Q. It's rare for a first year to make it to the finals. Have you enjoyed everything so far? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: I think I enjoy especially the last series, the feeling right after the game was something that I didn't have before. It was a great feeling. 
 I think I'll enjoy it more if we win the Cup. After the series is over, I'll step back and take it all in. Right now I'll take this as another series, prepare like it's another series. 

 Q. Were you excited to finally play in the playoffs?
 TYLER SEGUIN: I was very excited. I've been waiting for a few weeks there, just hoping there's an opportunity. I knew it could never come or I knew injuries were part of the game, got told that by some of the other guys. I was trying to stay as sharp as I could and stay mentally and physically ready. When I got the call, I wanted to take advantage of it.

 Q. You've had a couple days to rest. Has the preparation been any different?
 TYLER SEGUIN: I think our coaches make adjustments, we make adjustments, just get our game plan down, get ready. 
 I think if you have more days off, obviously after the series you might get a few days off away from the rink. If you don't have a lengthy week off, you're going to take a day or two off and then get back to work, move on from the last series, get ready for this win. 

 Q. Talk about Tim Thomas. 
 TYLER SEGUIN: Timmy has been phenomenal. It's pretty neat just watching a guy like that. He's obviously turned into a superstar. Just the way he is off the ice as well, how focused he is around the rink, how he carries himself. It's something nice to see. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TYLER SEGUIN: Not yet. But I'm sure tomorrow there will be some. It's the biggest series, what we've all wanted, to get to this point. I'm very excited. 
 I want to bring that readiness, take it into the first couple shifts.

 Q. Any expectations you have for yourself going into the series?
 TYLER SEGUIN: No. I just want to do everything I can. I want to make sure I know I leave this series with no regrets, know that I put it all out there on the line, worked my hardest every shift, every game. That's all anyone can ask out of themselves. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TYLER SEGUIN: It feels great. Feels good to be in Vancouver. It's definitely a great city. It feels good to be here knowing that the series is finally going to start to take off. 

 Q. Nervous? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: I'd say I'm very excited. Probably get even more excited tonight and tomorrow. Everyone's ready for this thing to get going. 

 Q. Obviously you just sort of got to know Tim Thomas who has a different style than most NHL goaltenders. Any stories about practices?
 TYLER SEGUIN: Timmy is Timmy. He's his own goalie. He's a special goalie. He's got a special technique. Just how focused, determined he is, not only on the ice battling, competing for pucks, but away from the rink, it's nice for a young guy to see. 

 Q. A teammate?
 TYLER SEGUIN: Yeah. He's got the whole package. Great teammate, good leader, even if he's a goalie. He's definitely one of our MVPs.

 Q. For a young guy, what is this entire thing like?
 TYLER SEGUIN: I mean, it's very surreal. I think last year at this point I was getting ready to head down to Philly to watch Chicago and Philly play. Now I'm here. 
 It's everything I could have ever asked for. I want to make the most of this opportunity.

 Q. Is it close to what you might have imagined?
 TYLER SEGUIN: Probably pretty dead on. I didn't have the chance to play in every game. When I got the opportunity, I wanted to take advantage of it and do everything I could to contribute to this locker room. I've been trying to do that.

 Q. What is the city of Boston like right now?
 TYLER SEGUIN: I've only been here this year, but I've never seen anything like it. If it wasn't a hockey town before, it is now. Even leaving, coming to Vancouver, a couple thousand fans outside just waving bye, cheering us on, wishing us good luck. It was something pretty special. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT