NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v BRUINS
May 18, 2011
Tyler Seguin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Has it fully sunk in for you, kind of what happened last night?
 TYLER SEGUIN: Yeah, I think after the game it kicked in a bit more. And it's a huge victory for all of us and everyone's very happy, and we put it behind us after last night, after talking over the (indiscernible) getting prepared for tomorrow night's game.

 Q. Basically overnight (indiscernible) all over the place. How do you take those expectations when it comes to (indiscernible)?
 TYLER SEGUIN: I think I put enough pressure on myself as it is, and I just want to stay focused and stay composed and stay poised and stay confident, all those big words, and try to carry it out to tomorrow's game. And just stay consistent throughout the series.

 Q. No teenager has ever got four points in a conference final game. What do you think about that and how do you put that into perspective?
 TYLER SEGUIN: I think it's a big accomplishment. I haven't heard that before. Definitely that's a great accomplishment and something I'll always remember. It was a great game. And my line played very well (indiscernible) out there last night, especially in the second period when I popped those four goals. So now hopefully we stay consistent with it and we'll do it tomorrow night.

 Q. (Question off microphone)?
 TYLER SEGUIN: Oh, yeah, definitely feels good. Right now I've been trying to stay prepared in case I ever got the call. It's definitely tough losing one of your best players due to injuries. But we all know injuries are part of the game. 
 So I was just trying to stay ready and stay sharp (indiscernible) staying ready.

 Q. How do you stay ready? You're sitting there for the first two series, 11 games, how do you stay mentally focused and be ready when your number's called be ready to go?
 TYLER SEGUIN: It's definitely tough, but I try to not take a negative in a positive. I've faced adversity before, whether getting cut from a World Junior team last year and going back to Juniors, but I have to face adversity all the time. That's what hockey players do. 
 I try to just look from up top and learn little things and work extra in practice after all the boys get off because I'm not playing in the next game. 
 So I try to do that and stay focused and be into it when I get the opportunity.

 Q. Based on your playing, do you expect more time?
 TYLER SEGUIN: I think I'll get whatever time I deserve. Right now I'm staying ready. I saw the power play for the first time last game. So whatever the call is, I want to be ready.

 Q. (Question off microphone)?
 TYLER SEGUIN: Trying to get a quick point, but now it's even trying to finish the (indiscernible). I need to bring that to my game. 

 Q. Seems kind of simple, but was that some of the most fun you've had playing hockey in a while last night?
 TYLER SEGUIN: Well, yeah. It was a fun period. And, again, it's just one game. I know that it's just one game. I got my first Playoff win last night. So we have a long series (indiscernible).

 Q. (Indiscernible) check out some of the highlights after the game?
 TYLER SEGUIN: That was one, yeah. I had a friend come, but he went back (indiscernible). 

 Q. Just talk about (indiscernible). At what point do you decide to (indiscernible)? Is that something the coaching staff had an idea doing that?
 TYLER SEGUIN: Yeah, I really got emphasized on it by the coaching staff as the season went down, just use my speed and know when to cut in and that. And the last couple of games I've had two opportunities where I was kind of going through the defensemen, and I was trying to work on some stuff, take (indiscernible) and it's paid off in the last couple of games. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT