NHL DRAFT
June 25, 2010
Tyler Seguin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How important is the defensive end for a young player like yourself? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: Especially this year you I knew to get to the next level I had to mature as a player and get better. Being in my own end, and I knew that. It started working out that I see actually got benched one time because I cheated offensively in my "D" zone. And it started working out that when I was doing better in my "D" zone, I was getting more chances in the offensive zone. I think that was just because of maturing as a player here in this past year. 

 Q. Is there a player you looked at as a fan growing up and that you're looking forward to playing with? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: Actually I just ran into Mark Recchi as the hotel a couple times. We seem to be elevator buddies. That was pretty cool. He's going to give me a lot of advice, and I'm looking forward to that. And of course, I've seen Chara play. He was probably the best player I've ever seen on the Bruins this past year, and I think it's going to be quite tough going one-on-one against him if I get that opportunity.

 Q. Who do you give the most credit to for where you are right now? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: Number one, probably my family. My dad first and foremost. He played for the University of Vermont which is by Boston, so he's happy about there. And he taught me my whole life about passion, desire, sacrifices. And I have so many supporters. My mom, my family, my sister, I'd probably give it to them.

 Q. (Indiscernible) were you surprised that you didn't go first? Was it a little disappointment? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: I wasn't surprised or disappointed. I think I just came in here really with an open mind. I didn't have any expectations. I think everyone has their own opinion. We've seen it all year with whatever scouting service there may be. You know, Edmonton decided to select Hall first overall, and good for him. He deserves it. And I'm happy to be a Bruin. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 TYLER SEGUIN: I think my gut feeling changed every hour. I was feeling Boston, and Edmonton, and right now I'm just happy to know where I'm going, and it's a little bit of a relief. 

 Q. (Indiscernible) do you feel like you're a small part of history? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: Growing up I was the local guy. I liked watching the Leafs because they were the local team. Now that it happened, I think it's meant to be. I think things worked out throughout my life and anyone's lives. It's just where we were supposed to fall, and Boston was the team that was supposed to pick me.

 Q. How are you going to celebrate tonight? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: I don't know. I don't know if we have a draft party or what it will be. But it's going to start out with my 30 family and friend members out there in the crowd.

 Q. You said you didn't have a preference on position; now do you have a preference? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: No, I've always been a natural centerman my whole life. I've always played center. But when I came into my OHL career as a rookie I had to adjust to wing because I was playing with better players, and I was more of a play maker that year. 
 This past year the better players ended up leaving the team, they were older, so I got moved to center, and turned out to be more of a goal scorer. 
 I'm a pretty diverse player, and I want to step into a team or organization like the Bruins and play any role.

 Q. Anybody on the Bruins team right now that you've played with, played against, casual relationship you know heading into this? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: No, one guy in Providence of the NHL team, McDermott, I played a couple weeks ago. But other than that, no. 

 Q. As you were growing up, who was the most inspirational hockey player at that time? 
 TYLER SEGUIN: As I was growing up, he wasn't in there too much. He's actually in the crowd right now. Steve Yzerman, he's always been my idol growing up. Just the way he was on the ice, he started off as a rookie and had to mature as a player like I did. Getting better in the zone and stuff like that. And he turned into an all-around good guy. He's phenomenal off the ice and a true leader. Something that I want to be like myself. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT