ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 15, 2015
Johnson Charles
Jason Holder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Now that you're into the quarterfinals do you feel you performed the way you wanted to perform?JOHNSON CHARLES: Yeah, obviously it was a must-win game, and we had to win by a big margin.  A lot of guys came out and played cricket today, and you can't ask for much more.Q. Jason, playing New Zealand, what do you make of them?  Where might they be vulnerable?  How much are you looking forward to that game?JASON HOLDER: We're obviously looking forward to it.  It's a quarterfinal game and cricket is played on a day.  Obviously New Zealand has been playing decent cricket.  They haven't lost a game, so hopefully this quarterfinal we'll beat them.Q. But you must have some look at them.  Do you think there are areas you can exploit?JASON HOLDER: Well, as I said, cricket is played on a day.  Once we take our balls in terms of getting wickets with the new ball as we've been doing in this tournament, I think we can put some pressure on them.  I think there is a (Indiscernible) with McCullum, and I think if you get into the middle orders quickly, it will be better off for us.  Whenever we bat, we obviously have to come to a bowling combination.Q. Jason, how important will it be to put Chris Gayle back into the equation for the quarterfinal?  Is he looking like he will be?JASON HOLDER: Well, I mean, Chris had the same bat problem as you know over the last year, and sometimes he has good days and sometimes he has bad days.  Obviously, he's a key player for us, and his fitness is key going into the quarterfinal.  I'm sure he'll be up for it even if he's not a hundred percent.  It's an important game and he's a big player, you know what big players can do on big days.Q. Jason, obviously, toss is something a matter.  But it must have really pleased you that everything went according to plan for you, didn't it?  And toss must have been an important factor given the conditions today?JASON HOLDER: Yeah, it was important for us.  I always wanted to bowl first and try to bowl with UAE to get the runs as quickly as possible, and it just fell into place today.  I like our chance with the toss.  There is not much I can do in terms of controlling it.  But unfortunately things (Indiscernible) we executed.Q. You bowled ten overs, and it must have been pretty tiring, but you seemed to be going for the five wicket hole there.  Just talk us through that, and how did it feel just to have come so close?JASON HOLDER: Well, it's my third four wicket hole in International Cricket, and I haven't really been able to break the barrier.  But, yeah, I did it for the team it was important.  After getting the three early wickets, I think I got my fourth around my 7th or 6th over.  At that stage I just decided to bowl through and just try to further set the UAE team back.  Unfortunately I just didn't get the five wickets or go beyond it.  But it's just good to see the guys pick up the slack coming into the middle and the end.Q. Johnson, your first match you came in and looked like you were playing all along.  How did it feel to get into the middle for the first time?JOHNSON CHARLES: I was playing back in the Caribbean, so it didn't feel all that different from playing, as you can see.  But it's a different atmosphere in New Zealand, and I just had to make the adjustment.  So I had a couple days in the net and did some work and just, you know, just went out today and bat myself.Q. A question in regards to Darren Sammy.  Did you guys have a little bit of a tumble in the middle?JASON HOLDER: We just had a little bunt on the field.  We just wanted to have some fun, and unfortunately it didn't look the way it seemed, but we were all good.  We're very good mitts, and we just had a little tussle there.  It's just part of the game.  You know, it's not a crucial game, but at the end of the day, we still smile together.Q. Jason, the 7th wicket partnership must have been a bit frustrating for you guys having had to make 46 for 6.  Can you just talk about how frustrating it was to have them bat like the two bowlers, actually?  And also what did you make of the batting with the 7th wicket partnership?JASON HOLDER: Obviously the two guys there put on a good partnership with UAE.  But after getting the first six wickets pretty easily, we were pretty much expecting the partnership along the line, so it came out as a partnership.  That's just cricket.  We weren't able to break, and the guys put up over a hundred.  But I can't fault the effort of the bowlers.  I thought they did really well, and the batsmen came in and finished off the job.Q. Jason, talking about that, it must be difficult to maintain serious intensity with 50 overs when you have them down in 16 overs, even if you took a step back and even if it was unintentional?  What do you do to maintain intensity throughout an entire day's play?JASON HOLDER: I wouldn't say we took a step back.  We were always pressing to get them bowlers.  But as I said, it's just about trying to break it, unfortunately we took a little longer today to break that partnership.  I think during those phases you just have to keep energy up.  Try not to be trying too hard in the sense to get wickets, but go through the process of building pressure. I think once we build pressure today, I thought Marlon Samuels spell was absolutely brilliant, because he came in and made it easier for the other guys coming on with Russell with Kemar.  Russell came back and got the two wickets for us.  But it's all about building pressure, I think.  In those stages where you're not getting wickets, you have to keep it down and just try to build pressure.Q. You don't often see teams high-fiving and celebrating after bowling to the opposition.  You guys were sort of slapping each other on the back after bowling out the UAE crowd.  It seems like your offerings as the weather goes how much of the weather was still in the back of your mind while you were playing?JASON HOLDER: First of all, it's something we always do regardless how we perform on the field.  Coming off the field we always offer that support to each bowler.  It's something that is tradition on our team just to give the fellow bowlers some good sentiments.  Turning to the weather, it wasn't too much on my mind.  Obviously, it's beyond my control. We were checking the forecast, and the forecast said pretty much the majority of anything it would have gone on later on this evening, so it was just important that we focus on what we have to do and what we could control, and that was just playing cricket.  Again, credit to the guys for the way they played.Q. Just a question regarding Johnson.  The performance today and the quality of it, does that credit (Indiscernible) to play the quarterfinal with Chris out?  Can you fit them both in the squad?  Would you leave someone out?  How would you do it?JASON HOLDER: I can't speak.  You know, we still have to get to where we are going tonight and it looks like Wellington.  So obviously the conditions there.  I know we're the best team.  Obviously, Johnson played a very good day.  And I would he's pretty much secured a spot for the next game.  But we'll sit down, discuss and see what conditions we're up against and make a decision.Q. I think you were part of the West Indies squad that won the World T20.  Do you feel a similar vibe?  Is there something you can take from that performance back then to now and say that there is maybe a good vibe and just good feelings going through the squad?  Do you think they can go all the way?JOHNSON CHARLES: Yeah, of course.  Originally, I was not part of this World Cup squad, but one thing I always used to say back home is that we always have the ability to take that trophy.  And as I came to join the squad it was something that was in the back of my mind.  It's one thing to have belief in yourself, but then it's another thing to have team belief.  I believe that the team has a lot of self belief, and I have no doubt that we could take that World Cup.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT