WNBA ALL-STAR GAME 2019
July 27, 2019
Brittney Griner
Allie Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Team Wilson - 129, Team Delle Donne - 126   
 Q.  BG, you hit three dunks in the first half.  I think it's an All-Star record.  Was it something you were trying to do to put on a show for the fans?  And Allie, in the third quarter you and Sloot [Courtney Vandersloot] were guarding each other and you hit two threes on her and it seemed like it was a fun time for you.  What were those experiences like?  
ALLIE QUIGLEY: Yeah, she was talking a lot of mess during the week about how she was going to lock me up on defense, so I had to take my opportunity and prove to her who's the boss.   
BRITTNEY GRINER: Yeah, it was perfect.   
ALLIE QUIGLEY: I said "sorry" a couple times, too.   
BRITTNEY GRINER: You put her in the front row.   
I think everybody would have killed me, honestly, if I didn't dunk, so the whole week everybody was like, dunk, dunk, make sure you dunk.  So I was just trying to think about it a little bit more and was able to throw a couple down today.  Didn't get hung.  That was my goal.  Don't get hung, don't fall.   
 Q.  Allie, I saw you and actually Brittney, too, tearing up at the end when Erica Wheeler got that MVP.  What emotions were you feeling at that time?  
ALLIE QUIGLEY: Just so happy for her.  You know, she has an incredible story, not being drafted and then just having a tough time her senior year of college.  Just thinking about what she went through and how amazing it is that she could come here and do so well at the All-Star Game, get MVP and just know that her mom is just celebrating up there with her.  So we just got emotions that got the best of us.   
BRITTNEY GRINER: Yeah, it's pretty amazing, her story and everything, and if you don't know it, you need to go figure it out.  Her getting MVP was amazing, and I'm so happy for her.  No one deserves it more than her.   
 Q.  Your thoughts, first WNBA All-Star Game here in Las Vegas, your thoughts about your time here and how it's been?  
BRITTNEY GRINER: Loved it.  I think it was put on really well from the moment that we got here.  I think it was a lot of preparation went into it.  The team dinner, the parties, everything, Teyana Taylor at our game.  So I think they did a really good job here in Vegas.  It was good actually seeing current basketball players coming back, legends that were there, or that were here, felt like a really good All-Star.   
ALLIE QUIGLEY: Yeah, definitely.  You could tell they made a huge effort to try to make this the best All-Star ever and put a little taste of Vegas into it with the Cirque du Soleil and just all the performances.  It was pretty amazing every single day that they put on.   
 Q.  Allie, you may have a better understanding than some people about how hard it is to make a roster.  You've had your own journey on that.  Can you talk about that specifically, when you know what Erica went through because you've experienced some of that?  
ALLIE QUIGLEY: Yeah, and definitely you could tell today that it just kind of caught up with her.  I'm sure when she was young, it wasn't about, oh, one day I want to be MVP of the All-Star Game.  It's just kind of baby steps, and for her to have such an amazing journey, and like I said, not be drafted and just take those baby steps every single year to get better and better and better and now everyone gets to experience that and see how hard work can just take you so far.  And it couldn't happen to a better person.   
 Q.  What would you like to see from the WNBA five to ten years from now, whether it's here in the States or international?  
BRITTNEY GRINER: Well, hopefully I'm not having to go internationally to go play.  Hopefully I'm able to stay here and play here in the league at home, where there's my family, my friends.  So hopefully it gets to a point where -- I don't want to keep hitting a dead bush because it's not a dead bush, but hopefully we're able to be paid what we deserve.  We put our bodies on the line a lot.  So I think that's our No. 1 thing.  And then from different teams we hear different things, but travel and stay and other accommodations, hopefully all that meets the high standard that we perform at.   
ALLIE QUIGLEY: Yeah, I agree with what she said.  I think probably the main thing is just to be able to stay here for seven, eight months out of the year and not have to go over there, keep our product here at home, and just continue to try to grow this league because -- and just get more people to know about us.  We just need people in the seats, and once they come once, I think for sure the product is going to sell itself.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT