WNBA DRAFT
April 15, 2013
Brittney Griner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You're now a professional athlete.   Can you just talk a little bit about your excitement for today?   Also, the impact that you would like to have on and off the court.   Now you're going to be a brand as a professional athlete.   So I'm just curious to know a little bit of your thoughts. 
BRITTNEY GRINER:   Thank you first.   Thank you.   Just today has been amazing.   It was a dream come true today.   This is like a little kid in Disney World for the first time and meeting all the characters. 
Sitting at that table, when they said 15seconds, my heart just started beating so fast.   My hands were sweating.   I was grabbing the tablecloth underneath, wiping them down.   Talked to Holly, couldn't even get my words out. 
Definitely thought I was going to have a heart attack at the table.   I'm definitely excited.   Just being a pro now and being my own brand.   On the court, definitely want to bring it, bring it every time I step on that court.   Just anything and everything I can do to just help the league out and just bring that excitement and just get more followers to the league, to the game, put more people in those stands, whatever I have to do I'm going to go out there and do it. 
And then off the court, just with the media now is so crazy around sports, especially women's sports.   And it's still growing and we're still going to grow it. 
Just doing something positive with it.   And just reaching out into the community and just doing everything I can to just to give back. 

Q.   So were you more nervous when you got drafted or when you met Tony Hawk this morning?
BRITTNEY GRINER:   Both.   I was speechless on both.   My eyes kind of started to tearing up on Holly, when I met Tony.   I couldn't say anything.   Both of them were hand in hand.   But obviously just getting drafted and being that No. 1 overall pick that was definitely above it.   But Tony was there number two.

Q.   You're joining a team that has an abundance of talent with Diana Taurasi and Penny Taylor and the rest.   What do you want to bring to the team that is extra to help push Phoenix right to the top?
BRITTNEY GRINER:   You know, defense is my favorite thing.   I love defense.   I feel like I can be that defensive stopper down in the low post, and just somebody come in there, sit next to us at half court.   And just bringing the dunking element of my game to Phoenix.   Just that excitement.   I mean, I feel like everybody would like to see D throw up that alley‑oop, I catch it and slam it.   So just bringing my defensive grit and the dunking and the blocking shots and just the high energy I play with, bringing that to the table.

Q.   You talked earlier today about the excitement, all about the X factor and the fan base.   Can you talk about how important that is for you to connect to the fan base in Phoenix and how much you're looking forward to that?
BRITTNEY GRINER:   I think it's very important to have a great fan base.   As players, we feed off of that.   And Phoenix already has‑‑ they already have a great fan base.   And I hope me going to the team can help bring out even more and turn non‑basketball fans into basketball fans and bring out even more people and just pack the house every night.   Because that's what we need just to help out the league.   Packing out that house every time and just having the fans into it.

Q.   The experience you had with Team U.S.A., the lessons you learned maybe there, how much will that help maybe even in the transition now to go to the WNBA?
BRITTNEY GRINER:   Definitely got a taste of the pace, I would say.   It's definitely a faster pace than in college.   So I definitely got a little sense of that.   They're bigger, they're stronger.   These are veterans.   They have been playing for a while and bigger and stronger, faster.   Definitely going to have to get in and work hard.   It's not just going to be a cake walk.   Definitely going to get in there and work as hard as I can every day, before and after.   And just playing with U.S.A. just definitely gave me a sense of what I have to look forward to







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT