ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 11, 2018
Nida Dar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. As neutral to watching this, we were frightfully disappointed about the 10 penalty runs because you got yourself into such a good position.  Can you firstly tell us what your own view of that -- you seemed to be given warnings, but to get 10 on two different penalties, what your reaction is to that, and the impact it might have had on the spirit of the camp, as well, at the halfway point?
NIDA DAR: Look, it's a part of the game, and I know it's a silly mistake from us, and we shouldn't do this thing, and we should learn from this, and maybe after 10 runs could not minus from our total, maybe it's a good game against India, and it's maybe a good total, but still, this total is a very different total, and we struggled -- India struggled against our bowling, so it's a good thing for us that we defend it very well.
Q. And overall, obviously a tournament you're looking to improve, game on game.  Are you satisfied that you've seen good improvements on working into the last matches the tournament?
NIDA DAR: Yeah, still, we need to improve a lot of things, and we have a lot of people in our team that they can put on more effort in the game, and still, we perform in bits and pieces, but the thing is senior, junior -- the combination of senior, junior, they are very good, and we're still hoping for the best.
Q. The score is not too bad, but in terms of the bowling, what do you feel the team did, what you could have done better to defend this total?
NIDA DAR: Look, this total is very good, but the thing is the power play, the bowlers cannot do well, bowl in the power play, so we should try to make good things in the power play and try to restrict other teams in the power play.
Q. The pitch itself, you've alluded to the fact that you made a mistake in running down it, but overall what were your feelings about the way the pitch and the surface played here?
NIDA DAR: Good for the batters and good for the bowlers, also, especially spinners, and if we use it well, then you can bowl for a good total and you can bowl other team out early.
Q. Can you tell us the story behind your shirt number?  Why did you choose this particular number?
NIDA DAR: Because it's my lucky number, first, and secondly I like Inzamam-ul-Haq so much.  And the other thing is nowadays Hafeez is very much into the game, and I really like him.
Q. Looking at the game itself overall, Pakistan I think gave India a strong fight, and you enjoyed some chances, maybe set a few records.  What did this do for your team going forward?
NIDA DAR: Of course we are looking forward for the next games, and hopefully the other team players, they can do better for the next games, and as I said, we performed in bits and pieces, so we could perform in better way and in three parts, like bowling, fielding and batting.  So we could have better plays on our team and the overall performance.  Our overall performance will be hopefully, inshallah, will go for the next game.
Q. This was I couldn't highest individual score in T20.  How much did you enjoy batting, especially that you could make this score against India?
NIDA DAR: My catch was dropped, so I told her this is my day, so I have to go forward, and just I go for the runs.
Q. And then the second catch was dropped?
NIDA DAR: Again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT