ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 9, 2018
Nida Dar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Australia - 165/5, Pakistan - 113/8
Q. Did you find it difficult facing the spinners seeing that even though Pakistan played four spinners, the Australian spinners got the better of you guys?  Did you see that spin as kind of a difficulty for Pakistan?
NIDA DAR: No, I cannot say this thing because we have very good spinners in our line-up.  But the thing is we have to vary the pace. And that's a difficult thing for us because we have played on very fast wickets in Pakistan and Malaysia.  So now what we need to do just vary the pace. Otherwise they are very good.
Q. And in terms of preparation towards playing at Providence, did you think that you guys had enough preparation, or was the one match too little of practise on this surface?
NIDA DAR: We have prepared a lot of things against Australia and Malaysia.  So we have that thing that we can play with India and next team matches very good way.  I know we have a lot of spinners on our team.  So they can do their job well and they will come back in next matches.
Q. At what point of the match did you guys really think that you lost it?
NIDA DAR: It was in bowling, probably it's not going good.  And if we say in batting -- so when we lost our first or second wicket, maybe that is a turning point for us.
Q. What do you think is a par score on this surface?
NIDA DAR: Above 150.
Q. You played Australia a few times now, and they're considered one of the favourites to win this tournament.  What would you identify as the areas in which they can be targeted?
NIDA DAR: They're really good and batting side is very good.  And they're very good in fielding also.  So if we target them, if we bowl them -- like we in Pakistan, Pakistani bowlers, they wanted to bowl them very straight.  And that's the thing, I think so, for them.
Q. Saying we should bowl straight?
NIDA DAR: Yes, straight.
Q. And also in the morning did you get a chance to see Harmanpreet's innings?  And knowing that you were going to be playing India the next match, what did you take away from the morning game?
NIDA DAR: Of course she played really, really very well.  And she makes that ball goes for six.  And I think she hit eight 6s, so I think New Zealand bowled her areas.  Mostly she bowled -- she wanted that area to hit that 6s.  So I think -- I think that we have to bowl them a very good areas.
Q. How daunting is it when, with that Australian batting lineup, as soon as you managed to get one wicket there's just so many strong batters all the way through.  Do you think that is the strongest batting lineup in this tournament?
NIDA DAR: Of course they're very strong and they are supposed to be the No. 1 team in the world.  And we have a plan for them that we do not go for the -- taking wickets for them.  We just go to give them dart balls, mostly dart balls and for one singles.  So that's the plan I think for them.  But they're a very good team and we know they're the No. 1 team and we have to learn from them.
Q. Now that you've lost one match, it's a very, very difficult group this one, looking forward to the next match, do you look at that as an opportunity to go through to the end, or does it just become about beating India?
NIDA DAR: Of course, we have an opportunity.  This wicket is very slow and this kind of wicket is just like in Pakistan.  So we have a great opportunity for next matches, for next three matches.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT