BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2020
Ashleigh Barty
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HSIEH, STRYCOVA/Barty, Bertens
3-6, 7-6, 10-8
THE MODERATOR: First question, please.
Q. So Ash and Kiki, what did you think? You had won the first set and then it was a really tight second set, breaks the serve and then super tight, sort of where do you think it went wrong in the end?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: A couple points here and there. I think even in the second set there were plenty of breaks but most were from short deuces. I think there four or five games in a row with short deuces. And created an opportunity with a match point in the second but weren't able to take it, they played a great point. And then that's the beauty of the beast in this kind of format is it can, it's kind of on a knife's edge, it can change really quickly.
Q. Just for both of you, I guess, you enjoyed the week playing together and what's in store for this partnership for the rest of the year?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, I really enjoyed playing with Ash. When she asked me, there was no doubt I wanted to play. So it was great fun, of course, as well we played some good matches. But I think for the rest of the year she's set, so. No, but I was not so many, I don't play doubles somewhere, so it's okay. But she's a great partner to play with, of course.
Q. You did look like you were having a ball out there. You've spoken before about how important doubles is for you, Ash, but can you explain is it because of the, is it because you enjoy it so much? Does it provide a mental relief? Or a what is it that you love playing, why do you love this format?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I wouldn't play if I didn't enjoy it. I wouldn't play if I didn't enjoy the people that I play with. First and foremost, I make sure that I play with people who I enjoy spending time with, who are good friends of mine, and Kiki, obviously, is a class doubles player, a good friend, and it's obviously just nice to get a few matches because you can't replicate kind of what you get under pressure. You can't replicate kind of that last 30 or 40 minutes of that match in practice and that's that stuff is kind of, it's nice to get early in the season in, particular, but I crave it. I love it.
Q. Ash, you didn't probably get the singles time that you wanted up here, but some good doubles time. How does that translate to your singles game? And how beneficial is just being out there and playing either format for you?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, doubles has always helped my singles and vice versa throughout my whole career. I've had different phases where my doubles has been going better, my singles has been going better, but they definitely help each other hand-in-hand, so I think doubles will always be a feature in my schedule, not every single week, but I think I love playing it too much to let it go.
Q. Do you think that the doubles style of play with the volleying and even the slice and the angles, is that going to be a factor to be successful in Melbourne this year, do you think?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Not specifically, not more than any other week. It's not going to change the way that I prepare or get ready for my singles matches. Obviously, I love doubles and I love how it changes the geometry of the court and you have to understand the court differently, and it presents different challenges. And I like the way that it challenges me and it tests me to bring out all different phases and different parts of my game which helps my singles regardless of kind of where I'm playing the next week.
Q. And are you happy with that part of your game at this point in the season, I guess, the silver lining was you got a couple more matches to really focus on that side of things?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I mean, I just love it. I love coming out here, you get the serving returning under pressure. Obviously, you get the transition moving forward, but yet you get court time, which is important.
Q. When do you head to Adelaide? And just tell your thoughts about down there. It's a really strong event as well.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, it is. Looking forward to getting to Adelaide. I've been to Adelaide over for cricket, but not for tennis, so it will be nice to come see Memorial Drive as it's kind of new to me for the first time. So looking forward to getting down there and another strong field.
Q. I think you are both going. What are the logistics? Do you leave tonight or get some more family time what happens? When do you actually take off?
KIKI BERTENS: We both leave tonight as soon as possible and then prepare again as good as we can for Adelaide.
Q. There's been a lot of talk this week about the tournament, both the Cup and this being together, the girls being on the sort of outside courts. What are your overall thoughts about how the week went this sort of week and a half anyway?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Well, you know, obviously it was a little bit different having two kind of different tournaments at the same venue, but I think any time that there are combined events it always presents different challenges when there are that many people on site, that many players on site. But I've had a great time playing here at home and I think you just look at the two hours that we just spent on the beautiful center court, the crowd was involved, it was a great atmosphere and, yeah, really, really nice way to finish the week.
Q. Are you a fan of a WTA Cup in the future?
ASHLEIGH BARTY: If it happens it happens, if it doesn't, it doesn't. I don't really have an opinion.
Q. Kiki, what do you reckon?
KIKI BERTENS: Same answer (laughing) it sounds really good (laughing).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT