SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
October 29, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. BERTENS/A. Barty
3-6, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. For somebody who looked struggling and tired, amazing comeback. Where was the turning point?
KIKI BERTENS: In the beginning I was a little bit struggling. Of course, I hit this morning on the court, but it's really different from last week, also with the balls.
I think as the match was continuing, I felt better and better. The movement was getting a bit better. I was starting to feel the court. I could play a little bit more aggressive, come to the net.
Yeah, I think I played pretty well in the end.
Q. Tell us when and how you found out you'd be playing. How much time did you have to prepare?
KIKI BERTENS: Tony called me this afternoon. It was a surprise for me. Of course you're always ready to play, but I was not really see it coming today.
But yeah, I prepared as good as possible, rest. I had a little nap, then just prepared for the match.
Q. Given how much you've played since the US Open, how deep you went in Zhuhai, when you arrived here were you hoping to be able to play a match or okay sitting on the couch as an alternate?
KIKI BERTENS: To be sure, I was okay sitting on the couch. I was really tired. But then yesterday I just hit like for five or 10 minutes. I just rested completely.
I think today I felt already much better. Of course, it's not like after one day that you're completely back in full energy. Of course, you're like, Okay, one more, one more.
That keeps me going. We see how far I can go.
Q. At 3-2 you called down Elise in the second set, then won eight straight games. I don't speak Dutch, but what did she say to you? What were the adjustments you made?
KIKI BERTENS: That's a secret. No, just kidding (laughter).
She was like, You just start to play better and better, you start feeling the court better, you're moving better. Just try to stay and play aggressive. Come to the net, just go for your shots, move from the legs.
I knew I had to do all those things, but I was not really feeling the body. I think I did it pretty well. Just keep coming into the net. I hit some great volleys today.
Q. One week earlier in Zhuhai you said you were very disappointed for not qualifying in Shenzhen. Victory against the world No. 1, $300,000 in prize money...
KIKI BERTENS: That's a good bonus, right (smiling)?
Well, I think everything this week is extra, of course. I'm a little bit lucky to get in. Unfortunate for Naomi, of course. I just take her spot, try to perform as good as I can, try to give all the energy what's left in me.
Yeah, I just beat world No. 1, so it's just a really good feeling, yeah.
Q. You might be the player who has the longest stay in Asia, in China, this season. So many Chinese cities. Which one is your favorite? Talk about the one thing you like in China most and the one thing you maybe dislike about China.
KIKI BERTENS: Well, I think all the weeks have been pretty good. Beijing was, of course, my biggest result. I really liked it there.
On the other hand, to be honest, I didn't do a lot because I was so tired. I mostly just stay in the hotel, play my matches, and rest as good as I can. To be honest, I didn't really see much of China.
Q. Belinda said she had almost resigned herself to go to Zhuhai, but got it right at the end. She mentioned she enjoyed your text. Describe how that week was for you. Was it the same low when you realized you weren't going to make the cut?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, for myself, I just tried everything I think the last few weeks to make Shenzhen, of course. I had it in my own hands. I just had to win a couple of matches, but that's really tough. Belinda did really well under pressure.
Of course, once you're in Moscow, you see each other. We were both struggling fourth round. She was hoping I was losing and the other way around, as well, to be honest.
I think in the end she really deserved it. If you can reach the final under pressure, afterwards winning the tournament, you deserve to be here. She was just the better player.
That's what I was texting her: Congrats. I was hoping maybe you lost today, but you really deserved it, enjoy it.
Q. All four players in your group have an equal chance of making it to the knockout stage. Talk about your chances of making it into the semifinals.
KIKI BERTENS: I still have a chance to make the semis. I'm just going to prepare as good as possible, rest again really well, then prepare for my match against Belinda. Yeah, may the best one win.
Q. Is there any thought of getting Belinda back for the qualification?
KIKI BERTENS: Of course.
No, no, no. It's just another match for me. I'll try to give all the energy I have, then let's see. Whoever is better that day I think deserves the spot, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT