HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 27, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. SABALENKA/K. Bertens
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. The match seemed to change in that 10th game of the first set when there was a long delay at the start with the crowd. How frustrating was that and do you think that played any part into you losing that first set?
KIKI BERTENS: I think not really, I think every changeover we had to wait really long, so that's kind of how it works here and you have to deal with that, so I don't think that. I think she played very well there. She ended up winning and she deserved it.
Q. In terms of now off to Shenzhen as the reserve, what is your plan for kind of this evening and into the week? Is it travel straight there?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I have to travel there as quick as possible. So, once I'm stretched, eat and I'll go in the car and drive there and then see what's happening in Shenzhen in the next few days.
Q. You and Aryna play played a lot this year and the last two haven't gone your way. Is there anything different that she's done in these matches that have maybe been different than earlier in the year?
KIKI BERTENS: I think that the two times we played before was really tight, long matches also, where I was physically really fine, where I could play my own game. So just play trying to get the rallies as long as possible and just trying to work myself in there.
Today that was not really the case. I could not run so good, so then you have to go for it a little bit more, what I tried, but that's not where I'm best at. So she just played great today and she deserved to win.
Q. Still three really good wins, I know it hasn't probably changed a lot this week, but how does this result maybe affect how you look back on your year?
KIKI BERTENS: I think it was a great year. Of course, with a win today it was maybe even better. But I gave everything this year, so I have no regrets, so I can only be proud of myself. Proud that I'm still in the Top-10 my second year in a row. So I think only positive things and of course there are always things we can work on and that's what we're going to do again, but first rest.
Q. After this year I think you made a final on every surface this year. What do you think about next year that's a surface in which you can say, I play better on that?
KIKI BERTENS: I think still on every surface the goal is to win a title on every surface. I was really close to get one on the grass this year, my home tournament, which was really annoying that it was not meant to be.
But I think still like by playing more aggressive I can achieve more, so that's what we're going to work on again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT