HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 26, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. BERTENS/ZHENG SAISAI
2-6, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. You said the match took a bit out of your body. Just specifically what was going on and how are you feeling right now?
KIKI BERTENS: Exhausted. I was really, really tired before the match, just the body is not what it was, but, yeah, a little bit cramping here and there.
But we prepare as good as we can for tomorrow and hopefully I'll have one more final push and just give all the energy that's left in me. It's only one more match, so, yeah, I can put all the energy in there.
Q. How difficult was it out there, because you were battling against the crowd as well as obviously Saisai?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, well, for me that's always something nice, I like it more, to be honest, when the crowd is against me than for me. So I think that just gives me a little bit more energy and just a feeling that I really want to win.
Q. After you lost the first set, at what moment did you feel that the momentum was changing?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, I knew I had to do something else, because Saisai was putting so much balls back on the court and I just had not the energy to play those long rallies.
So I was just mixing it up, trying to do some serve and volley, which was working pretty well, I was surprised with that. So I was just keep on going for it. And then she gave me some mistakes also, so then I start believing that I could still turn this match around.
Q. In terms of game style, who do you prefer to face in final, even if you -- I think you never faced Muchova or Sabalenka -- who do you prefer?
KIKI BERTENS: For me it only matters, it only matters like how long they are on court, to be honest. Maybe that's mean, but, no, it's just like, may the best one win.
Of course, I never played Muchova and Aryna already a few times this year, but it's a final, so whoever is the best can win.
Q. Could you please tell us about your schedule for next few days, because you are still the first alternative player in Shenzhen.
KIKI BERTENS: Yes, well I play the final here tomorrow and then after that, as soon as I can, I'll go to Shenzhen and wait there, if someone pulls out, yes or no.
Q. Obviously these are kind of the matches that you train for but all the same, are you relieved, happy that you were able to make it through such a physical match like this at this point in the season?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I think I can be really proud of that, because it's been a really long season, I played so many matches.
And, yeah, before the match it's just really like getting all the energy together and just trying to give it all. And that's what I've been doing all week. I think every day I'm surprising myself what's still in me, still the fighting spirit. So, yeah, I can hope -- I only can hope that I can have it one more time tomorrow, yeah.
Q. Compare with the first day you come to Zhuhai, can you tell us how is the feeling you are right now, because we noticed at the first press conference you seemed a little bit disappointed.
KIKI BERTENS: About? About what?
Q. About didn't qualify to Shenzhen.
KIKI BERTENS: Oh, well, of course I gave everything to qualify for Shenzhen, but it didn't happen. But I think it's still a great year, I'm still in the top 10. So I was just happy to be here, so I was not really -- yeah, of course a little bit, but not really disappointed. It's just like I've played three great matches I think here again and I've been in a final once more, so I think I can only be proud of myself. And, yes, so I'm just happy and a little -- well not a little -- a lot tired.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT