HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 22, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. BERTENS/D. Vekic   
7-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Nice win. Can you talk about just how you started the match and what adjustments you made to kind of reel her in over the course of that very long first set.  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, the first set was really tight, so it was just a few points here and there. I just was trying to push myself all the time. It was tough, I would say, mentally but also physically. We were both struggling, I think, a little bit. But from 5-4 down I played two really good points. And in the third set she took the medical also, I thought like she was not moving as well any more. And I was just trying to get the lead in the beginning and just go from there and I think I played very solid from there.   
 Q.  Speaking of kind of the pushing and how difficult it's been. Obviously, non-stop play since the U.S. Open and a lot of people might look at it and say, at some point either intentionally or unintentionally a lot of players might tap out. So what is driving you, what are you tapping into right now that allows you to find like the grit to pull out a set like that?  
KIKI BERTENS: Well it was tough, I must say, on the court because, of course, you want to win. But last week you were really pushing yourself by reaching Shenzhen, so I really had that goal in mind and now it was a little bit gone, I would say. But still, once I'm on court I want to win and still I think this tournament I still want to win, so I think that's really in me, that I always want to win, so of course that's, I think that's my drive.   
 Q.  Just in match conditions how do you find that that court is playing and how is the ball moving and how do you think that your game matches up with what is going on on the court out there?  
KIKI BERTENS: Not great, I would say, especially in the beginning I was struggling a little bit. The balls, we didn't play with them all year, but then apparently this tournament we're playing with them. And they're getting really fluffy and really old. So it's tough to, like after a few games, to really hit the ball, so it's not much going out. But you just have to keep on going. So I could hit it a little bit harder than maybe I would normally do, so it has to, yeah, you really have to play, have to have an aggressive mindset, yeah.   
 Q.  How do you take it from here, because this format, I guess your next game won't be now until Thursday, it's almost like a Grand Slam format, isn't it, with a day's rest.  
KIKI BERTENS: Yes, it's nice, I need a day of rest, it's just, tomorrow I'm going to prepare as good as I can again for my match against Yastremska. I'm going to watch the match, I think, because they will play tomorrow, and then just take my rest and make the game plan again for Thursday, yeah.   
 Q.  You're really good at playing a tie break now and you have experienced, almost every match in Beijing, experienced a tie break. So I want to ask you for any secret.  
KIKI BERTENS: Not really, just keep on going every point. I think in Beijing I lost a very important tie break though, but (laughing), no, it's, I don't know, it's just going for every point, trying to play aggressive and, yeah, it's just a few points here and there, you need some luck also, yeah.   
 Q.  And will you keep working with your coach now, Tamaela, after this season?  
KIKI BERTENS: We will see. We will see once we get back home and then we make a plan for next year.   
 Q.  Just talking about the physicality of this year, what is the secret for you in terms of being able to get through this year, outside of Paris and that's just illness, but injury-free, physically being able to play as often as you have and the game style that you play, which is also very physical, what has been the biggest breakthrough just from the physical side for you?  
KIKI BERTENS: I think since this year there's always someone with me, always a physio, always a fitness trainer, so yeah, we work out a lot, we take care of the body a lot, so I think they will have to get a lot of credit for how my body is still at the moment, yes.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Last night's party, did you enjoy the experience last night at the party and whose dress did you like the most and then what about the Chinese-style performances and props and what kind of ideas you can share with us.  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I really liked it. I think it was nice to see everyone dress up again. I really like the Chinese dancing girls, which was great. I think all the girls, they looked pretty good. I was impressed by the heels of Maria Sakkari, I could never walk on that, I think today I would not be able to walk. And Donna really looked good, I think really shiny. But I think everyone did a great effort and it was fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT