ROLAND GARROS
October 4, 2020
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  M. TREVISAN/K. Bertens
 6-4, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Kiki, how much did you get to learn about her before this match started and did she do anything that surprised you, because we haven't seen a lot of her at this level at all?
 KIKI BERTENS:   Yeah, I played her once before and I know how she was playing, so, yeah, no really, not a real surprise to me.  But, yeah, I think she was really solid today.  I wasn't, so yeah she was just a better one.
 Q. What were the things in your game that you were not happy with?
 KIKI BERTENS:   Probably everything, to be honest.  I think it was not a great match, it was really tough to get going, the serve was not good, backhand especially was not good at all.  I didn't have any rhythm.  So, yeah, I cannot find really a positive thing about this match.
 Q. Did you have any sense, as we were watching both matches at the same time, did you have any sense of what was happening on Chatrier as you were playing?
 KIKI BERTENS:   No, I had no idea, I just heard it.  So, yeah, I have no idea what happened there, but also the conditions I think today it was really tough.  I don't know if the roof was closed yes or no, but, yeah, it was just a tough day to play, I think.
 Q. What was so tough about these conditions?
 KIKI BERTENS:   Well for me it was just like to really to get a rhythm, it was really cold and it's not like that's an excuse or anything, but it's tough then to, the balls are not bouncing at all and I think it just doesn't help with my game.
 So also the muscle, it was just like not free, it was all really tight and, yeah, I was not really, I was not really there.
 Q. Do you know what you, where you go from here, schedule wise?  Is there anything, because there's not much left on the calendar at the moment?
 KIKI BERTENS:   No, probably I just need to discuss this with my team, of course, but I think this was the last tournament for me of the year.  I still entered in Ostrava, but, yeah, we still have to make the choice if we're going, if I'm going to change service again, I think it's not ideal for my body, so I will see, we have to talk about it in the upcoming days.
 Q. How would you sort of put your feelings about this tournament, your reaction to this run overall, which has been memorable, I'm sure, in a lot of ways these four matches.
 KIKI BERTENS:   Yeah, I think I won't ever forget this edition of Roland Garros, but of course it's not a good way to end.
 But, on the other hand, if you tell before you're going to be fourth round, maybe I was happy with that.  I had no idea, like once I got here, like what I could expect from myself, so I just take it, go home and rest again.
 Q. Obviously kind of we're used to upsets and surprises but it seems like there's been a lot of in both the men's and women's game a lot of players from outside the top hundred have done really well.  I'm curious, do you have a reason, do you know why, like what's your kind of theory on why a player like Trevisan is performing so well when she's never won a slam match before?
 KIKI BERTENS:   I think she has the confidence of winning a few matches in a row already, done well.  And I think, with that, no one really has played a lot, so I think then you can see that everything can happen in a tournament like this.  With these conditions as well, yeah.
 Q. Just for you, like how has this been, the fact that you haven't, you've had to come from not playing at all to, in Europe, and trying to bring your best tennis, how has that been for you?
 KIKI BERTENS:   Tough (laughing.)  I think, yeah, the level was never really there.  But I also could not expect it for myself I was, just every day I was trying to make the best out of it.  And three matches it worked out and I got the win and today it didn't.  So, yeah, we just go again from here.
 Q. When you're on court with Trevisan is there anything that let's you know that she's a player ranked in the 150s or does she seem like she's playing like she belongs at this level?
 KIKI BERTENS:   I think today like during these conditions for sure she belongs here.  I think you could see that she didn't make many mistake, she was just there every point solid, really solid, so, no, she did a great job.
 Q. What was the difference between the match you played before and her level and this one do you feel?
 KIKI BERTENS:   Well it was also on clay, it was in Charleston.  Then the ball for me it's just bouncing more, so I can get it more up for her, which make it's more tough for her to play.  And, yeah, I think that helped me then a lot.
 I think for me in general when I play really well I play aggressive and today I was really trying to put something in the ball but, yeah, nothing really came out, so, yeah, it was just not good enough today.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT