HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 21, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Okay. Start with English questions.   
 Q.  Welcome to Zhuhai.  
KIKI BERTENS: Thank you.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about what the last few weeks have kind of been like in terms of trying to finish off the season the way that you wanted and just, yeah, being here now.  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I think I gave everything over the last few weeks, every opportunity I got I took it, I think I played every week, but it was not enough to make Shenzhen.   
But I think it's still a great season. I did everything I could, so I'm proud of myself and now I'm really happy that I can finish the season here.   
 Q.  Just reflecting on your season, obviously it's not over yet and you have this week and possibly next week as well, but can you just reflect on the year, especially in follow-up to last year, which was a big breakout season. How do you think that you handled everything this year and kind of how do you kind of reflect on it?  
KIKI BERTENS: I think I handled everything pretty well because last year was the first time I ended up in the Top-10. This year I'm also ending for sure in the Top-10. So I think I did pretty well and I'm proud of that. Yeah, of course the whole season was a little bit up and down but yeah, that's how I am also, so I think it just suits me and we just keep on going and see what we can bring next year again.   
 Q.  You've been here before, it's sort of a unique tournament, the format and the atmosphere. Just how do you, what do you make of all those things and how does it compare to a typical WTA tournament?  
KIKI BERTENS: Well I have played it before. I thought you said I didn't. No, I did. But it's really nice to be here with all the girls and try to finish the season strong, everyone. It's just another opportunity for everyone, it's just the last week and everyone just wants to try and finish as good. You for sure have two matches, which makes it fun I think also. So, yeah, let's see what everyone still can bring and hopefully we can play some good matches.   
 Q.  Just a quick question about scheduling. Obviously this year you played a lot of tennis, a lot of events. Do you anticipate something similar for next year, if you look ahead at scheduling, or will it be a less, a lighter schedule? What do you think or do you not even think about 2020 yet?  
KIKI BERTENS: Well every year I'm saying I'm going to put in a lighter schedule, but every year it's not really happening. So we'll see, we'll just see how I feel and then go from there. But I also, I like to play a lot of matches, so it will always be like I think more events than maybe a lot of girls are playing, but hopefully a little less next year, yeah.   
 Q.  Playing in a round robin format, obviously you have a lot of experience with it, but do you change your mentality at all? Is it easier or more difficult to play knowing that it's not, if you lose you're out? Does that make it easier or does that actually make it harder? What's your take on it?  
KIKI BERTENS: Well, I'm not really thinking about that like on court. It's just like I think once you're on the court you just try and win the match. But still, yes, once you lose, you still know that it's not over, so you still have to keep on going. So in one way that's nice, that one loss, it doesn't mean like your tournament is over. But, yeah, on the other hand if you win it's, still it's not a guarantee, so we just see how this week is going. But I think that it makes it fun to play.   
 Q.  We saw Ashleigh Barty win here and go on to become world No. 1. So you can really use this as a springboard for 2020.  
KIKI BERTENS: Oh, yeah, that sounds good. So, no, but hopefully, of course Ashleigh had a great year, and, yeah, it's like you say, it's a good opportunity again for next year. But I'm not really thinking about that yet, I just want to finish this year strong and then we'll see again next year. But, yeah, you know, a lot can happen in a year.   
 Q.  One more question about next year. Are you looking forward to the Olympics next year? Is that a thing that is on your mind?  
KIKI BERTENS: No idea. No. No, I really didn't really think about it yet. I just wanted to finish this year and then think about next year.   
 Q.  You're playing Donna. What do you think of your draw here?  
KIKI BERTENS: Well that was my guess which I yes, I was said to Elise, so I think I won already one part, but, yeah, no, I played Donna a few times this year and great player, of course, and same with Dayana. So it's going to be really tough, I think two really tough matches but, yeah, what I just said, I'll just going to try and finish the season as good as I can and then we see.   
 Q.  Any plan for tonight's player party?  
KIKI BERTENS: Any plan for it? Well I have to show up, I guess.   
(Laughter.)   
No, just going to try and have some fun with the girls, I think, and then we'll see what the evening brings us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT