WUHAN OPEN
September 22, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What has your preparation been like for the Asian swing? What is your mentality going into this section? Is it pressure-filled? Kind of give us the update.
KIKI BERTENS: I had enough days of practice, I would say. I didn't play so much matches last two weeks. I think in practice everything is going fine. In matches it's a little bit struggle with finding my game.
I don't really feel the pressure. Maybe you don't see that in my results. I still feel like, yeah, I'm just going to do my best. If I make it, it's great. If not, yeah, it's also okay.
I'm still happy. That's what it's all about. But of course I'm going to try my best hopefully to get to Shenzhen.
Q. What did you make of the party last night?
KIKI BERTENS: I think it was a great evening, to be honest. The food was really good. I think all the girls said that. There was some great entertainment.
I think it was just a really nice evening with lots of people. I don't know, it was a great atmosphere. I think the tournament did a really good job.
Q. At this time of year, are those events maybe more fun than they may be at the start?
KIKI BERTENS: It's nice, like, to have just a relaxed evening with some girls together, just hanging around, have some fun. It takes a little bit more pressure off.
Q. You made a coaching adjustment. What do you make of what she's been bringing to your game?
KIKI BERTENS: It's not really different than what Raymond is doing because we're working as a team together all year. Yeah, it's just trying to focus on the same things. She's really calm. Yeah, nothing really new for me. No, we have a lot of fun and we work hard.
Q. After the US Open, what were the discussions like with Ray in terms of the change here in Asia? What is the goal, I suppose?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, just a little bit more quiet. It was, like, tough because we were only home for four or five days. It's tough to go again together for so many weeks again. We were like, Okay, maybe it's better that to stay home, just a little bit more calm.
But we're still in contact. It's all good. It's nothing big. Dutch press made a really big thing about it. There's nothing going on. They know, but the rest didn't know. It's all good. We'll sort things out when we get back home. Hopefully we can finish the season, yeah.
Q. In terms of you mentioned trying to find your game on the match court. What do you think is the struggle there? Is it between aggressiveness, not being aggressive, tactical? Where is the balance not found?
KIKI BERTENS: I think, like, to be aggressive. Also I think my last two opponents didn't really help me. I played Ajla and Pavlyuchenkova last week. They're both playing really aggressive. I didn't really get a chance there.
But, yeah, the practice is going well. I'm just trying to focus on that. It can only get better here. Let's go for that.
Q. How much is your focus being pulled away with everything that's scheduled for after the season?
KIKI BERTENS: Everything is planned, so we're all good. No stress for that. I think everything is sorted out. We just looking forward to a great day.
Q. I don't understand how that happens. How much time and energy have you had to spend planning the wedding? Is that something that your family has taken care of and you're focusing on the tennis?
KIKI BERTENS: My family took care of it a lot. My sister was doing all the planning. We also had another wedding planner. I didn't have to do too much. The day before we left for Asia, we were like, We still need to pick rings. So we went.
No, everything is sorted out. We're looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT