ROGERS CUP
August 8, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. ANDREESCU/K. Bertens
6-1, 6-7, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was a little rough at the end.  Your serve suddenly failed you your last two serve attempts.  What was going through your mind then?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, I think if you saw the whole match, I hit a lot of double faults throughout the whole match, so it's not like it was just in that moment.  It was tough to serve with the wind and, unfortunately, it happened two times in a row.
Q. What did Bianca Andreescu do throughout the match that made it difficult for you to develop consistency?
KIKI BERTENS: I think she started really well the match.  For myself, I didn't feel the ball so good.  So then she was putting a lot of pressure.
And, yeah, she can do everything with the ball.  So she made it tough today.
Q. First time playing her.  Did anything surprise you or stand out in particular about her game?
KIKI BERTENS: No, not really.  I have seen her play over the last few -- well, not over the last few months but before.
Of course, she's a really good player.  So, no, it was really not a surprise for me.
Q. You battled through a lot of conditions today and in the second set were able to at least get to the court, be able to shorten your swing, and in the third set after the break you just couldn't get your timing back and rhythm.  So how do you feel after the Palermo final and here and before you go to Cincinnati where you have great memories from last year?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, we'll see how it goes in Cincinnati.  It's good that I had at least two matches here.
So now I have a little bit more time to prepare there, and hopefully we can have a great tournament again.
Q. It was pretty windy today on the court.  Did that have any effect on your rhythm and your serve today?
KIKI BERTENS: I think so, yes.
Q. You have an exciting deal with a sports drink that you announced.  Can you talk about your partnership with this sports drink that you had back at home in terms of what you announced in on Twitter in the beginning of June.
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, of course I'm really happy with my deal with Osonyq.  It helped me a lot already.  It's a great sports drink, so I am using it all the time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT