THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 4, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. BERTENS/T. Townsend
3-6, 7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Nice win.  Can you talk about how you were able to pull that off?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I don't know.  I thought I was finished, to be honest.  But sometimes I'm the lucky one, I guess.  I think today that was it.
But I think it was just a great fight.  I think she was playing really well, and so there was not really much I could do.  Just keep on fighting, keep on believing that I could do it, and, yeah, in the end I did it.
Q. She's a tricky opponent, especially on this surface.  What was she doing in particular that was so kind of difficult to answer back?
KIKI BERTENS: It's tough.  Like with her serve, I think she's serving, like, really well, coming in really well.  Playing then with the forehand, taking the pace off sometimes.  So it's tough to get a rhythm.  And then she's making great angles and then come forward to the net.
I think sometimes where I'm really good with the slice and just hang in the points, then I could not do that to her, because then she's coming in and playing some great volleys.  So it was just, like, a few points here and there, keep on fighting, and playing aggressive where I could.
Q. You have had a few of those matches where you have had the match points and kind of slipped.  Did it cross your mind at all during the match that maybe this is the one that goes my way?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, of course.  And after winning the second set, you start believing.  And then in the beginning of the third you also saw, like, she was physically a little bit tired, I would say, and then also mentally I think it was really tough on her.  I was just trying to keep on going.
Yeah, today was my day, so I'll take it and I'm just really happy that I'm still in the tournament and that I'm in the third round (smiling).
Q. Strycova next.  Talk about that matchup.
KIKI BERTENS: It's going to be tough again.  Maybe today's match helps me a lot for the next match.  She's also coming in a lot.
So I will have to use a lot again the passing shots.  Yeah, I just have to be ready again and just take this match on to the next one.
Q. The Dutch women are in the World Cup final.
KIKI BERTENS: Yay.  It was a great match (smiling).
Q. It was a match.  It was a soccer game.  Can you talk a little bit about obviously there is a pretty good history of female athletes in Holland just across all sports, more so I think probably for a small country than a lot of bigger countries.  What do you think that is?  Is it cultural?  Funding?  In terms of female athlete excellence.
KIKI BERTENS: I don't know.  I think it's just like with the teams, they have done really well over the past few years, also in the handball, volleyball, and hockey, of course.
I don't know.  It's just like maybe team sport, goes together, they're really good.  I like watching it, so I would say for myself, I'm also a team player.  Yeah, I'm always -- I don't know why they are doing so well, but I think it's just a good connection in the team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT