THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 29, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Do you feel you have a bit of a credit towards luck?  After what happened in Paris, the kind of strange match that you lost at home, do you think maybe it should be your turn to get some good luck?
KIKI BERTENS: I hope so.  Let's find out.
Well, I think sometimes you need a little luck, of course.  But it happens.  You cannot do much about it.  Of course, Paris was really disappointed.  Then the final, as well.
Yeah, maybe a little bit luck you need.  But you really have to play your game good, then maybe you get some luck.
Q. What are your earliest memories of Wimbledon from before you ever had a chance to play here?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, I think that Richard Krajicek won the trophy here, yeah, that's the biggest memory, of course.  It was huge for The Netherlands.  Yeah, of course, that one is popping up.
Q. What about the place and your impressions of it from far away?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, it just always looked so nice, like the grass, the whites.  Always, like, so clean.  For me, really traditional.
Yeah, it was always a goal to be here.
Q. When you got here, what stands out most in your memory of stepping on a court?
KIKI BERTENS: To be honest, it's like, Oh, God, now I'm really playing at Wimbledon.
It was a good memory, though.  I won my first round here against Safarova, which was a really good match.  Yeah, only good memories.
Q. What do you expect from your first-round match against Mandy Minella?
KIKI BERTENS: It's going to be a tough match.  We played against each other, like, really long time ago.  I didn't know any more.
I think it's always nice to play someone you don't play so often.  She's a great player, of course.  Really experienced.  She's had a good game also for the grass.
Yeah, I'm just really looking forward to it.
Q. What is your prematch routine as far as what you eat, what music you listen to, what interaction you have with other people?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, I'm just sitting with my team, to be honest, not listening to music or anything.  Just talking about anything.  Just they try to relax me before the match.  Then, of course, we make a game plan.  We talk about that.  But that's just, like, really close to the match.
Yeah, eating, it depends a little bit on the time I'm playing.  Most of the time it's some pasta before.
Q. In terms of the grass season, probably helped put a little bit of Paris behind, as you play this tournament, do you come into this tournament with pressure?
KIKI BERTENS: For me, not at all, I would say.  I think it's a good thing that I've had a lot of good results already on the grass.  I defended already a lot of points, which I gained here of course last year by the quarterfinals.
I'm just happy to be back here ready to play my first round.  Yeah, I feel good, and we just take it match by match.  No, I don't feel any pressure.
Q. How long did it take to just emotionally get over the disappointment of Paris?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, I don't know if it was really emotionally or physically because I was in bed for, like, five days.  I didn't really have the time to think about it much.  I just felt, like, really bad.
Maybe that was also a good thing that it did not last for only like one day, but for a few more days.  After that, I was preparing as good again for my home tournament.  Yeah, I was just, like, trying to forget it.  I think that's the best way you can do it.
Q. Are you following the Dutch team at all?
KIKI BERTENS: Yes.  I just heard they're like 2-Love up.  That's a good thing.  I watched the first half, but then I had to come here.
I would not say I was disappointed by that (laughter).  Maybe a little that I could not watch the end.  Yeah, I hope I can watch the semis.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT