NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 27, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. BERTENS/A. Sabalenka
6-4, 3-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That turned out to be quite a fight.
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, it was, yeah.
Q. Talk us through it, from the second set onwards, I guess.
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, it's always tough to play her, I would say, because, yeah, you get some winners and then some errors.  But I think first set I played really well.  I think my level was -- I think it was my best match on the grass so far.
Then second set I dropped a little bit in the beginning, and then third set I was there again.  Of course a little bit lucky with the way I broke her.  She was giving me some mistakes.  But I think it was a really good fight.
Q. Do you feel like your game matches up well to players like Sabalenka because you're good at absorbing power and defending well?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I think so.  I have never lost against her so far.  No, I like it when someone's playing powerful, and then I can just use the slice a little bit more.  I don't have to put so much power in myself.
I think today I had the right balance, like, where I could do something, like, where I could hit the slice or where I could play a little bit more aggressive myself.  So I think the balance was there again today.
Q. Where do you feel your grass game is at at this point?
KIKI BERTENS: No idea (smiling).  No, it's improving match by match.  Today I was really happy with the way I played well, of course for sure the first set.  That was really good tennis, and I'm really happy with that.  Yeah, we just take it from here again.
Q. Are you starting to feel a bit more comfortable on this surface?
KIKI BERTENS: It's getting there, yeah.  No, I feel better every match I play, and also my level is going up.  Yeah, I'm just happy that I have another match tomorrow.
Q. It looks like you're going to face Karolina.  Just your thoughts on facing her on a surface that suits her quite well?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, she likes it, of course.  I played her last year in Wimbledon.  I won there on the grass.
But no, it's gonna be tough.  Her serve is really good.  She's playing really aggressive.  Yeah, I think maybe it's going to be a little bit same matchup as today.
Q. One of the things that players say is they find the grass here compared to Birmingham is a lot closer to what they come to expect in Wimbledon.  Is that what you have found in the past?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, I have never played Birmingham, so I don't know.  I think the weather has a lot to do with it.  Like this week, also, the sun was out there again today, also, so then the bounce is much higher.
Wimbledon last year was exactly the same.  The weather was so good.  Yeah, I would say that's also helping me a lot on the grass, yes.
Q. How do you deal with somebody like Sabalenka today?  You never quite know what's going to happen next, whether it's going to be a smile or a fit at something going on?  How do you cope with just not looking down there and just keep on your own game?
KIKI BERTENS: Just trying to do what I have to do, I would say.  Just focus on the points, how I want to play.
Sometimes you don't really get in a rhythm because she's playing so good.  But just when you get the chance, just do your own thing and just stay with that, yes.
Q. How far have you got with your puzzle?
KIKI BERTENS: It's done.
Q. Is it done?
KIKI BERTENS: Yes.
Q. Now what you are going to do ?
KIKI BERTENS: So now I don't have anything to do, so maybe I should buy a new one.
Q. Or we could come and take it apart for you and you can do it again?
KIKI BERTENS: And I can do it again?  Well, I don't think I have enough days left here, so I won't make it again, no.
Q. In the past couple of years you have really established yourself as one of the top players.  How have you found it dealing with the increased expectations that come with that?
KIKI BERTENS: It's tough, I would say.  But I think it's also a good thing to have.  So I think at the moment I'm dealing pretty well with it.
In the past, I was struggling with it more, like, when I made the semis in Paris a few years ago, then I was really struggling after with all the attention, with all what you said, with all the expectations.
But right now I just feel like, okay, right now it's going well, but next week it can be over, so just try and enjoy it and try to stay in the moment and just do whatever you can.
Q. Is it something you try not to think about too much?
KIKI BERTENS: No, I'm not trying to think about too much, no.  I'm just taking it day by day and trying to improve every day and then we see where it ends.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT