ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. BERTENS/P. Parmentier
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Could you give us your thoughts on your win?  And also, what pleased you most about your performance?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I think it was a good win today.  It's always tough first round in a slam against a French girl.  Yeah, I'm just happy to get through, happy that it was a good fight.
Yeah, just happy with my performance on the court today.
Q. You're playing Kuzmova in the next round.  You played two tough matches this year.  Can you describe her game and why it is so tough to play against her?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, she's a great player, upcoming, but she has a great game, playing really aggressive.
I played two really tough matches against her, so I expect a really tough match on Wednesday.
Q. I think you said recently that when you started on the tour you didn't always feel comfortable on the big stage, and you were getting used to the atmosphere.  Do you think now you are getting used to the big stage like Grand Slams, including Roland Garros?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I'm feeling -- of course, it's not that I feel really comfortable on the court, but I'm getting there, yeah.
I have played a lot now in front of big crowd, on the big stage.  Yeah, I'm getting used to it.  But I still prefer one of the outside courts, but I think that's not gonna happen now, no (smiling).
Q. It's been announced that you're going to play the Palermo Ladies Open in Sicily after Wimbledon in July.  Wondering if you could give us your thoughts about this scheduling choice.
KIKI BERTENS: It's just that I love the clay.  I want to extend my clay court season a little bit longer.  Last year it was pretty short.  Of course I did really well on the grass, and really well on the hard courts after.
But still, I prefer to play one more tournament on clay and in Palermo, it's going to be a great event.
Q. You have improved a lot over the last 12 months.  Some people are saying that you could be one of the favorites to win here at Roland Garros.  How does that expectation make you feel?  Is it something that concerns you, or is it something that you enjoy?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, it's not really something that I'm enjoying, but, no, I know it's going to be a really, really tough way for the title here.
It's just I take it match by match.  And then we see whatever happen here.
I know that I can do it, but I also know that I can lose in the next round.  It's just like we see.  I try my best, and then we see what's happening.
Q. You have more experience than your opponent in second round.  You like clay more.  So is it a good draw for you on second round or tough draw?  Because she has big weapons.
KIKI BERTENS: I think every draw is a tough draw.  I know all the girls -- especially she had a win now over a French player who always did well here, so also did well Madrid.  She lost against Simona, but I know she has a big game.
I know it's going to be a tough match, so I don't think it's an easy draw, no.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT