ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you just kind of give us an update on what the week has been like for you?  When did you get here?  How have the practices been?  How are you feeling?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I'm feeling good.  Saturday night we still had a flight back home from Rome, so it was good.  I had Sunday, Monday off, and then Tuesday I started practicing again at home.
We got here yesterday morning, so, yeah, we have three practices in now, and I feel just good, feel happy to be back here in Paris.
Q. I think that there is different balls here compared to the balls that y'all were using on the tour.  So since you have had a few hits with it, how are you feeling with the conditions?  Do you like the ball?  Do you not like the ball?
KIKI BERTENS: I love this ball, to be honest, yeah (smiling).
No, it's bouncing a little bit more, I would say.  Last two weeks with the Dunlop ball in Madrid and Rome, of course it depends also because in Madrid it's still doing a lot.  In Rome I really had to work hard for my strokes to get something in the ball.  But, no, I really like the ball here.
Q. Obviously with the success over the last month, what are your I guess expectations or just where is your head at as you start this tournament, because a lot of people will be having their eyes on you?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I don't, like, really put any pressure on myself, I would say.  For me, it's just another tournament again, and like every tournament I go into this year, I try -- I try to play for the win, and that's what I'm going to do again here, but, yeah, it's just like every day is a new day.  Every day I try to improve myself, so I just see it like as one of weeks on tour.
Q. Does it feel different coming into Roland Garros compared to when you went into the Australian Open?  Like, how different is the mindset?  Or even the US Open last fall?  How different is the mindset here?  Okay, another Grand Slam?  Or is it different because it's Roland Garros?
KIKI BERTENS: It's a little different, I would say, because I love to play here.  I love the clay.  I know still that my game is a bit better on clay.
Yeah, maybe I can do a bit better here, but, yeah, for the rest, try and stay the same.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT