INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 18, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. KONTA/K. Bertens
5-7, 7-5, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you talk through the match.  Obviously very tight one.  How did you see it?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, was really tight match, really close.  I had some opportunities.  It was tough conditions out there today with the wind.  Was not easy, I would say.
I tried my best, but it was just not good today.  I couldn't stay calm, I couldn't play my points.  I don't know.  I think it was just like done.
Q. Sometimes when there's fatigue, both physical and mental, it's hard to keep everything in check.  Was it a little bit the result of everything that's been happening up until today?
KIKI BERTENS: I think so, yeah.  I think a little bit of everything.  I think what you said, the fatigue.  Of course, I had the day off yesterday, but it was not enough.  I need some more time to recover again.
It's just been a great two weeks.  I can be really happy with the results, semifinal here.  But, yeah, today was just not good, no.
Q. Did her level take you by surprise?  She played aggressive.  Not the best of records on clay.
KIKI BERTENS: No, because I played her in the past also.  I know she can play really well.  She's been top 10 also before.  She's a great player.  It's always tough to play Jo.
Q. How tough were the conditions?  What was the trickiest thing?  Weather and swirling wind?  Players have had issues with the court.  What was hard to ignore out there?
KIKI BERTENS: I think everything was hard today to ignore.  Yeah, the court was really slippery, so it's tough to move on.  Especially I like it when it's not so slippery so I can move a little bit better.  With the wind, it was really tough.
She played really smart with the dropshots.  She did a good job in there.  I was all the time getting myself together and trying to push for more energy.  But, yeah, it was not there.
Q. Simona earlier in the week picked you out as a contender for Roland Garros.  What are your thoughts?  Does this affect your confidence?
KIKI BERTENS: No, I don't think so.  I know that I had a great two weeks.  I have a couple of days to rest now, then go to Paris.  I think anything can happen there.  If I play good, I can go really far.
Yeah, hopefully that's going to be the case.
Q. I know it's a disappointing loss, but any sense of relief, you can exhale, go home and regroup for Paris?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, at the moment I'll still pissed I didn't win today.  I was really close.  But, yeah, the other way, I just go home now and take my rest, then prepare as good as I can again for Paris.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT