INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 13, 2019
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How are you feeling after last week?  Hopefully good?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I feel great.  I had a hit this morning.  It's all good.  Yeah, I'm ready to play again here.
Q. Are you feeling like this 'winning big titles' thing is getting more normal for you?  Are you getting used to this?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, not really (smiling).
Of course, I'll take it.  I really enjoy this.  I'm still enjoying my titles.  Yeah, it's just one more day of good practice tomorrow, then just another tournament again.
Q. With a little bit more time to reflect on everything that's happened since Saturday, does your kind of reflection on Madrid change at all in terms of what you were able to accomplish?  Obviously today you get to see the '4' next to your name also.  Talk about that.
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, just felt really great the whole week in Madrid.  Was a great week of tennis.  Then with winning the title, with being No. 4 now in the world, yeah, it's pretty unbelievable, I would say.
I feel really good.  Yeah, I'm just ready to go again.
Q. Was there any thought or discussion between you and Rae after Saturday of maybe not playing Rome, is it better to go home, anything like that?
KIKI BERTENS: We didn't talk about that at all, so no (smiling).
It was just like, What time are we booking the flight to Rome?  It was not, like, even a discussion on going not here or going home.
I feel good.  It was also I didn't have really long matches last week, as well.  I was physically fine.  I didn't have any problems, like, during the week.  So, no, I just feel good and feel ready again.
Q. For this week, what are you looking to do here?  It sounds like a weird question, but I'll ask it that way.
KIKI BERTENS: I'm, again, trying to win the tournament, I would say.  It's going to be tough.  The conditions are so different from last week.  I felt already that I had to work a little bit harder this morning already in practice to hit the balls.
It's just getting used to it again, try to play every match as good as I can.  Yeah, then we see in the end of the week how far it went.
Q. On winning constantly now, do you prepare things different logistically?  Do you book the hotels longer, get flights later?  How have you adjusted to your new success?
KIKI BERTENS: Not really.  I would say always the hotels we book till the last day.  Last week, my flight in Madrid was also on a Wednesday back home, so it was...
No, we try to do just everything the same, just try to stay the same, do the same thing every day.
Q. It's still a week away, but the French Open in your sights, how much are you trying to build towards that?  Is there a long-term perspective, peaking then, or do as well as you can?
KIKI BERTENS: Not really.  When I'm thinking like, Okay, I have to peak then, I just put more pressure on myself.  Right now I want every week play as good as possible.  When the French is coming, we try and do the same there again and then we see afterwards.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT