U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2018
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. BERTENS/Kr. Pliskova
6-0, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you talk about the conditions today and how difficult it was out there.
KIKI BERTENS: Well, I think if you go out yourself, you probably know that it's really warm and it's tough to play.  Yeah, I guess that's the same for everyone.
I was really happy that I could finish it in two sets today.
Q. How would you assess the match?  How do you assess the way you played?
KIKI BERTENS: I think I started really well.  Like, I took every opportunity I had into the match, and also beginning of second set.
But I think from then on, she started to play better, serve better.  But, yeah, I was really happy that I could finish it still in two sets and took the opportunities I had today.
Q. And coming off that great victory in Cincinnati, what a wonderful way to come into the tournament with a victory like that, such a formidable opponent.  Carry some confidence from that?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, for sure.  It's tough always.  Like, new tournaments, you still want to play some great tennis, but you don't know, like, how good you're playing at the moment.
Yeah, I'm hitting the ball well, so the start was really well.  And I think in general I was just keep on doing the things, the things I had to do during the whole match.
So, yeah, I'm happy with the level I played today.
Q. I believe after Cincinnati you played New Haven, correct?
KIKI BERTENS: Yes, but I pulled out of the singles and I only played the doubles there, yeah.
Q. Do you have a philosophy about playing the week before a Grand Slam event?
KIKI BERTENS: I'd like to keep the rhythm, to keep on going, keep on playing matches.  If I talk for myself, matches are the best practice for me, so, of course, you still have practice time, but you also play matches.  So, yeah, I like to play as much as I can.
Q. In addition to getting a little bit of match play up there in the doubles in New Haven, how much of it was on your mind to kind of stay away from New York as long as possible, just to kind of put off dealing with the energy, I guess?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, no, it's good.  I think there I was also, I think, to switch again to the Wilson balls, to get on the courts there, to not get the business of New York City.
No, it was nice to just calm down there a little bit after the great victory in Cincy.  Just relax a little bit, have some fun on the court with Jo there, and then come here.  So I think it was the best preparation for me.
Q. And you don't feel rushed at all?
KIKI BERTENS: It's changed a little bit, like since you're here in New York, it's busy.  I still feel calm.
Yeah, I think today also on the court I was really focused, focused to just keep on doing my things, and try to keep my focus, also, and to get my calmness a little bit in the city.
Q. With the great results you have been having, obviously it's proven in the ranking.  Those who follow tennis and cover tennis, there are enhanced expectations, especially of you in these Grand Slam tournaments.  Do you have enhanced expectations of yourself, and if so how are you handling that?
KIKI BERTENS: I don't have really expectations about myself.  The only expectation I have is, like, to just keep on doing what I'm doing now, keep on working hard, and keep finding solutions on the court, to be a better player every day.  That's the only thing I want to focus on.  I'm the only thing I'm really trying to do, and then we see after the tournament what happened.
Q. How do you manage New York?  What's your philosophy to being in this city and trying to play a tournament in the city?
KIKI BERTENS: Till now, it was just, like, practice, get as soon out of here, again, to the hotel.  I had just some little walks around the city.  Just some coffee breaks.  And then go back to the hotel, do some yoga to get back to my calmness again.  Just to trying to stay calm.  I think that's what I like, trying to relax a little bit.
Q. Your yoga thing, you don't do classes, right?
KIKI BERTENS: It's classes on my phone, yeah (smiling).  Yeah.
Q. So you wouldn't go to, like, I know they have yoga in Central Park?
KIKI BERTENS: No, no, that's not what I'm doing.  I just do it for myself, yeah.
Q. Francesca Di Lorenzo next, have you seen her play and how do you prepare for an opponent you have never seen before?
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I don't know her.  But Raemon, I didn't speak to Raemon yet after the match because he went straight to their court and followed their match.  He saw a lot.  So, yeah, I'm going to talk to him and see what he saw and just make a good game plan for -- what is it?  Thursday?  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT