WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2018
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. BERTENS/A. Kontaveit   
6-3, 2-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  First premier hard court semifinal for you.  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah.   
 Q.  How would you sum up your summer so far on the hard courts?  
KIKI BERTENS: Pretty good, I guess.  Yeah, I never did so well in the hard court season, so over the last few years I didn't win many matches, so it was just like coming here, trying to play as many matches as I could.   
Last week I had a few, and now I'm even doing better.  So I'm really happy that I can play so many matches.   
 Q.  Before last week, you had never beaten a top-10 player on hard court.  Now four in the last two weeks.  That's pretty amazing.  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, it's crazy.   
 Q.  Is it just a matter of confidence?  Coming out of the season and Wimbledon, have there actually been changes that you and Raemon have made to make you more comfortable on the hard courts?  
KIKI BERTENS: I think so, yeah.  We were trying already in the beginning of the year to play a little bit more aggressive, to go a little bit more for my shots sometimes.   
And I think also the movement is much better.  I'm much fitter and I can reach more balls, so I think that's also helping a lot.  So I think it's a combination of a lot of things, yeah.   
 Q.  So you got down 1-4 in the first set, but then you called your coach over, but after that you really just took control of the match.  What was the message he gave you there?  
KIKI BERTENS: He was just asking, like, How do you feel?  I was, like, Well, I don't feel the ball so well.   
He just said, Okay, try to hit more shots in the court.  Try to roll it a bit more with some spin and go from there.  Go for your shots.  Go for your serve.   
And from then on, yeah, I felt a little bit more comfortable and could turn the match around.   
 Q.  Was there a result this summer that made you kind of think, okay, this hard court season is going to be good for me?  
KIKI BERTENS: I think already in the beginning of the year, in Australia, I think there I didn't play great.  I felt that I didn't feel the ball so well.  Also with my forehand, I really was searching.   
But still I had some, like, for my terms, good results, going third round in Melbourne for the first time with not great tennis.  I felt already that something could happen.  But then I think Wimbledon gave me some great confidence, and of course the clay court season, as well.   
And then after Wimbledon, we just took some rest, which I really needed to prepare as good as I could for the rest of the season, and, yeah, I'm feeling pretty good again.   
 Q.  When you and Raemon were talking after Wimbledon, it's halfway through the season, looking ahead, do you reset goals?  Did you guys talk about what the purpose and mission is for the rest of the season?  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, of course you sit down, but what we did I think this year was not to try and set goals like ranking-wise, which is, I think, really good.  Just like trying to be better every day, trying to work out, work hard every day, but of course you're looking forward now.   
I knew that I didn't have many points to defend, so that's really nice.  Also, so no pressure for me for the rest of the year.  I'm just trying to go and play every week as good as I can.   
 Q.  How fun is it right now for you?  
KIKI BERTENS: It is more fun.  It's more relaxed, and of course when you win matches it's always more fun.   
But I think even I can enjoy it more.  Also losing, of course, it's always tough, but I think I can learn more from that matches, and just move on.  There is always another week, and I think, yeah, I'm pretty calm this year.   
 Q.  Do you take much out of the match with Petra in Montreal into tomorrow?  
KIKI BERTENS: Of course.  I think also from the match in Madrid.  We played some great tennis there.  I think I played great there.  So you can lose.  When Petra is on fire, she can beat anyone or she's winning.  So it doesn't matter.   
But last week was pretty tough, like, tough circumstances with the wind, which she doesn't really like.  So I was just playing as many balls in the court there.  I was serving good, and tomorrow I have to do the same.   
So just focus on the serve, trying to hit as many balls in the court with a lot of quality.  So, yeah, it's not going to be easy.   
 Q.  Today I think you had something like 30 winners against Svitolina.  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah.   
 Q.  Which is a lot.  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah.   
 Q.  But, you know, when you look ahead to play Petra and playing a player like Petra, is it trying to go toe to toe with her and hit?  Is it dropping back?  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, you always have to kind of feel a little bit how the match is going, like, if she's playing unbelievable and I cannot, like, really play with her, I have to use some more slice or some higher balls.  I just, yeah, have to feel how the releases are going and play it on my terms.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT