THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 6, 2018
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. BERTENS/V. Williams   
6-2, 6-7, 8-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You had three match points against her in Miami also, but today you were able to close it out.  Did you learn something from that match?  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, of course that was going into my mind sometimes during the match.  I just kept telling myself that I had, like, a chance today again.  Like, I played a really good match, played aggressive, what I also did in Miami.   
I was just like, Okay, keep going for it, then you see.  In the end, I was lucky enough to win today.   
 Q.  What is the most significant thing about today's win for you?  
KIKI BERTENS: I think that even, like, when I had the chance to serve out the second set, it didn't work out.  Was a break down in the third, but I was keep doing my thing, keep trying to play aggressive.  Sometimes that didn't work out.   
But also in the last game, you saw, like, two times a deuce, I was really playing aggressive.  Yeah, then it went my way.   
 Q.  You have spoken a bit about how you're not the biggest fan of grass.  At what point in your career did you realize maybe you could do something on this?  
KIKI BERTENS: Well, to be honest, coming to Wimbledon, like, being in the fourth round here, I would definitely sign already for that.   
But I think I can play really well on grass, like when my serve is going well, when I really play aggressive, when I believe in it, then I think I can play well.   
Yeah, it all has to come together.  I think today was one of those days.   
 Q.  Would you say grass then is more mental for you, having the belief?  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, it's just having to believe also.  I have to go a little bit more for my shots.  I have to make more mistakes.  I find it really tough to accept the mistakes.   
Yeah, you have to go for it a little bit more.   
 Q.  On clay, you said when you're on clay your game might be 20% better, but in your head it's 80% better.  So on grass...  
KIKI BERTENS: I think, yeah, I can play well on grass.  Everyone keeps on telling me that.  But still I'm not really believing it.  I'm trying really to believe it.  But, it's tough.  I still find it tough, like, to believe that I can play really well, to beat the top players.   
But, yeah, today I did, so yeah.   
 Q.  Is today going to make believing considerably easier?  
KIKI BERTENS: Hopefully.  Yeah, we'll see.  I was telling myself also during the match, Okay, you can do this, keep on going for your shots, you can do this.   
But, yeah, still it's tough.   
 Q.  You have had a lot of good wins recently.  How close are you to feeling like a top player?  
KIKI BERTENS: I think this year you see in general, like in the slams, I did pretty okay, like third round in Australia, third round in Paris, here fourth round.  I think I'm more a stable player.   
Of course, on the clay I had still the biggest results.  That's the court I really like to play on.  But now also you see on the hard courts and on the grass, I didn't had like great results, but it's all steady, so I'm really happy with that.  I think I'm more a steady player now.   
 Q.  How much did you go back to that Miami match against Venus when you were playing this one today?  
KIKI BERTENS: I want to say, like, it didn't go into my mind, but of course it did, yeah.  Already there I was, like, kind of a break up in Miami, then almost 4-2.  Now I made the 4-2.  I'm like, Okay, c'mon, let's do this.   
She's such a great player.  She keeps on believing, keeps on playing her shots, so it's really tough.  I could not finish the second set.  But I was like, Okay, just keep on trying, keep on going.  Still anything can happen.   
That's I think what you saw in the third, just a lot of fighting.  Yeah, I won this time.   
 Q.  Venus was one of only three top-10 seeds left in the tournament, and you knocked her out.  Now there's only two.  It's possible there might only be one if Pliskova loses.  Does that make you more excited for the opportunity here?  
KIKI BERTENS: Well, for me, I'm not really looking, like, further in the tournament.  For me it's just, like, I'm really happy to be in this fourth round.  Of course, I'm going to do anything to play well again.  But then we see after.   
But I'm not really looking further in the tournament.   
 Q.  I know y'all are pretty tight, the Belgians and the Dutch and everything.  Alison had a big win yesterday over Muguruza.  Did you pay attention to that match?  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, of course, we were watching it at home.  We were watching it with a little bit of popcorn.  We were really cheering for her.  No, I was really happy for her.   
Today actually Flipper came to me after the match, hugging me in the changing room.  I think with the Belgians we're really close.  Yeah, it's just really nice that we really hope for each other that we win.   
 Q.  What did you make of her performance, knowing her probably better than obviously the rest of us do?  What do you make of that?  
KIKI BERTENS: I think she was, like, really calm.  She was playing really well.  Still the first set didn't go her way, but she was still playing, like, solid, keep on believing in herself.  The smile at the end, I think that says it all, just that she was winning against Muguruza that won last year.   
I think she just played really well, went for her shots.  I tried to do that today, as well.   
 Q.  Your next match is Pliskova or Buzarnescu.  
KIKI BERTENS: I played her last week.  I had some chances there.   
No, well, she's a great player.  Also had a great year.  Has two kind of different games:  just playing the ball back, or really going for her shots.  Yeah, she's a really tricky player.   
We'll see whoever is going to win, then we see on Monday.   
 Q.  Given all the upsets, do you feel like the level of the very top players and everyone else is getting closer and closer together?  
KIKI BERTENS: I think so, yeah.  I think you've seen already in the past year.  I think the level, in general, it's pretty high.  Everyone when someone is playing good, you can beat anyone.  I think it makes it very excited.   
 Q.  Just before this match, talking with Raymond to prepare for it, was the conversation primarily tactics-based or was it primarily mental?  
KIKI BERTENS: It was more mental.  Like yesterday he asked me already, How do you feel going into this match?  Is it the same as two years ago when you were in the third round?   
I was like, No, I feel different now.  I feel more like that I belong here.  It's not that I played great this tournaments, but it was steady and I won both matches quite easy.   
I was more, like, really, yeah, I don't know, really hungry to go on court and play for it, play for the fourth round.  I think two years ago I was more, like, happy to be in the third round, just trying to play a good match, trying to not lose 6-Love, 6-Love.  That was it.   
I think mentally it was a big change, yeah.   
 Q.  How much are you aware of Serena in this tournament?  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I know that she's also in the fourth round.  Yeah, really good for her.  I think, yeah, what can I say?  I'm really, like, proud of her, what she achieved already, after having a child, coming back, staying here again in the fourth round.   
I think it's really a big achievement.   
 Q.  Is she the player to beat, the most important player?  
KIKI BERTENS: I don't know.  I think anyone, if someone's playing really well, then anyone can win this tournament, I think.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT