MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 11, 2018
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. BERTENS/C. Garcia   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You must be very happy with your performance.  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I'm really happy with the way I played.  I think it was maybe not great tennis, what people want to see with a lot of winners.  But Caroline is a great player.  She likes when the ball comes, like, from the hip.  So I was just trying to play as many different balls as I could.  I think I did it pretty well.   
 Q.  I think you're selling yourself a little short on the quality there.  But in terms of what you were trying to do out there with Caroline, unwinding her, how important was the way you played against Maria, to play against an aggressive player like that, how important was that win?  
KIKI BERTENS: I think it helped a lot yesterday.  Like in the first set, I was struggling a lot, then trying to change my game yesterday.  I think that helped me today already from the beginning.  I was trying to put in the heavier balls, some slices, just grinding out there, trying to keep as many balls back in the court.   
Yeah, that's what I did really well today.   
 Q.  How many possibilities do you think to win this tournament?  
KIKI BERTENS: Well, I think it's still 50/50 percent chance.  I'm in the final now.  I have a chance tomorrow.  But it's going to be really, really, really tough.  They're both great players.  I'm going to watch the match tonight.  I'm going to go out there tomorrow and try to play my game again.  Then we will see tomorrow night.   
 Q.  Who do you prefer Petra or Karolina?  
KIKI BERTENS: Both are really tough players, I must say.  For me, it doesn't matter.  Like, I'm just really happy to be in this final.  Whoever it's going to be, we're going to make a good game plan.  Hopefully I can play a good match tomorrow.   
 Q.  This is the biggest final of your career.  Your emotions and everything right now, does it feel like you're about to play the biggest final of your career?  Does it feel calm?  Give us some insight.  
KIKI BERTENS: This morning right before the match, I was a little bit nervous, yeah.  It's another opportunity.  I'm just seeing that, like, every day.  I'm just trying the best I can.  That also keeps me calm.   
After first set, I calm down a bit.  I really liked that today.  Right now I'm just really happy, happy about my performance the whole week.  I'm just trying to go there again tomorrow and do the same, then we will see.  But right now I'm just enjoying it.   
 Q.  With Kvitova and Pliskova, are those similar matchups for you?  Are they different in some way?  
KIKI BERTENS: I think they play really aggressive.  Both good serves.  One lefty, one righty.  That's a big difference.  I think it's going to be an aggressive game style anyways what I get tomorrow.  I think I have to mix up again my game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT