ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2016
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/K. Bertens   
7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  It was obviously a very difficult match with the conditions and everything.  We know you warmed up and practiced beforehand.  How hard was it with the calf injury?  Did that limit you?  It looked like it limited you.  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, it was pretty tough today.  I think we were warming up this morning, and we were like discussing, Okay, are we going to play or are we not going to play?  I was like, Okay, I want to go on court.  I don't want to regret it afterwards that I didn't do it.   
So I'm really happy that I went on court.  I think a played a really good match, played really aggressive tennis, so I think I can be proud of myself.   
 Q.  A couple of those dropshots that Serena -- I mean, you were back behind the baseline and it looked like you just had no shot.  You didn't even attempt to go for them.  Is that because of the calf?  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, of course.  I had some problems with it.  I think it was really smart from Serena to hit the dropshots, yeah.   
 Q.  Can you just give us your feelings about the match and how you fought out there today?  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah.  I'm really happy with today.  I think I was going out there and just trying to give everything; played some really aggressive tennis.   
So, yeah, I'm really proud of myself like how I did it today.   
 Q.  Do you feel physically if you were in better shape you could have done better, or you don't want to go down that path of thought?  
KIKI BERTENS: Well, I gave everything today.  I think that's -- yeah, that's the most important thing.   
 Q.  How do you reflect just on the past few weeks and everything that you've accomplished?  Has it sunk in yet what you've done?  
KIKI BERTENS: I don't think so, no.  But I'm really happy.  Yeah, I don't know.  We're just gonna go home now.  Gonna enjoy it.  Yeah, then we will see what happens in the next few days.   
 Q.  We saw Serena talking to you at the net.  Would you care to share what maybe she told you?  
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, she was telling me that I played an unbelievable match today, that I was playing good.   
Also I had an amazing tournament.  Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT