AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2020
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. BERTENS/Z. Diyas
6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What was the key getting today done in two sets?
KIKI BERTENS: It was really tough playing against difficult I can't say, I would say. I think I started well, with a lot of slices, a lot of variety, that's how I wanted to play.
From there on, I needed to be more aggressive. It really was not working. She made a lot of mistakes in the first set.
Second set she started much better. I had already some opportunities the beginning, but I didn't take them. From then on, I think she played really good, coming to the net, playing really aggressive.
Yeah, it was really tough to finish that in the second set.
Q. A lot of intensity coming from you in the second set. What was driving that?
KIKI BERTENS: I think a little bit of everything. I wanted it so badly, to be here in the second week for the first time of course. But also, like, if someone is starting to play better, you never know in a third set, even if she's starting to play more better or not.
I think it were some really long points. Physically it was also tough. So, yeah, whenever it's in two sets, it's always better for me than in three.
Q. What does it mean to you to make it to the second week? Round of 16, first time at a hard court slam.
KIKI BERTENS: It means a lot, to be honest. I think also my draw was pretty good. You have to be honest with that, as well. But still you need to do it.
I'm just really happy that I won my first three rounds also in two sets. Even, like, I'm not playing great, but I'm still there. I think today was already much better than the first two matches. I'm already happy with that.
Hopefully it's only getting better from here. Now first we're going to enjoy it.
Q. Tough matchup with Muguruza. What is the key? Do you think you are getting to the level that you need to beat her?
KIKI BERTENS: To be honest, I have to play a little bit more aggressive than I did in the previous rounds. I saw her match today. She played really well. I had no idea I had to play her in the next round. I think she played really well, coming to the net a lot.
Yeah, I think I should play a little bit more aggressive, not only playing the slices.
Q. (Question about stepping up in the second week.)
KIKI BERTENS: Just like every match, I'm trying to give it all. We really see it match by match, prepare as good as we can again for the next one. Yeah, that's how we did it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT