ADELAIDE INTERNATIONAL
January 13, 2020
Kiki Bertens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KIKI BERTENS: I want to tell something first. I'm not able to compete here, unfortunately. I was really looking forward to playing here in Adelaide. I have something going on with my Achilles. I have to take little bit rest to be hopefully fit again for Melbourne.
Q. Can you talk about the prognosis and what the injury is.
KIKI BERTENS: Well, I know what it is. I had it before, so...
It's just by playing a lot it's getting worse. I just want to take my rest here and prepare as good as I can for Melbourne again. Hopefully I'll be able to play there.
Q. (Question about the first tournament of the year.)
KIKI BERTENS: I'm really happy with the first week of the season, of course. I think I played really good singles matches. Unfortunately, I was not able to win the match against Naomi. But I think the level was pretty good. Also the way I felt on court was nice.
Doubles with Ash was lots of fun. We really enjoyed it. A little tough one yesterday in the final. But I think the level was great. We had fun. I think that's what's it's all about.
A lot of matches I played already. That's always good in the beginning of the year.
Q. What kind of things did you learn about her?
KIKI BERTENS: It's better than to have her at the other side of the net, I would say. It's more easy to have her on the same side (laughter).
No, it was fun. We know each other pretty well. We're good friends, as well. It was nice to share the court with her in doubles for once. She's such a great person, as well. She's really relaxed to play with. Just about having fun. I think in the end that's all what matters. Yeah, we had lots of fun.
Q. (Question about 2020 goals and new coaching arrangement.)
KIKI BERTENS: Yeah, I'm really looking forward to this year. Of course, I made some changes in the team. But, yeah, it feels pretty good.
I think the first week, and the off-season, was nice to work together. We see how it's going from here. What I just said, I was really happy with the first week in Brisbane. Hopefully I can keep that going, have fun on the court and work as hard as I can.
Q. Are there any perks of having a female coach?
KIKI BERTENS: Well, it's the first time, yeah. I would not say it's something really changed. Of course, she was already part of our team as a physio and for the fitness. I knew her already really well. So it's not a big change.
But now she is covering it all, so it's just nice to have the same person around all the time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT