NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: NATIONALS VS CARDINALS
October 14, 2019
Dakota Hudson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Dakota, you led the league in one category this year that you probably didn't expect to lead in. But how has your command improved over the year, maybe late in the season, and how much better do you think you'll be next year in your second year as a starter?
DAKOTA HUDSON: I was talking to Waino earlier today, and we still hopefully have however long of a season left to go all the way. I'm excited about what there is that I've learned throughout this year to kind of apply for the years to come. So I'm excited.
Q. When you went into Game 4 of the Division Series, you knew it was going to be a do or die game for you. You don't know that yet obviously about tomorrow, but what do you take out of the experience of pitching in that game in a situation where your team was kind of backs against the wall knowing that one way or another, you're going to go into that game trailing in the series tomorrow?
DAKOTA HUDSON: Regardless of us being 2-1 or 3-0 or whatever happens today, I think that gave me the experience to kind of sit back and even just kind of a different approach to just kind of stay within myself. I'm not going to go out there and try to do anything that's out of my skill set. I just want to give the best I have and stay within myself to where I have the best chance of success.
Q. Dakota, what's the hardest part about facing their lineup? And on top of that, just the bench that they can throw out there against you guys.
DAKOTA HUDSON: I'm not going to give away my scouting report, but it's just a really -- it's a quality team through and through, so got to make pitches, and you have to be able to kind of keep them off balance. So it's a very good team.
Q. What about the bench?
DAKOTA HUDSON: Anyone can come off the bench and make a good swing and have a good at-bat. It's a grind you've got to be mentally prepared for, and you've got to know everyone on their team in their lineup through and through.
Q. Do you think that you might have lasted a little longer the last start if the ball hadn't hit the bag and the other error came up in that inning? Also, you had a lot of time off between that start and the end of the regular season, and you're back on more proper rest now. Is that a big difference?
DAKOTA HUDSON: The extra rest there kind of gave me a little bit more life. I felt like I was in a good spot. I was attacking the zone. I had a lot of batters the last game. I'm just going to try to keep that going. Situationally, I felt like I was right where I wanted to be up until that point, and that's part of the game, as tough as it is to kind of sit there and say that. It's a part of it.
Q. Dakota, what's the difference between pitching home and road? Given that you haven't pitched much here at all, what's the first thing you look at or check out once you get here to feel more comfortable?
DAKOTA HUDSON: I feel like it's different with every ballpark. This is -- it's a little bit different, but for me, I like to kind of just get a feel for it. Tonight I'm going to be the second game, so I'll be able to kind of see what the atmosphere's like. Just kind of the vibe overall. You kind of get in an area for a little bit, and you're able to kind of get a sense of what it's going to be like. So I feel like tonight, I'm going to be out there and experience it a little bit.
Q. Do pitching mounds, they're all 60 feet, 6 inches, but do they feel different compared to ballpark to ballpark?
DAKOTA HUDSON: I think it just depends. I think at this level it's really hard to tell a difference because the grounds crews are so good. It's pretty much the same thing, just different outside sources, I guess, that have impact. If you're within yourself and within your game, then the -- and the focus level's there, it's not much else that's different.
Q. What kind of strides do you think you made from the beginning of the year as far as dealing with left-handed hitters?
DAKOTA HUDSON: I just feel like I was kind of able to make adjustments. That was my big thing. Able to kind of see some things and learn from Yadi. I picked his ear and stood in on some bullpens just to kind of see what my stuff does to be able to get certain results. That's what I've learned and kind of where I've been sitting in so far.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT