FEDEX ORANGE BOWL: SOUTHERN CAROLINA v OKLAHOMA
January 2, 2005
Jason White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about all the hype and how it affects the game, whether it's a distraction or gets you more hyped. 
 
JASON WHITE:  I think more than anything with the hype with the game, it just adds to the excitement of the game, especially for the players.  Getting down here, we've been here for seven or eight days, so you get to see a lot, you get to do a lot.  I think it's just part of a bowl game and playing in the National Championship. 
 
Q.  How about the hype of the last two Heisman winners in the same game?
 
JASON WHITE:  Actually I haven't really heard much about it.  I have had a lot of questions asked about Matt and this year, but I really haven't heard much hype about two Heisman Trophy winners.  I don't read the papers and stuff. 
 
Q.  Is there a different feel to this year's bowl experience than say last year?
 
JASON WHITE:  Yeah, I'm not spending as much time in the training room.  I'm going out and doing things.  This year seems like we know what we have to do.  We know we have to prepare better than we did last year, and I think we've accomplished that so far. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about Matt as a quarterback?
 
JASON WHITE:  Yeah, Matt is a great quarterback.  He makes very quick decisions.  He's smart with the ball.  He's a great leader.  He never gets rattled.  Everything that his teammates say about him is true.  They're not just saying that just to make him look good.  He's a great player, a great quarterback, and he plays the position well. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about the running game, comparing that, where you see the attack being, whether it's passing, or do you see it more in the running game?
 
JASON WHITE:  Ours?  
 
Q.  Yeah. 
 
JASON WHITE:  It just kind of depends on what the defense is giving us.  At the first of the year our running game was working extremely well because everybody worked on our pass game as far as what they prepared for for the game.  But the emerging of the running game, it's been great for us, and now they have to try to stop the run, and on certain downs they have to decide whether they're going to try to stop the run or the pass, and it's kind of like pick their poison, which they want to try to stop. 
 
Q.  Are you surprised that Adrian Peterson is having the type of year he's having, and how important is he?
 
JASON WHITE:  Adrian has been a great asset to the team.  I think he'll be the first to tell you that it starts up front.  I know in the spring last year our running game was working a lot better just because of the guys up front.  They really put an emphasis on wanting to make the run game work, and with Adrian, he came in and he gave us a big play threat.  He can touch the ball and go 80 real quick.  He's been a great help, but as he'll tell you, it starts up front, and that's what gets it going. 
 
Q.  Is he the biggest difference between last year and this year?
 
JASON WHITE:  I don't think it's just one person.  I think mainly, like I said earlier, it's up front.  The way they're playing this year, they have a totally different attitude this year.  Last year was more of a finesse team.  All we do could do really was pass, but this year we're doing both. 
 
Q.  Could you talk about your senior year, what it's meant to come back with so many guys wanting to leave school early and go to the NFL?  How much has it meant to you to play your senior year?
 
JASON WHITE:  Senior year has been great.  Last year, I didn't really get to enjoy my year last year even though it could have been my senior year.  This year I've learned to enjoy it, not near as much attention this year as last year, just really go out and play football instead of dealing with everything else. A lot of guys on the team made the decision to come back, and the reason to come back was to win the Big-12 Championship and win this game, and I think we worked hard to do that, and we made it. 
 
Q.  Yesterday J.D. Runnels and Jammal Brown said that USC's defense most resembles Oklahoma's defense.  Would you agree with that what you've seen so far?
 
JASON WHITE:  Yeah, I would.  They're a lot of the same defense, the same blitzes.  The front four are real good, our front four are real good.  We see our defense every day, but of course they're going to be different in different ways, so it's good to play against our defense, but I'm sure they're going to play us a different way than everybody else. 
 
Q.  Jason, it's almost crazy to think that a Heisman Trophy winner could be overlooked, but do you feel like you were early in the season and do you feel this could be a crowning achievement for you this season?
 
JASON WHITE:  I don't feel like I was overlooked.  To myself and I think to my teammates, I was playing the quarterback position better this year than last year.  What I mean by that is just making better decisions, taking care of the ball, getting the team in the right play.  That's what quarterbacks do.  When you've got a run game working as well as ours was at the beginning of the season, you're not going to get the attention, and I was fine with that.  We're winning games.  I really don't care. 
 
Q.  If I was a betting man, why would I want to bet on the Sooners?
 
JASON WHITE:  I don't know.  I'm not really a betting man, either.  I just think it's going to be a great game.  You'd be taking a gamble betting on either team.  I think both teams are so evenly matched at every position, it's going to be -- seems like it's going to be a game all the way to the finish. 
 
Q.  Better keep my money in my pocket?
 
JASON WHITE:  If you want.  
 
Q.  What's it been like playing for Coach Stoops?  Give us some insight on what he's been like as a coach, on and off the field. 
 
JASON WHITE:  It's been great playing for Coach Stoops.  I was part of his first recruiting class, and ever since I came in, it's been great.  He knows when it's time to work, on the field and in the meeting rooms, but he also knows there's our things outside that that go on, and when you're not on the field he can have a conversation with you about anything, and when you're on the field, it's strictly football, and that's how we understand things at Oklahoma.  He put that in us, and the thing about Coach Stoops is he's going to get you to work as hard as you can just by the way he shows he cares about his team. 
 
Q.  Can you talk a little about the disappointment of the Sugar Bowl, both personally and as a team from last year?  And then most college players don't get a second chance at a title game; just talk a little about having a second chance to finish with a victory. 
 
JASON WHITE:  Last year was extremely disappointing to go through the regular season like we did and then lose the last two games.  Everybody talks about how good we were the first 12 games and then all of a sudden we lose and we're the worst team in college football.  Last year was very disappointing as a team, and it taught us a lot the last two games.  I think we carried that over to this year and tried to make it work to finish this year. 
 
Q.  Being you are coming in under the radar a little bit, how does that better prepare you for this game?  Do you feel better prepared now?
 
JASON WHITE:  Much better than last year.  Last year all the attention after winning the Heisman and the interviews were every day, two or three sometimes a day, and this year it's not been anything.  I can go to practice, go watch film, go to my room.  Last year it wasn't like that.  It was go to practice, do interviews, try to squeeze a little film in every now and then.  This year I feel much more prepared than last year and hopefully play a lot better than I did last year. 
 
Q.  Jason, others have talked about how you seem to be motivated by criticism.  Is there one comment that sticks in your head or one headline or one newspaper story that you look at most often?
 
JASON WHITE:  I think the biggest thing that sticks in my head was the emails that I got last year after the Sugar Bowl, just saying that I need to give back the Heisman Trophy, quit the team, and then one of my friends sent a newspaper clipping to me that said they needed a recount on the Heisman that somebody wrote.  That somebody might be here, too (laughter).  Stuff like that motivates me.  I felt like it's a great opportunity to come back, play another season and once again prove myself.  I guess last year wasn't enough. 
 
Q.  Did you say earlier that you didn't get to enjoy last year as much?
 
JASON WHITE:  I said I enjoyed this year a lot more than I did last year.  Not necessarily that I didn't enjoy last year because I did, but it seems like this year was much more fun to me.  I had more fun this year. 
 
Q.  Do you think being here at the Orange Bowl back in 2000 helped you at all knowing what to expect coming through that tunnel?
 
JASON WHITE:  Being back here after 2000?  2000 I walked through the tunnel knowing I wasn't going to play.  I probably didn't even need to put my pads on.  But in 2000 it was fun for me because me and Mark Clayton, we were part of the scout team offense, and we took pride in playing against the best defense in the nation.  But I think it'll help out just being in the stadium before.  It's been exciting so far and I think it'll be even more exciting playing the game. 
 
Q.  Was this your redemption for you?  Is it redemption coming back for this year?
 
JASON WHITE:  I don't think necessarily redemption.  It's something that I had as a goal to be back and play.  But to play well and win will be great.  That will be a great way to cap off my career at OU. 
 
Q.  Do you mind telling us where your Heisman Trophy is?
 
JASON WHITE:  It's at my mom and dad's house on a mantle in front of the fireplace. 
 
Q.  What was your mindset coming into this year coming off a couple of injuries and knowing that you needed to be healthy?  What was your mindset coming in?
 
JASON WHITE:  I wanted to become a better quarterback, play the quarterback position better, and my mindset was first to get healthy right after the Sugar Bowl.  It took me a while to get healthy, but I finally did.  I worked hard in the summer to stay healthy, to make sure the problems didn't come back, and they haven't.  It's been great.  I've been rewarded and definitely blessed that I didn't have any -- haven't had any injuries this year. 
 
Q.  Is it important to get off to a quick start or is it more to play your game?
 
JASON WHITE:  You've got to play all four quarters.  You've got to be patient with the ball, take what they give you.  They're a great defense.  They're not going to give you much, but when it's there you've got to take it and you can't force things. 
 
Q.  Heisman winners haven't had much success particularly in National Championship type bowl games.  Is there anything to the Heisman jinx that you can tell?
 
JASON WHITE:  No, I think that's in everybody's head.  I know a lot of people haven't had much success doing it, but it's not a big deal I don't think.  I know I didn't play particularly well last year, but it wasn't because I won the Heisman. 
 
Q.  Do you feel any different now not being the Heisman winner going into this game?  Is there a different feeling?  Do you feel less rushed and pressured?
 
JASON WHITE:  I think I feel less attention, which is great.  I'm not a guy to want to be in the spotlight all the time, but I feel less attention, and it's been great.  I've been able to enjoy this week a lot more. 
 
Q.  Jason, you've been part of a program that's only lost six games in five years, and you're here playing for the national title for the third time already.  Do you feel like you have a sense of just how rare it is for a program to be so dominant over such a long period of time?
 
JASON WHITE:  I think I realize how rare it is, and you've got to give credit to the coaches.  They came in the program, they turned it around real quick, and they keep on improving the program, and when you've got a program like what OU has right now, you're going to recruit great players. So the longer Coach Stoops is going to be here, the better the program is going to get. 
 
Q.  Even though you're going to be gone after this year, do you see this program continuing to play in these kind of games nearly every year as long as Coach Stoops is there?
 
JASON WHITE:  I think they'll compete every year, especially for a Big-12 Championship.  If you win that game, you're going to play in the BCS.  Expect them to play in big games every year. 
 
Q.  What friends and family members are taking the tickets you were allotted, and if you have had a lot of demand for more, did you try and pressure any younger teammates for their tickets?
 
JASON WHITE:  I just tried to take care of close friends and family.  I got all my tickets.  I had to find a couple of extra.  You usually have to go find somebody that you gave tickets to before, and you tell them, hey, look, I need these tickets. 
 
Q.  Who did you get your extras from?
 
JASON WHITE:  I got so many, I couldn't even tell you.  Geez, I don't know.  
 
Q.  Jason, can you describe your hometown for me and can you tell me what was the reaction there when people see the Heisman?  Do people come over to see it or did you bring it to the school or anything like that?
 
JASON WHITE:  Well, you could take this stadium and you would not fill it up with my hometown first of all, and it's a small farming community, but it's a great place to grow up.  They love their football there, and of course that's what I like to do.  But as far as with the Heisman at the house, you get random people come over and want to look at it, want to take pictures with it, which is fine.  But it's exciting to see all the people come by and all the people you want to high school with want to come over and look at the Heisman. 
 
Q.  You mentioned that -- have there been just total strangers who come by and want their pictures taken with it?  After you won it, has it gone anywhere in particular?  Did you go out to a bar with it, show it to people?  I'm just curious what you did with it in the last year. 
 
JASON WHITE:  I've had a lot of random people come to the house that I've never seen before and want to take pictures, but the oddest thing that's ever happened is a family came over and had their kids with them, and they wanted to take a picture in my bathroom (laughter).  The kids were young.  I don't know, but as soon as I got off the plane with the Heisman, at first I took it home, then I took it to a good friend, Brian Stewart, and showed him, and I took it and showed my high school coach, and then I took it back to Norman so some of the guys on the team could see it because they deserved it just as much as me.  Then I took it back home, and now it's still there. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible). 
 
JASON WHITE:  It's all the media requests you have to take.  I've learned a lot from last year, and there's ways to get around it.  I'm sure Matt has done a great job with it. 
 
Q.  Do you believe in the Heisman jinx or do you think that's just coincidence?
 
JASON WHITE:  I don't believe in it.  You know, there's players that have played well after winning the Heisman and still lost.  It's a team effort.  I don't think it's all just put on one player. 
 
Q.  How important is it for you to come out here after last season going out and not winning the National Championship like your goal was, to go out here and win it in your last game?
 
JASON WHITE:  It's the top of my list.  It would be the best way to end my career at OU.  We worked extremely hard to do it. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT