TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CENTRAL FLORIDA v BAYLOR
December 29, 2013
Clayton Geathers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You touched on O'Leary being intelligent when it comes up to the defense.   He lines up behind the plays and diagnoses the plays. 
CLAYTON GEATHERS:   It's great to have Coach O'Leary out there, to see the head coach with you.   He's been with us the whole season.   He was always just there.   He's right there in the picture. 
TB is right, he would diagnose the play (smiling).   I'm liking it.   He's coaching you up.   He's telling you what you're doing wrong.   He's just making you better. 

Q.   Was this part of the plan?   Did you envision helping lead UCF to a BCS bowl game?   Did it ever cross your mind?
CLAYTON GEATHERS:   It just kind of happened.   I saw big things.   UCF is a newcomer.   Over the years, more exposure, more exposure, now we're in the big bowl, on the big stage. 
It's a great opportunity to be here.   Just have to stay humble and hungry. 

Q.   You're going to a BCS game.   Any talk with cousins, brothers, uncles, fathers, about what you've accomplished?
CLAYTON GEATHERS:   We have a talk.   We get at each other.   They went to Georgia and all that.   I'm the first one in a BCS bowl in my family.   We got a little bickering about that. 
It's a great experience.

Q.   Are they excited to watch you play?   Some of them coming over here or watching from South Carolina?
CLAYTON GEATHERS:   They're going to be home watching in South Carolina.   They're having a party.   They're having a party.   Eat, sit down, enjoy the game.

Q.   How have you enjoyed your time here in Arizona this week?   You got practice and meetings, but a little bit of downtime.   What have you been doing?
CLAYTON GEATHERS:   This is great.   The staff is great.   They make us feel at home like a family.   The scenery, everything is great here.   I just love it out here. 

Q.   When you look at Baylor, such a high‑tempo offense, what is the biggest challenge for you?   What do you have to do to try to have success against that offense?   One thing that really jumps out?
CLAYTON GEATHERS:   Look at film, tape after tape, teams after teams.   The biggest thing that stands out to me is going to the next play, getting lined up, getting your calls.   That's the biggest thing. 
As I look at tape, they are fast tempo.   I see teams out of position, a lot of them not set.   That's the biggest thing you have to do, get set. 

Q.   Their quarterback hasn't thrown many interceptions this year.   What does he do well when you look at film of Baylor's quarterback?
CLAYTON GEATHERS:   He throws it very well.   He has a huge, live, accurate arm.   He gets the ball to the open receivers.   He doesn't force anything.   He goes to another read. 
I've seen time after time the DB has great coverage and he makes a great throw and the receiver makes a great catch.   That's the only thing that can beat great coverage, great throw, great catch.   It does it time after time after time.   He's a really good athlete. 

Q.   Has it sunk in what you've accomplished?   Maybe it won't sink in until you get to the stadium on game day.   Has it sunk in yet?
CLAYTON GEATHERS:   To me, I feel it won't sink in until after we win.   In my opinion, yes, we've accomplished a lot.   But I'm not satisfied.   I can speak for everybody else.   They're not satisfied.   We're on a business trip. 
Yes, everything is great here, but we came to win the football game.   Our season won't be complete until we win this game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT