TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CENTRAL FLORIDA v BAYLOR
December 30, 2013
Eddie Lackey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Who gets to choose the jerseys?
EDDIE LACKEY:   Usually it's the seniors, but it can be any of the coaches or any of the seniors.   It's really any of their option to pick what combination we do. 

Q.   When you look at the UCF team, they can play offense, defense, they're tough and physical.   Do they remind you of anybody you've seen in the Big 12?
EDDIE LACKEY:   I think they have their own unique mold.   They're a really good team.   They like to slow the ball down a little bit.   It's a little bit different than what we're used to in the Big 12.   We're used to everything going so fast paced. 
When we're playing UCF, they're going to be more slow the ball down a little bit, conventional‑type team.   We can really hone in on what they're doing.   We got to be able to get a lot of pressure on their quarterback and make him make bad decisions. 

Q.   How good is he? 
EDDIE LACKEY:   He's really good.   He's a smart player.   He has really good instincts.   We got to be ready for that.   He has things that you can't coach.   He's just one of those football players that you got to be able to have your A game playing against. 
I think as long as we hone in on what we're supposed to do, we'll have a good game against them. 

Q.   Do you enjoy playing guys that you know will be in the NFL, watch them on Sundays?
EDDIE LACKEY:   I think so.   It raises the bar a little bit.   I think you really got to show up ready to play.   It's a different caliber of football.   He's a good football player.   We're going to be fired up and ready to play. 

Q.   Coach Briles, from what I've heard from the team, talk about him about, 'Started from the Bottom.'
EDDIE LACKEY:   I think he talks about it in practices.   We play that song a lot.   It's interesting he's taken on that motto. 
It's been a wild ride.   Defensively for us it's been a much different year for us.   Last year we were one of the worst‑ranked defenses in the country, and now we're in the top 20. 
It just shows volumes what our team can do.   We have tremendous capabilities.   We've come a long way.   I think that's where the whole thing started, 'Started from the Bottom,' now we're here type thing in a BCS bowl game playing a really good football team. 

Q.   Talk about this rise a little bit for Baylor, what being in the Fiesta Bowl means?
EDDIE LACKEY:   I mean, it's huge.   Our university has been trying to get to this point for a really long time now.   It hasn't just came overnight.   We've been fighting for this moment year after year. 
I think just for us as a university, it's humongous.   We love being here.   It's just a huge BCS bowl game that we're in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT