TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2016
Jonathan Giles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas - 19, Texas Tech - 55
Q. Jonathan, Justis said that he kind of felt like offensively, things came together on both ends of the ball.  How do you feel like you guys were coming together?
JONATHAN GILES: I feel like we did a good job overall.  The defense had some really big key stops in the second half.  And then the offense, even though we had a couple penalties here and there, we were able to get down, move the ball down and score.
Q. You really thrived when Nic came into the game.  Is that something that you spent a lot of time with him on the summer, or maybe even in fall, working with him and getting the ball that he throws?
JONATHAN GILES: Yes, we have a complete faith in Nic.  He's a hard worker, and it's the next man up.  So when Pat went down, unfortunately, Nic came in and did his job.
Q. How reassuring is it for you guys to be able to move the ball as well as you did in the game tonight?
JONATHAN GILES: It was awesome.  We knew that once Pat went down, Nic was going to come in and make some plays because he's a hard worker.  He's competing in the weight room, he's competing in practice, and we just knew that we had a good quarterback coming in.
Q. Did Nic say anything when he came to the huddle?
JONATHAN GILES: He was just hyped.  He's like, let's go, let's keep moving.  Next man up.
Q. How much different is his ball to catch than Patrick's?
JONATHAN GILES: It's the same.  They both like throw it hard, they like to throw it deep, so it's the same, it's no different.
Q. Coach talked about you being kind of the go-to receiver, what do you think about that?
JONATHAN GILES: That's awesome.  I don't look at me as a go-to receiver.  I look at me as just another great receiver along with other, the other four receivers next to me.  So I feel like we have talent on the outside and inside, so.  Each game somebody can have a break out game.  So, fortunately, it was me.
Q. Has there been extra attention paid to you over the past couple weeks?
JONATHAN GILES: I try not to pay too much attention to it.  I'm always focused in practice.  Coach Morris helped me out with that, so I just try to stay focused.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT