NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 15, 2020
Aaron Gordon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Who's the best trash talker?  
AARON GORDON: Man, the best trash talker I've ever played against -- I know some of the best trash talkers. I know Gary Payton. He's one of the best trash talkers. Kevin Garnett, he's one of the best trash talkers. I didn't really get a chance to play with them, but they still talk trash.   
 Q.  Next week, Wilder vs. Fury, do you have a prediction?  
AARON GORDON: Wilder for sure.   
 Q.  What will be the approach tonight?  
AARON GORDON: I don't know. I'm going to be pretty straightforward with it. I've got some dunks that have never been done in an NBA Dunk Contest before. I'm going to take a chance with some of my dunks. We'll see how it goes.   
 Q.  How hard is dunking these days? You see a lot of videos on the internet with Joe Schmoe, who's playing in his neighborhood gym, doing some amazing dunks.  
AARON GORDON: Yeah, but I'm still a world class dunker, you know what I mean? We could have a Dunk Contest with those guys too, and I'd still be up there.   
 Q.  What do you think of a one-on-one contest at All-Star?  
AARON GORDON: I think it would be great. I think it's really competitive. How much would the winner get?   
 Q.  I think it should be crowd sourced from the fans.  
AARON GORDON: No, it can't be crowd sourced. But a one-on-one contest would be sick.   
 Q.  Who's the best one-on-one player right now?  
AARON GORDON: Right now the best one-on-one player, hmm, that's tough man. There's a lot of really great one-on-one players in this league. I think KD, when he's healthy. I think Kawhi is a really great one-on-one player. I think Giannis would be really hard to stop one-on-one. James [Harden]. James is a really tough one-on-one player. James might come out with a win.   
 Q.  Is this experience different than the first time you came here?  
AARON GORDON: Definitely different. I feel more comfortable. Still have the same level of excitement, still have the same level of love for dunking. I'm ready. I'm excited.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT