STATE FARM ALL-STAR SATURDAY NIGHT
February 15, 2020
Aaron Gordon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
AARON GORDON: What are we doing? Who set the Dunk Contest up?   
 Q.  Obviously, this was a great back and forth between you two. In that last session, you decided to bring Tacko Fall into the mix. Take us into the decision to add Tacko to the mix, and were you as surprised as some were with the judging?  
AARON GORDON: Definitely. I wanted to jump over Shaq. He didn't want to do it. It was really for the people. Everybody was like "Tacko! Tacko!" I was like, cool, man, let's do it. The tallest dude in the gym. Jumping over somebody that's 7'5". How tall?   
 Q.  7'5" with no shoes.  
AARON GORDON: Jumping over somebody 7'5" and dunking is no easy feat. What did I get, like a 47? Come on man. What are we doing?   
 Q.  I'm curious as to where you think he ranks as a competitor in the Dunk Contest as opposed to Zach LaVine, who we saw in 2016?  
AARON GORDON: It's really similar. They got similar bounce. You saw he did the windmill from the free-throw line. The dopest one he did, I think, was off the glass over somebody through the legs. That was super tough. That was super tough.   
But, yeah, I mean, he's a leaper. He's a leaper. He gets up, great dunker, obviously. You got to be great to win a Dunk Contest.   
 Q.  Thanks first for the epic battle that you have every time that you are in a Dunk Contest. It's something epic. What's your recommendation for jumping as high as you do always? For people that always want to jump?  
AARON GORDON: You want to learn how to dunk? You want to go through dunk training?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
AARON GORDON: Well, you got to work out a lot. You got to work your legs. Plyometrics, jump, weight bands. You got to work out a lot. Work out every day I do this.   
 Q.  Right after the dunk you did with Tacko Fall, he told ESPN's Ramona Shelburne that he was scared for his life because it's not something that's rehearsed. Did you have to talk him into it, calm him down, let him know that you could clear that height? Were you confident in it?  
AARON GORDON: I was confident in it. I should have let it rip a little bit more, I guess. If I put a little bit more effort into it, I would have gotten a higher score.   
But he was a little nervous. He was like, "I got faith in you." I was like, "I appreciate it."   
 Q.  Do you think having D-Wade as one of the judges had something to do with that final result?  
AARON GORDON: No, I don't even know who gave me the 9s. I'm going to find them (laughter). Trust me, I'm going to find them tonight.   
But really, we're here to do four dunks. So out of four dunks, it should be the best out of four dunks. I did four straight 50s -- five straight 50s. That's over. It's a wrap. Let's go home. Four 50s in a row in an NBA Dunk Contest, it's over. But I don't know. Who's running the show?   
 Q.  It looked like you bruised your wrist early in the contest. Does that happen to you most contests, or is that unique to tonight? Is that something that usually happens?  
AARON GORDON: That's just kind of like what happens when you dunk hard? People forget that that's iron? Yes, dunking hard. I haven't been dunking as much as I used to, so my body is kind of like intolerant to it right now, and that's what happened. When you hit your wrist on iron, start bleeding, start bruising.   
 Q.  Is it a goal for you to win a Dunk Contest before you retire from the Dunk Contest?  
AARON GORDON: No, it's a wrap, bro. It's a wrap. I feel like I should have two trophies, you know what I mean? It's over for that. My next goal is going to be trying to win the 3-Point Contest.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT