NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 21, 2007
Mehmet Okur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MEHMET OKUR:  Now we play against each other in one of the best leagues in the world.  We have seen each other before, you know. 

 Q.  Who are some of the players, just four or five that you have played against maybe since you were 16 or 17 years old? 
 MEHMET OKUR:  You talking about big guys?  Who is in the league right now? 

 Q.  Players that are in the league now that you have played against from being a young kid up through right now. 
 MEHMET OKUR:  Well, I played against Oberto.  I played against Elson.  We played against each other, Kristic.  I played against a lot of big guys in the league right now. 

 Q.  What about Andrei or Giricek? 
 MEHMET OKUR:  You are talking about big guys in my position? 

 Q.  Not necessarily your position. 
 MEHMET OKUR:  We played against each other many times.  When I was in Russia and also when I was in Croatia we played against many people many times on other teams. 

 Q.  How do you feel now compared to after Game 1? 
 MEHMET OKUR:  I mean, it is more now -- we lost against a good team last night.  I don't think we executed enough to win the ball game.  Well, I mean, it is just that we lost one game.  I feel all right right now. 

 Q.  When they have all three of their big three going, is there anything you guys can do to counter that?  Duncan, Ginobili and Parker. 
 MEHMET OKUR:  No surprise.  We knew they were going to get some shots.  No surprise about that because once they get going, it is hard to stop there because if you look at Elson and Oberto, you double team them, it is a chance.  They executed well last night.  They get baskets underneath. 
 And like I say, if they get going, it is hard to stop them. 

 Q.  What do you need to do to find your shot? 
 MEHMET OKUR:  Just stay hungry and don't give up and keep shooting every day so I will be there tomorrow night. 

 Q.  You guys improved a lot after the first road game in each of those other series.  How did you do that? 
 MEHMET OKUR:  We can't give up right now.  We've got to go out there tomorrow night and hopefully we are going to learn from the last game.  We look forward. 

 Q.  Do you spend a lot of time looking at that previous game? 
 MEHMET OKUR:  I watched last night's game.  Everybody has a DVD.  And we watched a little edit this morning and probably I am going to watch again tonight. 

 Q.  What have you learned so far? 
 MEHMET OKUR:  We've got to execute all 48 minutes, not just 20 minutes.  I think we fought back in the second half.  Everybody was more active.  Everybody did a good job on defensive end. 
 We were active on the glass.  This is how we have to play all 48 minutes. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT