THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2013
Hideki Matsuyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  MIKE WOODCOCK:  Good morning, everyone.  I'd just like to
  get us started this morning and welcome Hideki Matsuyama, two-time
  Asian Pacific Amateur champion, and a three-time winner this year
  on the Japan Golf Tour.  Thank you for joining us this morning.
  I'd like to start by asking you, I guess you're a
  relative newcomer to links golf and the whole experience here at
  Muirfield this week in The Open Championship, it must be something
  you're looking forward to very much.HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:  First of all, I'm really happy to be
  here.  This is my first Open Championship.  I'm looking forward to
  it very much, especially the pairings the first, second round
  pairings I'm very excited about, and looking forward to playing.
Q.  I'd like to ask who you've been talking to to get advice
    on how to play on links golf courses, which players have you been
    talking to.  And in particular, did you talk at all to Ryo
    Ishikawa, who does have experience playing links golf?
  HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:  I haven't spoken with Ryo Ishikawa,
  but I did just meet with Shigeki Maruyama, who finished 5th here
  in 2002.  And he gave me a lot of advice not only on links
  courses, but here on Muirfield.
  Shigeki told me that the wind is usually strong here at
  Muirfield, and I need to hit the ball low.  And we talked a lot
  about how to hit the low shots, and he helped me a lot there.
Q.  Just wanted to ask about your great finish at the U.S.
    Open.  What's that done to your confidence and belief that you can
    actually challenge in Majors?
  HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:  You're right, the finish at the U.S.
  Open did a lot for my confidence, knowing that I can play on the
  world stage.
  As far as golf, though, golf is golf, and I just continue
  on.
Q.  You're really big in Japan now.  You've won a couple of
    times.  Do you have any thoughts on coming and playing either on
    the European Tour or the PGA Tour in the future?
  HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:  I'm very looking forward to playing on
  the European Tour and the U.S. PGA Tour.  As soon as I can get
  status, that's where I'm going to be playing.MIKE WOODCOCK:  Your thoughts on Muirfield?  I believe
  you've had the opportunity to play two practice rounds so far.HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:  I played three rounds here at
  Muirfield.  I've never played on a course with harder fairways or
  harder greens.  So it's been an adventure and a great learning
  experience for me.MIKE WOODCOCK:  Are there particular shots you'd say
  you've had to pick up and practice to come into this week?HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:  Yeah, I've had to learn really how to
  hit the low shot.  The fairways are so hard and the running
  approaches is something I've been working on.
Q.  Do you have any family and friends that have traveled
    over with you for the week?  What are your expectations of how you
    want to perform this week?
  HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:  I didn't come with my family this
  week, just came with myself, coach, trainer, caddie.
  As far as looking forward to results, again, this is my
  first Open Championship, and I'm going to do my very best.
  Whether or not my confidence is going to translate into results,
  I'm not sure, but I do know that I'll do my very best.
Q.  Ryo has had to shoulder the burden of carrying Japanese
    golf the last few years, and now he's gone down in the rankings
    and you're on the top, how do you handle that pressure?
  HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:  I've only been a pro for really just a
  couple of months.  And as far as being the shouldering or taking
  over for Ishikawa, I haven't even thought of that.  All I'm doing
  is trying to play the best golf that I can, gain the experience
  that I need, and just go out and play golf.MIKE WOODCOCK:  Hideki, thank you very much, and we'd
  like to wish you the best this week.
  





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT