MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Hideki Matsuyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Once again you'll make the cut.   How pleased are you to do that for a second time here?   
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:   You know, I didn't know the ten‑stroke rule thing that is in play, and so towards the end I was really battling some nerves, and I'm just glad that I was able to make the cut.   
   
 Q.   It's been pretty rare for amateurs to make the cut in the last ten years here, and you've done it twice in a row here.   What do you think has been key in being so consistent here and doing something not a lot of people have done recently?   
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:   I really don't know.   
   
 Q.   Did making the cut last year make you more confident coming back this year, or were you more nervous last year?   How did the two years compare?   
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:   I think more than that, I did make the cut last year, so it was maybe a little bit more nerves this year, kind of not knowing if I was going to make the cut.   So maybe a little bit more nerves this year.   
   
 Q.   Was there a lot of expectations?   What kind of expectations have you put on yourself?   Going forward from here do you want to improve on what you did last year after making the cut?   
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:   You know, I had three goals before I came here, and the first one was to make the cut.   The second one was to have a better score than I did last year.   And the third one is to be 16th and ties so that I could come back next year to the Masters.   
The first one I was able to clear today, so I'm going to work on those next two and hopefully get it done.   
   
 Q.   Just tell me about hole No.9.   It was a triple bogey there.   What made that one so tough when I think you birdied it yesterday?   
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:   You know, maybe I wasn't as calm as I needed to be in that situation to hole it in less than I had it done.   I needed to be a little bit more calm.   
   
 Q.   How did you then hold it together for the rest of the round, because you still had nine holes to play and plenty of other players would have kind of fallen apart.   To be honest I was really nervous, and even after that hole, and then all the holes after that I was really nervous.   Obviously the score ended up being good, but more than that, being that nervous and being able to overcome that was big for me today.   
   
 Q.   What was it like playing this year with Tom Watson?   
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA:   You know, obviously all the fans were for him, and he had this aura about him that he was just amazing to be around.   But he was really nice, gave me lots of smiles on the golf course to make it so that it was‑‑ made me comfortable playing golf today and yesterday, and I've learned many, many things from him these last two days, how he approaches things.   So it was a great experience for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT