MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2011
Hideki Matsuyama
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. One of the great traditions here is the recognition of the amateur, one of whom made the cut, Hideki Matsuyama, at age 19. We're joined by Alan Turner to help interpret here. First just a statement, please, about how much this week meant to you with all that's been going on back in Japan. 
 HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: I was very happy to be here to play four rounds here at Augusta, and also there are some hard times right now in Japan, and hopefully my play was able to bring some encouragement to those who are in need right now.

 Q. What might your plans be now? 
 HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: I'm going to go back home and I want to do some volunteer work, but I do want to finish school, finish my university, and then I hope to turn pro. 

 Q. Let me turn to Charl Schwartzel, the Masters champion 2011 with birdies on the last four holes. This was a riveting day out there. How were you able to handle all that was going on around the course?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: It was just an exciting day. You know, so many roars, and the atmosphere out there was just incredible. I think playing with K.J., he sort of plays the same game as I do, we both go about our business, I think that sort of kept me calm, as calm as I could have I'd say. Just a phenomenal day. And it was getting tight out there coming down 15. Adam Scott was making birdies, and Jason Day, and I needed to do something, and I managed to hit really good iron shots and really good putts coming in the last four holes.

 Q. Of course you chip in at 1, you make eagle at 3, but I am thinking right now on your mind, not only are you thinking of your folks back home, your dad who taught you the game, but Ernie Els, who considers you to be like a kid brother, and Gary Player, who 50 years ago today became the first international player to win the Masters; what's in your mind with all that?
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL: Well, I mean, there's so much right now. Yeah, my dad has played such a big part in my golf. If it wasn't for him, I would have never got everything I've got. He just put so much time in my golf for me. I wouldn't be where I am right now if it wasn't for him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT