THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2020
Hideki Matsuyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously you didn't have any difficulty focusing today, did you?  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: Yeah, I didn't have the greatest warm-up this morning, but once play started I got into it, I got into a good groove.   
 Q.  Did you feel a day like today coming based on how you've been playing?  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: No, I've been working hard and have a lot of confidence now in my swing, and last week was a tough week at Bay Hill, but today I made some putts and that seems to be the difference of recent late and that was really the catapult to me to have a good round today.   
 Q.  You share a record now with Greg Norman, Nick Price, Fred Couples; how does that make you feel?  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: Those are all major winners that you mentioned, but to be honest, coming up 18 I hit my second shot on the green and I knew if I made that putt, if I made eagle there I would be close to a course record and I'm happy it went in.   
 Q.  How strange do you think it will be tomorrow to play without fans?  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: It will be strange tomorrow. I think all of us will have to go back to our college days to play without a gallery. But with that said, I know there's a lot of people watching television and a lot of fans rooting for us and so I'll do my best.   
 Q.  Will the difficult thing be to not get a crowd reaction when you hit a good shot or maybe a big putt?  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: It will be. You hit a good shot or make a good putt, the crowd reaction kind of gets you going. It's probably going to be strange for all of us, but it's still golf, we'll just go out and play our best.   
 Q.  What do you attribute your good putting to today? Did you change putters?  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: I've had a lot of good advice from a lot of close people on our team and I've been feeling good about my stroke and today they went in.   
 Q.  What was your reaction when you woke up this morning, saw the NBA's announcement and how it applied to the PGA TOUR?  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: I did see the news and of course everyone's concerned about the virus, but I know we're in good hands. It's really just up to us to follow their direction and do our best.   
 Q.  What did you hit into 9 and what was the best putt you felt like you made today?  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: I hit a 3-wood into 9 and best putt of the day was the one at 9, the eagle putt.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT