BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2019
Hideki Matsuyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just a wonderful round of golf Hideki.  Let's talk about the putting because it's the best I've ever seen you putt, 165 feet 8 inches worth of putts.
Congratulations.
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: Yeah, I did make a lot of long putts today and that was the difference.
Q. Was there any change in technique, equipment or just a good day on the greens?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: Actually it started yesterday during my round, I was able to halfway through kind of see what I was doing wrong on the greens and it carried over today.  I was able to fix it and it carried over.
Q. Did you know that 30-footer on the 18th green was for a course record?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: No, I honestly I didn't.  Honestly, I thought I pushed that putt but somehow it found the bottom of the cup.
Q. Give me your thoughts headed into the weekend now.
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: I'm really happy with my position.  It's been a long time since I've been in contention.  Hopefully I can play well.  I've been struggling for awhile this year.  Hopefully that can turn around and I'll have a good weekend.
Q. Congratulations.
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: Thank you.
Q. Hideki, new course record.  Congratulations.
If we can get some thoughts on your round.
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: Honestly, I didn't know it was for a course record at the end but I'm happy with the way I played.
Q. Could you see a round like this coming, it's one of the world's most famous golf courses, the way you were playing going in?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: I worked hard and it's not that it came out of the blue but I'm very happy and happily surprised, I guess.
Q. I was going to ask you about your putting today.  How would you explain how hot your putter was today and why did it happen today?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: I wish I knew why I putted so well today.  But I was happy that a lot of them went in.  As they went in you start gaining more confidence and as your confidence builds, more putts go in, too.
Q. Have you been working on something specific with your putter?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: Nothing specific regarding my putting but I have seen and received a lot of advice, good advice from some real good putting professionals and starting to get that feeling back that I had three years ago when I putted well and I'm happy about that.
Q. What would have been some of the one or two key shots for that round to make it so good?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: You know, it wasn't just one or two shots, but it was just being able to take one shot at a time and hit quality golf shots.
Q. Do you have a specific putting coach?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: Not full-time but I do have a couple I speak with and they've helped a lot.
Q. How would you characterize your season so far?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: My season so far has been not bad.  Better than last year but nothing that I'm satisfied with.
Q. Was this the best round of the season today?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT