THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 29, 2017
Hideki Matsuyama
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARK WILLIAMS: End result today was a halve, had an exciting match.  Adam, if you can give us your viewpoint and assess your day.  It's your first trip out in The Presidents Cup.  Give us your thoughts first, please.
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, obviously we were up against two very good players, two of the best in the world.  We made a few putts when we needed to.  We had a chance, a couple up with five to play, and they made a couple putts, got the momentum on their side.  I think we were a little fortunate to have Jordan miss two putts inside 20 feet.  He doesn't normally do that.  But we were able to sneak out a halve.  We ham-and-egged it a little bit today.
It's a little bittersweet.
MARK WILLIAMS: Hideki, just if you could talk about your play today in the match, and what was it like pairing with Adam.
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: Adam was really a good partner today.  I'm grateful to be paired with him.  We ham-and-egged it really well.
Back nine, I didn't play very well at all; unfortunate.  I feel good at at least we won a half a point.
Q. When you look at the scoreboard and see the lead that they have, what goes through your mind and what goes through the team room?  Have you talked to your other teammates about it?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, I mean, obviously it's not the best of moods going through right now.  We're pretty fresh off a disappointing day where they stole most of our points.
But you know, we are some of the best players in the world.  It's obviously going to be a tall task.  They are playing well and they also are some of the best players in the world.  But stranger things have happened.  People have come from further back.  I think tomorrow morning will be a big morning for us if we can get a 4-1 in the morning or something, we can claw our way back into this.
Q. Not just your result, but the one hour where it all seemed to swing the Americans' way.  Were you shellshocked watching it unfold?
ADAM HADWIN: No, I wouldn't say that at all.  Unfortunately I couldn't hit some iron shots when I needed to, some long irons.  Was a little bit erratic.
Honestly today, they missed a bunch of putts I thought they were going to make.  Each time they have a putt, you just assume they are going to make it, and with as good a player -- with as good a putter as Jordan is, and Patrick showing in these competitions, he's one of the best.  I wasn't shellshocked.  I expected a fight.  I knew they were going to do what they did, and we battled them till the end.
Q. And Hideki, the PGA Championship obviously took a lot out of you emotionally, and since then, you haven't quite been playing as well.
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: I wish I knew why I haven't been playing well.  But all I can do is just keep working hard and look forward to tomorrow and making a comeback.
Q. What do you expect Nick will say to the team in order to bring the mood up, and what will you say as a sort of top-ranked player?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: The Captain, Nick, will say, you never know in golf; keep grinding.  That's kind of how I feel about it, too.  You just have to keep trying your best, and that tide will turn sometime.
Q. I know you have to say that you think the tide will turn, but it seems so insurmountable at this point being 6-down.  I mean, how can you have faith in that's going to be the case?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: You're right, it is a big lead the Americans have right now.  But we still have ten matches tomorrow, and we have 12 matches in the singles on Sunday.  I think every one of my teammates feel the same way; that there's still a chance.
Q. This is the first time you've done this, but can you tell how different the vibe is in the team from Wednesday to this afternoon, if it's any different?
ADAM HADWIN: I mean, we're coming off an extremely difficult day for the team.  Tough loss there on 18 for both Day and Leish, for a match that could easily have gone the other way, as well.
You know, we've got all night to figure it out.  Like I said, we're some of the best players in the world, and yeah, it's a 6-point lead, which seems like a lot, but you never know.  We're going to come back, focus, ready to play tomorrow, and we'll see if we can't turn the tides.
Q. How would you describe the communication between you two on the course?
ADAM HADWIN: I mean, obviously it's difficult.  We speak two different languages.  But you know, I think it's pretty easy to communicate when you make a birdie.  That's all we're trying to do.  We're trying to hit as good of shots as we can, make some putts, and a high-five, a fist-pump can go a long way.
MARK WILLIAMS: Thank you, gentlemen, and good luck tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT