WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 5, 2017
Hideki Matsuyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DOUG MILNE: We'd like to welcome the winner of the 2016 and now 2017 Waste Management Phoenix Open.  Congratulations on the victory.  With the victory, you do overtake the No. 1 spot in the FedExCup standings and successfully defend your title once again in a playoff.
Just a few comments on getting the job done for a second year in a row here at TPC Scottsdale.
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: You know, I don't know if I played that well, but I won.  That's, I guess, the bottom line.
DOUG MILNE: How much, for the second year in a row, the gallery, how much were they a factor in motivating and inspiring you?  You commented earlier in the week about what an inspiration they were.
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: I mean, there is nothing like it in golf.  Playing in front of the number of fans and gallery this past week, great motivation.  I just try to have fun with it, and at the same time, though, keep my focus and was able to do it.
DOUG MILNE: Do you have to pinch yourself sometimes to realize how well you're playing with all the worldwide victories on the PGA TOUR, as well?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: It's been a good run.  I'm going to ride it as long as I can.
It's tough to compare how I play and the results.  The results have been really good these last few months, and hopefully we can just keep it going.
DOUG MILNE: Questions?
Q. The putt on 18 in regulation, did you think that was in?  Secondly, can you just describe the emotions of the roller coaster of the playoff.
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: Yeah, that putt at 18, I don't know how it stayed out, even now, as I think back on it.  But being short, I mean, you can't be short on a putt like that.
But during the playoff, I did hit some good putts.  Just the line wasn't there, and so, you know, up and down.  But I didn't lose confidence.  I just kept grinding and had patience.
Q. Are you going to buy a place here?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: Yeah, if I can keep playing like this here, I will definitely.
Q. I will ask again in a roundabout way, are you at least getting closer to best-in-Japan status ever?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: To answer your question again, maybe I'm getting closer, but I just need to keep working hard and hopefully that day will come.
But with this win, I did pass Shigeki Maruyama.  I feel very proud about that accomplishment.
Q. You talked about trying to keep the roll going.  How are you trying to do that?  Anything specific that you're keeping the momentum going through all these tournaments with Augusta in mind?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: It's very difficult to continue playing golf at a very high level.  There is ups and downs, especially when I'm playing bad or having a bad day.  What I'm trying to do now is to work hard, correct what I'm doing wrong, and continue on.
Q. We haven't had such a dominant start by two guys in a long time, you and Justin Thomas.  You have one back over him now.  You have overtaken him.  Is that like a little rivalry you've got there?
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: The media might write that we have a rivalry going, but I haven't thought about that yet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT