WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 5, 2016
Hideki Matsuyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An interview with:   
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA   
THE MODERATOR: We welcome Hideki Matsuyama to the Waste Management Phoenix Open media center.  Hideki hit 7-under and in contention once again here in Phoenix.  How would you assess your play over the first couple of rounds?   
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: (Through translation.)  These first two rounds, my short game has really saved me.   
THE MODERATOR: How do you take lessons from last year, being in contention especially on the weekend and having a chance to win, into another chance to do it again this year?   
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: (Through translation.)  Last year, you know, finishing second hurt a lot.  You know, you don't get many chances to win here on tour, and finally maybe I do have a chance this week.  So I hope I can play my best to erase those regrets, I guess, from last year.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  Just want to get your thoughts, are you enjoying the atmosphere here?  Are you enjoying the galleries?  Do you feel that you're getting plenty of support as you're playing and going throughout your day?  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: (Through translation.)  You know, of course, I mean, these are the best fans, but I'm really not hitting it my best.  So all my focus really is just on my own game.   
But to answer your question, yeah, these fans are great.  It's fun to play in front of them.   
 Q.  You have had a lot of close finishes lately.  Just wondering what you feel like you need to do to turn more of those close finishes into wins.  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: (Through translation.)  You know, it really comes down to making putts, especially when you have birdie chances.  That's what makes the difference of winning and not.   
 Q.  You have battled some injuries over the last couple of years since turning pro, including a wrist injury.  How are you feeling this week?  And if you have any concerns, what are they?  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: (Through translation.)  You know, we always have nicks and bruises, and this week is no different.  I might not be 100%.  Lower back is acting up from time to time.  But it's nothing to make excuse about or to keep me from playing well.   
 Q.  They have redesigned the course.  How are you finding it?  Is it more challenging?  How do you find it as you play your second round?  
HIDEKI MATSUYAMA: (Through translation.)  Before the redesign or the changes, I thought it was an easier course than it is now.  I mean, the 2nd hole and the 14th hole have really put some bite into this course, and those are two difficult holes right now where before they weren't that difficult.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT