STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 28, 2015
Conrad Ukropina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 38, Notre Dame - 36
Q. You know what we're going to ask.
CONRAD UKROPINA: So it was a six-point game, they were driving down and actually, I turned to Dallas and I'm like, no, excuse me, I turned to Alex, our punter, and I said, all right, they're going to go down and score.  Then we're going to get the ball with a few seconds left, drive down and kick a field goal to win.  So kind of called it.  Which is awesome.
But, gosh, this is just such a testament to the whole team, great team win.  So running out there with Dallas, kind of knew that they had a timeout.  I knew they were probably going to use it and give me some more time to get set up.  And I actually like when they call timeouts, because if you think about it, it just gives the line more time to kind of rest and really lock in and just everyone get ready and kind of get ready for the next play.  And it's, obviously, it's changing gears from going from offense to special teams.
So, ran out there, looked at Dallas and I said, I mean, shoot, man, might as well just make it.  I mean, it's the same kick we have done hundreds of times in practice.  So, just went out there and great snap, great hold, and was able to kick it through the pipes.  So that's awesome.  Great feeling.  Great feeling.
Q. What's the preparation like, mentally, on the sideline?  We saw you before that, there was nobody near you, you were just doing your thing.  What's going through your mind?
CONRAD UKROPINA: Honestly, I just stay within myself.  I know that I don't need to -- coach tells us all the time, you don't need to put on a cape.  You don't need to go out and do anything that you're not capable of.  Just stay within yourself.  It's a 45 yarder.  I know that's well within my range and right down the middle makes it easy.
So just able to go out there and be successful.  And as a unit it's really, really exciting and it's a testament to really how hard we all work as a team.
Q. What was some of the things that people said to you in the aftermath?  We saw Josh kind of pick you up after that.
CONRAD UKROPINA: Well, it's the Legends Trophy, and so before the game, coach was like, this is where legends are made and so a lot of guys were like, "you're a legend.  Oh, legend."
(Laughter.)  Which is awesome.  And it's so great.  Just a great feeling.  Gosh, I've never been bombarded with so many people trying to take pictures.  It's funny.  It's a really great feeling.  So just really, really happy.  Proud of the whole team.
Q. Biggest kick of your career?
CONRAD UKROPINA: I would say it's up there.  I hope there is more big ones and I hope that I can capitalize on them as well.
Q. Overall, what did it take for you to get the job done out there?
CONRAD UKROPINA: It was a team win.  We were hurting a little bit after Oregon.  But we really came back together as a locker room and we prepared really, really hard this week.  We knew that, hey, this game might not be the end all, be all, but regardless, we want to win every single time we step out on the stadium, especially when it's at our house.
So I would say just the preparation this whole week, everyone just did such a great job.  They were really locked in.  Our captain, Ronnie Harris, is a vocal leader.  Even though he's hurt, he's getting guys going and yelling hey, let's go, this is for the seniors.  We got to do this.
So I just say the mentality was really more through the whole week and really maintained and then when we got to game time it's just, let's go, let's roll.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT