RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2018
Byeong Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great position headed into the weekend.  What's been the key for you this week?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I think this course suits my game.  I'm driving it pretty well.  I didn't miss any drives.  The roughs are not that long here, so even when I miss it, I feel like I can get some short clubs in, and I'm driving it pretty well.  All around, it's been good.  I was making some putts and hitting some good shots.  Overall it's pretty decent.   
 Q.  You almost got the win a little over a month ago at Memorial.  You're in great position headed into the Playoffs.  What is your goal between now and then?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Obviously trying to get a win this week because this will be my last PGA TOUR event before the Playoffs, other than the majors.  It would be nice to get a win, but I know the points are way bigger in the Playoffs.  I think it's more important to play well in those than this one, but obviously the win is going to be good because I need to get at least top 5 to get into next week in Akron.  That's my goal this week, to get into next week.   
 Q.  You've played a couple years now on the PGA TOUR.  What's been the biggest challenge for you over here compared to in Europe?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Well, my game-wise, I think my shot has been getting better and better.  Tee to green it's been improving.  But my putting has been -- it's getting better definitely.  This year has been a lot better than last year.  But the courses are a lot tougher on the PGA TOUR, that's for sure, and the depth of the field is a lot thicker, as well.  So you need to play well to get top 10s and stuff.  There are a lot of good players out here and tough courses, but I like the challenge.  I'd rather play on tough courses than easy ones.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be playing so well?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I played great the last two days.  It's been like a similar day today than yesterday.  I was driving it pretty well, hitting balls pretty close to the greens and made -- not lots of putts, but I didn't miss any short ones, I think.  It was good overall.  I didn't miss a lot of par putts when I need to make it, and that's what kept the momentum going.   
 Q.  What's the key to scoring on this golf course?  What do you need to do on the weekend?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I think obviously it's the shots into the greens because they're pretty small greens, so you have to hit it on the green, obviously.  But I think you have to be really precise and accurate on the greens because it spins a lot, as well, and you can get some short wedges in here and you can spin it off easily.  It's pretty firm, as well, so it spins a lot and it's firm, so it's not a good combination.   
 Q.  Despite the rain, it's still firm?  
BYEONG HUN AN: It's still firm, yeah.  The fairways, some spots are pretty firm, and the greens are not that soft, they're just pretty quick.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT