THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 3, 2018
Byeong Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Given the start that you had, a couple of bogeys early to come in without another bogey after that, you have to be really pleased with the way you finished.
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, it was a good finish after all.  Didn't have a great start, obviously.  It was 2-over through four and my shots weren't too bad.  First hole, I hit a great drive, just mishit it slightly and got unlucky.  In the bunker would have been better or the rough, but it was under the hill, so it was quite unlucky.  But I think I went on nicely and got some birdies coming in, which was nice.  And I wish I made the last putt, but it was a not an easy putt.
Q. How did you approach the back nine?  The winds were swirling today and there at 17, was that a good number?
BYEONG HUN AN: I knew I had to make some birdies.  The scores were 16- and 17-under.  So, yeah, I hit a good number on 17, it was a perfect number.  The wind was helping just enough to hit a full 9-iron and I hit it close.  On 18 as well.  I got quite lucky with being in the semi rough instead of the primary rough.  So that was nice.  I got some lucky bounces today and so I can't complain.
Q. What does it say about your game when you talk about this week about how it's evolving and maturing this year?  What does the way you finished say about where you are with your game right now?
BYEONG HUN AN: It's in a good place.  All week, I've been hitting it really well this week.  Off the tee and approach to the green was one of the best so far this week, this year.  The putting was definitely better than the last couple weeks, so that's why I can see myself in the top of the leaderboard.  And I'm in the top-3 or top-5, so I knew as long as my putts drop I think I can be in contention.  So this is a big boost of confidence for me this week, because I hit it really well and I was really proud of myself, because last year was my second time playing.  Compared to last year, I played a lot better this year and feel more confident.
Q. You feel more comfortable on this golf course now?
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, I think so.  It suits my game I think, because I can carry a couple of the bunkers, like 10 and 1 on the right.  And then there are a couple bunkers I can carry and then not many, just bad number holes on par-3s.  So I think that it's -- I like this course because I played last year as well and two years ago.
Q. Do you feel like it can carry forward the way you played this weekend?
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, I hope so.  I'm playing, for now I'm playing next week, so as long as I play like this, I think I'll be, I'll have another chance soon.
Q. It looked like Joaquin's going to get the special exemption.  Just what you saw out there, shaking off those double bogeys, what do you see in him that can allow him to succeed out here?
BYEONG HUN AN: He's a great player.  We had fun.  He's only 19 years old and that's pretty good because I wasn't that good when I was 19.  But seeing him playing, I saw some of his, just how, the way he putts is just amazing.  He has some great feels and he hits it pretty far off the tee as well.  He's a complete player.  He's good, overall he's pretty good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT