THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 3, 2018
Byeong Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BYEONG HUN AN: The first playoff hole I missed it right, but got lucky with the lie and had a shot and got to the back of the green.  And it was tough shape but it was going straight into the wind, so I knew I had a chance to make a par, which I did.  But second, I put myself in a great position.  It just could not miss left and I did, so that didn't help me.  So but I couldn't do any better with the third shot.  Just a little bit -- Bryson had a good birdie look.  I knew he would make the putt and I tried to chip it in, but he hit a good putt, so couldn't do anything.   
 Q.  Slightly off.  And then being in the perspective that you were out of it, then you came back in and had a chance to pick up a victory, and then to be just that close.  Like where does that leave you at the end of the day?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Getting closer?  It's good to play extra holes, obviously, I wasn't expecting that.  But it would have been a lot better if I took the trophy.  But it's, at least I had a chance.  That's a good thing.   
 Q.  What did Mr. Nicklaus say to you coming off after the playoff?  
BYEONG HUN AN: He says it's great golf shots and well done this week and play well the rest of the season.   
 Q.  Mentally, with what you did for 74 holes, plus the compliment Mr. Nicklaus gave you, what does that do for you moving forward?  
BYEONG HUN AN: A whole lot of confidence, that's for sure.  I guess I dreamed of the moment walking out of 18th tee and shaking his hand and finished second, but it wasn't a win, but still it's good to hear some words from him.   
 Q.  How hard is it to mentally prepare that you think you're going to be done, and then you start to realize that I might have a chance to get in a playoff.  Can you explain what that was like?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Well it wasn't hundred percent out, that's for sure.  I saw those two guys coming in, one ahead of me and I know 18 is quite hard to make par, so it was like 50/50.  So I got to the putting green, chipping, and just putted some and chipped some and tried to get myself ready, and I got, luckily I got to play in the playoff.  So I wasn't definitely out of it.   
 Q.  Can you walk through the situation where you were on that patron's surface up there and you had to take several drops?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, it wasn't like that artificial grass, I guess, where the patrons sit and then it was on there, took a drop, and there was, I don't know it's called, like maybe a, I don't know like a plastic box under it, the thing is like for the sprinklers and stuff.  So I was standing on it, so I had to take another drop from there and well, kind of got lucky because the lie was better on the second drop.  So, yeah, I had to just, I got a good line and had a shot at it.  But first of all, I hope, I you couldn't see anyone, it hit anyone, so hopefully I didn't hit anyone there.   
 Q.  Then lastly for me, for going against Bryson and him getting this victory, what was it like playing against him down to the wire?  
BYEONG HUN AN: We just played one hole, so.  Obviously he's a good player.  I knew he was close to making that putt because it just break as little bit right-to-left.  I've had that putt before so I knew it wasn't a tough putt and I knew he most likely was going to make it.  So he made a winning putt so he must be a good player.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT