THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 1, 2018
Byeong Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good, solid round today, bogey-free 5-under 67.  A few comments about what was going right today.
BYEONG HUN AN: The shots off the tee and the approach to the green, I think was one of the best I had this year, because I missed I think three greens, but they were off by like a foot, maybe a foot and a half.  So I hit it great, these greens are quite soft, quite acceptable.  But for me it was spinning a lot, like it was really hard to control the spin for me.  And I think I've done that pretty well so far.  I think I hit a lot of fairways today as well, compared to yesterday.  My driver was in better shape, but that's why I shot bogey-free, that's for sure.  But I had less birdies today because my putts didn't go in as much as yesterday.  So I would rather have today's round, definitely.  Bogey-free here is pretty good, I think.
Q. Off the tee, is that something that you're pretty steady with regularly, or has something been working right for you?
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, because my irons have been really good, my shots to the green are pretty good, so as long as I have a chance, which you have to put it in the fairway here because the rough is quite long.  So as long as I put it in the fairway, I think I got a great chance at making birdie.  So just off the tee, if I get it in the fairway, I'll have plenty of birdie chances.
Q. The rough's really up this year, so it's obviously a good thing that you're hitting a lot of fairways.  Did you find yourself in much trouble with the rough?
BYEONG HUN AN: I can get some nasty lies.  A couple holes I had some bad lies yesterday and today, but I always had luck on my side yesterday and today.  I didn't have a terrible lie.  I did have one or two I had to lay up, but it could have been far worse.  These roughs are quite thick.  And around the greens as well, I found myself in decent lies every time, so you definitely need to be lucky out here.  Even if you miss a shot you still have to get lucky to get a line or at least get it to the back of the ball, so I think I'm doing that well so far.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT