ITALIAN OPEN
October 14, 2017
Byeong Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Give us your thoughts on an impressive bogey-free 66 today.  
BYEONG HUN AN: Another solid ball-striking day.  Yesterday wasn't very good.  I missed a couple of greens and today was a lot better I think.  I hit some really good shots.  I should have birdied No. 9.  That's been my keyhole because it's reachable for my distance but I haven't been scoring well on that hole.  But other than that, I think it was pretty solid.  I made some birdies and still missed some putts.  But you can't make everything.  But I think 5-under today was quite nice.   
 Q.  Do you think you're coming back to somewhere near your best?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, definitely.  My putting's been the problem this year.  I've been putting a lot better this week.  I'm rolling it pretty good.  Even the misses, I'm hitting some good putts.  As long as the ball-striking stays the same, I think I will have a good chance tomorrow.   
 Q.  How do you feel your form is compared with Wentworth when you won a couple years ago?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Similar.  Ball-striking has been similar.  So we'll see what happens tomorrow.  But I just hope that I can hit some same shots today because it was a pretty good day out there.   
 Q.  What can you take that round, bogey-free, going into tomorrow?  I believe you're two off the lead as we speak.  
BYEONG HUN AN: Confidence.  My ball-striking is system there and I got some up-and-downs today from around the greens.  My short game's pretty good this week, and putting's decent.   
So bogey-free is always good.  I didn't make many mistakes, so another bogey-free tomorrow and I'll make some birdies out there.  Bogey-free is definitely my goal for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Give us a sense of conditions and highlights of the round?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Everything's perfect.  Can't get any better to play golf in this weather.  The course setup, the greens are playing a little bit faster.  This is a perfect day to golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT