WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 30, 2020
Byeong Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You had a nice solid round to start this golf tournament, including your first nine, the back nine, five birdies. You look at those numbers, I think your longest birdie putt was 11 feet, so not only were you on the green you were nice and tight.
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, it was decent round overall. I hit a lot of fairways, and I missed a couple of drives, but I hit a lot of greens, hit some great shots, especially on the front nine. Yeah, it was a nice calm day, I think. Let's say that. Like, it wasn't dramatic or anything. It was just trying to hit the fairways and greens and make some putts. And I didn't miss any short putts today so that's why I was, I would shoot a bogey-free round today.
Q. They were telling us it was going to be at least 12 on the Stimpmeter on these greens. How quick are they?
BYEONG HUN AN: They are in the probably best conditions I've seen the last four years probably. This is my fourth one, I believe, and it is definitely the best I've ever seen it. I mean, these greens are rolling nice and true. And I mean, every year it's in great condition, but I think this year is probably the fastest and firmest so far from the past few years.
Q. Having gone through 16 and the stadium, does it ever get old when you go in there to hit a tee shot?
BYEONG HUN AN: No, it's quite amazing. I think it's good to have it at least once a year, but I wouldn't take it every single week. That's nerve wracking. Because my front nine was only, like, semi-full today and it was, yeah, you can feel the adrenaline coming in, but you keep thinking, keep talking to yourself, Hey, let's not hit this putt too hard. It feels like that green is the fastest on this course. But it's fun when they keep making noises. It doesn't really bother me, but I do feel the adrenaline coming in. That's for sure.
Q. Excellent start. Some comments on your round.
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, it was a nice and calm round today, I think. Nothing dramatic, no eagles. But it was a bogey-free round and that's always nice, I think. I made some good par saves here and there and I made some good birdie putts. So overall I'm really pleased with this round because I don't think it's playing the easiest out there today. Greens are pretty firm and they tucked a couple flags in the corners, so I'm definitely happy with a 6-under today.
Q. Is it a bit firmer than it has been in the past? And what challenges has that presented?
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, I personally think -- this is my fourth year -- and I think it's been, it's been the firmest out of the last recent years. And yeah, because they tucked a couple of flags in the corners, it's hard to get near the flags. Like 1, it's quite tough because the greens were pretty firm, and even 2. So there are a couple holes it's quite tricky to get close. But I think I just took advantage of the par-5s today and then hit some good shots in the right times. So definitely the firm greens, it makes it a little tougher, I think.
Q. You keep knocking on the door for that first PGA TOUR win. And you got the one over on the European Tour at Wentworth. Do you feel like it's soon your time or it should be your time?
BYEONG HUN AN: I hope so. Yeah, I really hope so. This is my, I think it is my fourth full year, I think, and I feel like it's coming. I've been close the last year and the year before. Hopefully this year again. But it's just not easy. It's not easy to play well all four days and beat those guys, the best players on the TOUR. And, but I really like the course this week, so I came close last couple years and I think this course suits me. Hopefully I can get my first win here. That would be great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT