SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2019
Byeong Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
BYEONG HUN AN: I didn't hit it as good as last few days. Missed some shots here and there. In the hazard left (indiscernible - wind.)   
Overall, 2-under is not too bad. I'm glad it didn't happen the final round. I got at least one more day to catch the leaders.   
Just one the those you can't have four perfect rounds. This is one step back, and hopefully be couple steps forward tomorrow.   
 Q.  What adjustments are you making going into the final round?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Just my timing was off a little bit today with my swing, so just hit some balls tomorrow morning and try and get back in shape.   
Didn't hit it that terrible. Hit some good shots out there and some missed shots. (Indiscernible.)   
I'll try to get rid of that and get some good swings tomorrow.   
 Q.  (Regarding being two shots back.) What's the mindset?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I guess this is better than two shots ahead I guess. Just actually behind the leaders. Playing in the second to last group. Hopefully I can have a fast start and we'll see what happens. If my long game is on I think I'll have a chance again. Never know. Definitely try my best tomorrow.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
BYEONG HUN AN: I don't know because I never won a tournament before. I was ahead a couple times; I was behind a couple times and made second.   
So we'll see. Maybe this is the thing and it will work out if I am chasing someone. But if I shoot 10-under tomorrow, good chance of winning.   
Definitely try my best and try and birdie every hole.   
 Q.  Just to come in and like you said, still not play your best and still be in contention, how important was that?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, I think that was big. I know I still have a chance to win. I'm only two shots back. Like I said, not even bad day, but wasn't as good as the first few days. That's really positive. I didn't really collapse or anything. Just made some bogeys there, and I did make some good shots today. I'll just take all the positives and go into tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT