SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 20, 2019
Byeong Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Here with a guy who has rattled off consecutive 66s. So same score, different days. How would you compare the two rounds?  
BYEONG HUN AN: I had about seven holes to go rest of the first round. I was on a bit of fire yesterday. I finished with three birdies. Was a bit disappointing that they blew the horn because I was especially in good shape and I had two par-5s coming in.   
Two 66s, that's not bad. I hit it pretty good. It was solid, apart from one shot I hit in the water on the -- I can't remember what hole, a par-5.   
Other than that, I hit it pretty solid, where I wanted to hit, and then made some decent putts.   
I'm looking forward to the weekend.   
 Q.  You see that name at the top of the leaderboard. Four consecutive birdies today. Is that the type of mindset you need to have considering how low the scores have been?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, I think so. Well, if you hit it well and in position I think you'll have plenty of birdie chance because the greens are -- they're not soft, but they kind of stop dead, so they don't spin as much or they're not as firm as I thought it would be.   
They're really receptive. I think you can fire at the flag and ut stops within couple feet. Definitely see a lot of birdies out there. All depends on the wind. Wind started to pick up a little bit today, so might be a little bit tougher.   
I definitely need a lot of birdies on the weekend as well because people can make birdies out here.   
 Q.  Last I chatted with you, you finished third at the Wyndham Championship. JT Poston won that week. Earlier in the broadcast we saw JT lay out his goals last season. What do you have as your goals now as part of your fourth season on the PGA TOUR, big picture going forward?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, that four year went quick. This is my fourth year, and hopefully -- I haven't had a win yet, so win is definitely on my mind.   
This week will be great, but still got the full season. Last year I feel I played decent. Where I finished doesn't really show where my game is. Then I definitely feel like my game is turning around, especially with the putting.   
I've been putting a lot better the last couple events, so as long as the putts keep dropping, let's see if I can win this season. And then first of all I got try to make Presidents Cup team first. We'll see.   
 Q.  Two rounds of 66. Just tell me how you feel and if the ball striking was the key to it today.  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, it is a key for today and yesterday I think. Yesterday I only missed one green, which was basically today, because I miss it on the hole No. 3 -- no, hole No.4, I think.   
But, you know, I miss in the right place. As long as you miss in the right spot I think up and down shouldn't be that hard. That's what the key was to shoot 12-under in first few days: hit it in the right spot and make the birdies where I need to.   
 Q.  This may sound like a strange question, but it could have been a lot better, couldn't it? Some putts were just off.  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, I had some putts that were so close to go in and some bad putts. You know, just part of the game. Shooting 6-under is not too bad at the end of the day. Those days are the ones you could have shot 10-, 12-under, but it's the game of golf.   
Same thing happened in the pro-am. I think I made like ten birdies on that day. I made seven birdies in a row. So I know what it feels like to miss putts. The front nine I only made two and the back nine I made like seven birdies.   
Just got to keep patient. Plus, did drop a couple of them. A lot of par putts drop today, so it kind of equals it off. Maybe I'm saving it for the weekend and hopefully I will make all of them.   
 Q.  Your caddie told me you woke up at 4:00.  
BYEONG HUN AN: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  That was your wake-up call. So you get to sleep in tomorrow.  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yes, at least I get to sleep in tomorrow. Wasn't bad. I was first out. Compared to other guys, I didn't have as many holes as other guys. That was a big advantage I think. Only played 25 holes, which is not too bad.   
Definitely looking forward to the late alarm tomorrow.   
 Q.  Back-to-back 66s. Evaluate your first round and your second round for us.  
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, it was decent overall. I hit it pretty good. Hit some good shots and missed some putts here and there. You know, that's the game of golf. You can't make everything.   
My putting feels very solid, and short putts especially feel very good. That's my key for this week, I think, to make a lot of short putts. Not going to make many mistakes.   
As long as I hit it like this on the weekend and drive the ball well, I feel like I'll have a chance.   
 Q.  Where you do you feel like you stand for the Presidents Cup?  
BYEONG HUN AN: Nobody really knows, right? I don't know. I hope I'm way up there. I need to step it up a little bit. I got some events to play. It'll be nice if I make the team. That's definitely my main goal -- was my main goal for whole this year and the next couple events.   
Decent week this week or next couple weeks definitely I think would help.   
 Q.  (Regarding ball striking - Wind interference.)  
BYEONG HUN AN: Just work on couple things I have in mind. Just stick to the routine and just focus on couple things. You know, as long as I keep my focus and hit some good shots, just don't overthink it too much, keep it simple.   
 Q.  (Wind interference.)  
BYEONG HUN AN: I think it is. It's why I decided to play this week and next couple events. Last year I think I only played one or two events in the fall, and by the Phoenix Open this year I missed like seven events.   
So that's why I decided to play last week, this week, and then these four in a row. Get a fast start. Definitely heading the right way where I want to be. We'll see what happens this week and next couple weeks.   
 Q.  (Wind interference.)  
BYEONG HUN AN: I just like the hot weather, I guess. I like the warm weather and this type of grass. Tricky around the greens and off the fairways.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT