U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2019
Byeong Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You put yourself right in contention.  Talk about what you were able to do today?
BYEONG HUN AN: I was able to make a lot of pars.  Front nine I hit it great.  Everything was going well.  But around the turn some missed shots.  And then I had to grind to make some pars.  Luckily I missed in the right spots to get it up and down.  That was the key today.  Those up-and-downs are not crazy up-and-downs, just the front of the green and bunkers.  I missed where I had to miss it.  So I think that was good today.
Q. Being out there with Tiger is always kind of a special experience in terms of a few people come out to watch?
BYEONG HUN AN: I've never played with him.  This was my first time.  But I always dreamed about playing golf with him and especially it's the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach, that's definitely something special.  And then it was refreshing, it felt like two and a half hours, please, because I want to play with him, see what it's like.  And I got my wish.  I'm happy that I plate a great round in front of the GOAT.
Q. Did it leave live up to expectations with the crowds?
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah.  He didn't have the best day today, but he's still Tiger, missing long putts today.  Doesn't matter how he plays, just playing with him, that means a lot to me.
Q. There have been some other famous chip-ins on 17 from the sand.  What did yours look like?
BYEONG HUN AN: I told my caddie if we were to miss it let's miss it where we can get up and down so I can get it like 80, 90 percent of the time.  Just stay a little short of the hole.  And I had a great shot.  Just a couple more yards would have been great.  But that bunker, is quite tricky, the ball is at my feet.  But I had some good bunker shots today, got it up and down.  I just went in, I thought it was going to leak right but it kind of lipped in.  It was a bonus.
Q. It looked like Tiger had KP tape on his neck.  Did you notice any discomfort?  Did he mention anything during the round?
BYEONG HUN AN: No, he didn't.  He's okay.
Q. What's the mindset going into tomorrow, coming off a day like today?
BYEONG HUN AN: Just the same would be great.  It wasn't a perfect day, I had to grind it out to make pars.  And I'm sure tomorrow is going to be similar.  It will be nice if I could hit perfect, all 14 fairways and 18 greens, but golf is not easy, especially around here, you can get some firm bounces here and there.  You just have to grind it out.  Anything below par is good.  So just see what happens tomorrow.
Q. How did you see the course conditions today?
BYEONG HUN AN: It's getting firmer, I think.  But it's quite cloudy the last couple of days, that's why the greens are not crazy firm.  I did see some big bounces on No. 16.  I had a full wedge and pitched by the flag and went 30 feet past the hole.  That's unusual.  So I think the greens are getting a little firmer.  But it's not like unplayable.  I remember playing in 2010 and it was a lot firmer than this.  But I think it's in fair shape.  It's perfectly playable and scores can see that.  9-under is leading now.  It's not impossible to play.  It's perfect conditions, I think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT