THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2019
Byeong Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Ben, nice day, lowest round here at TPC Sawgrass.  Explain your solid play today.
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, it was good overall.  Tee to green was good today, and then a couple missed shots.  I got lucky and had some shots between the trees, and that definitely helps.  Then a couple of nice bounces here and there, and then it definitely -- on this golf course, if your tee to green is pretty good, it doesn't get any easier, but definitely the ball-striking has been good.  That's why I was able to get seven birdies today.
Q. Guys were saying earlier in the week that the only key to playing well here is hitting the ball well.  If you look at your record this year, I don't think you've missed a cut.  Did you feel like coming in that your game was --
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, tee to green was good last week.  I felt a lot better in Mexico and then it was getting better every week.  Last week was better than Honda, and this week is quite similar to last week.  I've been hitting it great the last couple days, and I just need to drop some putts.  I hit it a lot closer than normal today, that's why I was able to make seven birdies.  But it definitely helps on this golf course.  It keeps the ball in play and on the greens.
Q. Obviously you didn't play here when it used to be in March; how much different is it from what it used to be for you?
BYEONG HUN AN: A lot firmer last year I remember.  Like let's say No. 9, you have to be careful when it's downwind last year because it would have rolled out to the rough and almost into the water.  But this year you can be a little more aggressive with the drivers off the tees, and then it just stops quite dead.
Even No. 1, it was helping wind today, and it still didn't run out the left side of the fairway.  But last year it definitely would have rolled out and went into the rough.
So I think it's playing a little longer, but it's quite easier to hit the greens because it's softer and definitely helps, but obviously it's tough for wedge shots because it spins off the green.  But it's definitely playing different.  I wouldn't say it's easier, but it's playing different than last year, that's for sure.
Q. Do you feel like you can be more aggressive than you were last year?
BYEONG HUN AN: I think so, with the long irons, I think, for par-3s, you can get a little more aggressive, yeah, that's for sure.
Q. Your seventh round here in 6-under par.  What is it about this course that's suited you so far in your career here?
BYEONG HUN AN: Ball-striking.  I think that's the key this week.  It's got pretty tight fairways and tricky greens, and you have to place the ball where you want it to leave myself an easy putt, and I was able to do that today.  That just definitely helps to shoot 66.
Q. You're right on the cutoff, I think, for Augusta, or right around there.  How much is that on your mind these couple weeks?
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, if I'm in, it's good.  If not, a week off at home.  That's quite nice, too.  I'd love to play.  I'm really close, and that's like a bonus that comes with good rounds of golf.  Good week this week would do it, but just trying to play well every week, that's my goal, and that's a bonus I think that comes with it, and I would love to play, that's for sure, but it's not going to put any more pressure on me because it's Augusta.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT