RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 29, 2018
Byeong Hun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BYEONG HUN AN: I had a tough start, and I bogeyed the second hole, which is probably a birdie hole for most of the guys.  But I found it hard to shoot 3-under today, and Dustin played it great today.  I think he's pretty good at golf.
Q. You have to pull a lot of confidence from not having it in the front end of this round and then finding it.  That's got to give you confidence the rest of the way?
BYEONG HUN AN: Yeah, definitely.  Today definitely wasn't my best day.  I didn't give myself many birdie chances, hitting it far away from the flag, so that didn't help.  But coming down the stretch on those par-5s, I made nice up-and-downs for birdie.  So that definitely boosted my confidence.
Q. Good luck the rest of the way.  Great move, you're going to be somewhere around 36.
BYEONG HUN AN: Thank you.
Q. Quite the pairing to be in and quite the day to do that.  What were the nerves like out there today?
BYEONG HUN AN: Definitely more people watching, yeah.  I think they came to watch me.  No, but unfortunately I couldn't get in the playoff.  But seeing the number one in the world playing golf is quite exciting, and he's pretty good.  But I tried really hard and tried to get to my second place.  But overall I think it was a decent week, definitely.  And I get to play in the Firestone next week, so that's a bonus.
Q. What do you make of your play today, especially having the start and stop with the rain delay?
BYEONG HUN AN: I don't know.  I made a birdie after the rain delay, so I think it helped.  It wasn't much going on today with the front nine.  I made a bogey and a birdie, so it was a good delay, I think.  My driver wasn't on point, so I worked some on the range, and I did some work this afternoon, so it was good.
Q. Knowing you were so close, what do you take away from a round like today and a week like today?
BYEONG HUN AN: If I get lucky, I have a chance again, I think.  I got some unlucky breaks today on number 6 and 16.  Pitched it where I wanted, but it just didn't kick forward.  Just need some looks to win, obviously, and some good golf.  But I definitely have the game to be up there again, I think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT