SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2016
Joni Taylor
Marjorie Butler
Merritt Hempe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Vanderbilt - 54
Georgia - 49
OT
THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by Georgia.
Coach, your thoughts on tonight's game against Vanderbilt.
COACH TAYLOR: Let's give Vanderbilt credit.  They came out and played extremely hard, jumped on us early in the first quarter.  We had to rally back and try to get back in the game in the second quarter.
I think our kids did a good job.  We just made mistakes late in the game that when you're playing teams in this league you can't do.  We turned it over, didn't take some opportunities at the free-throw line.
Again, when you're playing games that are going to be driven by each possession, every single one matters.  We fell short tonight.
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions.
Q. Coach, you probably wouldn't have gotten to the point where you had that three-point lead without Caliya.  Is it really tough to watch that sequence in the last second?  Was there anything in particular you might have said to her after the game?
COACH TAYLOR: Caliya has played well for us all year.  She's a talented player.  When I think about that possession, I think about the two offensive rebounds that Vanderbilt got before it led to the kick-out three.  If we just rebound the basketball, we don't get to that play.
What Caliya has to do a better job of doing is just walling up and not jumping.  Every time right now somebody shows her a ball, she's jumping in the air.  She does a great job of blocking shots, but she's got to have discipline and stay on the ground.
It was a freshman mistake for her that was detrimental to us tonight.
Q. For both players, talk about tonight's game, your performance.
MERRITT HEMPE: I think tonight, we didn't get off to a great start.  The whole game we were trying to dig ourselves out of a hole.  Just trying to go out there and play as hard as I can, do everything I can for the team.
But I thought we had good moments, then we had some bad moments.  That kind of caused our loss.
MARJORIE BUTLER: To go off what Coach Taylor said, we just had too many mistakes.  Here in the conference tournament, you can't make mistakes.  They're costly.
It wasn't just in overtime, it wasn't just in the fourth quarter; that started in the first quarter where we dug ourselves a hole.
We played hard.  But the SEC tournament, it's not just about playing hard, it's about playing smart.
I think our mistakes were extremely detrimental today.
But credit to Vanderbilt because they did a great job of capitalizing on our mistakes today.
THE MODERATOR: Coach, ladies, thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT