MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2005
Don Flanagan
Mandi Moore
Jenny Shetters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH FLANAGAN:  First of all, I thought San Diego State played a tough game, never gave up.  Played hard for 40 minutes.  We want to congratulate them.  They played very hard.  Everything was contested, passing lanes, position.  They played extremely hard.  We just shot pretty well.  We tried to keep the floor spaced so that we could get opportunities on one-on-one situations, reversing the ball and setting lots of screens.  They were switching lots of screens so every time we set a screen we'd dive.  That seemed to work a little bit, and I thought our pressure defense started to allow them to not run their offense as effectively as they wanted to.  
 
 
Q.  Jenny, obviously this isn't the last game for you, but how does it feel to have a game like this to kind of go out on as a senior?
 
JENNY SHETTERS:  I think everybody wants to end their career on a high note.  I have struggled a little bit in the past, and I've finally, I think, learned to just let everything go and just play basketball.  It's not really that hard.  It's a game that's supposed to be fun.  So I'm really glad that I started off the tournament on a high note, not just for me, but for my team to dominate the way we did in the first game.  I think it was really important.  
 
Q.  Dionne, you got in foul trouble early and then you got in foul trouble early again.  Were you beginning to think your debut was going to have a five-minute spurt? 
 
COACH FLANAGAN:  I was kind of surprised, but most of my fouls were offensive today, so I guess I wasn't being more careful with what I needed to do.  I was a little surprised.  I usually don't foul too much during the games, but I ended up doing pretty well and we still won, so that's all that matters.  
 
Q.  Mandi, can you talk about the next game, either Wyoming or UNLV?  Can you talk about those match-ups and what that means for y'all?
 
MANDI MOORE:  I don't know if this is on.  As far as -- they're both tough teams.  We're going to have to play well no matter who wins.  They just came off of playing Wyoming and they played us tough in third place.  We started off the tournament on a pretty good note, and I think that we're only going to play better from here.  I don't guess it really matters who we get matched up with.  I think we probably match up a little bit better with Wyoming, but I think we're ready to play either.  
 
 
Q.  Don, is it fair to say that if you were worried about Dionne's foul trouble that Jenny pretty much took care of it?
 
COACH FLANAGAN:  Yeah, you know, I was a little concerned with replacing the five position.  It's not a position that we have a great deal of depth in.  Don't ask me why I went to Jenny, but I did, and she responded right away and scored right away, and I'm really happy for her.  This year has been a little bit of a struggle for her, and I think if she can play this tournament well, I think she's going to feel like this was a terrific success this year for her.  She struggled a little bit about confidence, not with ability, and I'm happy to be her be successful.  
 
Q.  I think 24 of your 31 were from within three feet, so you obviously did a great job spacing and getting those one-on-ones.  You assumed you had match-up issues that you could exploit in there, but did it happen even better than you might have thought?
 
COACH FLANAGAN:  I thought it was going to be a closer game.  I thought it was going to be pretty close.  Spacing was an issue that we talked about.  We wanted to -- and I think we made a couple adjustments that hurt them a little bit, but as far as pressuring the ball and pressure in passing lanes, I think San Diego State does that better than anyone else.  At least that game there, we did a great job, and I have to compliment our players because under that pressure I thought we were pretty effective.  We were trying to get one-on-one match-ups down low and get the ball in, and sometimes you hurt your passers when you do that.  We turned it over too much.  We needed to reverse the ball a little better.  I kept sending people in and they kept doing a nice job of moving without the ball annd getting open opportunities Late in the clock we were looking inside.  
 
Q.  Just to follow up, I believe you did go to Jana first when Dionne got her second.  Did you just feel maybe Jenny was the answer?
 
COACH FLANAGAN:  Jana and Lindsey both were a little bit jumpy.  They seemed to be -- something about their footwork scared me a little bit.  They were trying to be a little bit too quick, and that appeared to me to be a little bit of nervousness and maybe a little bit of anxiousness.  Jenny seemed relaxed.  She probably figured I'm not going to play, I'll just sit back here and relax, and I gave her an opportunity and she went in and played relaxed and did a very nice job.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT