MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 25, 1997
Jeff Conine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Jeff, has the offense in this Series caught you guys off guard or surprised you the way the offense has dominated as opposed to pitching?

JEFF CONINE:   I don't think so, I think we knew coming into this Series that a lot of us have played against some of the Cleveland Indians in the past with Marquis and David Justice, Matt Williams, and we know what they were capable of for sure offensively.  And I don't think anyone is surprised on their offensive ability.


Q.  Do you think you've changed the perception of expansion teams and perhaps with the two new teams coming on line next year the players will gravitate to them because of the opportunity to win quickly?

JEFF CONINE:   Well, obviously I think these expansion teams, both Colorado and ourselves, are not the norm as far as history shows.  And I think with both situations in Phoenix and Tampa Bay the fan interest and the ownership that both those teams have, I think they're going to win quickly, and they're going to want to win quickly, because they have such  tremendous support.  So I think any player that I've talked to is excited about the prospect of possibly playing at either of those places.


Q.  Jeff, obviously a lot of people around here are very interested in what's been going on, but given the fact that it's only taken five years, do you feel that everybody fully appreciates what's being accomplished here?

JEFF CONINE:   Well, I think the city was transformed into a baseball loving town in the last two months of the season.  It takes a long time to really grab hold of a franchise, of any pro sports team, I think.  With us going to the World Series so quickly, I think it transformed a lot of people into baseball fans, but I think that will continue after this year.


Q.  Jeff, a couple of hours before game time, what are your emotions right now, is it anxiety, are you anxious, are you nervous, are you excited, would you put it into words for us?

JEFF CONINE:   Well, I think you've got to look at it as just another game.  Obviously it's not, but you've got to look at it as another game or another postseason game, and you don't want your emotions to get too high or too low at this point, this close to game time.  So we'll go out there and any excess energy  that I might have, I'll go out there during BP and have a good time during BP and go through my normal warm ups and ground balls and I think that will take the edge off of a lot of guys.


Q.  Jeff, what was your reaction when all these people started signing last winter, were you a little shocked that any owner would go out and do this much for a ball club?

JEFF CONINE:   When Mr. Huizenga puts his mind to something, I think he goes all out.  And he definitely did that this off-season.  I sat back and was on my computer all the time looking at all the moves he made and reading the papers, and I had nothing but a big smile on my face, because I knew it was going to give us an excellent chance to make it into the postseason.


Q.  Talk about the fact you've got Brown on the mound tonight, you couldn't ask for a better situation with your ace going?

JEFF CONINE:   That's it, every time or any time this year we've wanted to win a big game or any situation where a clinching game or a big game during the year, you want Kevin Brown on the mound, because he's our ace, and even if he has a little bit of an off night, his stuff is better than most, and he's going to  keep us in the game no matter what.


Q.  Jeff, looking back to November of '92 when you were selected in the expansion draft, did you think of that at the time as a good thing, and how do you think it's turned out?

JEFF CONINE:   Well, obviously I didn't particularly think of it as a good thing.  It's almost like being traded, you're going from one organization to another.  At that time it was even worse to me, because I had -- they had no team, so I didn't know who to expect to play with or who was going to be my teammates.  And obviously after I thought about it and realized it was going to give me a chance to play in the Big Leagues full-time I embraced the change.  But at first I was a little shocked.


Q.  What is the safe distance to be from Kevin Brown in the clubhouse right now before he's getting ready to pitch?

JEFF CONINE:   Well, he's not going to -- it's not like a rabid dog or anything, he's not going to bite you.  But everyone knows he's a very intense competitor and they give him his space and let him prepare the way he prepares.  And that's very intensely.


Q.  After the fans reacted harshly to the strike,  did you ever fear that for Major League Baseball's future in Miami, did you think the team was in any danger?

JEFF CONINE:   Yeah, I thought that was a concern because the team was a year and a half old and we hadn't really given it a chance to take hold here in South Florida and we didn't have the benefit of New York Yankees or Chicago Cubs that have been around so long and built such a great fan base.  But I think they've come back well, and you're going to see tonight how well they've come back.


Q.  Jeff, since this team's been on the market since June, and there's been speculation that a lot of Marlins won't be back next season, to what extent has there been the thought that this is a one-shot deal for this team?

JEFF CONINE:   Well, I don't care if you keep this team together or you disband this team totally, everyone in here, it could be our last chance.  There are no guarantees that just because this team stays together for next year that we're going to go back to the postseason, you can't think that way, because you never know.  So everyone in there, Bobby Bonilla has been a part of some tremendous baseball teams, and he's never been there.  Everyone -- I think everyone in  there looks at it like let's win this one, and anything else that comes on top of this is gravy.


Q.  I think you said earlier that the last two months that people have really embraced this team and seen the potential in it.  What has signaled that to you that there's been a change in attitude in the community or just going about your every day business?

JEFF CONINE:   I think just support, going out in the community and whether it be at a restaurant or supermarket or whatever, I think fans, they were just a lot more excited about baseball the second half of this year than they ever have been.  And that has to do with being in the playoff hunt.


Q.  Jeff, if this team is able to go on and close it out and win the Series, do you think it will be remembered as a team that came from a wild card a little bit of a Cinderella thing, or do you think it will be remembered as a bunch of guns for hire?

JEFF CONINE:   I think they will be remembered as the World Series Champions.  I don't think anyone will go back and research the off-season moves or realize how much money we spent.  I think that's all -- that's not relative at all.  I think this team has played together well as a team and we've played with a lot of guts and drive this last month and  a half, and I think that will be remembered over anything.


Q.  Were you ever reluctant to approach Kevin on the mound in the game when the situation arises?

JEFF CONINE:   I will not even go close to that dirt circle on the mound in the game.  I'm not going to tell him anything he doesn't already know.


Q.  Jeff, I don't know if you've heard some of the comments that Jim made before Game 5 about being sick and tired of people kind of running down these two teams and running down the Series, is the entire team tired of it, have you heard of these things, how do you feel about it?

JEFF CONINE:   The only thing I've heard about that is basically the comments in the paper about Jim being mad about it.  Both of these teams in this World Series right now know how they got here, they know who they had to beat to get here, and we both know we deserve to be here.  We don't pay any attention to that.


Q.  Jeff, as someone who's been here from the very beginning, what's your clearest or most lasting recollection of that first year with the Marlins?

JEFF CONINE:   I don't know, there are a number of comical things that happened that first year  that kind of stand out in your mind, I mean going to Spring Training facility that wasn't built yet.  We had to go by bus to our temporary home in Coco Expo.  And it just seemed like we were so far away from where we are right now.  It seemed like we would never get here, because everything seemed so chaotic at the time.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT