U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S AMATEUR
August 29, 2019
Sue Wooster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So I guess the first thing I want to say is I know it's hard to come back and be this close again, yet at the same time it's an amazing accomplishment. Are you thinking about that part of it at all yet?
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, I guess after last year, you know, took me (crowd )I don't know if I got over losing it. I mean, it was emotional. (Indiscernible) after probably six months.
And, to be honest, I mean, I didn't expect to -- you know, I knew that maybe I could get in a final again if the stars aligned. But I way I was kind of playing this week I thought, Ah, it's probably not my week, you know.
Q. Yeah.
SUE WOOSTER: Just to be there was -- considering I had so matches -- I had a tougher road this year than last year to the finals.
Q. Yeah, you said something about how your swing wasn't as good this year.
SUE WOOSTER: No.
Q. This year was more about determination and grittiness.
SUE WOOSTER: That's right, yeah.
Q. Would you say that?
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, absolutely, yeah. And you just have to do that. When your swing is a little bit off you just have to learn to play by your gut. You know, you just got to trust what you got at that particular moment.
Q. Yeah. And the putting was obviously key to get you where you did. It helped you out a couple times here today as well, right?
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah. I virtually had no three-putts.
Q. Uh-huh, it's amazing.
SUE WOOSTER: Maybe one or two maybe like the whole week.
Q. That's incredible.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, I've always been --
Q. For almost 100 holes in match play, that's crazy.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah. And having said that, I didn't really hole anything either, you know. You know what I mean? Didn't hole any 10, 15-footers, so that was disappointing.
Q. So you were 1-up after 2 and then you started, especially late on the front nine and early on the back you had trouble hitting the fairways.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah.
Q. Seemed you were missing to the right a little bit.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, missed 10 right, 11 right. Yeah.
Q. Missed 9 to the right I think, too.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, so three in a row.
Q. Uh-huh.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, I don't know. Sort of been hitting that shot sometimes. You try and be as calm and focused and have as much clarity as possible, but you are under a lot of pressure.
Sometimes your body just does -- not what your mind wants it to, and vice versa. I just think maybe hang onto those shots a little bit. I've hit that fairway, both those fairways every day, so that was surprising. I was surprised. I had a pretty good mindset when I hit those shots.
Q. Yeah.
SUE WOOSTER: I mean, that's golf. You don't hit everything perfect. The problem was I was in severe rough. The rough was so -- I don't think they cut the rough all week. It's like U.S. Open. For us ladies it's pretty tough. You can't hit much club out of it, so know really -- you know when you've hit it in the rough (indiscernible) fairway, could be in big (indiscernible.)
Q. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
SUE WOOSTER: And then, yeah, so 10, 11, I hit sand iron out of that hole.
Q. You also had a wonderful --
SUE WOOSTER: And then on the next hole, the 12th, because I had to pull a club out. I've got 15 clubs, and I've got this little funky rescue wood I've got that can play like a 5-ron or 6-iron.
We decided -- (indiscernible - crowd) I dropped my 5-wood and I said to my husband this morning, I said to Keith, If we're a couple down coming down 12 and they've got that tee back, I'm not going to have a club I can hit the green with.
Q. Wow.
SUE WOOSTER: That's what happened, because I had to drop one of my clubs.
Q. Yeah, yeah.
SU WOOSTER: As it turned out I didn't even hit the other one.
Q. Yeah, yeah.
SUE WOOSTER: That's just the way it is.
Q. That didn't cost you though, right, you both made bogey, so...
SUE WOOSTER: Yes, yes.
Q. Then you came back and won a hole which didn't look like you might win.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah.
Q. That gave you a little life probably, right?
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, and then there on 14 I hit a great shot in out of the rough. Then she hit that long putt and I thought, Ahhh. Just jagged the hole, the flag. Sometimes you kind of just say what can you do about that?
Q. It hit the flag stick dead center. If it hadn't it could be off the green, could be 15 feet away.
SUE WOOSTER: Still tough.
Q. That's golf, right?
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, you always expect your opponent -- you've got to expect that stuff to happen.
Q. That's true.
SUE WOOSTER: You hope it doesn't, but you have to expect it.
Q. It works both ways, but sometimes when it's your week it's your week?
SUE WOOSTER: That's true, yes.
Q. How did you feel about your week as a whole? You gritted it out. Got to this final. I know you know Lara well now having competed twice. She's a tough competitor.
SUE WOOSTER: She is.
Q. Yeah.
SUE WOOSTER: I think when she was younger she was a pro; I'm not sure.
Q. That's correct, yeah.
SUE WOOSTER: She probably played --
Q. College golf coach.
SUE WOOSTER: And I think she's very focused and she plays aggressively and can pull off shots. I hit a good shot into 15 and she just followed it up.
Sign of good player that can do that under those circumstances, yeah.
Q. And I know on the last hole you were in the rough off the tee.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah.
Q. Again, that becomes -- you can't go at the flag?
SUE WOOSTER: I been going left. I've been in that trap twice. And actually when it come off the club I thought I hit it so good. I though, Oh, but with that little bit of left to right wind, it was just -- so close to being on the fairway and being good, but not to be.
And then I couldn't get onto the green.
Q. Yeah. Had to try to do an up and down.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, yeah.
Q. How far was that putt?
SUE WOOSTER: Eight feet.
Q. Eight feet?
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah. And, you know, kind of been over (indiscernible) all day, so I thought Oh. Caught as much break. Of course it broke a lot.
Q. That one did break, yeah. That's the way it goes, right? That's this game, right?
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, yeah. You know, there is more to it there is more to this than just that match. There is all the people you meet, the relationships you build with people.
You know, all the 295 people. As I said, that's a lot of people to get this thing up and going. So it is not just about me and Lara, but everyone, not even the players. It's about the whole community, and we don't even know all the things they do. Whatever they do, they make us feel good and we have to say we're so privileged to be able to come to these, just to be in these.
I mea, most people would die to play in a USGA event. It's been a great. It's been a great week. Couldn't finish it off, but that's just -- Hey, that's just golf. I didn't do it. I had the opportunity and I didn't do it.
Q. Did you hear from in Minjee Lee or Gabriela Ruffels?
SUE WOOSTER: Gabby wished me luck. Yeah, yeah.
Q. That's wonderful.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah.
Q. And you and Keith, you didn't get it done, but you two are ten and two at this championship the last two years in match play. You form a pretty good team I would say.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, we do. You have with our little squabbles from time to time, probably like Lara and her dad, because you're out there and it's tense. You know, can get a little bit grumpy sometimes.
But he helps with me yardages and club selection because it's been so gusty and windy. I couldn't have done it without him honestly. Like into 18, you know, gave me perfect yardages every match. Unfortunately didn't get there. Might have pulled it off. I practiced putting to that pin yesterday.
Q. Knew it was going to be there, right?
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah.
Q. And this was your... (talking over one another.)
SUE WOOSTER: She had a plan though, didn't she?
Q. She did, unfortunately. She did. Well, congratulations again.
SUE WOOSTER: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT