U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S AMATEUR
August 28, 2019
Sue Wooster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So, Sue, I know it's very hard because it's been such a long, stressful day. Both matches you came out on top.
SUE WOOSTER: I guess greens probably (wind interference.) Unfortunately because it's probably a little bit unfair.
Q. Yeah.
SUE WOOSTER: But I did hit a nice shot in. (Wind interference.)
Q. Yeah.
SUE WOOSTER: And underneath the hole.
Q. I think both this morning and this afternoon must have had a very good approach shot in here, right?
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, I did. I had quite a layup there.
Q. What did you hit in?
SUE WOOSTER: I hit a 3-rescue, just a punch.
Q. This morning, too?
SUE WOOSTER: 4-rescue.
Q. Very good. A lot of golf this week to get to the same point this last week with and you Lara in the final. What do you remember? What can you take from last year?
SUE WOOSTER: Losing.
Q. (Laughter.)
SUE WOOSTER: That's basically it.
Q. What's the challenge in facing Lara?
SUE WOOSTER: Lara won?
Q. Lara won, yes. She beat Patricia.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, I guess she's (Wind interference.)
Q. Yeah, it is. Back again, yeah.
SUE WOOSTER: (Wind interference.) The putter, no. I've just got to give it my all. I gave it my all today and probably didn't score the best on the back nine. I did play pretty well, but got in trouble a couple times with the chipping and stuff because of the long grass.
It's very difficult. It's not normal golf.
Q. And it's also a mental and fortitude test to get through these six rounds in four days, too, right?
SUE WOOSTER: It is. And last year I was a lot -- actually I felt last year my game was a lot better. I felt more -- my swing felt better than it does this year. It's been kind of all over the place and I just sort of play by feel.
My putting has been good this tournament. So it's just amazing. Last year because I was hitting the ball really well and I was hitting lots of greens, this year just sheer determination to try and make the final again.
Q. Yeah, you said that you're not sure you've gotten over it yet. How hard and how much of a motivator? During all the 365 days in between here that's been on your mind?
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah. Well, not every day, but a lot of them. It's hard as a senior player because we don't get to play a lot of big tournaments. You can't -- you don't want to be just peaking for one tournament a year. Doesn't work that way.
I don't know. I got lucky. I don't know. I just -- I don't know. Sort of felt like I could do it. I just pulled some shots off towards the end and hit some shots in. Yeah.
Q. Great putt on 17 to save par.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah, I thought I missed that actually on the right side. My first putt was really good. I thought I holed my first long putt. And then when it horseshoed out I said, Ah.
It looked like it went left to right. I wasn't sure, but went right and just snuck in there.
Q. I guess the other thing about this is you know you're not going to hit great shots because it's such long day and you just have to recover. How hard is it to keep that even keel of just keep going forward and not letting something get you down?
SUE WOOSTER: It's just mind over matter, you know. Just got to go. (Wind interference.) I have one shot at this. Give it your everything. (Wind interference.) This morning on that back nine I nearly lost that match. I went out with the attitude today I was going to give it my all and just try and play a lot more aggressively in my mind.
You know, sort of get the adrenaline going. Gave it my best shot, and if I won, I won. If I didn't, so what. I'll be happy.
Q. What do you think the odds are that it comes down to 18? You defeated Ellen Port on this hole yesterday; beat Laura Webb on that hole this morning, and Caryn...
SUE WOOSTER: Probably pretty high. (Laughter.)
Q. It just seems like it's continued almost.
SUE WOOSTER: Yeah.
Q. Last year you didn't get off to the best start, right?
SUE WOOSTER: What did I do?
Q. I thought you were down early. (Indiscernible.)
SUE WOOSTER: So hopefully we try and go out and get up. It's better to be 2-up.
Q. What's been your impression of the golf course overall here?
SUE WOOSTER: It's a fabulous layout. It's just all the holes are different and the green structures are fantastic. The surface is pure. It's a real challenge with all the rough around the greens, and that makes it really difficult. Puts pressure on you to hit the green.
If you're short-sided it's so hard to get it up and down because usually don't get a good lie. You can't hit the shot you want to hit; you can't stop the ball.
Q. You've had a few rounds under your belt now at this particular course. What are you trying to keep in mind as you prepare for a quick turnaround tomorrow?
SUE WOOSTER: Keep it out of the rough. Keep it out of the rough.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT