AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS VS BLUE JAYS
October 11, 2015
Derek Holland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR: All right.  A few questions for Derek Holland.   
 Q.  Just tell us what your approach is for tomorrow and how excited you are to be pitching this game?  
DEREK HOLLAND: Always going to be excited to be out there any time.  No matter what, these are big games from here on out.  You saw Toronto's not giving up.  They're still out there playing with a lot of heart and trying to keep this thing alive and I've got to go out there and do my job.  I've got to execute pitches and get ahead of the hitters and make it hard for these guys and let my defense do the work.   
 Q.  In building -- how important -- the last starts you had here, it was a good one after a couple rough ones.  How important was that giving you some confidence?  
DEREK HOLLAND: I mean, confidence is always going to be there.  As players, we go through slumps and everything, it's just how you get out of them.  I've overcome that, I'm past that.  I showed that in the last start that I had and now I've got the opportunity to get back out there in another situation here and try to take care of what I need to do.   
 Q.  Derek, your last Postseason start, do you remember it?  
DEREK HOLLAND: I mean, how could I forget?   
 Q.  Does that give you confidence?  It was Game 4 of the World Series?  
DEREK HOLLAND: That's kind of the main thing, it just shows that no matter what the situation is, I can pitch in the big games as well.  Like you said, I pitched in Game 4 of the World Series.  I just have to prepare myself for now.  Toronto is a good ballclub, really good offense.  I have to do my job to really mix it up for them, make it a little bit harder, kind of move forward from there.   
 Q.  Derek, did you learn anything watching these guys, watching Toronto tonight at the plate that you might not have known previously?  
DEREK HOLLAND: I mean, I've watched the whole series, I watched how Cole pitched them, obviously I watched how Martin pitched them.  I've got that in my head.  I'm not going to sit here and tell you what I learned, defeats the purpose, but yes, I saw some things and I've got to go out there and try to use that, I've also got to use my strength and find some other weaknesses on them, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT