MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v CARDINALS
October 22, 2011
Derek Holland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. We all know it's the World Series, but do you have to sort of convince yourself that it's just another start to prepare for? 
 DEREK HOLLAND: I mean, yeah, definitely I'm not going to think too much about it. I've been here before. We were here last year. So I know how to approach the World Series in general. But starting I talked to C.J. and stuff, and it is, it's just another game. Obviously just more media is the big thing. That's the way we look at it. 

 Q. The postseason tends to get you out of your normal routine. It's been pretty long layoff since your last outing. How do you deal with that in general as far as having a long layoff?
 DEREK HOLLAND: Just been studying more about the Cardinals, obviously, who I'm going up against. The big thing with me, I think, was just working on controlling my emotions and not letting my adrenaline get the best of me. So when I threw my bullpen, Game 2, obviously my adrenaline got going as if I was going to go in the game, but I kept myself under control, slowed everything down, and I was spotting up a lot better. So it worked out for me. 

 Q. Wash was saying yesterday that since you guys won the division he's kind of laid off and backed off, no team meetings, anything like that. What has his demeanor been like and how has that helped the clubhouse?
 DEREK HOLLAND: To me I feel like he's still the same. He's very into it and everything. He hasn't changed all that stuff. Obviously the meetings were a little bit different. But he's still the same guy he was in the regular season, the DS, the CS and everything. You just see him on the TV, he's into it, very energetic. Nothing has changed with Wash. He's still the same awesome guy right now. 

 Q. You mentioned the extra time you've had to study St. Louis. What can you share about what stands out about St. Louis that you've seen?
 DEREK HOLLAND: I'd rather not share anything, to be honest, with you because it's my strategy. It's kind of like if I tell you something, it's going to obviously get leaked to them or whatnot. So I am not really going to open up too much with that.

 Q. What does that mean, going over advance scouting reports, video? Do you look at what similar pitchers have done against that lineup?
 DEREK HOLLAND: Yeah, I've watched quite a few pitchers. Since he was asking what I would do, I've watched how Cliff Lee, Cole Hamels, I watched how C.J. is approaching them. Going to watch obviously Matt Harrison tonight and I try to watch the lefties. They don't have to be exactly similar, Randy Wolf, I can watch him, too, it's just how they approach this team because obviously it's a really good ballclub. They're hot right now, and you want to try to find out as much as you can about these guys.

 Q. What can you pick up from a Colby Lewis, who has this kind of calm, stoic demeanor out there? Him having a fist pump the other day was a big deal. I'm sure you're different personalities, but are there things you can kind of pick up from him, ways to keep your emotions under control during the game?
 DEREK HOLLAND: Yeah, definitely. He's obviously a very quiet guy. He doesn't let anything happen. If he gives up the home run or gets a strikeout, they both look the same. That's one thing that I really wish I can continue to do what he does. Sometimes I do get caught up in that. If I give up a home run, I'm like, man, what the heck. I gave up a home run, and I forget about who the next guy is, when I should do what Colby does. Okay, I gave up a home run. Now let's get this guy out and keep the damage down. 
 Colby does a very good job carrying himself, and that's what we want to try to do, too.

 Q. After last year's World Series how much were you chomping at the bit to get another shot at it?
 DEREK HOLLAND: I joke about it. You know what happened. We can bring it up and everything. I went out there, threw 13 pitches, two for strikes, but I bounced back the next time I got out there. And to be honest, now that I'm getting to start, I have a lot more that I want. I really want to win this. I've been there. I got a taste of it, the Giants beat us. I feel like I've got a lot to prove after what happened last year, but it's obviously not going to take me out of my game or what I have to do for this next start.

 Q. Did you pick up anything specifically from Cliff Lee while he was here last year? And did you do anything to change your routine this year?
 DEREK HOLLAND: My routine basically stayed the same. I haven't changed too much. Maybe a few different things of how I watch video now. We always get these questions about Cliff, we also have other guys, too, that perform really well, with C.J. Wilson. He helped out a lot. I've been with him longer, so spent a lot more time with him. But yeah, Cliff did give me some things to see, how he pitched, how he carries himself, his work ethic and some other things he's done on the field and how he sees hitters and what he looks for. 
 Cliff did help out, but obviously the other guys helped out, as well, too.

 Q. When you say that you're able to joke about it, how long after did it take? And when you say that are you saying with teammates, with friends? Is it something that you can grin about wryly and then walk away?
 DEREK HOLLAND: It was actually immediately after the game when the media came and interviewed me. I stood up and took my beating and everything and talked to them, and then there was a few guys afterwards that joked with me, hey, look at it this way, the plate moved on you or it shrunk or something goofy. It's something you've got to joke around with because if you let it eat you up, it's going to hurt you more.

 Q. With this talk about your controlling your emotions, is it possible, you're 24 years old, 25 years old, and these kind of things are just going to take time, and maybe it's asking a little bit too much for you to be controlling your emotions in the playoffs? 
 DEREK HOLLAND: I mean, it might be, but it's part of maturing as an adult. You want to make yourself aware of these kind of things and you've got to learn how to control it, too. My job is a little bit different than someone else, so I've got to make sure I take care of what I can now because I might not be here the next time around. You've got to try to control your emotions the best you can, plus it's going to help you in the long run to stay out there longer and help you with your career. 

 Q. With C.J. being a free agent at the end of the year, do you feel like your game has progressed to that level where you could be the ace of the staff?
 DEREK HOLLAND: Well, I'm not a cocky type of person. I'm confident, I'm happy. I did take a big step this year, but at the same time I feel like this whole staff itself is pretty good. There's not just one guy that we're really looking forward to being our ace or anything like that. I think anybody can step into those shoes right now from our staff. 
 So I feel hopefully we get C.J. back. That's the plan. We'd like to have C.J. back around. We like him here in Texas. But if we can't get him, somebody is going to have to fill his shoes, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT