AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: TIGERS v RANGERS
October 8, 2011
Derek Holland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Let's get started. 

 Q. Derek, the relief outing you had at Tampa Bay, obviously your first relief outing of the year. Anything from that that you can build on and carry into this start? 
 DEREK HOLLAND: I mean, I definitely was ready to go for sure. I told Wash from the very beginning, if you need me, I'm going to be ready. I was prepared. It was my bullpen day. I just treated as if it was any other game. I still feel everything is the same as before. Nothing has changed there. 

 Q. How is the stash coming in? 
 DEREK HOLLAND: We're about over three months of work here. It's still slowly but surely making its way out. 

 Q. How long are you going to stick with it? 
 DEREK HOLLAND: I'm going till the end of the year. 

 Q. I hear that there are fans out there now emulating the fuzzy Holland stash. How does that make you feel? 
 DEREK HOLLAND: It's very funny to me to see that. It's pretty neat that I've got something started like that. But at the same time, the mustache doesn't dictate how I pitch. I have to go out there and perform. I don't like to let that thing distract me or be the main reason of how I'm pitching. 

 Q. Can you just compare your experience so far in this postseason versus what was going on last year? 
 DEREK HOLLAND: Last year I didn't really know what to expect, how to handle anything. I have a better idea, especially after being around with Cliff and then C.J. has been helping me big time this year in how to handle myself as a starter. 
 This year it's a big difference. I'm a lot more relaxed and I would say composed. 

 Q. How much different is it not having Cliff on the postseason roster and having him anchor the pitching staff? 
 DEREK HOLLAND: If you don't remember from last year, we were still a pretty good ballclub before Cliff got here. 

 Q. I forgot about that. 
 DEREK HOLLAND: I'm just reminding you now. Even though Cliff is gone, we still have a bunch of important key guys out there making plays and pitching as well and everybody has been stepping up. Cliff was a good help. He helped out, he taught us a few things. 
 At the same time, Cliff wasn't there from the beginning. So people have to realize we did stuff on our own before Cliff got there. 

 Q. Mike Maddux says your throwing regiment you've been doing with Andy Hawkins is helping you with your fastball command. I'm curious to hear your perspective how much it has helped you? 
 DEREK HOLLAND: It's helped me a lot. Not just my fastball, my location with my off speed has been a lot more consistent. It's been a lot sharper too for both my slider and my curveball. The stuff that me and Hawkins have been doing has definitely helped out big time. 

 Q. Wash set up the rotation each round to have you pitch at home your first time out. Are you more comfortable at home than on the road? 
 DEREK HOLLAND: Either way is fine. I feel comfortable, and very confident either way wherever I'm at. The guys behind me, I know they're going to make the plays and the offense is going to score runs for me. It's a matter of just going out there and executing. 

 Q. Given the way things panned out with your bullpen in the Tampa series, how relaxed can you be going out there knowing you don't have to have your best stuff and you have plenty of guys that can come in and pick you up?
 DEREK HOLLAND: Well, me personally, you always have to have your best club. We're in the ALCS. The Tigers are a good ball club. They beat the Yankees and everything. You still have to go out there and have your A game I think. 
 After being if the bullpen, it's just another thing I was just trying to help the team win. 

 Q. Overall, how imposing is the Tigers lineup and Cabrera in particular? 
 DEREK HOLLAND: It's a really good lineup. I'm sorry to hear what happened to Delmon Young. That was a key addition for him as well. He's definitely a good hitter. They've got a solid lineup. It's not going to be easy. That's for sure. They obviously proved it when they got here they're a very good ballclub. 
 At the same time you can't forget about us as well. We have a solid 1 through 9 as well. I feel it's going to be a great series. 

 Q. If it took you three months on the mustache, how long would a beard take? 
 DEREK HOLLAND: A beard for me would probably take three years. We tried this already at the beginning of the season. It just didn't work out. It's very bad. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks for coming in, Derek. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT