U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1993
Aaron Krickstein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q. Looked like it took you a little while to play right; especially
with your first serve; is that right?

 AARON KRICKSTEIN:  Yeah, I think I have always been a relatively
slow starter in the best of five set matches.  That is why I think
I have played so many five setters, tend to have a good record,
because sometimes I don't get going until the third, fourth, fifth
set, so maybe from, I think, like in the Agassi match, when I
played here couple of years ago, I went out and started hitting
the ball right away.  I think I had good results then.  I think
a lot of times I tend to just play into the match; trying to get
my rhythm, but sometimes it is not the best way to go back to
things.

 Q. In the second set point, can you talk about that shot;
the forehand on the line?

 AARON KRICKSTEIN:  Yeah, that was a big point.  I think, you
know, actually, he had a set point there and I hadn't been hitting
my forehand that hard; hadn't really been going for it; didn't
feel that comfortable with it.  I kind of went for two pretty
big forehands on his set point.  Then I get a set point and hit
a pretty good return.  He hit a good volley, 4-2 up, heading around
the net there and I had made that.  I think that was mentally
a big boost for me.  It would have been tough-- not that I couldn't
have done it if I was down two sets to Love, but I think psychologically,
hitting a shot like that, it is a big boost.

 Q. Aaron, what do you think of the atmosphere around the U.S.
Open compared to, say, the French Open, Wimbledon?

 AARON KRICKSTEIN:  It is definitely different, I think most players
don't like it due to a lot of noise, and some don't like the New
York people and the planes, a lot of other things, facilities,
the courts, not-- maybe not up to par like the other ones, but
I have always had great success here, so I like coming back every
year and playing.  It doesn't seem to bother me.  I think the
atmosphere is great.

 Q. Not quite as you might say, refined, as Wimbledon?

 AARON KRICKSTEIN:  Right.  Wimbledon is-- there is more tradition.
 Obviously, I have done better here, so I am going to say I like
this tournament a bit better, but they are both unique in their
own way.

 Q. Does the atmosphere get on player's nerves here?

 AARON KRICKSTEIN:  I think so.  I can see if you are not playing
well how you can get a little frustrated with the surrounding
environment that goes on during the match, people walking behind,
it is just totally different than the other Grand Slams.  But
you just have to forget about it because it is the same for both
players.  You try to do your best.

 Q. Does the foot fracture you suffered last August, I guess
it was, part of an ongoing chronic battle you have had with your
feet?

 AARON KRICKSTEIN:  That was kind of a fluke injury.  My foot
is pretty much 100%, granted, it still bothers me sometimes. 
It is hurting a little bit out there today, different times. 
Certain movements still is not great for it, but it is pretty
much-- I mean, the bone itself has healed, sometimes I get some
soreness in there, but it is really not a chronic injury.  I think
I have had some stress fractures in the past, but since I have
gotten -- I got hurt with that one movement when I broke it last
year which I say was a freak incident, so hopefully, my foot problems
are behind me.

 Q. Do you think that because of your history of being down
one or even two sets, are you less phased when you are down a
set and facing a set point in the second, maybe than someone else
might be?

 AARON KRICKSTEIN:  Probably.  I have come back a lot of times,
down two sets to love and I think a lot of the guys are aware
of that; know that I am in pretty good physical shape and like
I said, I am usually a slow starter, so my best tennis usually
isn't played until the middle than the end of the match.  I think
a lot of guys, you know, like I think his level of play in the
fourth set was way lower than it was in the first set.  I think
because he was tired and I think I can wear some guys down.  So
definitely, it doesn't phase me if I am down a set.  I mean, a
little bit I'd like to be ahead, but I still think I always have
a chance in the best of five match because it is a long match
and you are going to have your ups and downs.

 Q. Did you make adjustments after the first set, after dropping
--

 AARON KRICKSTEIN:  Not too much.  I mean, I think I didn't serve
well at all today.  I think I served better in the last set. 
That was my best set where I got some first serves in and won
some cheap winners. First service point, if I am not winning them,
then I have to work hard.  I have to work every point and it makes
it a lot difficult for me.  If I can get some cheap wins on my
serve, one or two a game, I think that could be a big help for
me.

 Q. Are you glad about the electronic line -- they have real
people being the line judges what do you think about that?

 AARON KRICKSTEIN:  I think it is tough; especially at this tournament,
I don't think this is the tournament to start using something
like that, especially on the show court, if they are going to
use it they should on all of the courts.  I think linesmen are
fine.  Yeah, there is going to be some mistakes, but you are going
to have some mistakes with the other things as well.  I think
-- I think changing isn't the best idea at the time.

 Q. You have always been a slow starter.  I assume that you
have tried not to be a slow starter at some point in your life
or do you just let yourself play this way?

 AARON KRICKSTEIN:  Yeah, I mean definitely, when I am not feeling
that comfortable with my game and I am not feeling really confident,
then I tend to play my way into it.  When I am behind, I figure
I got to go for it; I am going to lose the match. Sometimes I
will start playing better coming from behind.  Maybe if I start
out hitting the ball and I am not playing well, where do I go
from there. Maybe that is just the style I have always gone into
a match just kind of playing steady and feeling my way into it;
see how it goes.  But it is probably not the best way.

 Q. Would you say that you get more aggressive when you are
behind?

 AARON KRICKSTEIN:  Definitely.  I think that -- and at the end
of the match is why normally I have done so well.  I tend to go
for it more and that is when my results are best.

 Q. What would be a successful tournament for Aaron Krickstein
in your mind?

 AARON KRICKSTEIN:  I think if I win the next match, I have to
play Muster.  He obviously is playing very well.  He is playing
well in Europe on clay and he is a hardcourt player.  I think,
go to the next round; win the next round, that would be good.
 I just like to keep improving each round.  I think if I could
raise the level of my game a little bit, each match, who knows,
I have done well here in the past and I think when I am playing
my best, I can beat the top guys, so I just have to work on a
few things and then get to that level and then hopefully my results
will take care of itself.    

 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT