TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 10, 2001
Evie Dominikovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Would this be one of your biggest wins or your biggest win?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  Yeah, this is my biggest win in my career so far.  I mean, today I didn't really expect it.  I just wanted to go out there and give it my best shot.  I came on top.

Q.  What worked so well for you today?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  I think my serve helped me a lot; at crucial points on my returns; when she was coming to the net, my passing shots also helped me quite a bit. 

Q.  Late in a match like this, it's very important, you were ahead 4-2 in the third set, she came back 4-4, were there nerves at that time?  Do you think that was the reason you let up a bit?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  Well, Nathalie is a pretty good player.  There was nerves there because I was like, "Oh, my God, I'm in a winning position."  I was serving 40-15.  I knew that Nathalie has been out there for a while.  She's won Wimbledon, was  -- she was in the final of Wimbledon.  She's a pretty smart player. 

Q.  You say you didn't expect this.  Why not? 

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  Well, I went out there.  I mean, I've been playing pretty good tennis, so I thought I would give it my best shot.  I mean, I always thought I could do it, but I didn't know I was going to do it today, against Nathalie. 

Q.  You had a lot of success as a junior.  It seems it's taken you a bit more time to get to the place where you're beating some of the top players.  Can you talk about your development as a professional?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  Yeah.  I was working on my game quite a bit in the last couple of years, especially this trip.  I've been working with Leslie Barry (phonetic).  She's helped me quite a lot.  Yeah, I mean, after the juniors, I didn't really do much as I really would have liked to.  I mean, it's just starting to come, and I'm pretty happy.

Q.  With what happened with Jelena Dokic, do you feel there's a gap now in Australian women's tennis; you have to step up and be the No.  1?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  Yeah, I mean, there's a good opportunity at home right now.  Jelena is a great competitor for Australia.  She's a great person to have as an idol for Australia because she's so young and she's in the Top 25, whatever she is.  But it's a shame that she left Australia.  You never know, she could come and play Fed Cup.

Q.  Has she indicated that she would?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  No, not at all.

Q.  Just hoping?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  Yeah.

Q.  Australia really hasn't had somebody you would describe as a real champion women's player since Margaret Court.  Why do you suppose that is?  Do you suppose it's because Australia has such a male dominance?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  God, I don't know.  I suppose Australia, the juniors  -- we've got good juniors.  All of a sudden the women juniors kind of fall off a little.  I mean, the men have stayed pretty good, like Lleyton Hewitt, he was a pretty good junior.  You don't see many juniors go up well.

Q.  I'm talking about the women. 

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  It's hard to say.  We've got so many in development in Australia.  I think we get kind of spoiled a little too much, so we take it for granted.

Q.  I thought Australian men didn't spoil their women. 

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  No, they don't.

Q.  Then how do you get spoiled? 

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  With all the coaching.  We have a lot of coaches in Australia.  Like I was in Tennis Australia and AIS.  Tennis Australia helped me quite a lot in my junior years.  This is really my second full year that I've been traveling by myself.  Before they used to pay for everything, like hotel, food, coaches.  We all  -- I shouldn't say.  I really took it for granted.  I kind of didn't train as hard as I should have.  Now that I'm by myself on the road, I'm training a lot harder.

Q.  Did you expect to do a lot better coming out of the juniors than you did?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  Yeah, I did.  I mean, it didn't come my way.  I knew I wasn't training as hard as I should have been.  I knew that was kind of missing.

Q.  What was the major difference between juniors and the pros?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  Juniors, you can get away with matches.  Seniors, there's no way you can get away with matches.  You've just got to stay in there, stay tough the whole match.  You can't like win the first set and then go for like a wander.  They're going to come on top of you, get their confidence, take the match.

Q.  How much better are you now than, say, your last match in juniors?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  Oh, a lot better (smiling). 

Q.  Do you know anything about either Farina or Jankovic, who you would be playing in the next round?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  I watched a bit of Farina at the Gold Coast.  I didn't really watch and study her.  I know Jankovic won the Australian Open juniors.  I watched her playing a bit of an Australian girl at the Australian Open.  I wasn't really concentrating, watching how she really plays. 

Q.  Have you thought about how you might approach either of those players tactically, or is it too early?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  It's too early. 

Q.  What are your goals this year?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC:  My goal is to  -- beginning of this year was to make it in the Top 100.  Now it's Top 50 by the end of this year. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT