AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2001
Evie Dominikovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Would you call it a match of wasted opportunities, perhaps, for you?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC: No.  Well, Rita played pretty good today.  I mean, I started a little slow.  I was getting used to it at the end.  But Rita ran like she had opportunities and took it.  She just played well today.  I give her all the credit.  She won.

Q.  You were sort of a bit off today. 

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC: Yeah, my serve did let me down today.  Normally I serve a lot better and put more first serves in.  But today, I don't think I even put over 50 percent.  But you have those days and it happened to me today. 

Q.  Was the heat pretty oppressive out there?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC: Yeah, I was feeling it first set.  Yeah, I was just saying to myself,  "Just take your time, take deep breaths." But I mean it was hot for both of us.  It wasn't just hot for me.  I was just thinking, "You can get through this," I mean she's hurting at the other end, too.  So...  But yeah. 

Q.  With the oppressive conditions, did it run through your mind that it would possibly be better to finish the points early rather than have a baseline slug fest out there?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC: Yeah, I mean I was trying to be aggressive all the time throughout the whole match.  But I mean Rita was playing point smart and coming to the net.  She was trying to finish it off quicker than I did.  She just really mixed up my whole game today.  She didn't give me any rhythm.  That was probably her plan today.

Q.  How did you feel about the crowd?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC: The crowd was pretty good.  I mean, as I said before, I like playing in my hometown and the crowd's behind me.  I mean, it's great playing here and having all the support. 

Q.  Over the past week or so you must have learned a lot, though.  There must be something that you can take away that you've learned a bit?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC: Yeah, well, I've played Patty Schnyder and played a really good match against her, then I beat Holly Parkinson, which is great.  Getting to a third round of a Grand Slam is the first time for me so I'm pretty happy.

Q.  Had you looked beyond this round?  It's hard not to do that.  Had you looked beyond Rita? Obviously you were playing pretty well.

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC: No, I was just taking it one match at a time as I said before.  I would have loved to have played Martina Hingis next round, it would have been a great experience.  But that's how it goes, just take it one match at a time.

Q.  It's a pretty fair paycheck.  Are you planning a little splurge?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC: Haven't really thought about it yet.  No. 

Q.  Just in terms of 2001, what you actually want out of it and what you can improve in, what particular areas are you looking at?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC: Well, I'm still  -- I mean every time I'm on the court I'm always learning, like, different shots, like really working on my game throughout the whole time.  But I mean, I'm sure I'm going to go out there next time I go on the court and work on other things that didn't work for me today and what I could get better at. 

Q.  Are you going to stay around and watch more matches?

EVIE DOMINIKOVIC: I've got doubles this afternoon.  Yep. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT