NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 10, 2010
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Katherine, our champion, welcome.
 KATHERINE HULL: Thank you very much, yeah.

 Q. Congratulations. 
 KATHERINE HULL: Thanks.
 MODERATOR: Just talk about you how you're feeling right now. You're our winner.
 KATHERINE HULL: A little overwhelming, actually. It probably won't hit me until later. You just get so focused on executing and just finishing that you don't think about anything else.
 So, yeah, I'm definitely on a high right now, and probably won't come down for a while.
 MODERATOR: On 18, you kind of had a little knee-knocker left. What was going through your mind at that point?
 KATHERINE HULL: Um, I've been hitting my driver a little right all week, so I wasn't really thinking about left. But it got a little quick, and I don't know whether I got a good break or not. But, you know, certainly had a good angle into the pin for my second.
 Yeah, made it interesting with I guess a five-footer for the win. But putting is the best part of my game, so glad to see it dropped.
 MODERATOR: You've had a lot of good 18-hole rounds this year. You've kind of put yourself up there and haven't been able to seal the deal. How validating is it right now to be able to get the win? 
 KATHERINE HULL: It's actually really validating. I feel like my game's the best it's ever been, and I know it's going to get better, too. I think I've always struggled to try to put four good rounds together, and I was able to do that this week.
 Like you said, one bogey, yeah, it's kind of nice to do that. Keeps it simple for sure, and stress-free golf. Yeah I just think it's a combination of hard work and not putting too much expectations on myself.
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. If I may ask, Cristie Kerr was the leader by three going into today and you were paired with her. Is that an advantage or disadvantage to you to be paired with someone who is ahead of you in a tournament? 
 KATHERINE HULL: Um, actually, I don't mind chasing. It is kind of nice to lead, though. But it's out of our control as to who's on the leaderboard. All you can do is play your best and go from there.
 Cristie and I both kind of were a little flat on the front nine. I finished off well yesterday, so I kind of had that in the back of my mind today, that I could finish strongly and it wasn't going to be over until the 72nd hole. 
 That's kind of what happened. 

 Q. On the 18th hole, the first putt, was that just kind of to get it up there close, or did you hit it not as well as you wanted to? Because it seemed like you probably wanted to get it a little closer than you did. 
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, I would have liked to tap-in for sure. No, I said to my Vern, my caddie, that I was trying to get to the shadow of grandstand that was I guess about six feet short of the hole. 
 Really I should have just played level speed, but I didn't, and that's why it came up short. Yeah, I mean, ideally from that length you're trying to put really good speed on it. If it rolls in, that's a bonus. It's kind of hard to make 'em from that distance.
 Yeah, just happy the second one went in.

 Q. On the back nine, it was sort of a slug-fest all day between about five players. At what point did it flip and you say, It's starting to go my way? 
 KATHERINE HULL: I think I was a little frustrated I missed the putt on 16, because that was a really good chance. But when that putt dropped on 17, I kind of breathed a little sigh of relief. 
 It's always nice to go into 18 with a one-shot lead. I didn't really have that option, so, yeah, nice little cushion coming down 18. 
 Yeah, just I guess happy to finish one up instead of one back. (Laughter.) 
 That's happened a lot this year; that's why I say that. 

 Q. You said it'll hit you later, but if you had to put in words your feelings right now, what would they be on winning this tournament?
 KATHERINE HULL: In a word? Yeah, it's funny. I had a Bible verse that I've had in my yardage book all week. Proverbs 2 -- well, it's a few versus -- 6 through 11. It talks about, He holds victory in store for the upright. I was like, that's kind of an unusual verse that just stuck in my head. 
 I guess call it a premonition, but I'm pretty happy with the way it went. Thanks, God.
 MODERATOR: Is that the first week you've ever had that particular one in there?
 KATHERINE HULL: Yes.
 MODERATOR: Keep it around a little bit? 
 ReplaceName: No, I'm sure God will give me another one at this point. (Laughing.) For now, I'm going to hang onto it.

 Q. Proverbs 2:6-11?
 KATHERINE HULL: Yes.

 Q. Can you run back through the 17th? That, by the way, was the one that you bogeyed on the first day and came back and birdied it today. What was better today or what worked right?
 KATHERINE HULL: Actually, I wasn't happy with my third shot, my approach shot. I was kind of complaining about it walking up to the green. Vern said to me, Would you just make the putt. That's what you do best. Just roll it in. 
 So he snapped me out of it. Yeah, a good line, good speed, and it went in. I guess the bogey on Thursday was a three-putt, and that didn't even enter my mind even in the second or third round, let alone today. 
 MODERATOR: Good? All right. Congratulations. 
 KATHERINE HULL: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT