NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 9, 2010
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Snuck up on us a little bit there. Three birdies in the last four holes. Talk a little bit about that.
 KATHERINE HULL: I hit the ball pretty well all day. I hit 17 greens. I said to my caddie, I think at the turn, I was like, well that an uneventful front nine. Let's see if we can get something going on the back. 
 I just couldn't get a putt it drop. I think I birdied 10, but after that it was kind of a dry spell. Eventually the putts have got to fall in, so it was nice to finish that way.
 MODERATOR: Cristie is playing 18 at 18-under par. What has to happen tomorrow for you guys to run her down? Do you think you have to chase her down, or might she come back? What's the game plan?
 KATHERINE HULL: She's playing really well right now. It's going to take a super low number from someone behind in order to win. She'll be tough to beat.
 I don't think she's made too many mistakes out there. She only one bad hole today. Yeah, it's going to be a big job tomorrow to catch her.

 Q. Does it help that you know there's a whole a lot of birdies out there?
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, definitely. I mean, I think the conditions are going to be the same tomorrow. We know that we've got to at a minimum shoot 5- or 6-under, 4- or 5-under to maintain your spot. 
 If you want to make ground, you got to go even lower than that.
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Same question you asked basically. Just the fact that there has been so many low rounds, does that give you encouragement going into tomorrow, that maybe somebody like you can put together the super low round it takes?
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, actually played with Mika Miyazato yesterday, and she had five straight birdies on the front and then four straight birdies on the back. A lot of them were tap-ins. 
 I think 18 today was my only real tap-in all week. If I can knock it close on a few holes tomorrow and roll in some only other putts, then a low number is definitely possible. 
 But, I mean, yeah, just got to see what Cristie does, I guess. 

 Q. Do you anticipate any change in your play? 
 KATHERINE HULL: Um, no, I mean, my game plan will stay the same. Hopefully my ball-striking will be just as good and the putts will drop. 
 I actually felt a little rusty coming into this week. My caddie and I were talking all week, It's just golf. You just hit it, find it, hit it again. That philosophy seems to be working. I'll try and do the same tomorrow.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT