RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2010
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we have Katherine Hull here, who scored a par-70, came up just short. Congratulations on your performance.   
 KATHERINE HULL: Thank you. Yeah, really thrilled, I guess, right now. (Indiscernible) on my short game at the finish, but that's golf.  
 THE MODERATOR: Apart from 17, which was a bit unfortunate, you seemed to putt well today.   
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, I thought I made it. It started on line and had good speed and came close to the hole but didn't drop. So disappointing, but I did the best I could.  
 I actually felt good coming into the week. Just a matter of being patient. Yeah, lots of positives I can take from the week, so really happy.   
  
  Q. Having pulled within one stroke early on and seeing her get back to four ahead by the turn, how were you able to make another push and narrow the gap again?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I thought (indiscernible), but when you're out there, all you're trying to do is execute your game plan and hit the best shots that you can. Yeah, the rest kind of takes care of itself. I'm actually really happy that I stayed committed to the process as opposed to thinking too much about the results.   
 Yeah, I talked with my caddie actually on the 14th green, I said, if you can help me hit the shot -- I actually don't know if I can say it on the microphone -- I guess I will, what the heck. I was like, if you crap in your pants you still have hit the shot. Yeah, you get focused on just hitting the ball, finding it and hitting it again, and you just don't think about too much, the outcome.  
  
  Q. What positives will you take away from the week?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Really happy with my ball-striking the entire week. Yeah, I've got to be a lot more focused actually on the ball. It seemed to work this week, and it's going to have to be something I really engrain. Yeah, everything was pretty solid. It's a good confidence boost, and I've just got to keep doing the right things and got to keep working as hard if not harder and get myself into contention more.  
  
  Q. You mentioned the short game. What do you have to work on in your short game, under pressure or the technique?   
 KATHERINE HULL: No, mechanics and technique is great. I've just got to do more practice. It's a confidence thing and got to be able to lock in when it really counts. I've got all the shots, and yeah, it's just a matter of having more practice under your belt.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible.)  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, think I was six behind Yani when I went into the last round. Yeah, I knew that if I had a good day that it would be a close finish. Yeah, she hung on, made that clutch putt at the end. When you look at the whole week, she played great.   
  
  Q. Let's go through your birdies and bogeys.   
 KATHERINE HULL: Right, birdied No. 2, hit a hybrid to 12 feet.  
 Birdied No. 3, hit an 8-iron to 40 feet.  
 Bogeyed 4, hit it in the right greenside bunker and didn't get up-and-down.   
 Bogeyed 8, hit it in the bunker off the tee, had to wedge out, hit it on and two-putted.  
 Birdied 11, hit a 9-iron to probably 35 feet, maybe 30 feet, somewhere in there.  
 13, hit a 5-iron to three feet.   
 THE MODERATOR: Katherine, thank you very much for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT