SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 19, 2010
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Katherine, welcome.
 KATHERINE HULL: Thank you.

 Q. 8-under 63 today. Very good round. Tell us about it.
 KATHERINE HULL: Well, after yesterday I figured the putts had to drop. So yeah, I was really happy with the way it went. Hit the ball pretty well, and yeah, struck it well all day, so it was nice.
 MODERATOR: Great. Is the course kind of there for the taking today, this morning, at least? 
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah. I think the greens typically roll better in the morning, so that's always easier and better chance of making birdies. But I love this golf course. I think it's fun. You gotta shape shots out there, and it's probably a little bit shorter than what we play normally, so that makes it -- shorter clubs in, we can make more birdies and be more aggressive. So it's a fun golf course. 
 MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. Can you do birdies and bogeys?
 KATHERINE HULL: Yes. The third hole was a birdie. Do you want clubs or it doesn't matter? 
 I hit the green in two and two-putted. Fourth hole was a birdie. Oh, you want distances? 

 Q. Yeah.
 KATHERINE HULL: Oh, gosh. I two-putted that one from probably 45 feet. No. 4 was a three-foot birdie, and No. 6 was a 12-foot birdie. 7 was 12 feet, birdie. 8 was a birdie from five feet, and 9 was a two-putt from maybe 14 feet to birdie. 
 10 was birdie from 10 feet. 12 was -- oh, I holed a sand wedge from like 60 yards. I hit it off the tee, and second one didn't go very well and then holed the third. So birdie. So it was kind of nice.
 And 15, I three-putted from the fringe for bogey, and 16 I had a 3-footer for birdie. 

 Q. You said you figured that the putts had to start dropping today. Did you have a lot of near misses yesterday?
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah. I hit I think 16 or 15 greens yesterday, and was stroking it well but nothing dropped, and I was really frustrated, and the last hole I hit a 5-wood to a foot, so it was like that was the secret was knocking close because nothing else dropped. 
 Yeah, this game is all about patience and just keep giving yourself chances, and that's kind of what my caddie and I talked about going into today, and we were able to do it.

 Q. Obviously there's a lot of low numbers out there. Do you feel any extra pressure on a course like this to make birdies or make something happen out there and be aggressive, because you know somebody's going to go low at some point?
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah. I mean there's such a fine line between forcing it and trying to make birdies and letting them happen. And I've always kind of struggled with that, but today I just felt good and just told myself to keep going. And other players are going to be in probably the same situation, they feel they can go low, but you can't force it. 
 But yeah, it's a balancing act out there. 

 Q. It looked like from your past performances this year you've had a couple of 20s and 30s.
 KATHERINE HULL: Uh-huh.

 Q. And last week you missed the cut. What happened between missing the cut and getting your game back together today?
 KATHERINE HULL: I had some mental issues last week. (Laughs). So yeah, I mean I hit the ball okay last week. I just wasn't mentally in it. 
 And yeah, but I've had some good chats with my caddie in the past week, and I mean I felt like my golf swing just leaves me or my golf game departs. I mean it's there. I gotta, yeah, take one day at a time, as cliche as it sounds. 
 All year I've been striking the ball well, and my short game's probably let me down; and yeah, it's just a matter of being patient with me.

 Q. It seems like the players are either really figuring out these greens or not figuring them out at all. What is it about them that makes them different from what you face on a normal basis?
 KATHERINE HULL: They're pretty standard. I think it's just golf. I mean some days you have it, some days you don't. The greens are rolling true, I think, and so if you got the right speed, then they'll go in. 
 But yeah, same old story, you gotta match the line and speed. It's not rocket science. 

 Q. Just tell us a little bit more about the wedge at 12, the 60-yarder. Did it hit in front of the hole, roll in from the back?
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah. I was in the rough, so I was trying to land it about halfway between the front of the green and the hole and just let it release up, and yeah, it rolled up the first tier and I guess straight in the hole. 
 I hit it well. I hit the exact shot I wanted, and everyone clapped, and I looked around at my caddie and I said, I hit it the way I wanted. It has to go in at some point. 

 Q. You won was it two years ago? What's been preventing you from repeating?
 KATHERINE HULL: Well, A, there's just so much talent out here right now; and yeah, B, I mean I've kind of gone up and down in terms of my work ethic and my desire to win again, too, as crazy as that sounds. So I think I've got it figured out and I know what I want now, and I've set some goals, and yeah, it's just a matter of executing now. 

 Q. The difference between yesterday and today obviously putting. Is it positions on the green or, you know, is it just making the putts? What was the difference?
 KATHERINE HULL: No secret really. I mean it can influence how many -- well, I guess where you are on the greens can influence if you've got a distant look at it, you want to be below the hole. But these greens are not very undulating. There's slopes in them, but it's not like you desperately have to leave yourself below the hole. You can make putts from above the hole. 
 I think today I just matched the speed better and maybe overall probably had closer putts than yesterday.

 Q. Thoughts going into tomorrow's round?
 KATHERINE HULL: Do the same thing I did today. I think it's going to take another low number for sure. I mean it's a jam-packed leaderboard right now, and yeah, no one hands you golf tournaments these days. You gotta go out and win them, so yeah, it'll take a low number tomorrow. 

 Q. Could you just talk a little bit about being back here at the ShopRite, what this tournament means to you and the players? And also, as far as the length and size of this golf course and being so crowded and tight, we know that you all seem to love the course, but what's it like when there's always somebody honking on the 14th tee or, you know, those kind of things? Is that very different from what you're used to and how do you deal with that? I guess it's a two-part question.
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah. I mean all the players are stoked that ShopRite came back as a title sponsor, and we could tell they were loyal by their involvement with the Cybex tournament the last two years. So yeah, we're just ecstatic to have another tournament and be partners with them again. 
 And coming here to Seaview is just fantastic. I wish we could play more length style golf courses like this one because it is fun. It is a test, especially when the breeze picks up. I love courses you play you can hit straight shots all day, but out here makes you shape shots, and that's what golf's all about. 
 As far as the crowd goes, yesterday going down -- walking to the 10th tee in the afternoon, we looked down at No. 1 and 2, I literally felt like we were in Scotland or Ireland because there was that many people out there. It almost felt like a British Open. So it's neat to see so many people out here. 
 Yeah, today one guy honked his horn in Karrie's swing, so it's unfortunate that that happened, but I guess the cops are out here doing the best they can. So you just deal with it. It's a golf course. It's an outdoor sport and you don't have any control over those factors. 
 MODERATOR: Good?
 KATHERINE HULL: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT