BELL MICRO LPGA CLASSIC
May 13, 2010
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: Katherine, welcome. 6-under, 66 today. Great round. Tell us a little bit about it.  
 KATHERINE HULL: Started on 10, and I made a really stupid bogey on 11 so it kind of ticked me off. After that I was like, Right, game on. (Laughing.) It got me fired up.   
 Yeah, just played pretty solid from there on in. So seven birdies and no other bogeys, which was nice.   
 MODERATOR: You played here back in '08. I think you had a T4 or something like that. This course has obviously undergone a lot of changes. How do you feel about the changes? How then also, how has it changed the way the course plays?   
 KATHERINE HULL: The golf course looks fantastic right now. Obviously with newer greens they're playing a little firmer than what we're used to. I think the greens staff have done a great job getting it in the shape that it's in.   
 I love the layout. I liked it back in '08, and I like it this year. So it's nice to be back.  
 MODERATOR: Questions.  
  
  Q. You played later, and the 7-under had already been posted. Does that affect you in any way when you see that and you're starting basically 7 shots back before you even get started? How does that affect you at all?  
 KATHERINE HULL: It doesn't usually affect me, because, yeah, you just go out there and try and do the best you can. Golf is a funny game. You can be hitting it great and not score very well.  
 I mean, I noticed that the leader was at 7, but it wasn't like I stood on the first tee and was like, Right, I got to make a lot birdies. Just went about executing the game plan and had some fun out there with my caddie, so it was nice.  
 MODERATOR: Katherine, it's May, but really there haven't been that many starts. Can you just talk about that, the state of your game and how the schedule really affects the rhythm and where you're at?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, I think all of us are in kind of unusual situation in that it's May and this is only our third tournament in the U.S.   
 So I was fortunate. I played four tournaments in Australia at the start of the year, which is always a really good warmup for the start of the LPGA season.   
 So, yeah, I'm happy with the way my game's going. I've been working hard. Yeah, I guess would have liked to have had some better results in the last few events, but that's golf. Yeah, I'm moving forward.  
 MODERATOR: How did it go in Australia? How did you play there?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I finished second, second, second and fourth.  
 MODERATOR: Now, is that encouraging or frustrating?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Um, both. I played well in all the events, and there was always someone that played just a couple shots better than me in the final round.   
 So the first event a girl I think shot 9-under, Kristie Smith. I think she's playing on maybe the Futures Tour.   
 And then I think the second event, a girl shot 5-under; I shot 4-under; I lost by a shot.   
 And then at the ANZ Ladies Masters, Karrie shot, I think 11-under the final round and I shot 6-under. So there's not much you can do when that happens.   
 The fourth was at the Aussie Open, and Yani Tseng obviously won that one. She played great, and I just couldn't get enough putts to drop in the last round.  
 MODERATOR: With those finishes, do you feel like a win is coming? Does it feel like that?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah. Actually, I thought I would have been in contention in one of the earlier LPGA events coming off those events in Australia. But with me, it's always a fine line between expectations and staying in the moment.   
 I'm probably always gonna struggle with that and kind of not forcing it but just letting it happen. I'm learning. I'm getting better at it. But it's gonna take a lot of patience and discipline.  
 MODERATOR: Can you just summarize your career as you see it right now. Grade yourself or whatever.  
 KATHERINE HULL: I know my best golf is yet to come. I'm still learning. Yeah, looking forward to I guess the process more than anything else. I made a caddie change at the end of last year, so I got a new guy on the bag this year which is working out fantastically.   
 I don't know. I haven't put a time frame on my career at all. I know my best golf is still to come.  
  
  Q. How did the conditions change from 1 to 18 today? Did wind or anything change?   
 KATHERINE HULL: No, I think the golf course is playing pretty consistently. The wind died off the last couple holes.   
 Overall, it's really playable out there. The greens are rolling very true. You put a good stroke on it at the right speed, they'll go in.   
 MODERATOR: Good. Thanks.   
 KATHERINE HULL: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT