HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 25, 2010
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How did you score today?  
 KATHERINE HULL: 1-under, 3-putted the last, from about 15 feet which is very frustrating, but anyway.  
  
  Q. The front nine, how was that?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I doubled 3 and eagled 9. Other than that it was pretty boring. Yeah, just wasn't knocking it close enough to make any birdies but I managed to hit 9 in two and made probably, I don't know, a 38-footer or something, 35-footer.  
  
  Q. How are you feeling, start of the season, last year, second place, you've got good memories from here and you know the course well, coming into the event, were you feeling confident, and you have your home event next weekend. What are your thoughts at the start?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I probably had more confidence going into last year than this year. I'm trying to make swing adjustments right now, so it's going to take me a few months. I'm not a 100 per cent comfortable with it right now.   
 But yeah, I'm doing the best I can, and I still believe I can shoot under par. The goal is obviously to still win tournaments, but it's not 100 per cent right now. I'm a work-in-progress.  
  
  Q. Last year, your year overall, strong year for you?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, you know, I bought a house in March, which was actually a huge distraction, and my off-weeks, I allowed myself to get distracted by that, and so my golf suffered as a result.   
 So I was disappointed with the year with the way it kind of panned out. But yeah, I guess I've learnt from it and I think this year will be better.  
  
  Q. So you start from here, and what about tomorrow, like the immediate future? What's your sort of plan?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I'm going to go hit some balls. Yeah, try and get this new move down. It's not too far off. I'm resequencing my hips. I've been an upper-body swinger since I was 12 and started the game and now I'm trying to get my lower body to work the way it's supposed to.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT