CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2009
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you know where you are?
 KATHERINE HULL: I thought even was probably going to be cut. I guess 2-over is news to me. 

 Q. We're not 100 percent sure, so at this point in time... 
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah. I would be surprised. I would say it's probably going to be even. 91 at worst. 

 Q. Your thoughts on how you played today?
 KATHERINE HULL: Aside from two doubles and a triple? Pretty good. (Laughs). 
 Yeah, it was just a couple bad swings yesterday; and yeah, one bad swing and a three-putt that cost me today. So other than that, it was okay. It's golf. Unfortunately you make a bad swing, you gotta pay the price.

 Q. Is the rough -- is this typical rough on this Tour or is this a little worse?
 KATHERINE HULL: It's pretty normal really. It's not too deep. We've had times where we've had to wedge out. I haven't seen anyone experience that this week, which is okay. 
 The fairways are really generous, the greens are big. So you shouldn't really be in the rough. 

 Q. As defending champion, did you feel nerves once you got going?
 KATHERINE HULL: No. I wasn't nervous at all. I mean my game was a little rusty, so I certainly wasn't expecting to shoot lights out. 
 But I don't know, there are lots of players who can go out there and hit a lot better than what I have. 

 Q. Know any golf games in Kansas, in terms of courses?
 KATHERINE HULL: In terms of scenery, not even close, no. But the course I play at, the Trump International, it's my favorite course of all time. Yeah, it's awesome. The layout is great and the greens are totally pure, but yeah, this is awesome. They've got the golf course in fantastic shape and thoroughly enjoyed it. 

 Q. Crowds are -- how would you rate these?
 KATHERINE HULL: Awesome. 

 Q. More than most places?
 KATHERINE HULL: For a Friday, definitely, yeah. I think it probably helps playing with Lorie, and being obviously the home favorite. 
 But no, they've been just fantastic all week, so I'm glad to see these people out.

 Q. Is there anybody here in the leaders, on top of the leaderboard that have surprised you so far that you've seen, as you've wandered around and seen? 
 KATHERINE HULL: I haven't seen it a whole lot, but from what is going on, there are girls out here that are capable of shooting under par, so it's just a matter of putting four good rounds back to back. Yeah. Back to that, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT