CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2009
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Katherine Hull, you are the defending champion of the CN Canadian Women's Open, so welcome to Canada and Calgary. How is Priddis Greens Country Club setup for you this week? 
 KATHERINE HULL: The golf course is great. There's a lot of holes out there that you can be aggressive on, that you need to capitalize on, because I think it's going to be probably a really good score that wins here, because there's a lot of birdies out there. 
 Yeah, it's probably going to come down to who makes the most putts for birdies, but yeah, it's a fun golf course.
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Great. We'll take questions for Katherine. 

 Q. Katherine, some of the other golfers were talking about the challenging greens. They felt it might be a concern for them. How do you feel about what you've seen here on the golf course in terms of navigating those greens?
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah. There's a few, I guess, tricky greens out there. It's all about positioning yourself and leaving yourself an uphill putt. They do break more than you think, so yeah. 
 I think they're probably the hardest part about the golf course, because the fairways are pretty wide open and size wise the greens are very generous, so it's just about leaving yourself below the hole.

 Q. Defending champ, how does that sound? And furthermore, how does that play towards you being a favorite here this week?
 KATHERINE HULL: It seems like forever ago that we were out in Ottawa, actually, so yeah, it's been a long time coming, I guess, to hear those two words. 
 But yeah, it's an honor to be able to say that, and my game's probably not exactly where I want it, but as we all know in golf, anything's possible and it doesn't have to be perfect. So I'm just looking to get myself into contention and see what happens from there. 

 Q. What's that going to take at a course like this? You talked about being in the right place on the greens. Is that the biggest key here, factor?
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah. Definitely. From tee to green it's pretty open, so I really think it's going to be a matter of just giving yourself uphill birdie putts, and you don't have to knock it close. I mean these girls out here we're all capable of making 15-footers, 20-footers for birdie, so I think it's going to just, yeah, come down to who putts the best. 

 Q. Do you put yourself when you come into -- I mean you and I talked a little while ago about how actually played well. You won last year in Ottawa. Coming to Canada, do you put yourself in maybe a better frame of mind coming on Canadian soil, and is it just something in the water, in the air? What is it?
 KATHERINE HULL: (Laughs). I'm not sure what it is, but I definitely have a good feeling about playing the Canadian Open. I don't know whether it's the golf courses or the RCGA people, they just suit my game or what it is. But yeah, it's nice to have some good feeling and good momentum from this tournament. 

 Q. Some of the players today have been talking about their charities. You're involved with World Vision. Can you kind of expand on that as well?
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah. I sponsor a couple of kids through World Vision, one kid through Compassion International, and then I sit on the board of directors for Golf Fore Africa, which is a non-profit organization that Betsy King started. So yeah, I donate a lot through World Vision and now through Golf Fore Africa. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you very much, Katherine, and good luck this week. 
 KATHERINE HULL: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT