LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 18, 2013
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KATHERINE HULL‑KIRK  
  
THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome Katherine Hull Kirk into the interview.   Katherine, solid day out there.   What worked for you?   
KATHERINE HULL‑KIRK:   I had a hard time on the first nine holes I played.   I think I had (indiscernible) through the first nine holes, so that was really what got my round going.  
   
 Q.   You finished second here, I believe in 2008.   How nice is it to come back to South Korea with all the fans here supporting you?  
KATHERINE HULL‑KIRK:   The fans are great here.   I always look forward to playing here.   I love the golf course, and I have good memories obviously from 2008.   So this is certainly a tournament I'm excited to play.  
There is actually a young girl by the name of Julie who always comes out to watch me here.   She saw an event in Australia a few years ago.   It's been nice to kind of watch her grow up, and hopefully we'll see her out here playing one day as well.  
   
 Q.   Katherine, I know you went to dinner with a few players on Monday night.   Can you tell everyone a little about that?   You kind of got a full taste of Korea.   
KATHERINE HULL‑KIRK:   (Indiscernible) and her dad were really kind enough to host us and treat us to a Korean restaurant.   We had so much fun.   We ate bulgogi and (indiscernible) and ‑‑ I'm trying to think.   It's on the grill.   What do you call that?   Gal‑bi.   
And then yeah, we just‑‑ we tried some (indiscernible) and some beer.   We just had a great time and it was nice to hang out with her away from the golf course.   Certainly we enjoyed the Korean hospitality.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KATHERINE HULL‑KIRK:   Today, for me I had five birdies on the back nine and two bogeys and two birdies on the front nine.   So I guess a little slow on my last nine holes.   
But I think probably the 14th is a really tough hole, and so if you can make three pars on that hole in the week, you are doing well.   There's certainly a lot of holes out there that you can birdie if you play smart.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KATHERINE HULL‑KIRK:   I think all Korean players dress in really bright colors, so I love seeing their outfits and bright colors.   I think (indiscernible) catches my attention.   She usually wears some interesting combinations.  
   
 Q.   Katherine, you have won twice on Tour, but you haven't won since 2010.   Do you think about that at all or has it been frustrating or do you just try to block it out?   
KATHERINE HULL‑KIRK:   The last few years have been a little bit frustrating.   But at the same time, I've learned a lot and I think I'm a better player now than I was even when I won.   I think my best golf is still ahead of me, so I'm excited for the future and hopefully a lot more wins.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KATHERINE HULL‑KIRK:   This is definitely one of best golf courses we play all year.   It's always in perfect condition.   The bunkers are great.   I really love the greens here because they are so true and they roll probably on the faster scale for us.   
So I was in one bunker today on the 14th hole, but I managed to hit it well and get up and down for far.   
Yeah, this golf course is immaculate and we love playing here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT