HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 7, 2009
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Katherine, thank you for joining us. It took a little extra time to finish your round today, but you were able to come out after the delay to make par and birdie on your final two holes to build up some momentum going into tomorrow's final round. 
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, it was really nice. I didn't know what to expect coming in.

 Q. Stanford versus Hull, 2-0, now?
 KATHERINE HULL: Yes, but I'm kind of liking the fact that I have a two-shot lead, and I'm comfortable with the way I'm playing. So, game on. 

 Q. Why were you jogging to the ball between shots?
 KATHERINE HULL: My caddie is walking as soon as I hit, so I was just trying to catch up with him. 

 Q. On the men's tour whenever there's a leader and Tiger Woods is behind, usually the other players are aware of where he is and the media's very aware of where he is. Is there a particular player that you see lurking around that you're going to be keeping an eye on tomorrow? 
 KATHERINE HULL: I probably won't watch the leaderboard a whole lot tomorrow. I'm probably going to go out there wanting to think about my golf game. The things that worked for me in the past. I just want to treat it as another day in the office and go out there and do my best. 

 Q. Tomorrow are you going to defend your lead or go for a 66, 65? 
 KATHERINE HULL: I'd love to shoot a 66. But I'll just stick to the same game plan and hit as many fairways and greens as possible and try to make as many putts as possible. 
 But I think the key for me is to stay focused on the process, as opposed to the outcome and trying to shoot a particular score. 

 Q. I think one thing today was you made very little mistakes out there even when you got yourself in tiny bit of trouble. What was going through your mind there about having to get out of that to make it par? 
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, I thought the only two holes I struggled with were six and seven. And I pushed the putt on six, which is frustrating because normally putting is the best part of my game. On seven, I hit a poor second shot and had to scramble to make par there. 
 So I was happy actually. That was probably a key moment in the round I was able to go on and make some birdies coming in. So, yeah, it was almost mistake free. But there's always room for improvement. 

 Q. Did you talk to Angela during your 2 hour, 19 minute delay?
 KATHERINE HULL: I was talking outside the lunch room during the delay, and she walked past and patted me on the back. We're pretty competitive. We've played a bit of tennis over the last two years, too. So it's kind of the same thing on the tennis court. 
So she was probably implying looking forward to tomorrow. Let's go get it. 

 Q. If you can step back just a little bit. For the two of you to be arguably two of the most in-form players in women's golf and to be in the lead in groups, first and second going into the final day of a tournament of this scale, what's that mean to you? 
 KATHERINE HULL: Well, obviously, yeah. Both of us have got some confidence right now, and definitely happy with being able to carry the momentum over from last year. I'd say we're going to probably have a few more head-to-head battles this year, because Angela's a great player, and I know she wants to win, and she's working hard at her game. 
 So, yeah, looking forward to tomorrow. And, yeah, whoever plays the best golf will get the trophy. 

 Q. Angela joked she thought you may be mad at her to do as well as she did to put you two in the final group together tomorrow.
 KATHERINE HULL: (Laughing) No, not at all. I think it's great if you find, if I can't win I'm going to be rooting for my friends to win. I'm just happy I've got a two-shot cushion as opposed to one. But we'll go out there tomorrow and have fun and see what happens. 

 Q. Talk about your playing record in the past - last year at the two tournaments she won.
 KATHERINE HULL: I think I was behind both times, yeah. And actually we played together, I think, I want to say ADT (Championship). And I said to her, 'You know what, you probably want to pay me to play with you on the final round of ADT.' But it never worked out, so... 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT