ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2008
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Thank you for joining us once again. You are 5-under overall at the conclusion of round 2, which that doesn't mean a whole lot now. If you would, just talk about your day.
 KATHERINE HULL: Okay. I'm really happy with today. Obviously, no bogies, so, yeah, very happy with the way I kind of made the up-and-down on 18 and finished off. 
 But it's kind of an interesting format thinking that we're all equal going into tomorrow. But I'm just happy with the way I'm playing, and hoping to make some more birdies tomorrow. 

 Q. You've been playing really well recently. Is there anything in particular that's just kind of taken off? Any part of your game that you're particularly impressed with the last couple of weeks? 
 KATHERINE HULL: It's been a combination of things over the last probably year or so. It's -- yeah, a combination of hitting it better, putting it better, practicing smart, and my, I guess my brain's kind of working better out on the golf course. 
 My spiritual life's great. My caddie. I've just got a great team of people around me. My caddie, he's been a huge part of this success this year. My coach, my trainer. So, yeah, I'm very blessed to be in the position I'm at. But it's been a lot of work behind the scenes that's gone into it. 

 Q. Is it annoying that you're giving up eight shots in some cases to people at the tail end of the qualification process? Or are you just -- or is that not to worry about because you're satisfied with how well you're playing? 
 KATHERINE HULL: That's a good question (laughing). Well, you know the format going into it so you can't be too disappointed whether you build such a big lead come Friday afternoon. 
 I was just trying to focus on my game, shoot the best scores I could these last two days and I'll do the same thing Saturday and Sunday. 

 Q. Being that you were in the lead going into the day and you kind of had more of a cushion than the players that were around number 16. Did that change the way that you played at all? You didn't have to go out and win anything, it was a matter of just avoiding doubles and triples and that type of thing? 
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, my game plan didn't change today. I just tried to go down there and hit fairways and greens. I probably -- I didn't force anything out there. I didn't get frustrated. The putts were dropping. I had great speed all day on the greens. 
 I just said to my caddie on one of the holes on the back nine, Let's just keep rolling it as well as we are and see what happens. 

 Q. You are sleeping on the lead, but so are 15 other players. Does it feel like you're sleeping on the lead and how do you generally do when you're sleeping on the lead? 
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, I guess, well, yeah. 16 is sleeping on the lead. Well, we know that anything can happen tomorrow. So you can't effect how anyone else is going to play. You don't know what's going to happen. You've just got to do your regular routine and give it a hundred percent. 

 Q. What is your reaction to Annika and Lorena and, you know, two of the biggest stars out here not making the cut? Kristina said it kind of sucks for them, but it makes her life easier. What is your reaction to it? 
 KATHERINE HULL: (Laughing). Yeah, I guess they're the two big contenders out here, and we won't have to worry about them over the weekend. 
 But everyone that's playing this weekend has worked their butts off for numerous years. They've earned their right to be here through good play. 
 So they've got just as much chance as anyone out here winning the event. You know, it's great to be here on the LPGA with as many awesome players as there are now, and anyone can win. 

 Q. I know you told me before that you don't play for the money, but have you allowed your mind to wander to what you would do with a million dollars? 
 KATHERINE HULL: Well, yeah. Yesterday I got asked the same question. I said I was going to have to pay my caddie first. Then I'd donate a big chunk of it to World Vision and probably some other charities as well. 
 So tithing is a part of my life, and it's important to me. I would probably put the rest in the bank. I made the mistake of saying investing yesterday, but with the market the way it is, yeah, I've got to be careful with what I say, right? 
 Yeah, I wouldn't spend it on anything extravagant. I'm not that type of person. So I'll stick to paying my caddie, and then tithing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT