LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 15, 2008
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Shall we start with your card? Birdie on 1. 
 KATHERINE HULL: Hit a gap wedge to 16 feet. 
 2, hit a 9-iron to 30 feet. 
 4, hit a 7-iron to about 24 feet. 
 6, 7-iron to 24 feet. 
 9, pitching wedge to 12 feet. 
 16, 8-iron to six feet. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Katherine, great round out there, 6-under par 66. Ties the tournament course record set by Angela yesterday. If you would, just talk a little about your day today and being in the hunt for a victory tomorrow. 
 KATHERINE HULL: I played really well on the front nine. I hit nine greens, and then made some good putts. So that was kind of a nice start. 
 Then just couldn't get anything it going really on the back nine. Kind of hit just a few slow points and then still hit some good shots but just couldn't make a putt until 16. 
 Overall I'm pretty happy with the round and very happy with the position I'm in going into tomorrow. 

 Q. Are surprised with the way you play today? And how will you play the golf course tomorrow? Maybe you're going to be playing with Annika; what do you think? 
 KATHERINE HULL: Did you say, am I surprised the way I played today? Not really. I played really well Thursday and Friday and just couldn't make any putts and today finally they dropped. 
 So, yeah, you kind of expect to shoot a good score on a good golf course and I love this golf course. I think it's fantastic. 
 In regards to playing with Annika tomorrow, she's a great competitor and I'm looking forward to it. 

 Q. What do you have to do tomorrow to win this tournament?
 KATHERINE HULL: Just play my game and do what I did today, and hit some greens and make some putts. I always say, it's not rocket science out there. I've been playing well the last part of this season, so I've just got to keep doing what I've been doing. I'm confident, and, yeah, anything is possible. 

 Q. What kind of mental setup do you have to have tomorrow to face the final round in this kind of tournament where the best of the world are playing, including yourself?
 KATHERINE HULL: My mental approach won't change very much. I go out there to try and play my best every day, and whether it's a three-round tournament, four-round tournament, no matter who is in the field, yeah, it's just golf, and I try and do my best. 

 Q. Can you tell us a little bit about being involved in Golf Fore Africa, and at what point did you start? Can you tell us your experience when you traveled to Africa? 
 KATHERINE HULL: Betsy King who, is obviously a retired Hall of Fame player, she's one of my good friends and she went in October 2006. When she came back, I saw how much passion she had for the probably and the people down there, and that's why I got involved. 
 You know, we're very fortunate in the U.S. and in Australia where I come from that there's not much poverty, but in Africa, it's unbelievable. With the AIDS pandemic and malaria on top of it, it's a devastating situation.
 Yeah, I took a trip there with Betsy and some people from World Vision in October last year and it was life-changing for me. I sponsor a couple of kids down there and I got to meet one of them, and that was humbling. Yeah, looking forward to going back there sometime, hopefully next year. 

 Q. Your thoughts on the inclusion of golf in the Olympics; would you comment on that, for 2016?
 KATHERINE HULL: I think it would be great for the Olympics and great for the sport of golf. 
 I know all of the players would be absolutely excited to play and honored to play, too, because just of the history of the Olympics. I think it would be fantastic. 

 Q. Can you tell us your opinion about the big crowds today? Every day it's going up, can you tell us about the response of the Mexican people for this tournament?
 KATHERINE HULL: The crowds have been great this weekend. I don't know what to expect coming down here but obviously Lorena is popular wherever she goes but especially in her hometown, it's great to see people come out and support her event; and I know it's been a dream of hers for a long time to play here. I appreciate all of the crowd support, and it's been fantastic. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Katherine, thanks for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT