HANA BANK ● KOLON CHAMPIONSHIP
November 2, 2008
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Talk about your 66 yesterday, and then coming back today and what was going on the back nine.   
 KATHERINE HULL: Yesterday was kind of frustrating because I wasn't making anything. So I think the longest putt I made yesterday might have been the par save on 18. John and I said we've got to be a lot better to be three behind than four behind, so it was a relief to finally make one.   
 Yeah, I hit it okay on the front and made some good up-and-downs and didn't get anything going until the end really. I had some good chances and lipped-out on 18 and almost made it on 17.   
 So, it was fun.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk about your season?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Season's been probably better than I expected. I set some goals at the start of the year I thought were challenging and yes, I have to kind of re-set many goals.   
 Yeah, the last part of the season has obviously been really good and it's nice to know that the hard work has paid off.   
  
  Q. How were the course conditions this week and your game, what was going well for you?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Honestly, I thought that it was going to be a long hitter's golf course, but it didn't play to that, and with the wind, I think it was quite fair.   
 The greens were so pure that they were the best part of the golf course. Yeah, it makes it easier to make putts when that's the case. You have some tricky pin placements yesterday and obviously you have to be really accurate with your club selections, so it was a fun golf course and I'm looking forward to playing it next year for sure.  
  
  Q. Just talk about getting to the end of the season and what do you do to stay healthy and keep your game sharp as you continue to re-set new goals?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Staying healthy is a struggle at the end of the year. I've played 30 events now, which is a lot. I played in Australia at the beginning and I played a lot in the summer, like 15 to 16 weeks. I've kind of worked harder since July and that's been probably one of the biggest reasons for staying healthy and staying competitive this late in the season.   
 I've been working out more, cardio, strength training but nothing too hard or too heavy, that's more off-season training but yeah, it's working. It's kind of one part of the package. But it definitely helps out on the golf course.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you very much, congratulations and good luck with the end of the season.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT