HANA BANK ● KOLON CHAMPIONSHIP
October 31, 2008
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Can we go over your scorecard?   
 KATHERINE HULL: 2, 8-iron to 30 feet and made that one.  
 4, hit a 9-iron to about 30 feet, again made it.   
 7, hit a 5-wood to seven feet, eight feet maybe.   
 11, hit it in the bunker off the tee, laid up, hit a wedge to maybe 15 feet and then missed it, so tapped in for bogey.  
 13, hit a 9-iron to 27 feet.  
 14, hit a gap wedge to 12 feet.  
 16, hit a sand wedge to one foot.  
 18, hit an 8-iron to two feet.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Can you just talk about your round, 6-under par, no one has really gotten close to that today. What was going right for you?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Everything kind of clicked today I guess. I only made probably a couple bad swings, and I putted well all day and made a couple of good par saves and then was able to make a few birdies.   
 Yeah, just stuck to my routine today finally, and it paid off.   
  
  Q. The greens everyone says are undulated and are rolling quite a bit, but you're making 35-foot putts; are they still rolling pretty true, or can you talk about the greens a little bit?  
 KATHERINE HULL: The greens are pure. They rolled really true and I've always preferred faster greens. It's nice to know that when you start the ball online that they all have a chance of going in.   
  
  Q. (How much of a factor was the wind)?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I was fortunate to start my practice warmup in decent conditions and then once we got out there, it was only really a club wind on the first few holes. So conditions were okay when we started.   
  
  Q. (Keys to the round)?  
 KATHERINE HULL: It's a long golf course to begin with, so you add the wind on top of that, and it becomes longer.   
 But the nice thing is, the greens are receptive and so you can be a little more aggressive with your approach shots. I was thinking warming up this morning, this golf course tends to favour more of a longer hitter, and I'm more of a medium hitter. I guess if you get the putter going, anything can happen.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your strategy looking ahead to this weekend; is it a different way of thinking for a 54-hole tournament instead of a 72-hole tournament?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I don't think any differently. I just try and get out there and execute my plan. I've been playing better on the weekends of late than the first one or two rounds, so it's nice to be in this position going into the weekend. But yeah, I'll go out there with the same game plan and try and stick to my routine.   
  
  Q. (Your last win) --  
 KATHERINE HULL: I actually won in Canada in the end of August.   
  
  Q. (About being the front runner).  
 KATHERINE HULL: No, I don't think so. It will be a little different feeling, but it's nice to actually be the one that everyone is chasing, as opposed to the one doing the chasing, which I've been doing a lot lately.   
 Yeah, I'm happy with the way I'm playing and I believe I can win. I've just got to go out there and execute it.   
  
  Q. Have you played in Asia before?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Second time. I played the tournament when it was on Jeju Island a couple of years ago.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts about the course and Sky 72 Golf Club?  
 KATHERINE HULL: The golf course is fantastic. It's one of the better ones we play on the LPGA schedule, and everyone here at Sky 72 seem really friendly. So far I've enjoyed being in Korea and very much enjoying the golf course.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Congratulations and good luck this weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT