CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2008
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Katherine, 109 starts for you. You got your first win today. Came close, one stroke, but it was a come-from-behind win. How are you feeling right now?   
 KATHERINE HULL: I'm shocked that it actually happened, but obviously this is a dream come true. I mean, it's just something that probably all of us out here just dream about as kids.   
 To finally have it come to reality is just amazing. I can't put it into words right now.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's do your scorecard. Birdie on the 3rd hole.  
 KATHERINE HULL: Hit a 9-iron.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Par 4, 410 yards.  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, hit a 9-iron. Didn't hit it all that great, but I got a nice bounce to about four feet and made it.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Birdie on 8.  
 KATHERINE HULL: Hit a punch 7-iron to probably 15, 16 feet and made it.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Birdie on 9.  
 KATHERINE HULL: Hit a pitching wedge to the back left part of the green and chipped a 9-iron in, a bump and run up the hill.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: How close was that?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Probably 30 feet. It was a chip in with a 9-iron.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Bogey on 10.   
 KATHERINE HULL: Hit an 8-iron to probably 45 feet, somewhere around there, and then 3-putted.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Birdie on 14.   
 KATHERINE HULL: Hit a 6-iron to about four or five feet. Four feet, I guess.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: And in addition to your win, this is one of the winners' events on the LPGA Tour, so today you punched your ticket to the season-ending ADT Championship where you'll have a chance to compete for $1 million. How about that?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Well, I didn't know that. That's like another bonus, I guess. It's going to be exciting. ADT's obviously been a great sponsor for us over the years, so something to keep in mind and work even harder for.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Questions for your winner.   
  
  Q. You finished second in the Canadian Open in 2005, and now for your best finish ever, in the 2008 edition of the Canadian Open, how do you feel about this great comeback today, and how does it feel to jump from 50th place on the Money List to 15?   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: The good news just keeps coming.  
 KATHERINE HULL: It does. It's like Christmas. I am ecstatic. I mean, dream come true. Really, I mean this is probably not going to sink in until tonight or tomorrow. I was thinking this year it would be that I broke through and made a win.   
 Obviously today I was what, six shots back? I didn't really think too much it. I was just going out there and trying to play the best I could. I honestly didn't expect to win at all, but that's the way golf goes.   
 Four rounds and 72 holes anything can happen. You got to be patient. Fortunately for me I was able to close it out.   
  
  Q. The other day when you set or tied what had been the course record, you talked about being able to distract yourself between shots so that you didn't overthink yourself on the golf course. Were you able to maintain that kind of an attitude today, or did you get caught up in what was going on around you?   
 KATHERINE HULL: From the start today I was -- in between shots just reading scripture and quoting scripture. Actually didn't look at a leaderboard until the 16th hole, and I wasn't intentionally looking at it. When I went to tap-in my putt I caught a glance and saw that I was first. I think it was a two-shot lead at the time.   
 I mean, I got a little excited, but I kind of told myself that I still had two holes to go and just to continue doing what I was doing and stay in the process.   
 You know, I tried to do today what worked on Friday and it turned out.   
  
  Q. Does your strong religious background as a Christian help you a lot playing golf, and especially today? For example, you were six strokes behind?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Oh, yeah, definitely today. But I give credit to God for having the ability to play. You know we have all got different gifts. It's up to us to work hard at them. But yeah, I mean, it's all by the grace of God that I'm here.   
 John's kind of verses the other day helped me get back on track. Spiritual life fluctuates. It's been like a roller coaster for me, especially this past year. It's nice to kind of figure out what I need to do and kind of, I guess, wreak the harvest and blessings.   
  
  Q. I just want to know, how do you think this is going to play back home in the midst of so many Australians winning Olympic medals?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I mean, golf coverage in Australian has come a long way. It probably will be overshadowed by the Olympics, especially with the Aussies doing so well in swimming. It's great. Sport is such a huge part of our culture.   
 I hope it gets some coverage down there. We really need to raise the profile of women's golf in Australia. Participation in golf has been declining a lot the past five years, so I think the more Aussies that do well the better the game will get down there, and hopefully we get more players over and playing the LPGA or whatever tour around the world.  
  
  Q. When you started today, did you think there was any chance at all of overtaking Yani with her four-stroke lead in the tournament, and six over you?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Being a Christian I would have to say that with God anything is possible. But then again, I wasn't thinking about being the one at the end of the day hoisting the trophy. I try to stay so focused on my game plan and just doing what I've done the last couple days.   
 Yeah, I mean, you don't expect it, but there's always that possibility.   
  
  Q. There were some Australians off to the right side of 18th fairway as you walked up. Did you hear them or others cheering for you? And was it after you saw the scoreboard that you started to think about the possibility of winning?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Well, actually, one of the Bible versus I was quoting -- I'm going to have to double check on it actually. I try memorize a lot out there. But I want to say First Corinthians 9:24 through 27. And then Galatians 6:4 through 5. I think I made mention to that one the other day.   
 But I'm pretty sure the Corinthians one made reference to there's a lot of people in a race and only one person that wins, so run to win. That one I've just been trying to quote the last three days.   
 I would hope all of us are out here playing to win. It's not like we want to finish second or 20th. But, yeah, I don't know what to say. I'm like so overwhelmed right now. Yeah, dream come true. It's what we work so hard for.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the relationship you have with your caddie as well? Talk about the importance of being close with your caddie.   
 KATHERINE HULL: It's a total personality match. I think girls probably maybe talk a little more and maybe rely on your caddies a little more.   
 It is a lot different for the guys to work on -- my caddie, John, he's worked on the men's senior tour, and he told me how different it is. He's a great judge of character and knows how to read me better than anybody else I ever worked with.   
 We started working together in back in April and did I think about 15 tournaments in 16 weeks. It was only really that last event that we started to kind of feel like we needed a break.   
 But he's fantastic. I mean, he knows what to say, when to say it, knows when to be quiet. Yeah, it's been absolutely a joy having him caddie for me this year, and hopefully we'll have many more wins and great years.   
  
  Q. Is your approach a lot easier today given the fact that you were six strokes back, the fact that nobody expected you to come from behind and win? You know, you could just go out will and relax while the pressure was on that lead group.   
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, I'm sure the lead group did feel more pressure than what I felt. Yeah, I mean, when you tee it up you don't know what's going to happen. You can't control how anyone else is playing. All you can do is focus on controlling what you can control and executing a game plan and your routine. That's all I tried to do today, and it worked out.   
  
  Q. What do you think of the challenge the greens gave you this week? We saw a few people 4-putt.   
 KATHERINE HULL: The greens are definitely rolling better in the morning rounds. They did get a little bumpy there yesterday afternoon. I think they were better this afternoon than they were yesterday. A lot of spike marks obviously throughout the day.   
 I think with obviously a lot of girls having to finish their second rounds in the morning yesterday, and then more players out in the afternoon, I think that's probably why yesterday they were probably a bit more bumpy.   
 Yeah, conditions were great for scoring. The wind kind of died down at the end, and you just -- if you put a good roll on it, these greens are true and the ball will go in.  
  
  Q. Who gets the first phone call?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Mom and dad. Yeah, my coach has got my cell phone and I don't know where he is. But as soon as I find him I'll probably call them.  
  
  Q. There were a lot of kids in the crowd today, and the donation to the children's hospital as well. Just speak to the importance of having the kids there and just sort of that was underlying massage?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Well, the kids are basically the future, whether it be of the game or just our society. So it's -- I think, it's awesome that they can come out here and get close and kind of maybe be inspired.   
 And it's always nice to sign autographs with the kids. They really appreciate it. It's amazing what signing someone's hat will do.   
  
  Q. I was a little surprised that you went for the green in two on 18. Did you ever think about not going for that green in two?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, in the practice round, my coach and my caddie actually and I talked it, that we were just going to layup every time. But I only had 208 yards to the front. That's kind of a green light.   
 John I know was scratching his head as to whether he should let me go for it or not. But I was swinging it pretty well and I only had 108 yards to the front. He figured I could get it up and down from anywhere on the green if I happened to miss it.   
 Yeah, it was just something I had to do from that distance.   
  
  Q. What do you think winning will do for you from now on in your career just to have that one W beside your name?  
 KATHERINE HULL: It's nice to know that all the hard work actually gets you somewhere. Kind of probably this will definitely motivate me to work harder. I've done some really good things this week, and I'm just going to try and build on those and see what happens.   
 But, yeah, obviously, I mean, I haven't -- I haven't thought too much about how many tournaments I want to win, but I guess I could probably start thinking about that now.   
  
  Q. What is the last tournament you are won at any level? And what time is it wherever your parents happen to be right now?  
 KATHERINE HULL: If it's 7:30 here, I believe it's 10:30 Monday morning where my parents are.   
 I'm going to say the 2005 ALPG Tour Championship. Part of the Australia tour schedule.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT