CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2008
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Katherine, thanks for coming in and joining us today. You're now the leader in the clubhouse at 8-under par. You shot a 7-under par 65 today, and you tied the course record. Can you just talk about how that feels?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Well, actually normally I know my score, where I'm at, and it's funny because on the back nine my caddie and I were just reciting Bible verses, and I just lost complete track of what score I was at. I don't think I even looked at a leaderboard.   
 Yeah, it's kind of new news to me, but I'm very happy, obviously.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Are there any other courses you have your name up there for the course record? This may be a first in your career.  
 KATHERINE HULL: There might be a couple, but yeah, it's kind of one round, and obviously tournaments these days it's three and four, so we just try to make all three or four as good as possible.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's go over your scorecard. 10th hole, birdie, your first of the day.  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, I hit a gap wedge probably to about 15 feet, made that one.  
 Bogey on 14, I try and forget the bogeys. I can't even think what 14 is.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Par-4, 410 yards.   
 KATHERINE HULL: Oh, yeah. I hit a hybrid just right of the green and hit a pitch shot to maybe 20 feet and missed that one, so I tapped in for bogey.   
 And then 15, I hit a 6-iron probably to maybe 30, 35 feet, made it.   
 Birdie on 17, hit a 5-iron, I believe. I think it was a 5-iron. It was probably maybe 18 feet.   
 Birdie on 18, actually I hit a gap wedge to about six or seven feet behind the hole and made it.   
 Birdie on 3, hit a 7-iron probably 20 -- about 24 feet behind the hole.   
 No. 4, hit a 9-iron to about five feet.   
 Birdie on 6, gap wedge to about five feet again.   
 The last birdie on 7, hit a 6-iron to probably, oh, 30 feet.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Nice putts, Katherine. Questions for Katherine Hull?   
  
  Q. What worked today with the putter so much better than yesterday, even though you had a good round yesterday?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, actually I hit 16 greens yesterday, and my putting felt good, but I just wasn't matching the line well enough with the speed. So today I guess I did that better and made some more birdies, which is nice. My stroke feels good, I'm sticking to my routine, something my coach and I worked on last week, and just carrying it over into this week.   
  
  Q. You said you were talking to your caddie during the round. What were you discussing?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Bible verses. We came to the conclusion yesterday that I needed kind of a spiritual reality check, and he'd given me some Bible verses to check on at the start of the week, and I hadn't done it. I finally sat down last night and actually wrote all of them out, and today I was kind of reciting a few verses I already knew, and then he gave me the idea to recite a couple of the ones that he'd given me. That's all I did on the back nine was try and recite a couple from Galatians, and I guess it worked.  
  
  Q. You do this when you figure you need help?  
 KATHERINE HULL: It's not so much help. I mean, it does help, but I don't do it for that reason. I mean, it totally got my mind off golf out there, which is probably the best thing that could have happened, because I do tend to overthink on the golf course. It was great in between shots, I was only thinking about Bible verses, and then once I got to the ball it was about golf, and it just worked.  
  
  Q. You were second at this tournament in 2005, which was your best finish yet. Is there something about playing in Canada that brings the best out in you?  
 KATHERINE HULL: There might be something about playing in Canada, I don't know. This is one of our best tournaments on Tour. RCGA run a great event and CN are a great sponsor. So it's nice to be here.   
 I guess maybe being kind of a sister country coming from Australia, that's a good vibe.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us your caddie's name, please?  
 KATHERINE HULL: John Powell.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: I guess something I never realized, I knew that you were a spiritual person but I did not know that you and your caddie shared that same spiritual bond perhaps.   
 KATHERINE HULL: He probably wouldn't put it that way, but I guess we've both had a good influence on each other in the last kind of four and a half months that we've been working together, and certainly him yesterday kind of saying maybe look at those verses was a good thing.   
  
  Q. The scoring has been pretty low in the first day and a half. Do you have to keep the pedal to the metal from now on? You can't be satisfied with what you've got at this point, right? That's what I'm getting at.   
 KATHERINE HULL: Uh-huh. I think the weekend might get a little tougher with the greens firming up, but the last two days obviously they've been pretty receptive. I mean, you can't just shoot even par on the weekend and expect to win. You do have to go out there and keep making birdies. I couldn't tell you a number that's going to win the tournament, but yeah, you definitely have to put two solid rounds together over the weekend.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Thanks for your time today, and congratulations on a great round.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT