LPGA NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
September 7, 2007
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Katherine, thanks for coming in and joining us today.  You birdied your last hole to jump into a three-way tie for the lead.  Talk about how you played. 
 KATHERINE HULL:  It's kind of pretty simple actually.  I didn't really do anything too bad.  I didn't do anything great.  But I guess I scored well. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  You also had your first eagle of the season on 13 out there. 
 KATHERINE HULL:  Yeah, it's a short par 5.  I hit a 3-wood to about 12 feet and then rolled it in.  It was quite nice to make an eagle. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Let's go over your scorecard, starting with the first birdie on hole 10. 
 KATHERINE HULL:  I hit an 8-iron to about 15 feet. 
 12, I hit it left off the tee and hit a tree and then hit my third on and missed probably maybe a 12-footer, 15-footer. 
 Then the eagle at 13, I hit a 3-wood to about 12 feet. 
 15, I hit a 9-iron to about nine feet. 
 16, I hit a 9-iron to about three feet. 
 I made about a 45 footer with 9-iron into that green. 
 And on 7, I hit -- actually I had to punch a shot from under the three. 
 I bogeyed 8 of the hit it left of the green in the bunker and didn't get up-and-down. 
 9, I hit a 9-iron to about five feet. 

 Q.  How were the conditions out there, did the rain make scoring relatively easy today? 
 KATHERINE HULL:  Yeah, the greens are soft.  So you can be a bit more aggressive with your approach shots when it's playing that way, which is nice.  It's kind of been like that all week.  So I mean, it was easier and you could expect the greens to be reacting the same way.  But it's quite wet underfoot. 

 Q.  Were you aware -- you bogeyed 17 and you came back with a birdie? 
 KATHERINE HULL:  Yeah, I'm one of the people that watches the leaderboard from the first hole.  That's how I've been since I was a kid.  Yeah, I'm not going to change now. 

 Q.  After the bogey on 17, so you realized you dropped a stroke back? 
 KATHERINE HULL:  Yeah, I got a little quick, pulled it left and didn't get up-and-down.  It's golf and you don't make birdies no matter what tournament you play and no matter what the conditions.  You've just got to be patient.  I knew I would have a short iron in on No. 9, so I just had to kind of get as close as I could and hopefully make the putt. 

 Q.  So now you can sleep in tomorrow instead of getting  whenever they are going to get up and finish their round and start again. 
 KATHERINE HULL:  Yeah, I think the Friday morning times definitely got the best deal.  Yeah, they are not going to finish tonight.  They are going to get up early.  They will be lucky to be away from the golf course for -- well, it will be 11 hours, so it's a quick turnaround. 
 It's up the in air as to what time we're going to tee off tomorrow, so you've got to be ready to go I guess as soon as they are done. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thanks, Katherine, and good luck the rest of the weekend. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT