HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2007
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  That was one heck of a match.  What happened on the second playoff hole? 
 KATHERINE HULL:  I hit my drive in the bunker, and I think I had 150 yards to the hole and I hit 7-iron but came out of it, so I hit it a little fat.  My next shot was 67 yards and I think that went over the green.  And then chipped on and Annika's birdie putt rolled to a couple of inches. 
 So much I gave it everything I had, and I made a good putt on the 18th hole to go into extra holes.  So I've got some positives and obviously some things to work on. 

 Q.  Can you take me through what happened on 18 to send it into overtime? 
 KATHERINE HULL:  I hit my shot left -- she birdied 17 so she was first off the tee.  She hit her shot left off the tee into the rough.  I hit mine up the middle and she advanced hers up, I would say 120 yards, somewhere around there.  I hit a 7-wood to 97 yards.  She hit her shot -- I don't know how close it was but she just missed a birdie putt.  I hit a good pitching wedge to about seven feet and made the seven-footer for birdie and the extra hole.  I mean, I'm disappointed but I gave it everything I had. 

 Q.  You left a lot on the table there, and to take a player of that caliber to 20 holes, you have to be able to take something from this afternoon. 
 KATHERINE HULL:  Yeah, this year my game's improved a lot, and I'm just going to keep giving myself opportunities and keep working hard.  I think I can compete out here and win tournaments out here.  So it's just going to be a matter of time and patience. 

 Q.  Whereabouts in the match did you really feel like, hey, I've got a real good shot here; what were you doing well that you were able to call upon? 
 KATHERINE HULL:  You know, I felt good coming into this week.  I missed a couple of putts on the first and second holes, and Annika got off to a good start.  We kind of bounced back and forth all day really.  But I made a good birdie on -- my memory is real bad.  On 14, I made a good putt there and so that was to get back to square, and then I rolled a really long putt in on 15. 

 Q.  How long was that? 
 KATHERINE HULL:  Oh, gosh.  It was probably 70 feet -- well, feet and yards and meters -- it was probably close to -- it was at least 60, I need that much because it took about 20 paces to get to the hole. 

 Q.  That was for birdie? 
 KATHERINE HULL:  That was for birdie.  16 was a bad mistake on my part.  We both had putts from the front of the green, and I left mine probably seven feet short, and Annika rolled it to tap-in distance.  I didn't put as good of a stroke on it and missed it for birdie and she won that hole, and she birdied 17.  Actually I lipped out on 17, I thought I had mine but that's golf. 
 It was back and forth all day.  I mean, Annika played solidly in the extra holes, and that's what you've got to do. 

 Q.  Did she say anything to you afterward or during the match at all? 
 KATHERINE HULL:  We chatted a little bit out there but not a whole lot.  I was too busy yapping away to my caddie.  I kind of tend to talk a lot out there. 
 No, I mean Annika said "good playing today" and "good match."  So, yeah, it was fun.  It's good to, I guess, take the former world No. 1 to extra holes. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT