BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 17, 2005
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Katherine, second-place finish.  Pretty crazy day today.  3-under par.  Talk about that first.
KATHERINE HULL:  Yeah, it was up and down for the most part of the day.  I think I just missed a few probably crucial putts on the Back 9 which cost me.  But overall I'm very happy with second place.
THE MODERATOR:  Birdied 18 to finish second.
KATHERINE HULL:  Yeah, that was kind of nice.  I thought maybe Janice was going to birdie and force a playoff.  I guess she kind of had a bit of trouble.  I don't know.  I finally got the speed and the line right and rolled one in, so it was nice.
THE MODERATOR:  Can we go over your score card.
KATHERINE HULL:  Yeah.  I had a par on the 1st hole.  Hit the green in two, 2-putted.

Missed probably a 6-footer on 2 for birdie, so I made par.

Made about a 15-footer on -- maybe a 12-footer on No. 3 for birdie.
THE MODERATOR:  What did you hit up there?
KATHERINE HULL:  I hit -- I think I hit a grip 9-iron in there.

Birdie on 6.  Hit a pitching wedge actually kind of long and behind the hole.  I aimed the putt maybe six feet left of the hole.  It curved all the way downhill and dropped in.  It was a lucky putt.

3-putted 7.  I was on the wrong side of the green, had to come over a mound, didn't really have much choice.  Rolled off the green.  Missed the one from the fringe.  Bogeyed 7.

Bogeyed 8.  I 3-putted maybe from 40 feet.  Rolled it too far past.  Missed a 6-footer coming back.

Birdie on 10.  Hit an 8-iron to about maybe eight or ten feet.

Birdied 13.  Hit a 7-iron to about probably 12 feet.

Missed probably a seven-footer on 14.  Got up and down on 15 from the back of the green.  Missed maybe another seven-foot putt on 16.  Got up and down on 17 from the left side of the green.  Holed a 10-, 12-foot putt on the last hole.
THE MODERATOR:  What did you hit up there?
KATHERINE HULL:  Sand wedge.  Only had maybe 60 yards to the hole.
Q.  I think I know the answer, but you putted first on 18.  Was that out of courtesy?
KATHERINE HULL:  Yeah.  I think I might have been just away anyway.  If I wasn't, I probably would have putted out so Meena could have finished in the way that winners usually do.
Q.  Could you talk about playing with her today, how she played.
KATHERINE HULL:  She played solid the whole day.  She holed a lot of putts inside six feet, which was probably the key to her game.  I mean, she made a couple of bogeys on 14 and 15, but bounced right back on 16 with a birdie, then a great 2-putt on 17.

I mean, she just played solid all day and deserved to win.
Q.  This is your best finish in a tour event.  Does it make you want to win that much more, coming as close as you did?
KATHERINE HULL:  I think my previous best finish was sixth at the tournament in Youngstown, Ohio, last year.  I had a seventh in Auburn, California, as well I think in September.  It's kind of bittersweet getting this close and being only one shot off when I did leave a few putts out there.

I guess the first part of this year I've been struggling a little bit with my game.  Finally kind of piecing it together.  Had some good caddies.  They've kind of helped me out.  I feel like my game is almost -- it probably is the best it's ever been.  My ball-striking is by far.  My short game is coming around.

You've just got to give yourself opportunities.  I did today.  Put this up as a good experience and hopefully you can go on better next time.
Q.  What did you think about the course, the overall Nova Scotia experience this week?
KATHERINE HULL:  Golf course was fantastic.  Some challenging holes, some easy holes.  The pin placements were pretty tricky some of the days, which was good.  You don't want it too easy, too many birdies.  It was fair at the same time.

Fairways were probably the best we've had all year.  We've had kind of soggy fairways all year so it's been a little frustrating.  Kind of nice to get on some dryer fairways.

The greens he very receptive and rolled true.  As far as course goes, it was great.

Nova Scotia, I've had a great week.  People are really friendly here.  It's kind of funny because I've met a lot of people that have grown up in Halifax.  They've all got different accents.  Kind of reminds me of home a bit.  Even downtown I've been out every night checking it out.  That even reminds of me home.

It's been great.  A pity we can't come back here next year for the tournament.
Q.  I'm not sure how much you're aware of this, but there is no sponsor for this tournament for next year.  The RCGA has said by September, if they don't have something lined up, they will not hold the tournament again.  Could you comment on that.
KATHERINE HULL:  I think they're saying it's, what, $3 million to put on an event like this.
Q.  Canadian.
KATHERINE HULL:  I really hope they do get a sponsor because RCGA do a wonderful job of this tournament.  Everything was so well-run this week.  Nothing went wrong.  You know, it's sad if we can't get a sponsor.  It happened in Australia this year.  We lost the Australian Open.  I mean, you'd think someone would kind of stand up and just take it even for one year.

I mean, I don't know if tournaments can just sign one-year contracts.  Most of the LPGA events are three-year contracts.  I hope someone steps up and takes it.  I think women's golf is probably the best it's ever been.  It's a great opportunity for a company to sponsor an event like this.
THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.
KATHERINE HULL:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT