SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 3, 2012
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   All right.   We're here with Katherine Hull, who just finished runner‑up at the 2012 ShopRite LPGA Classic.   Congratulations.   We all knew what a big lead Stacy had going into today.   Was the mindset pretty much to try to catch her or how did you guys approach today?
KATHERINE HULL:   Well, catching her was going to be hard.   She's playing great.   So I think it was probably more a battle for second place.   And yeah, you just gotta be patient out here, and fortunately I put a good round on the board and really happy to finish second.

Q.   3‑under par round today for you.   What were the keys out there for you today to be so successful?
KATHERINE HULL:   Just stayed patient.   I had three birdies on the last four holes, so that was kind of the key to the round really.   Nothing was happening on the front nine, and made a couple bad swings, but was able to finish with two birdies, which was really nice.

Q.   Great finish.   Overall, now heading into a major next week, how are you feeling about the state of your game?
KATHERINE HULL:   Pretty happy.   I've just gotta tighten up a few things and hopefully can be back this week, which will be nice.

Q.   And I guess overall, the season so far, how have you been feeling and what's kind of the mindset going into the second half of the year?
KATHERINE HULL:   My coach and I sat down at the start of the year and figured it would take a few months just to get some momentum because we were kind of ironing out some things with my game. 
So yeah, I'm happy to be finding some form now and looking forward to certainly the last half of the season.

Q.   Do you play any differently when someone has a big lead like that?   Do you try to take more chances early on to see if you can catch her or do you just kind of play your game and see what happens?
KATHERINE HULL:   Yeah, when she's that far ahead, she's gotta make a lot of mistakes and you gotta shoot a really low round.   So you just stick to your game plan and try and make as many putts as you can and add them up at the end of the day.   That's all you can really do.

Q.   Do you watch the leaderboard at all?
KATHERINE HULL:   Yeah, I do a little bit.   And on 17, too, it was funny.   I was looking at the one on 16 green and my caddie said, hey, eyes forward.   To he wanted me to stay focused on the process, and I was able to do that, which is nice. 
But yeah, I like to watch the leaderboards, and certainly it changed a lot today, like for the rest of the Top 10.   Stacy had it I think pretty well covered on the front nine, but yeah, it was a bit of an interesting back nine for the rest of us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT