NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 13, 2011
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome our defending champion, Katherine Hull, into our fun media room. Thanks for joining us today. Can you just talk a little bit about what it's like to be back at this tournament having such great memories from last year.  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, it actually seems like a long time ago, but it's always nice to be back here. I love this golf course, and we're fortunate we play down in Mobile, as well, and I think the southern hospitality, you can't beat it. It actually reminds me of home, like the laid-back kind of personality of people. Yeah, it's nice to be here. I love this golf course obviously and happy to be back and defending.   
  
  Q. There's been a lot of changes to this golf course, I know, since you guys played here last year. It underwent some renovations. I think you're playing this afternoon. Are you excited to see the changes that have been made? The course looks to be in great shape from what I've heard.   
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, everyone I've talked to says it's in awesome condition. The greens are pure, obviously. It's exciting for us to play on really fresh greens. I think structurally No. 5 green is the only one they've changed, so I think it'll be cool to get out there and see what it's like. Yeah, I can play this golf course and never get bored with it because every hole is different and conditions change daily, so it's a fun course to play.  
  
  Q. In terms of your season, I know you've had four top-21 finishes. It's been kind of an up-and-down year for you. How would you kind of describe your season? How do you feel about your game coming into this week?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I've kind of had a rough year off the golf course, and it's affected what's going on on the golf course, so it's been hard to kind of get that in check. But I think I've turned the corner, and looking forward to finishing the year off a lot better than what it has been this summer. Yeah, you've just got to be patient in this game and take your opportunities when you get them.   
  
  Q. When you think about this course, what are kind of the things that you have to take advantage of that you were able to do last year to be successful and to be able to make a lot of birdies?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, the greens are pretty big out here, so to make birdies, you've got to be knocking it close, or at least in the quadrant of the hole is in. Pretty generous off the tee, although there are some holes you have to be accurate with your lines. I think it's an all-around good test of golf. You're going to see lots of birdies this year, as well.   
 Yeah, scores are going to be just as good, if not better, than last year, I'm sure.  
  
  Q. Anything specific that you've been working on swing-wise or putting-wise lately?   
 KATHERINE HULL: No, swing-wise it feels pretty good. Golf for me right now is all mental. It's such a game of confidence, and I'm just going to try and get that back. It's always, I guess, a work in progress, as is life.   
  
  Q. Navistar is making this event free to the public so you don't have to pay to come see the best players in the world. Is that unusual for the LPGA, and why should people come out?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, I don't know if that's a first for the LPGA or not. It sounds like it could be, which is awesome. Yeah, hopefully we get more crowds out. I think it's a great thing for Navistar to have done. It's generous, but I hope it helps them with their company and profiling and branding. Yeah, it's nice for the LPGA, too. I guess we can probably reach more fans that way and hopefully introduce more people to golf.  
  
  Q. For people coming out for the first time, what tips would you give them to come watch a tournament?  
 KATHERINE HULL: To bring some water and a hat and just have fun. Don't hesitate to ask questions at the end of a round and get autographs, whatever. Most of the players are pretty open and like to chat, at least after they're playing. Yeah, I think golf is kind of one of those unique sports where you can get up and close, up close with the players and chat with them, so why not take advantage of that.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Good luck this week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT