HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 23, 2011
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. So can you tell us your thoughts so far?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, it's been okay. I would have liked to win in the last six weeks but yeah, game has not been I guess 100 per cent for all those weeks. It's been a bit streaky, so hopefully I can finish this it one off the right way.  
  
  Q. What do you think you need to do then to up tempo a little bit?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I think my tempo is fine. It's just going to be mentally staying sharp out there, last week I had periods where I felt like my brain was on vacation. So my caddie and I are kind of aware of it now when I switch off a little and it will just be a matter of kind of saying to each other, hey, let's sharpen up here and not be so casual.   
 But my golf swing feels great. I feel okay. It's just going to be a matter of resting at night and making sure I get eight or nine hours of sleep and making sure I'm staying hydrated and not pushing myself too hard in the gym.  
  
  Q. And not reading novels in the 3.00am?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, exactly.  
  
  Q. Can you tell us about your play last week in Thailand?  
 KATHERINE HULL: It was good, actually, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. Thursday's round, one of those days where I just couldn't get anything going. I think, yeah, I felt a bit more comfortable on the weekend and certainly figured some things out with my routine.   
 So, yeah, looking to implement that this week and be a bit more sharp.  
  
  Q. So you were playing the Pro-Am this morning, so tell us about the course, maybe the challenges or your thoughts?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Golf course is in great shape. Probably just as good if not better than the previous years we've been here so that's nice. We always expect this place to be in fantastic condition so it has not let us down.   
 I think it might be a bit drier this year so there's going to be a couple of tee shots where you don't have to hit a driver. You might have to hit 3-wood instead to make sure you're in good position and not bringing a hazard into play. So, yeah, it's going to be a fun afternoon I think come Sunday.  
  
  Q. Your expectations for this competition this year?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Obviously I would love to win it. So yeah, take four good scores, for me, I guess I've always struggled with putting four good rounds together. I can put 3-up there but this week is going to be a test as to whether I can put four in a row.  
  
  Q. What do you like about playing in Singapore?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Everything. I mean, the crowds are great. The golf course is fantastic. I like the atmosphere. The people are super friendly. The food is great. I like where we stay, good shopping and restaurants. Yeah, I get a good vibe about the whole place and always enjoy coming here.  
  
  Q. And you're from Brisbane?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, Brisbane.   
  
  Q. Do you think you have an edge over the other girls in terms of climate and flights?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, maybe a little bit of an edge in terms of the climate. And in terms of the flights, it's only I think two-hour time change. So for me, I've been in Australia since December 21, so I didn't have to change much coming here whereas a lot of girls come from Europe and the states. So there's an adjustment there.   
 But I think the hotter the better for me. I love sweating it out out there, certainly easier than when it's cold.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT