HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 23, 2011
Katherine Hull-Kirk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE SCANLAN: Katherine, thanks for coming in. If you works just tell us a bit about your game right now, how you're feeling. I know you have been pretty busy in the last seven weeks.  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, this is my seventh week on the road, so kind of running out of gas. But golf swing feels it good. It's just whether the brain stays switched on at this point.   
  
  Q. What do you learn about -- two years ago, after the third round, what did you learn about the experience coming in this year?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I think when you have like a good few rounds at a golf course, you obviously get some confidence from that, and you feel good about returning to a course, because, yeah, you know you can shoot some good scores.   
 So yeah, I think that is probably -- yeah, I'll draw on that, knowing that I can make plenty of birdies out here and I like the golf course.   
  
  Q. How did the course play today for you?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Actually pretty well. Fairways are fantastic. The whole golf course is in great shape. The greens are a bit slower than what we probably would expect coming from Thailand, so I think you'll see probably a few putts finish short over the next few days, but we'll get the hang of it by the weekend.   
  
  Q. Were you pleased with your putting today?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, I think I made four or so birdies, so it was okay. Got to hit it closer, though, if you're going to have more birdies.   
  
  Q. You mentioned that you have been on the road for seven weeks; how much is that a factor this week with the heat? A tough course, as well?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, I mean, for me, seven weeks in a row is too many (laughing). So I'll be looking forward to Sunday night, that's for sure. But the heat doesn't bother me too much. I'm from Queensland.   
 Actually, the hotter the better, because I think that kind of affects some of the other girls adversely, and so the hotter the better. I don't mind the conditions at all. They are great.   
  
  Q. How do you find the food?   
 KATHERINE HULL: The food? I love the food.   
  
  Q. Do you eat spicy?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I like spicy. In fact, we went to an Indian restaurant last night and everyone was like, gets get mild and I'm like, come on, guys, spice it up a bit. I love the food.   
 Yeah, I'll try anything, too. I've kind of got an adventurous streak in me.  
  
  Q. What is the most exotic food you've had in your seven weeks on the road?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Let me get back to you on that one. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. There's a lot?  
 KATHERINE HULL: No, not a lot. I'm just trying to think. There was something last week I probably tried that was a little interesting but I can't think.   
  
  Q. Compared to a few years ago, two years ago, is the course any different? Are you a different kind of player two years ago?   
 KATHERINE HULL: I think it the golf course is pretty much the same. It might be a little drier than the last couple of years because we have obviously had some rain. And I feel my game is better than what it was two years ago, but I think the thing now is that there's more girls out here with more talent. So that means you've got to be that much better if you're going to have a chance at winning.  
  
  Q. So will your strategy change two years ago when the course is basically the same?   
 KATHERINE HULL: I usually keep a strategy pretty simple. I'm not an overaggressive player or an overly conservative player. Yeah, just hit the fairways, hit the greens. I tell people, it's not brain surgery.   
  
  Q. If you were out here as a spectator for a week, what would you be watching and what would you tell the spectators that are out here to watch? What will they learn most from?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I would say routines. Players out here, we have all got different routines, but we are all pretty strict with what they are. They are always consistent, because under pressure, it's the one thing that's going to help you execute the best possible shot.   
 So I think amateurs, too, tend to not be as consistent with all that sort of stuff, so I think that's probably one of the most important things they could learn from.   
  
  Q. And would you say that there are different routines in different parts of the world? Like in Australia, do you notice the Japanese do this or the English players tend to that or the Americans do something different?   
 KATHERINE HULL: I think there's probably more Asian players have their caddies line them up. But everyone's different. I'm trying to think if there's anything else that stands out.   
 No, I think -- yeah, it's up to the individual. I mean some, girls will have their caddies involved and others want them just to carry the bag. I don't think there's too many -- there's no cookie cut girl out here. Everyone's different.   
  
  Q. Of the holes that you have to go and sit and watch, what holes do you most find, 16?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, 16, because you can have a crack at it. You're going to see a lot of birdies. I think birdies are always fun to watch.  
  
  Q. So compared with two years, what has changed or what have you improved significantly?  
 KATHERINE HULL: My short game is a lot better than what it was. And I think my ball-striking is, too. I'm hitting it a little bit further. Overall I think my whole game is a lot better than what it was.   
  
  Q. You seem to be getting much more into the shot -- you seem to be getting power from the ground all the way up, more from two years ago, three years ago?  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, I've been working a lot in the gym on getting my lower body stronger, glutes and core stronger. That makes a big difference, because it's easier to generate power that way, as opposed to trying to swing fast with your upper body. I think part of it is, too, an education process about the golf swing. I found out -- it would have been, yeah, a year ago now, that my hip sequence was not exactly conducive to swinging it well.   
 So yeah, been working on that and that's made a difference, too.   
  
  Q. As the only one person who has finished in the top two in these tournaments to not be a world No. 1; do you have an idea of what it is about this event that seems to be to bring out the best of this event?   
 KATHERINE HULL: No, I don't have a viewpoint on that -- well, maybe there's a desire factor in there. Obviously to be No. 1, you've got to -- you have got to want to be No. 1. And at the start of the year, the girls that win the tournaments, they are going to be I think the ones out there wanting to win very early on. So maybe there's a correlation there.   
  
  Q. So what does it mean to you to be world No. 1?   
 KATHERINE HULL: That would be a dream come true, because I've wanted that since I was a little kid. But it's going to take a lot more hard work. There's so many girls out here that right now, as evidenced last year, we had, what, five girls that reached No. 1?   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Five that contended all year.  
 KATHERINE HULL: Yeah, it's a lot tougher now than what it was when I joined the Tour eight years ago.   
  
  Q. You've had patches of three, four, five weeks where you've played up to that level; what do you need to do to do it for the two years that you actually have to, to get to that ranking?   
 KATHERINE HULL: I think the biggest thing for me is what I do off the golf course. Because my personality runs kind of hot and cold.   
 So it's probably why my golf sometimes get hot and cold. I think if I can maybe get my time management right and my priorities right off the golf course, then I'll start to get better results on the golf course.   
  
  Q. Is it a matter of being more dedicated or being a duller person off the golf course?  
 KATHERINE HULL: I don't know about dull. I'm dedicated to my golf, for sure, but I try and do too much. So for me, I'm going to have to I think taper some other stuff down and make sure that I'm feeling rested and fresher at each tournament if I'm going to have a chance at winning.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us what it is you do when you're not playing golf then apart from working on it?   
 KATHERINE HULL: I'm the best time waster there is. I don't know, I guess at nighttime, because that's me time, like no one's around to distract me or ask me questions, so I just tend to get caught on doing stuff, whether it's booking flights or reading a book or whatever. I lose track of time. Nothing like too extravagant like going out and clubbing or anything.   
  
  Q. Do you find yourself reading a book until 3.00 in the morning or what?   
 KATHERINE HULL: Not until three, no. I am a night owl, so I'll say over the last seven weeks, there's been a few 1.00am bed times, but yeah, all different stuff. It's not one thing that I get stuck doing.  
  
  Q. So what was the last movie that you saw?  
 KATHERINE HULL: From start to end? (Laughter).  
  
  Q. In the cinema?  
 KATHERINE HULL: In the cinema? Oh, gosh, I can't remember the last time I went to the cinema. Really plane flights are the only time I get to watch movies. Flying from Brisbane to Bangkok last week, I watched a couple flying up.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks, Katherine.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT