BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2017
Joakim Lagergren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6-under today in much more tricky conditions, how difficult is it with that stronger breeze picking up?  
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: It's picking up as you say.  I would say we played like the first five, six holes with barely no wind and it's picking up.  So 6-under today in these conditions is pretty good.   
 Q.  And with the wind picking up around a course like this, what do you have to do particularly well to be able to chalk up a number like that?  
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: Well, as always, you always have to play good to post a good number.  You need to hit good shots out there.   
 Q.  Doesn't go unnoticed you posted that score playing alongside Ryder Cup Captain Thomas Björn.  Is that on your mind?  Is it nice to impress The Ryder Cup captain?  
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: I need to do a lot to get on that team, so I'll start with impressing him today and hopefully will impress him the rest of the year.   
 Q.  Already a second place in Qatar this year.  Where do you feel your game is at right now?  
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: It's been so-so the last couple of months but starting to get better and better.   
 Q.  66 out there, how was it for you?  
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: It was great out there.  I had a lot of fun out there.  Playing really, really good, especially from tee-to-green.  So I'm happy with that.   
 Q.  You had two bogeys out there but you got them back as soon as possible.  That must have been good, as well.  
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: Yeah, missed a really short one, like two-and-a-half-footer on the 14th.  So that felt pretty bad the at the moment.  But as you said, got it back pretty quickly.  Yeah, good.   
 Q.  Bit more windy than yesterday.  How was it playing?  
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: It's a little bit more windy, yes.  I would say the greens are a bit smaller when it's this windy, but if you're still hitting really good shots out there, it's scorable.   
 Q.  Huge congratulations at the end from Mr. Björn.  How was that playing with him today?  
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: Great fun.  I enjoyed playing with him.   
 Q.  Great position, a bit more wind coming today, so you'll have the lead going into tomorrow?  
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: Yeah, that would be nice.  Some rest in the morning.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT