DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 6, 2018
Joakim Lagergren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How sharp does the game feel?
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: I wouldn't say very sharp, but obviously I've been getting the ball in the hole and scoring well.  There's a lot of things to improve still a bit off the tee.  There's a lot of improvement to do but I managed to go low two days in a row now is good.
I mean, if you stay out of the bunkers and take on the big parts of the green and hole a few putts, you can go low around here, and obviously we have perfect conditions, as well.  If we get rain or windy, I don't want to even think about how hard this course is.
Q. A recent win for you.  What has that done for confidence?
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: Yeah, it was very nice.  Obviously I know I can win on Tour now, which is a huge confidence boost.  Haven't been playing well since, but sometimes it's hard to follow up after a win.
Q. Three missed cuts since.  Is that kind of an adjustment?  A lot happens obviously when you win, a lot of media, commitments, expectations personally.  What kind of changes?
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: I can't tell you, really.  I've been trying to play as good as I can, but I can't tell you why it hasn't been great lately.  You need to set up new targets and goals.
Q. This week, was there a feeling, it's time to get back to business?
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: Yeah, I mean, it's so frustrating missing cuts.  I just hate missing cuts and not playing the weekend, so it was about time.
Q. Have to ask you about a certain football match tomorrow.  I asked you off-camera whether you were feeling confident and you weren't sure?
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: I'm not feeling confident.  My heart says Sweden is going to win but my head says it's going to be fight.
Q. A second round 68 from you, you've given yourself plenty of chances and you've been good on the greens today.  How do you see the 18 holes?
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: I'm really happy with the score.  I don't think the game is where I want it to be.  Some loose shots here and there, but I'll take 68 every day.
Q. Was there a feeling that there was perhaps a hangover after the win in Sicily?
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: I missed three cuts after the win and sometimes it's just hard to follow up a win with great results but feels like it's time to get back.
Q. In terms of links golf, how does this compare and how do you enjoy playing this kind of golf?
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: Just love it.  It's so fun.  You need some great imagination.  Sometimes you can't take on pins and stuff like that.  I love links golf.
Q. Have you changed anything this week to suit this golf course, any different clubs in the bag?  People tend to putt longer irons in rather than the driving clubs?
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: I have a 2-iron instead of a 5-wood.  Otherwise, it's all the same.
Q. I know you'll be asked about the football tomorrow.  What are your thoughts?
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: 1-1.
Q. What pleased you most about the round?
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: How I scored out there probably.  I was a bit so-so off the tee.  Irons were pretty okay but short game and putting was good.  So that was probably a key part to score well.
Q. How much do you enjoy the challenge of links golf?
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: I love links golf.  I think it's a lot of fun to play.  You really need to have some good imagination.  I think it's a lot of fun out there.
Q. Do the fans remember you from your big win a few years ago Galgorm, Ballymena.
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: Yeah, that was great, my first win on The Challenge Tour, still got that in my memory.
Q. How excited are you about the weekend?
JOAKIM LAGERGREN: It's going to be a lot of fun obviously, playing in front of the Irish crowds are always nice.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT