PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Barry Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Obviously just maybe talk a little bit about your round today, just a couple comments on it.
BARRY EVANS:  It's pretty hard to say I had a really good time shooting 81, but I did.  I had a bunch of members out there.

We started on the back, and I doubled the first hole.  I hit it in the rough, took me a couple to get it out.  I mean, you hit it in the wrong places in the rough out here, I mean, you can't get it anywhere.  I tried to just get it back to the fairway and I couldn't get it there.

Other areas, if you get it in the rough you can at least advance it.  I made three doubles on my first nine.  The other nine I played okay, but I'd like to blame it on putting, which is usually my problem.  But I didn't have any three putts or miss any three footers, so it was just me, hit it in the rough and made double.  I had a really good time.
Q.  You were talking about the rough and the course and stuff like that.  Besides the rough, what did you see at the course that could potentially challenge some of the players here coming into the weekend?
BARRY EVANS:  I think it's awesome.  You've got a couple scary swings.  2 is a scary swing, 17 is a scary swing, 14, the other par 3.  They're all scary swings.  You're hitting it over water and you want to pick the perfect club, but you try to pick the perfect club and then don't hit it perfect, you're making double.  I think Davis Love made triple on 17 today and was 7 under.

The golf course is right in front of you.  I mean, I can see low numbers if you're hitting it good.  The greens are soft enough.  The greens are not very fast.  I thought they'd be a lot faster and they're not.  Downhill you can stop it, which surprised me.  I thought they'd be like 13, and I don't think they're rolling faster than 10.  But they're phenomenal.  Everything about this golf course is awesome.  There's nothing tricky.  You've got to hit good shots, and I didn't hit good shots.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT