PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2002
Barry Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BARRY EVANS:  I birdied 16 (laughter).  Very difficult.  The rough is nasty.  Excellent golf course.  Perfect condition.  If it stays as windy as it was today, it's going to be very, very difficult - very.  It's just a fantastic golf course.  Nothing unfair about it anywhere that I saw.  I thought it was just superb.  
 
 
Q.  Where do you play out of?
 
BARRY EVANS:  Berry Hills Country Club in Charleston, West Virginia. 
 
Q.  Have you played with any of the club pros in this tournament?
 
BARRY EVANS:  No.  There's three tri-state section guys in it, too (laughter).  
 
Q.  Traditionally the club pros haven't done very well, average of two or three guys make the cut every year.  Is your goal to make the cut coming in or do you have a higher goal?  Are you just happy to be here?
 
BARRY EVANS:  All of the above.  It surprises me that more club pros don't make it each year.  I think what you have to look at is, we're playing against professional golfers, and we're golf professionals.  Granted, on any given day, any given week, I know a lot of guys that can play some superb golf.  But to answer your question, if I made the cut, I'd be very happy.  If I had a week like I had at Valhalla, I would expect to finish very well.  Do I think I have a chance of wining?  Maybe one in 40 million.  But I'm very happy to be here.  It's been a fantastic day.  
 
Q.  Is Valhalla your career highlight?  What is your 15 minutes of fame before this?
 
BARRY EVANS:  As a golf professional at a club, I mean, I would have to say yes.  That's our PGA.   At least when I went to CPC, my goal really wasn't to get to the PGA, per se.  That was a tremendous bonus.  But, you know, I went there hoping to play well, make the cut, hoped to finish in the Top 25.  To win it, that absolutely has been the highlight of my career.  
 
Q.  Could you describe your daily schedule as a club professional compared to maybe what a full-time professional would be. 
 
BARRY EVANS:  Well, let me tell you what I did this weekend.  We had our club member-member tournament.  I was up at five both days, at the club at six both days.   We have five nine-hole matches in two days.  The second day the golf gods didn't cooperate, the playoff went longer than expected, so I rushed to get out of there and get to the airport.  You know, I work at a wonderful club.  I have great members.  They like me to play.  I play with a lot of the members.  But I teach.  I run the golf operations.  You know, my job is not to play golf.  I do play golf because of my job, but it's not my job to play golf.  
 
Q.  How old are you and what is your golf background, college golf, Mini Tour, that type of thing?
 
BARRY EVANS:  40 years old.  I went to a state school in New Jersey called Ramapo College of New Jersey.  The reason I went there at the time, Division III, they were very good.  In 1982, we won the Division III National Championship.  When I got out of school, I moved to Florida.  I played the Mini Tour for a while.  I used to travel some with Kenny Perry.  We were to play a practice round tomorrow.  I've basically been in the golf business off and on since my early 20s.  You know, last 12 years I've been at Berry Hills Country Club.  
 
Q.  I know it's early in the week, what has been your best experience so far today?  Have you been out there?  Have you practiced?  Have you talked to any of the guys whose job it is to play golf?
 
BARRY EVANS:  A little bit.  I asked John Cook in the locker room, I said, "How do you get through the crowds?"  He goes, "Sign and walk.  Sign and walk."  The coolest part of today is I think seeing all the kids, signing autographs.  It's been an awe-inspiring experience for me today.  It's tremendous.  Just the operation and setup for a major championship is just fantastic.  
 
Q.  You never played in an Open?
 
BARRY EVANS:  No, I haven't.  My first TOUR event.  Just happens to be the PGA, a major.  
 
Q.  Have you ever had moments on other courses like you had in the third round at Valhalla?
 
BARRY EVANS:  A few times, but I won the section championship, tri-state section championship in 1998.  I shot 65 the second round.  But to do it at Valhalla was very special.  You know, first three rounds of Valhalla were a tremendous amount of fun.  My caddie and I, John DiAnthony (phonetic), who is a member of mine, just had a great time.  I can't say that I had a great time the last round because I felt a little sick to my stomach most of the day.   That's probably the best round I ever played in competition.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT