BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2007
Billy Gillispie
Acie Law IV
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHARLIE FISS:  We're ready for Texas A&M.  We have Coach Gillispie and his two student athletes, Acie Law and Joseph Jones.   
 Coach, your thoughts on tonight's game against OSU?   
 COACH BILLY GILLISPIE:  It was a tough loss for us.  They played really hard and I thought both teams played fairly hard and we couldn't execute the way we needed to.  We didn't finish plays in the basket.   
 They were pretty tough in there and they made their free throws and we missed ours.  It is just a matter of executing, finishing plays in the paint.   
  
  Q.  Acie, Coach Sutton in here a little ago just said the one thing they talked about all day today, they didn't want to let you beat them on that last possession especially.  Did it look to you like they would let anybody else but you take that shot?   
 ACIE LAW:  When we came out of the time out, they said if they would score that we wasn't going to call a time out, we were going to try to push it back and try to get a quick basket.  But they did a good job of getting back in transition defense.  And not letting me get to the basket.  Forced me to kick it out.  We weren't able to make a play to win the game.   
  
  Q.  Acie, what was the difference in this game versus that 20-point win in Stillwater when you basically manhandled them and had their fans booing them off the court?  What was the difference in that game and tonight?   
 ACIE LAW:  Their intensity level.  I mean, credit to them.  They came out and played hard.  I thought we played hard.  But like Coach said, we didn't finish plays, missed too many easy baskets, and didn't convert our free throws.  Little simple things and simple mistakes down the stretch.   
 Credit to them, they came out and back was against the wall, and they answered the call when they needed to.   
  
  Q.  Did their physical play -- I mean, did it seem to bother you guys a little bit?  Especially, you know, trying to get the ball inside tonight, it seemed like that was really difficult at times.   
 ACIE LAW:  They played hard.  It was a physical game.  We knew that coming in, that they were going to try to just play real physical and make it tough for us as they could.  Like I said, we was in position to make a few plays and a few easy baskets and we weren't able to finish them.   
 I mean, they played hard.  As simple as that.  We just got to do a better job of finishing plays out there.   
  
  Q.  Coach, on the last play Oklahoma State had, why didn't you double-down on Boggan there?   
 COACH BILLY GILLISPIE:  Did you want us to leave this guy open at the basket?  Did you want us to leave this guy open at the basket?  He was at the elbow.  We normally don't double at that position.  I don't think anybody else would either, but maybe they do.   
  
  Q.  Billy, can you talk about maybe what they were able to do against Acie that kind of took him out of the game at times, especially down the stretch?   
 COACH BILLY GILLISPIE:  We got what we needed to, just didn't finish plays.   
 I thought after we first got -- after we finally got started, I thought we were paceless at the start and we normally have a better pace for our offense.  We were not getting the ball reversed at all and we were being very tentative about driving to the basket.   
 Once we got started, we got the ball where we needed to for the most part, except the last turnover by Kirk when he threw it out, when he didn't drive instead of trying to force it into Joe.   
 We got the ball in the paint plenty of times.  Sometimes Acie is not going to be able to score every single time but if your other guys perform like they need to, you should be able to be okay and we have really good players.  They just didn't finish enough plays in the paint.   
  
  Q.  Billy, you guys obviously had great overall record, great run through the league.  So do you expect this team to respond really well heading into the NCAA tournament after a loss?   
 COACH BILLY GILLISPIE:  What do you think?  (Smiling).   
  
  Q.  I'm asking.   
 COACH BILLY GILLISPIE:  I think we'll be all right.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT