FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2005
Dana Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Dana, after kind of shaky start...
DANA QUIGLEY:  That was horrendous.  That wasn't shaky.  "Shaky" is being way too kind (laughter).
THE MODERATOR:  Diplomatic.
DANA QUIGLEY:  That's right.
THE MODERATOR:  You got things turned around after a double at 12.
DANA QUIGLEY:  Hit actually a pretty good iron shot at 12.  The pin is right on that right edge.  I thought the wind might drag it a little bit left.  I went right at it.  It faded just a touch.
THE MODERATOR:  What did you hit?
DANA QUIGLEY:  6 iron.  Hit the side of the hill, went down in the water.  I don't know if any of you guys saw, who was it that did that, hit the rocks three times, came back up on the green at Loch Lomond.  Darren Clarke.  I saw it bobble twice on the rocks.  I'm like, "Come on."  It didn't do it, of course.

You want birdies, bogeys, singles?
THE MODERATOR:  What happened maybe on 2?
DANA QUIGLEY:  2, I just hit a tree off the tee.  I had about 195 to the hole.  Hit a 4 iron up on the right.  Hit a great flopshot about five feet past and missed it.  I think the secret to the first seven holes was    six holes was I didn't make the putts I've been making the first two days.

I missed about a 10 footer on the 1st hole for birdie.  Hit a beautiful 9 iron in there.  Missed a 5 footer on the 2nd hole.  3rd hole, I hit right in front of the green in two.  Don't make birdie.  Fourth hole I missed a 15 footer for par.  Hit it in the bunker, not a great lie.  The fifth hole, I had it in the bunker off the tee.  Had the blocks going a little bit early.  Hit a great wedge up there about six feet and missed it.

Next hole, if you guys saw the pin on 6, it looked like it was in that guy's yard.  I mean, you needed floaters to play that one.  I went for the pin only because I was 3 over.  I tried to make something happen.  Hit it about 10 feet, missed that.

At that point I said to my caddie, "I'm 0 for 6 with the putter.  Usually these things will even out.  We just have to hang in there."  Next I hit it to the fringe and 2 putted for birdie.

8, I had a 10 footer for birdie I missed.

9, I had about a 4 footer for birdie I missed.

I felt like I was in there.  I felt like it was turned around and nothing was happening.

11, I got it    hit it about 12 feet and made it.

12, I hit a really decent iron shot, 6 iron, dunked it in the water, made 5.

Next hole, beautiful 5 wood, second shot, right at the hole.  It was probably about 25 feet by.  I 2 putted it for birdie.

Next hole, I hit an unbelievable driver, 9 iron to that hole.  We've been hitting 5's and 6's.  I really crushed two there, didn't make birdie.  Had a great putt.

Next hole is a par 3.  6 iron, 195 yards.  Hit 6 iron about 12 feet in front of it and didn't make it.

16, I hit 3 wood, 8 iron.  Had 158 yards to the hole.  Hit 8 iron right behind the hole, missed it.

17, I played it horribly.  I hit it in the right trap, went through the trap into the thing, above the trap, crummy grass.  I had to chip it out with an 8 iron.  I still had 150 yards to the hole.  I hit 9 iron about probably 12 feet behind it and made it.  That could have been 6.  It turned out 4.  That was almost a two shot swing.

18 I think I made the first birdie I ever made in eight years there.  That was a great way to finish.  Just really chip shotted a driver down to the end of the water and hit 9 iron.  I had 150 yards.  I hit 9 iron about 10 feet by the hole and made it.  That was a key putt to keep me in the action really.

So it was not pretty at all.  Wasn't anything like the first two rounds.  But, you know, we tallied them all up and I'm only a shot out.  Man, I tell you, can't get any better than that.  I should be really out of the tournament the way I played today probably.  The fact that I turned it around, got it to where I'm only a shot back really is going to give me quite a real positive attitude for tomorrow.  I'm going to be able to go out there and play some golf, I think.
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.
Q.  What is the difference?  Would you say in years past you would have been out of this tournament playing as poorly as you did today?
DANA QUIGLEY:  Years past I probably would have shot a higher score.  I'm really playing so well, I just    I just figured for some reason it would turn around.  Probably confidence more than anything.  Other times when you're not so confident, you shoot your 78, your 77, you're out of the tournament.  I just felt like the way I've been playing the last few months that, you know, something good could happen.  I just tried to think that way.

It's a lot easier when you've got a bunch of money in the bank, too, I hate to tell you.  It's a true story.  When you're not scrapping to make the top 30 or to do whatever, that thought never enters.  Other years when you're not having a very good year, this is a big payday week, you really put pressure on yourself to finish well to get a big check.  I'm not thinking in terms of the dollar sign any more at all.  It's not overrated when people are trying to play for money.  It's a hard thing to do.  I did it all my career.  When one of those variables leaves your mind, it gives you a lot of room to think about golf, to be honest with you.
Q.  (No microphone.)
DANA QUIGLEY:  I don't like to make excuses for poor play.  I felt horrible today.  If I had gone to a fancy Italian restaurant and eaten all the hot sausage and everything, that's the kind of feeling I had in my stomach all day.  It wasn't from food.  You're not supposed to take Advil.  I popped three Advils just before I went off.  My wife gave me a    she's a massage therapist.  Another thing about playing late is you got all day to kill.  She gave me about an hour and a half workout on my back this morning.  Larry Nelson has this ibuprofen that is a rub on.  She rubbed it all over me.  I think I must have gotten too much of that to be honest with you.

Man, my stomach was just like burning out there today.  I don't like to talk about that because I don't want to make excuses for poor play.  But I was not my old jovial aggressive self out there today.  I was kind of    plus I had Aoki.  I couldn't crack any jokes.  He wouldn't get them anyway, the dog.
Q.  (No microphone.)
DANA QUIGLEY:  I wonder what that is from.  No more pairings with guys that don't speak English.  That's the deal.  I want it signed in the contract so I can joke (laughter).  That's part of my game.  Everyone knows that, too.
Q.  (No microphone.)
DANA QUIGLEY:  That's a good question.  It just dawned on me this week.  I know the PGA    I never thought about it, but it didn't dawn on me.  This week, because this is a huge money tournament, some of the years I was playing because of the big check, didn't do any good at all.  Today was really the first time I thought about, "Man, I haven't had that thought in my mind," which is pretty unique, pretty cool.

When I think about it, it does put a lot more pressure on you than you need out there.  This course is too hard to be worrying about finishing one spot ahead of the next one for the bigger paycheck and all that.  If you can play this course without any of that, it's going to be a lot easier.
Q.  Did you look at the leaderboard?
DANA QUIGLEY:  I watched it all day, and they weren't going anywhere.  I thought someone would go to 15 or so today.  Maybe my bad play wasn't so bad.  Maybe the course got a little bit back at us today.  Tom McKnight played in front of me.  I bet the last six holes he made between 5  and 10 footers every hole.  I figured they were birdies, but evidently they were all pars.  Last hole was for bogey actually.

It played hard.  You get the big man at the lead.  He'll probably be nervous with all us, McKnight, myself, and who else?
Q.  Gil.
DANA QUIGLEY:  Well, Gil, he might be worried about Gil.  He won't worry about me and Tom McKnight.  Maybe we can sneak in there tomorrow.  It's going to be good.  If he and I can post numbers tomorrow, it's a hard course to catch up on.  I have McKnight.
Q.  (No microphone.)
DANA QUIGLEY:  Tom and I played the last round together at the PGA.  Tom is a nice guy.  He comes from the same basic background that I do.  I was a club pro.  He bopped around on no tours.  I think it's a good pairing for me and it's probably going to be a good pairing for Tom.
Q.  (No microphone.)
DANA QUIGLEY:  Oh, yeah, Tom is a good guy.  Tom has a good sense of humor.  We'll let Gil and Hale fight it out like it was the old days.
Q.  How were the birds on 5?
DANA QUIGLEY:  How about that?  I'm suing somebody.  If I take a club and hit that son of a 'b' tomorrow.
Q.  (No microphone.)
DANA QUIGLEY:  You watch me.  I'm going to forget about the hole.  That thing comes down at me tomorrow, I'm getting him.  I'll get a letter from Audbon Society saying cruelty to frickin' animals.  He actually hit me.  I actually checked it to see if he broke the surface.  All that frickin' disease going around, I didn't want it.  What a way to go.  I want to go a much more exotic way than that.  I'm going to have something, I'll tell you.  I'm laying for that bird tomorrow (laughter).
Q.  What kind of bird was it?
DANA QUIGLEY:  I don't know.  He must have a nest.
Q.  Black bird.
DANA QUIGLEY:  He must have a nest right there because he's been kind of letting us know to stay away as we cross that bridge all week.  Man, he came down and hit me today.  They were all laughing, that son of a gun.  I'm 3 over.  I didn't want to sound like I was a poor sport, so I didn't say anything back.  I thought it was an omen actually, the bird.  It's 5 after that, so it was all right.

Really, he came all the way at me today.
THE MODERATOR:  Thanks, Dana.
DANA QUIGLEY:  Hopefully tomorrow afternoon, boys and girls.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT