U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2001
Dana Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  The first three holes, could you tell us what your mindset was?  You were 1-over.  You missed two puts.  You could have been 1-under?

DANA QUIGLEY:  I missed a foot and a half put on number 3.  I don't know what happened.  I just blanked out.  I was thinking about the putt I missed for birdie.  A bogey doesn't hurt you though.  It really doesn't.  You have to keep plugging and try to make pars.  I heard Fleisher and Kite talking in there and Larry Nelson.  And all three of them said this is probably the hardest wind condition that they've ever played in, in a major tournament like this on a course like this.  The course is so tricky.  We had wind today that we couldn't tell which way it was blowing, one way or the other.  I don't know what kind of drugs Sigel was on.  He made us all look a little silly out there today.  The wind was treacherous.  It wasn't so blasting, but it wasn't so that you knew what it was doing for you.  It was really hard out there.

Q.  Dana, how good does it feel to be in contention in your neck of the woods?

DANA QUIGLEY:  It hasn't dawned on me yet.  I'm still trying to make pars.  I still don't believe I'm in contention for the U.S. Open.  It's still something that's beyond anything I can really dream of.  So I'm just going to try to survive out there. Colbert is playing in front of me.  And he's making birdies and eagles.  And I'm over here laying down trying to make pars.  It's going to be a hard day tomorrow.  It's going to be equally hard for everyone, of course.  If I have one of those strange Sunday rounds that I've been known to have, it could happen.  If it is, it will be magic, believe me.  I don't know what's going on.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

DANA QUIGLEY:  This is something they won't want to remember New England for, I can tell you that.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

DANA QUIGLEY:  No.  It's 7 paces short of the green.  I really hit a good 3-iron.  The wind was just howling when I played it, and it blew right back at us.  I didn't hit the right club.  I'm just going to go up there and try to chip it in and go on from there.  Being short of greens on this course is not the worst thing that can happen to you.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

DANA QUIGLEY:  I tell you what, it wouldn't hurt the golf tournament to have Nicklaus win it.  There's no question about that.  I'm a player, but I'd like to see him win.

Q.  You said last week that you're not good enough to win.  Do you still feel that way?

DANA QUIGLEY:  Yeah.  I'm still not good enough.  Par is not a great score.  They made par too hard for us.  They just made par too hard for us here.  And everyone else is falling down.  I guess I'm a pretty good par shooter.  If par is good enough to win an Open, then I guess I am good enough.  I'm not good enough to take it 10- or 12-under.  You can mark me for words on that.

Q.  Of all the storms you've seen in New England, does this rank as one of the nastiest?

DANA QUIGLEY:  Yeah.  It's the longest that I've been in a storm like this.  Usually we get out and go home and it goes away. I don't know, this must be something that's parked over us. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

DANA QUIGLEY:  Absolutely none.  That's not my job.  Those poor greens keepers know they have a long night ahead of them if the rain ever does stop.  No, the course will be fine.  I don't know if there's any trees going down.  There's not a lot of wind with this I don't think.  I don't see the tents blowing around.  Like you say, New England has had storms.  I think they can live through it.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

DANA QUIGLEY:  Actually it's good for me because the greens are going to be holding again.  I know the USGA isn't going to be happy with that because they weren't going to water the greens again this week.  For me I like it.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

DANA QUIGLEY:  They took us all in with vans.  First of all, the first person said that the storm might miss us and they told us to stay out there.  So we stayed out for 20 minutes.  Then they came back and they said it's going to be longer.  And then the last word that I got is there's a boomer coming, tremendous storm. And they were right on with this one.  They vanned us all off real quick.  They do it in time to get the gallery out.  Not that they're really not concerned with the players.  But they're real concerned to get the gallery off the golf course.  It was actually nice when they brought us in.  I think a lot of the -- I stood outside -- I sat in the cart for about a half an hour after they called it.  I think the fans probably had a hard time believing anything like this was coming.  They had the weather report so they knew it was coming.  If that old clubhouse can hold all the people with no lights, I think it's safe.

Q.  You went to the clubhouse?

DANA QUIGLEY:  Yeah.  Then when it started to rain I went to the clubhouse and we watched it from there.

Q.  There was power there?

DANA QUIGLEY:  Power, yes.  No problem.  It's kind of fun actually.

Q.  You made a good birdie on 13 and a great up and down on 14, did you think you were in a good position?

DANA QUIGLEY:  Yeah.  I was going and I had the momentum. That's the way this game goes.  We've had so many rain delays this year.  We've had a lot of rain.  A lot of trouble.  You just get used to it and you've just got to try to regroup and start again tomorrow.  I actually was not driving the ball at all today.  I drove it in almost every rough.  The rain might help me in that respect.  I'd like to come out a little better with the driver.  I was real jumpy.  As good as I was yesterday, I was that bad today. I'm sure my son is looking at me saying, what's going on, dad, how can you be like this.  Just for him to know that golf can treat you this way.  The golf gods don't care about how good you hit it yesterday.  They're more concerned with today.  I was able to show him again that you've still got to play golf regardless of how you're hitting it.  I hit it all over the lawn today.  I was lucky. Being par today is real lucky.

Q.  Do you think you're going to get a reprieve?

DANA QUIGLEY:  For me I'm going to get a reprieve because the greens are going to hold them all.  I might get a little aggressive going for some pins.  If you miss the pins on the short side on this course, you're absolutely in the cooker.  It's gone. You've still got to play the center of the greens whether the greens are going to be slow or not.  We'll see how it plays out tomorrow. If Colbert comes back, then pars are going to be good again.  If he goes forward and Fleisher and those guys make some birdies, then  we're going to have to chase after them.  You never know in golf how you're going to have to play the next day until it comes out. Somebody has got to shoot a good round tomorrow.  You never know in golf how you're going to have to play the next day until it plays out.  Someone could shoot a good round.  Don't count Allen Doyle out either.  He's only 3-over.  He started with 78.  Still, in my opinion, he's the best player out here week to week.  This guy will shoot in the 60's again tomorrow, too.  There's no question about it.

Q.  When were you told it was okay to go?

DANA QUIGLEY:  USGA just told us in the locker room, I don't know, 20 minutes ago, they get all the players and they call us in the locker room and tell us what's going on.  So we've got to be in our spot to hit our next shot at 7:00 when they blow the siren.  If not, it's two shots.

Q.  Was there a thunder boomer out there that caught you by surprise when you were inside?

DANA QUIGLEY:  Inside, yeah.  My wife is scared to death. She jumped out of the chair.  I've never seen it go through the house yet.  She's from South Dakota.  South Dakota, I guess they have worst storms than we do.  In New England I always felt in your house you're pretty safe with any kind of storms.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

DANA QUIGLEY:  My son just told me he shot 1-under.  Is that correct?  Did he really?  I'd love to see him win the golf tournament.  It's great for our tour if he wins.  We're all going to try to beat him tomorrow, no question about it.  It just shows he still has the heart.  I don't think his game is as good as it was, but he's the got the heart.  If you've got heart in this game, I'm living testimony to the fact that you don't need a lot of skill. Heart, you can make a big living with heart, believe me.

Q.  Jack 3-putted on 10, is that one of the slowest putts?

DANA QUIGLEY:  Yeah.  You know, it's crazy, first round Thursday, I left my first putt 12 feet short there again.  That green must be -- there must be some unbelievable slope on that right-hand side that we can't read.  I don't think the green itself is any slower, I just think there's so much slope there that it's not readable, I think.  Raymond had it and looked like he was going downhill and he left it short.  It's a hard green.  That's all there is to it.  If the USGA put it right in the middle, we'd be all happen with that.

Q.  Do you feel pretty good about your position?

DANA QUIGLEY:  Yeah.  Usually by Sunday in a major, I'm at about 35th place.  I guess 3rd or 4th is pretty good.  I'm a fish out of water, but I'm going to work out and see what happens.

Q.  With the weather that we have today, it's a good chance to swim?

DANA QUIGLEY:  Yeah.  We'll all be swimming tomorrow.  Who knows.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT