U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2005
Dana Quigley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Just tell us about the day.  Was it there for the taking again?
 DANA QUIGLEY:  Things were a lot harder today, no question.  I don't think you're going to see a lot of guys at my score today.  I wouldn't think so.  First of all, it's getting deeper in the week and the pressure increases a bit.  People are thinking where every shot hurts a lot more, for some reason, than they do on Thursday and Friday.  I've never quite figured that out.

I think it's set up harder.  The greens got a little bit quicker today, and you've just got to stay steady here today.
Q.  Between holes 10 and 12 you really had a change of emotion.
 DANA QUIGLEY:  No emotion at all.  I made a really good up and down on 10, and I made    11, I missed a putt for birdie, but 12 I got in the front of one of these bunkers and there's so much sand in these things, it's really hard.  I had a long bunker shot and I had an uphill lie with a lot of sand.  I basically got on the green and I three whacked it.  I just tried to figure that it's not the end of the world, man.  It's only a golf tournament, and I came back with two great birdies on 13 and 14.

So in my mind I play little games with myself, and in my mind the double bogey never happened.  I just made three pars and I was down the road.  That's the kind of deal I do to take care of me.
Q.  If they come back just a little bit, can you catch them?
 DANA QUIGLEY:  God, I hadn't even thought of that.  I wouldn't think of that until I put up 32 or 33 on the front nine tomorrow.  I don't think I can catch them, though.  Stranger things have happened.  I could come out and shoot one of Tiger's rounds.  As a matter of fact, I'd like to have him come in and shoot for me.
Q.  Even par for the first two rounds
 DANA QUIGLEY:  I wish I were.  I was 2 over.  I'd love to be even par through the first two rounds.
Q.  You'd be minus 5 then.
DANA QUIGLEY:  Then I could come back.
Q.  Slow start because
 DANA QUIGLEY:  Because I'm a dummy (laughing).  I knew what you meant.

No, it's just tough if you don't drive it perfectly, you can make bogeys and doubles pretty easily.  I putted    I didn't even check the putting stats.  I had 35 putts the first round, hit 16 greens in regulation.  I played almost perfectly on Thursday and shot 2 over.

Yesterday probably the stats will say I had 30 putts, but I really had 34.  I putted three times    four times from the fringe, and 69 putts on Thursday and Friday, I'm really thankful I made the cut, to be honest with you.

Usually I'm a much better putter than that.  I just didn't have a good feel for the greens.  Thursday I left every putt six inches short, a lot of them on line, I just didn't have it.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 DANA QUIGLEY:  Probably a little slower.  I may have gotten spooked a little bit in the practice rounds.  We were putting to where hole locations could be and we were watching the putts roll out, and I think I might have just over played it, to be honest with you.  I was afraid of them, and really the speed is not the fear factor that you would normally bet in an Open, for sure.
Q.  Not that you had more birdie putts, but were they closer today?
 DANA QUIGLEY:  I bet they were.  I hit it really close on 2, I hit it less than a foot on 4.

5, I hit it three feet    I actually had two three putt greens in this round.

I three putted 6 for par, and I made some nice par putts on the back nine.

12th hole, I had it I would say 12 to 14 feet, and 13 I hit it in there about three feet.  But I made two nice par putts on the par 3, maybe 14, I think 14 and 16 I made two really    17 I made two really good par putts.  Those are as important as birdie putts, if not more, no question about it.
Q.  I don't want to make a big deal out of it, but the fact that you didn't play last week, does that have anything to do with the slow start, because you're out of rhythm?
 DANA QUIGLEY:  I hope I don't go out of rhythm that easily.  I definitely wanted to    I probably put a little extra pressure on myself to try to play well this week and to show that    getting to the end of the streak wouldn't bother me psychologically.  I probably put a little extra heat on me to make it go.  You never know what's happened.  I didn't mean to do it on purpose for sure.  But I really wanted to play well, yes.  I wanted to show those guys that caught up to me in the Schwab Cup that I could come back at them.  But it didn't happen.

They weren't afraid of me just like they aren't any week.  I've got to sneak around the back and get these guys.  It's the only way for me to beat them.  I can't go straight at them.  The guy on the first day says, "Real men can wear pink."
Q.  Got to dig deeper in the drawer to find the pink cap?
 DANA QUIGLEY:  I just got them.  I'd be wearing them all season if I had them.  This is definitely a Hawaiian shirt and hat.  I'm going to come right back with it tomorrow, too.  Flowered pink tomorrow.  If I'll shoot 66, I'll put on pink underwear, believe me (laughter).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT