LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 12, 2010
Jim Haley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Just kind of give us a few words on the decision to call play and why.  
     JIM HALEY: Well, unfortunately, you know, as we all know, the weather really came in pretty strong. You know, the heavy-duty rain -- we got over an inch in that short amount of time, and the threat of lightning was very severe.   
     We were more concerned about that than we were with the rain at that point, because it was a dangerous situation. We really couldn't do anything until the lightning threat subsided, and that took a while.  
     Once that happened, we went and looked at the golf course, see what kind of, if any, damage. Essentially it was just too much water. The threat of lightning went away, but we couldn't play the golf course because it was so wet. Bunkers were washed out. Greens and tees were fine, but the fairways had a significant amount of water, casual water.  
     So we made the decision, although it took a while, to resume play tomorrow. The third round will resume at 7:00 tomorrow. Players will be in place at 7:00 to resume the third round.  
     THE MODERATOR: All right. Questions.  
  
  Q. After completion of the third round, at least tentatively, what's the plan?  
     JIM HALEY: The plan is - and it's very unusual - but because the weather projections tomorrow are very similar to today with afternoon heating which might produce more weather problems, we are gonna start the fourth round at 7:40 with the players staying in the same groups that they were today.  
     So Mika Miyazato, for instance, is gonna be in the first group going off at 7:40 like she was today.   
  
  Q. Whoa. (Laughing.)   
     JIM HALEY: Essentially, if you get a pairing sheet today, just change the date and it'll be the fourth round. Everybody will play with the same player that they played with today at the same time.   
     And that's gonna start at 7:40, just like it did today.  
  
  Q. I'm sure there were different thoughts about different ways to approach it. Was there thoughts of somebody said maybe repair and start them -- but because of the weather forecast...   
     JIM HALEY: Exactly. If we knew tomorrow was gonna be 80 degrees and clear and all that, we would finish the third round and repair and then start the fourth round at 11:00, say, and still -- but play in groups of three splitting tees.   
     And that takes a while. We would have an empty golf course for, you know, a good amount of time. And because of the weather forecast, we didn't want to risk having an open golf course with no golf being played, and then we could be sitting where we were today at 5:00 with no play, with no golf.  
     So we felt like this was the best scenario to get continuous golf played so there's no issue of nobody playing, and starting the fourth round a lot earlier.   
     That means the leaders who were today, if they're still, in fact, the leaders, will go off at 1:00 again tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT