MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 11, 2007
Jim Haley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  All right.  Right what happened? 
 JIM HALEY:  Unfortunately Clarissa hit some practice shots on what is termed as "the competition course," and that's disqualification in stroke play.  You can't practice on the course. 

 Q.  Yeah, but that was kind of a gray area.  I mean, she was on Plantation 1? 
 JIM HALEY:  18. 

 Q.  But there are no out-of-bounds stakes, are there? 
 JIM HALEY:  No. 

 Q.  How often on your tour does that happen where there's two courses side-by-side or intermingling? 
 JIM HALEY:  Rare.  But the potential is we try to give as much golf course to the competitors as we can. 
 So for instance, if a player is playing 15 or 16, and she hit it really crooked and it hit the cart path or a tree, the ball could bounce on to the 18th fairway. 

 Q.  What was she doing on 18? 
 JIM HALEY:  Hitting shots. 

 Q.  Just fairway shots? 
 JIM HALEY:  I don't know.  Wedge shots.  I'm not sure. 

 Q.  She, I assume, had no idea she was doing anything? 
 JIM HALEY:  No.  She didn't ask.  She should have asked us.  But that's not an indictment on Clarissa.  She's one of the nicest people out here, and unfortunately she hit some shots. 

 Q.  Did someone see her? 
 JIM HALEY:  I did. 

 Q.  You saw her? 
 JIM HALEY:  Yeah. 

 Q.  And your first question is, what are you doing? 
 JIM HALEY:  I said, "Clarissa, you can't be out here hitting wedges," or whatever they were. 

 Q.  You were just in your own routine just going somewhere? 
 JIM HALEY:  Yeah, I was kind of working 16 through 17, 18 there and I drove by and I saw somebody out there hitting balls.  I was hoping it was going to be an alternate. 

 Q.  When was this? 
 JIM HALEY:  Well, let's see, she was supposed to go at 1:50 -- I don't know, it was afternoon, 12:30 maybe, 12:15 maybe.  I didn't pay much attention. 

 Q.  Early afternoon? 
 JIM HALEY:  Yeah. 

 Q.  What was her reaction when you said -- 
 JIM HALEY:  She was pretty surprised.  She goes, "Well I'm not on the course."  
 I said, "Well, technically you are."  And I explained to her how the course is marked and try to give the benefit to the players in the competition, give them as much golf course as we can. 
 You know, if somebody were to hook it on 18, granted, they wouldn't probably reach where she was, but if they hit it over on the left-hand side if we had a big northeast wind or something, that bank, that's part of the golf course even though it's the 18th hole of the Plantation. 

 Q.  Not to get too technical, but you can eliminate some questions here with this one.  I'm not really sure that the putting green is out-of-bounds on this course, either? 
 JIM HALEY:  Yeah, it is. 

 Q.  It is? 
 JIM HALEY:  Mm-hmm. 

 Q.  And there are stakes marked in the driving range, as well? 
 JIM HALEY:  Mm-hmm. 

 Q.  All right. 
 JIM HALEY:  There's stakes behind the ninth green. 

 Q.  Do you know what the official rule number is? 
 JIM HALEY:  It's rule 7, practice.  I can't remember the sub-number. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT