NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 18, 2010
Andrew Bynum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ANDREW BYNUM: And I was going to go out there and play, you know. Try to get something going.

 Q. Figure you'll miss most of the practices during the series? 
 ANDREW BYNUM: Yeah. I think after the second game, I should be practicing on Friday, because we have a day off. So looking forward to that. 

 Q. Is it the pain, is it not being able to do the things you are used to doing?
 ANDREW BYNUM: Just pain, and trusting jumping off of it and stuff like that.

 Q. You feel like, no matter what, you could be like you were last night; Phoenix didn't get much inside?
 ANDREW BYNUM: Exactly. That's what this team needs the most anyway. So for me, really, I'm just going out there trying to get anything going, anything at all, any positive that I can bring to the team.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 ANDREW BYNUM: Not a lot of time to gather on that one. Because Ron took all (indiscernible).

 Q. Told me one game at a time. To win that way pretty much every aspect on the floor. 
 ANDREW BYNUM: It's not as good as it can get. It can get better. We have to stop giving them so many free throws.

 Q. Do you get frustrated because of the injury?
 ANDREW BYNUM: Yes, because of the injury, yes, it's a little frustrating, but it's time and gotta keep on playing.

 Q. This is the third straight series you guys have faced a lead point guard. For your team, how important has it been to defend those guys; he can't do it by himself?
 ANDREW BYNUM: We have a system, try to push them down, try to get them to the edge of the court and try to handle it from the weak side as far as passing the ball to the middle of the lane. I think we did a decent job of it yesterday and we can do better.

 Q. (Question about Lamar)?
 ANDREW BYNUM: Lamar is that kind of a player, going to go out and get points, get you boards. That's what he does. As far as him, I think as long as he's beefed up and excited about the game, he's going to go out and do the same thing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT