NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 28, 2009
Andrew Bynum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ANDREW BYNUM: You have to be able to make the shots that we were missing and feed off the crowd's energy.  
  
  Q. How is your knee?  
 ANDREW BYNUM: It's all right. About the same. Just need to rest, get better.  
  
  Q. Do you agree with the cliche about closeout games being the hardest in the series; can you talk about that and how so?  
 ANDREW BYNUM: What?   
  
  Q. Do you think it's cliche that it's the closeout game that is the hardest game of the series, do you agree with that and why or why not?  
 ANDREW BYNUM: The other teams, I think they say that because the other team's fighting for their lives. They're going to go out there and they have to play with a sense of desperation.  
  
  Q. I think you said last night that Kobe told you guys he's going to be in that facilitating mode last night, that he was going to be looking for you guys a lot. Does that happen often where he lets you know what mode he's going to be in beforehand?  
 ANDREW BYNUM: No, not often. But watching the tape, that's what we need to do. We need to move the ball and stop the offense from getting stagnant.  
  
  Q. What did he say to you guys before the game that let you guys know that?  
 ANDREW BYNUM: Just little things like, "Guys, get to the front of the rim, when you get it, don't sit there and stand because that frees the guy up behind you," just little things like that. Dunking it on the weak side.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you found something in the last couple of games personally? You were aggressive in the first quarter and obviously the fourth quarter where you had in Game 4?  
 ANDREW BYNUM: Building steps, building blocks. The same thing. Can't get the fouls.   
  
  Q. Do you think it's your youth, do you think it's your mobility at this point with the injury?   
 ANDREW BYNUM: I don't know. It's a little bit of both. A little bit of an understanding what we need to do and then a little bit like that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT