NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 22, 2010
Andrew Bynum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Could you describe what you go through?  
 ANDREW BYNUM: No, I don't do a ritual. Normally I may ride a bike or go out and shoot. That's really it.  
  
  Q. Nothing more like (indiscernible) or anything like that?  
 ANDREW BYNUM: We're doing some ball squats. Nothing really out of the norm, though.  
  
  Q. Do you draw any comparisons to Game 3 in Utah where you guys were up 2-0 going in, down at the half, but made the big run. Any philosophy keep it close, strike at the end?  
 ANDREW BYNUM: No, I think that we're going to try to attack early there. They're going to come out and be ready. This team goes right away. You don't want to get down when you're at Phoenix because the crowds will give them energy. They'll be more comfortable, especially Frye shooting 3-pointers and stuff like that. We'll be out there and try to kind of get up early and then really just focus on closing out.  
  
  Q. Does this time off really benefit the knee at all, or is it just going to be what it is until you get it worked on?  
 ANDREW BYNUM: You said it. Just do what it is.  
  
  Q. How long has it taken you to just accept that? Because I would imagine the beginning --  
 ANDREW BYNUM: I accepted it from the beginning. They said that you can do the surgery now, but I was like, well, I don't know how long it's going to take to recover from it, to get the strength back.   
 That takes time. I've been through that. So I'd rather just go -- plus, you keep making promises and people get anxious, people want to know why you're not getting back early. So I just avoid that. Just play and get it taken care of when I have the time to rehab it correctly.  
  
  Q. Can you offer an estimation percentage-wise where you're at out of 100?  
 ANDREW BYNUM: I mean, I'm good enough to play. I don't know the exact number. But I'm good enough.  
  
  Q. Even if the minutes have been limited, how much has it meant that you've just been able to get out on the floor in this post-season? Even if the minutes have been limited lately, how much has it meant for you to get out there and run?  
 ANDREW BYNUM: A game like yesterday I was able to contribute -- not yesterday -- a couple days back, where I was able to contribute, it feels good.   
 And I think the teammates appreciate the effort. Other than that, for me, personally, it's opportunity to come out here and really help the team. I didn't get to do that in Boston a couple years back. I had the same experience again. That's why I chose to forego the surgery and just play.  
  
  Q. On a similar note, you won 8 straight, great confidence. Does that help you knowing you don't feel your best?   
 ANDREW BYNUM: No, because it's not about me. It's about the team right now. And if the Lakers win championships then Andrew Bynum is going to be okay. If the Lakers lose championships, that's when things are going to get messed up.  
  
  Q. If you guys can advance to the next round, playing a bigger team, how much are you paying attention to that potential matchup?  
 ANDREW BYNUM: Man, it's going to be amazing to play against those guys again. Especially having lost. We're going to have a lot of fuel, a lot of ammo to throw at those guys.   
 They're definitely a great team. They've got great veterans on their squad. We know that. So we already are getting prepared. The first step is closing out Game 3. And after that we'll be focusing on Boston, looking at them play, watching how they're playing Orlando, and try and pick up as much as we can.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT