DUBAI OPEN
December 21, 2014
Shiv Kapur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Didn't seem like you got the start that you wanted. 
    SHIV KAPUR:   I didn't really play that poorly today.   I think the turning point for me was really the eighth hole.   I know I was only 1‑under for today at that point but I hit it into the waste area at the right and instead of making four, I made six and I would have gotten to 12‑under at that point and would have   given myself a chance.   Made bogey there and dropped down to 10‑under and looked up at the leaderboard, four or five shots back and I was kind of pushing hard from there. 
    I didn't really have any AGame all week to be honest.   I was grinding hard and trying to make a score.   To me, if I was tot point out one thing, I think the eighth hole was a big turning point. 

Q.   Was the wind a factor today? 
    SHIV KAPUR:   It wasn't really a factor.   But it was a different direction.   The last three days it's been out of the northwest and today was more west, southwest.   Some of the holes played different.   Some of the holes that played into the wind played downwind.   We've been out here long enough to adjust to those kind of things. 
    Pin positions I thought today were quite fair.   There was a couple of pins earlier in the week which were quite hard, but today, I thought they set the course up really fair.   And if you played well there was a lot of birdies to be had.   I just didn't quite do enough, and that's the nature of the game. 

Q.   How are you looking forward to the new season? 
    SHIV KAPUR:   Looking forward to it.   I had a pretty steady year, no wins, no flashes of brilliance but I think all parts of my game seem to be in good order. 
    This is a good way to finish the season, even though I would have obviously liked to win, but get the juices flowing, got in contention and then coming back here in three weeks' time playing desert golf again.   It will give me a lot of confidence starting with Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Dubai.   This will probably be a nice way to end it, and I know what I need to work on for the next three weeks in my game, and hopefully come back and improve on what I did here. 

Q.   Is there going to be a break or not really? 
    SHIV KAPUR:   I mean, three weeks, that's a break (laughs).   That's the most you're going to get.   Come back and six weeks in a row to start next year.   Will probably take ten days off and then get into real hard work. 

Q.   This is the first time the Els Club has hosted a tournament.   How do you think the course has held up? 
    SHIV KAPUR:   I think overall this has been a fantastic venue.   I think the players have been looked after fantastically well this week across the board.   I speak for all the players; I think we have really been pampered from the food to everything.   The golf course is world class, there's no doubt. 
    I think the setup of the course was really good.   Some of the back tees I do think make this course a little unplayable, but I think Ernie has done that with a vision of with the way technology is going, maybe five years from now, those back tees will probably come into play. 
    But I think the Asian Tour did a good job of the course set up and made it very fair.   There was a lot of scoring opportunities.   I think I speak for all the players, we would love to come back here next year and see if this tournament can go bigger and better.   I think all the players that came here have nothing but good things to say about the course.

Q.   If Arjun wins, talk about his game coming back to the winner's circle after such a long time. 
    SHIV KAPUR:   Arjun is synonymous for that, isn't he.   Every time people write him off, he comes back and wins.   So I think that's the thing; every time he gets written off, he know what is to do.   Maybe he needs to have his back against the wall a little bit more often. 
    But obviously however it finishes, I know he needed a top four or five finish this week to get his card, and that's pretty gutsy stuff.   I played with him yesterday.   He's playing beautifully.   I think it's nice to see another Indian doing well.   I think it's been a good year for Indian golf and Arjun has just put the cherry on top of it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT