THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Shiv Kapur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about your round.
SHIV KAPUR:  Got off to a dream start.  I birdied my
first three, and after that I just said, just keep doing what
you're doing, do the basics right, hit fairways and greens.
Probably the fastest greens I've ever played in my life.  They
weren't green, they were white out there.  And couldn't get the
ball to sort of stop.
So I knew it's tough to hole putts out there, but you've
just got to keep giving yourself chances.  And putts fell for me
on the front nine.  I didn't really feel like I played badly on
the back nine either.  But on the 10th I found a fairway bunker
and made a three-putt out of nowhere.  And that happens on this
golf course.
14 was really the bad drive to I hit.  I pulled it a bit
left.  But you have to take your medicine, take your bogey and
just get out of there.
I guess if at the start of the day you'd said 3-under I
would take it.  Obviously when you're 6-under after 9, you hope
you can hold on on the back nine.  All in all the way the course
was playing, I don't think I could really complain.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  Yeah, it's nice.  Nobody is expecting me to
be up there and nobody was really -- it's a funny name in the
middle of all those sort of proven Major winners and stuff.  But
it's nice to be -- it was nice to see my name up there.  At least
I can hold my head up high and say I led The Open Championship,
the greatest tournament I think there is.  And that's something
I'll take a lot of pride in.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  It's probably pretty close to the best nine
holes I've ever played.  The back nine, obviously was a bit
scratchy.  But I think it's pretty close to the best nine holes
I've ever played.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  Yeah, I wasn't thinking of that, luckily.
It was just trying to get the ball started on line, like I was
saying earlier.  I've never played greens this fast in my life.  I
don't know about the others, but they felt like they weren't
rolling.  It was like putting on glass, it was like 14.  And when
you're putting downwind and downhill, it's close to 16 or 17 on
the Stimp.
The guys I was playing with as well, on 16, Scott
Jamieson, he had a two-footer from above the hole and he lipped
out and went 12 feet by.  It's easily done over here.  People keep
talking about the U.S. Open having the toughest greens.  I'd like
to know what people think of this, as well.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  Yeah, from what I heard, you know, they were
not going to be watering from Tuesday.  So obviously it was going
to -- and obviously it's dry, it's hot.  It's a bit like the last
Open I played at Hoylake, where everything just burned out.  But
the only difference is the rough here is pretty penal.
I like the way the course sets up in general.  The
trouble sort of confronts you.  You know where the bunkers are,
not many blind shots.  I came here on Saturday, so I've had four
full rounds in here.  I think they're expecting different winds
tomorrow, so it's going to be a slightly different golf course.
But this is the sort of wind we practiced in.  Club selection, at
least, off the tees, was a little bit easier.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  It's the oldest, you know, and plus I
haven't played many other (laughter).  Also, I think coming from
India, this was the one you always watched because it's primetime
on television in India.  The ones in America, obviously, the
Masters, no disrespect to any of the other Majors, it's on at two
or three in the morning, and this is on at 5:00 in the evening.  I
think there will be a few people in India sitting in the pub
watching this.  I watched a lot of Open championships growing up,
so for me it held a special place in my heart.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  It's kind of nice, I guess.  Like I said,
I've got nothing to lose.  I'm going out there and playing my
game.  Obviously you have your own personal expectations and your
own goals and I know what I can expect of myself.  And just kind
of -- you go out there and play quietly.  In fact, we were walking
down the 10th fairway and my playing partner said to me, "I
thought it was going to be a quiet afternoon round, and now look
at what you've done to me with the cameras all around."
Usually you just go about your business and nobody really
comes in the way.  But it's nice to have that.  It was great to
see my name up there and it's something I'll be very proud of.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  As much as I can, and not a lot.  In the
summer I base myself over here and Europe.  Delhi is still home.
I still call Delhi home, and Delhi Golf Club is still my home
club.  I spend maybe two months a year over there.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  It's early days yet, but, yes, of course.  I
think what India really needs, or Asia in general, like Y.E.  Yang
doing it; it was a big thing for Korea.  In India golf is already
the fastest growing sport statistically.  We have two Indian
journalists who know that.  Golf is really on the up, and if you
were to have someone go out and do well in a Major, it gives the
young kids a lot of belief, that, hey, if he can do it, I can do
it as well.  And I think you want to be the guy that's setting the
bar for them.  And people look up to you and say, if he did it, I
can, as well.
We have a really strong bunch of young kids coming
through in India.  I don't think it'll be long before we'll have a
handful of Indians playing in the Majors.  I think it's just a
matter of time.  And with more performances like some of the
others, Arjun Atwal winning in America, golf became pretty big in
India.  I think this week if I can keep doing what I'm doing, I
think it would be a big step for Indian golf.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  A little less pressure, I guess, you know.
When you get 3-under instead of 3-over going into Friday it's a
bit nicer.  Obviously there's a lot of thoughts and a little bit
more attention on me, but I'll enjoy that.  I've played enough
tournaments where nobody really looks at your score or does
anything, so it's nice to actually have people sit up and notice
what you're doing.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  Yeah, I was saying the front nine was very
special.  I think I was in a bit of a trance there for a while.
And I wasn't really aware of my score other than the fact that,
hey, I'm just trying to make every birdie putt that comes, because
I know how tough this golf course can be.  And you can make bogeys
at any time and without really hitting any bad shots or without
making any real poor judgments.  It's quite easy just on the
greens and around the greens it's easy to drop shots.  I just
said, get as far under par as you can and hold onto your hat
coming in.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  Of course.  It's the usual thing with
caddies.  We played great and he played badly.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  It was a while ago, but just the learning in
general, playing links courses, you know, in the last four or five
years, six years playing in Europe, we don't play a whole lot of
links courses, but you play a few -- the Scottish Open or the
Irish Open.  Plus I qualified just up the road at Dunbar.  So I
played -- and I came here on Saturday, so I've kind of got to know
the golf course as well as you can.  You never really can get to
know a links course too well.
There are a few fortunate bounces, lucky bounces, and I
got my fair share.  You can hit a perfect shot and it will hit a
downslope and go over the green.  But I had my share of luck it on
the front nine, as well, and the ball rolling well for me.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  I'm still in a bit of a daze, to be honest.
I actually think the best shot I hit today was my second shot into
18.  I hit the perfect shot there.  I landed it right where I
wanted to.  It released maybe 10 feet more than I wanted to.  I
was trying to not get past pin-high, but I think I hit it too
good.  I hit it straight on the line that I wanted to.  It drifted
exactly like two or three yards like I was imagining it.  And it's
nice to finish with that kind of a feeling.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  About 15 feet.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  You know, I watched a bit of the coverage
this morning, and I saw the ball bouncing everywhere.  So I think
in some respects it was good to watch and know.  Sometimes you're
overcautious.  You see something and you get a negative in your
mind saying, oh, you don't want to go there, because I saw Ernie
take three shots out of that bunker.
But I think on the most part you can learn a little bit
with the late start.  The winds didn't die down like the forecast
said it would.  So it was quite breezy and the greens obviously
don't get any better in the afternoon.  It will be nice to go out
in the morning, hopefully slightly softer conditions, slightly
slower greens.  These greens are too fast for me.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
SHIV KAPUR:  Not tonight.  I think I'll hold on until
Sunday.









END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT