BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2012
Shiv Kapur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So how was it today?   
SHIV KAPUR:   Pretty steady.   I just kept the mistakes off the card for the most part.   Again, the ninth hole and the 18th hole are two tough holes and to finish with a bogey on the last, leaves a little bitter taste because I wanted to sort of go bogey‑free, but played very solid.   
Made the par putts what I had to, and just basically kept the mistakes off the card.   When it's windy and tricky the way it is, you just have to play boring golf and find the fairways and greens and I managed to do that.   
   
 Q.   Admirable to have the three red figures there and to go steadily along on a day where nobody has made huge moves here?  
SHIV KAPUR:   I knew that starting the day, with the weather conditions, if they stayed that way, it was going to be tough.   You know, par is a good score, and any birdies we make are bonuses out here.   
But when you are playing as well as giving yourself chances‑‑ golfers, we are never really happy, but if I can just keep playing boring golf the way I am and putting, I've got some good pace going on the greens, if I can continue that on the weekend, I'll be okay.  
   
 Q.   I saw you smile on the last and that putt very nearly dropped, didn't it?  
SHIV KAPUR:   I've had a few putts, but the thing is, not very often from 20 feet when you have got a par putt do you expect to hole it, and I was expecting it to hole it, and I came that close.   
Like I say, if I keep putting the way I am, and find the fairways, I'll be all right.   
   
 Q.   That's a good sign, isn't it, that you're expecting to hole those?   
SHIV KAPUR:   Yeah, it doesn't happen very often, when you stand over 20‑footers and you're disappointed that you don't make them, usually they are a bonus when you hole them.   
I feel like I've got a good speed of the greens this week and I changed drivers from yesterday, because I was struggling to find fairways, and managed to find a few more fairways today.   So hopefully keep that going.   
   
 Q.   Easy enough to change and make that change quickly?   
SHIV KAPUR:   Yeah, it is, when you've driven it poorly the first day, you can kind of tell yourself that it can't really get much worse.   I guess the attitude is, it can only get better.  
   
 Q.   Significant change in terms of that driver, hugely different?   
SHIV KAPUR:   I don't know, I wouldn't say that it's hugely different, but I hit a few more fairways and the conditions were obviously tougher.   When it's windy and you're finding more fairways than you did on a calm day, then you know the club is probably better.   
   
 Q.   Position on the board?   
SHIV KAPUR:   Pretty good.   It's a marathon, not a sprint, and you have to put yourself in position.   Start of the week, if you would have put me in this position, I would have taken it.   It's just now the real business end of the tournament begins and I need to play the same way and keep the same attitude.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT