THE 3 IRISH OPEN
May 14, 2009
Shiv Kapur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good links experience?   
 SHIV KAPUR: Not much to be honest. I played 27 holes in the practice round yesterday because I wanted to play a bit more. Normally I wanted to play 9 instead of 18 but I wanted to do my preparation a bit more.   
 Today I holed a lot of long putts. 16, 17, I holed two bombs from 30 feet. When the putter works, you are going to post a score no matter how you are hitting it. I stayed patient, and any time you don't make a bogey on a course like this, you have to be happy.   
 I felt like I need to get to know these conditions more. You don't really play any links course, and this is pretty much it, other than the British Open or the Dunhill, but the Dunhill is not set up like a links course.   
 I just figured rather than hitting balls on the range or working on my chipping and putting, I'm better off spending time out on the course. That's basically where it came from and I guess it paid off in some respects. At the end of the day, if your putter is hot you'll play well.   
  
  Q. You must have been knackered Tuesday night.   
 SHIV KAPUR: I was. I came out and had a light practice yesterday. But I think it did really benefit me because I was able to Mark out what I wanted to hit off the tees, obviously the conditions were different today, being a lot softer changed the conditions completely from what we all want made it and made it a bit easier. I think I had a game plan in mind; whereas if I just played a normal practice round, and preparation and combination of putting was good.   
 Ball-striking was pretty good and birdied three out of the four par 3s. Could have done a bit better on the par 5s. Not birdieing 18, and didn't birdie 6, either, but I put myself in position, and that's the thing. I stayed pretty patient and just said, keep it out of the bunkers, and that's the key on this golf course. I managed to stay out of the bunkers today.   
  
  Q. Excited about the big run coming up?   
 SHIV KAPUR: Yes, and I've played all of the other courses before. So this will be my third or fourth time around here, it's my fourth season. It's a lot easier when you've played the courses rather than when you first come out. I'm excited and the game seems to be heading in the right direction at the right time. There's no better month to peak in the year than May and June.   
  
  Q. Have you done anything specifically?   
 SHIV KAPUR: I had a couple of weeks off. Last week was my first trip to Europe. I wanted to stay in Asia, and I don't think I'm that good to be able to time my sort of good run or whatever it is. It's just whenever it comes, you take it. If it's a small event, you take it, if it's a big event, you take it. Call it luck or whatever, but I'll take it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT