JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 9, 2006
Shiv Kapur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  A good start to your week?
SHIV KAPUR:  It's a shame to three putt the last for par. Anything you finish the round badly just leaves a bad tastes but I'll come out tomorrow and go low again. It's my best round by eight shots in the last four tournaments. I didn't think like that all. I went out with two great players (Fred Couples and Craig Parry) and started learning how it is done. Anytime you play with guys who are playing well and with that calibre, it's going to feed off to you. Automatically, it ups your game.
Q.  How much fun was it playing with them?
SHIV KAPUR:  They were both great, really encouraging and very nice to play with. I was very nervous to start with because you're playing with guys you grew up idolising and they are just normal guys at the end of the day. We chatted quite a bit and I enjoyed it.
Q.  Is this a golf course that you like?
SHIV KAPUR:  Now I do! If I shoot 68 everyday, I like it. It's a good course, a good test. It tests every part of your game. You have to be very straight off the tee and the greens are where the battle is, especially when it gets harder, firmer and faster. The challenge is going to get harder but I like it. It suits my game and if I striking the ball well, I'm not a long hitter, you have to keep it straight here.
Q.  Despite the nerves, you still had a nice 32 on the front nine?
SHIV KAPUR:  You get over the nerves after a few holes. Nerves are there anytime you go out for a tournament. But I just went out playing my game and they are both very relaxed on the golf course and it kinds of feeds off on me as well.

Birdies on front nine:  3, sand wedge to 8 feet.  4, 5-iron to 15 feet.  8, 6-iron to 15 feet.  9, sand wedge to four feet.
Q.  And a good par save on 15?
SHIV KAPUR:  I had a bad break there, a lot of mud on my ball on the fairway and it squirted into a dodgy lie in the bunker but I made a great save.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT