DUBAI OPEN
December 19, 2014
Shiv Kapur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us something about your round today. 
    SHIV KAPUR:   Solid performance, I guess.   Started off holing my second shot on the first hole, so that's always a great way to start the day, and I pretty much just eliminated the mistakes on my card.   Made one bogey in two rounds, and I haven't made a ton of putts or a ton of birdies, but when you keep the bogeys off the card, you're usually going to be there or thereabouts. 

Q.   What did you hit on 1? 
    SHIV KAPUR:   I hit a 6‑iron.

Q.   From how far?
    SHIV KAPUR:   I don't remember exactly what it was, 190, 185. 

Q.   And what were the conditions like, and how will this affect the tournament?   Are you planning on winning it?
    SHIV KAPUR:   Well, I'm planning on winning it, yeah.   But it's tough to say.   I haven't really had a hard look at the leaderboard.   I know I'll be in position going into the weekend, and that's the most important thing.   There's a lot of golf left.   The conditions today I thought were a little bit easier than yesterday.   I thought the wind blew a bit more yesterday and made it a little trickier.   Today we got slightly milder conditions even though the breeze got up on the back nine.   All in all, I think it was an easier day.   The greens were probably better when I played yesterday in the morning.   In the afternoon they get a little bumpy so it's tough to hole a ton of putts.   But all in all, I'm happy in the position I'm in after 36 holes, and I'll have a chance going into the weekend.

Q.   What's with you and Dubai?
    SHIV KAPUR:   I like Dubai.   It's my second home.

Q.   It is?
    SHIV KAPUR:   Yeah, I'm a resident of Dubai, have lots of friends and family here.   I love this place.   The last time it was the season‑ending event, I won, so fingers crossed I can continue the mojo.

Q.   What do you think about the Els Club?   This is the first tournament happening here. 
    SHIV KAPUR:   Yeah, I really like the place.   I've come here, practiced in the past.   Justin and his team, they've been really nice to me.   They allow me the courtesy of coming and practicing here.   I've played here a few times, as well.   Really, really big fan of it.   This new clubhouse, it's a fantastic setting.   I think from an Asian Tour perspective, this is one of the finest events we have, and it would be nice to see this tournament grow and become the Tour Championship in years to come. 

Q.   Has it given you a little edge knowing the course better than the rest maybe? 
    SHIV KAPUR:   I haven't played it in two, three years, so I played it two, three years ago when it was just sort of maturing as a golf course, so I won't say I really know the layout well, but I'm quite comfortable playing in Dubai, playing in desert conditions.   I think all in all, we play a lot of European Tour events in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Qatar, so kind of get used to Middle East golf a little bit, and I really enjoy it.

Q.   Strong Indian presence on the leaderboard after two days. 
    SHIV KAPUR:   Yeah, it'll be good.   I saw Gaganjeet and Arjun's name up there.   Obviously Dubai has got a huge Indian community, so it will be good on the weekend for them to come and cheer for all the Indian players, so I think it'll be good fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT