U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2014
Shiv Kapur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You're among the low rounds of the day.  What do you think of the conditions here, not only in the air, but on the ground and being too difficult to pull this off?  How did you do it?SHIV KAPUR: I played solid golf.  It's not very often where you walk off the golf course shooting a good round like this and feeling like you left a couple of shots out there.  But it's a hard golf course, you have to be really disciplined. Today the key for me was I drove the ball beautifully, I missed all but one fairway, I didn't miss -- the only fairway I missed was on the 4th and I ended up making birdie there. So I gave myself a lot of green light opportunities and there was a tendency to chase a couple of flags which cost me and I made bogeys.  But all in all I think I played really well and if I can do a bit of the same tomorrow, I'll be pretty happy.
Q. What was the stand out moment for today for you?SHIV KAPUR: I think that run that I had in the middle, birdieing 5 and 6. I hit a really good shot into 5 and almost made 2.  I ended up making 4.  At the end, that's just the way the U.S. Open is. I hit a great iron shot into 6 and made birdie. So a round that started bogey, bogey and then you're kind of always fighting your way back, this golf course doesn't give you too many shots back, then to go on a run and make three birdies in a row, I think that really got me going today.  And I had, after that I could play a little less aggressive, but still this golf course comes and bites you, in spite of hitting good golf shots, I ended up making three bogeys on the back nine.
Q. You come here with the idea that you want to win the U.S. Open.  After three days and where you are, what is your thinking now?  What do you want to achieve?SHIV KAPUR: I think, to be realistic, the way Martin is playing and the score he's at, winning is a little out of the realm of possibility, unless the leaders all come back to me. My number one primary goal is to shoot a solid round tomorrow and play myself back into the U.S. Open for next year.  I really love my first experience, it's been my favorite tournament in the world, and if I can go out and keep my head on my shoulders and play solid golf tomorrow, and finish in that top 15 and play my way into next year, that will be, I'll be pretty happy by the end of the week.
Q. What is the key to getting that good round on Sunday?SHIV KAPUR: Exactly the same as today.  Hit lots of fairway, don't take on too many flags, middle of the greens, and hope for a hot putter.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT