HONG KONG OPEN
December 6, 2013
Shiv Kapur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are your thoughts on a round of 66 today? 
SHIV KAPUR:   Pretty good.   It was quite breezy out there.   The last couple of holes, the condition got benign, but for the majority of the round, it was quite windy and it was tough to pick up the wind because it swirls a lot through the trees. 
Greens are getting a bit firmer.   It was quite tricky and I played quite nicely.   At the start of the day, if you had said 66 in those conditions, I would have taken.

Q.   I'm sure you felt decent about your game at the start of play, but you're now in a very tidy position?
SHIV KAPUR:   Yeah, it's good.   It's a bunched up leaderboard and it's going to be anybody's game come the weekend so I know I have to keep doing what I'm doing.   If I can play the way I have and shoot 66 or better on the weekend, then I'll be in pretty good position.

Q.   You have been playing particularly well, presumably there's a confidence after the Challenge Final victory?
SHIV KAPUR:   Yeah, I felt like the last few months, I played quite well.   Obviously it was nice to get my card seals and win the last event of the year.   It always helps when you've won in the season is, and when you've put yourself in that position again, you know what to do and what kind of nerves to expect.   I really look forward to getting in that mix on Sunday.

Q.   I take it you're looking forward to the whole of the season and being back out on the Tour?
SHIV KAPUR:   Yeah, it's nice.   I think you get eight greater appreciation for it once you're off and then get back on.   I'm really looking forward to some tournaments that I really missed playing in, and it's nice to be back.   It's nice to hopefully get off the season to a good note, so come the middle of the year, I can enjoy most of it.

Q.   And are you a better player as a result, or will time tell?
SHIV KAPUR:   I'd like to think I am, but obviously, you know, you're only as good as the results you post.   So it just depends on how I go and how I play, and you're only judged by the scores you shoot. 
So I'm feeling pretty good about my game.   I just need to sort of keep doing the things that I'm doing and hopefully the results will follow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT