CIMB CLASSIC
October 27, 2013
Shiv Kapur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SHIV KAPUR:   It was a week of good golf, I think.   Obviously, like I said, I wanted to get to maybe double digits under par.   Conditions were tough today.   They had a lot of pins tucked and a lot of risk‑reward sort of holes out there.   I played steady, I just didn't get the putts to fall.   I think if you hole a couple of putts early in the round it's a different story.   You get to 2‑ or 3‑under and then you're looking to press on.   For me I made a lot of pars today, didn't really make too many mistakes and just didn't hole enough birdie putts to really threaten, but I think I played steady the whole week.   I take a lot of positives out of the week, a respectable finish.   
Obviously I would have liked to have been top 10 or higher and played my way into the next PGA TOUR event.   But I think I take a lot of good things from the week, and going into the Indian Open now, I feel like I'm hitting form with last week and this week, and I'm pretty happy with where my game is.  
   
 Q.   What did you learn about yourself this week?  
SHIV KAPUR:   That I can be patient when I need to be, and I need to be patient.   I think in the past I've gotten impatient and sort of let things slip when things are not going well, and this week I fought back hard, 4‑over after my first five holes, and 6‑under for the week at the end of it and top‑20 finish or something.   So I think that's one big lesson for me to learn.  
   
 Q.   What do you think it would mean to Asia if Kiradech does win?  
SHIV KAPUR:   Well, I think a lot.   I think he's already proven to everyone that he's a champion and he's a winner, but if he doesn't win this week, I'm sure he'll go on in the future to win big and win bigger events.   I think he's really shown the world now, not just Asia and Europe, I think everyone in America now knows who Kiradech is, and I think that's great for Asian golf and it's great for him.   I think the sky's the limit for him.   He's got a lot of ability, a lot of talent, and he's really down to earth and a good guy, so I'm really happy for him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT