CIMB CLASSIC
October 25, 2013
Shiv Kapur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You looked like you didn't get anything out of the round?
SHIV KAPUR:   I played steady golf.   I played just well, good golf today.   I could have been a little lower, but I made a few saves as well early in my round.   I made a good par putt on the first and the third, so I kind of kept myself in there.   I played steady, like I said.   So I obviously want to improve on that, but given the conditions and given everything and playing sort of late in the day when the greens are a little bit more chewed up and a little more grainy, I think that's a decent round.   But obviously I'd like to do a couple better.

Q.   Keegan's supposed to be running away with it now, there are just a few short of second place.   Is this the kind of golf course where you can actually get low and get back into it? 
SHIV KAPUR:   Yeah, like I said yesterday, if you hit fairways, you give yourself a lot of birdie opportunities.   Today they put a lot of flags on the front of the greens.   With the greens firming up, it's tougher and tougher to get closer to the front pin.   When you have to be in the fairway, there is a big premium on hitting fairways here.   So as long as you keep it in play, you give yourself a lot of birdie chances.   It is the kind of course where you can get hot and go low.   It comes down to putting like any other week.   So you hit the fairway on a few putts and there are low scores to be had.

Q.   Is there anything you need to work on this afternoon or tomorrow morning? 
SHIV KAPUR:   No, I think I'm just going to go and rest up.   It's really hot, and you have to conserve your energy.   I think all parts of my game are in pretty good shape.   It's just a question of putting it from third gear into fifth gear, and hopefully I can do that on the weekend.

Q.   Big day tomorrow, moving day; is it a cliché? 
SHIV KAPUR:   I think every day is as important.   If you look at it, it's all four rounds.   So no one day is more important than the other.   I think I've got to keep doing what I'm doing, stick to my game plan, and hopefully keep knocking in a few more putts and I'll be there come the back nine on Sunday.

Q.   Top 10 gets into the next PGA event; is that a concern? 
SHIV KAPUR:   No, I don't think any of those thoughts have occurred to me.   I'm just trying to play golf and play as well as I can and finish as high up as I can.   Obviously, the fact that it comes to the Asian Tour Order of Merit is pretty important, and you want to play as good as you can.   I think I know my schedule for the rest of the year, so I think we'll cross those bridges when we get to them.   But first need to get in that top 10 and we'll see what happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT