CIMB CLASSIC
October 24, 2013
Shiv Kapur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You were three over at one time.
SHIV KAPUR:   4‑over.

Q.   That must be encouraging to come back like that?
SHIV KAPUR:   Yeah, no, it was good.   Obviously four over after five holes, and I just at that point I said to my caddie, I said, look, I haven't really hit too many bad shots.   I had a bad lie in the rough on 14 and I should have probably played away from the water and made double there.   And after that I said, look, you're swinging well, hitting good shots.   Just try and get back to as close to par as you can, and once I did that, I just kept going and going and made seven birdies in my last 13 holes or in fact seven birdies in a stretch of nine holes. 
So played good, played solid after that.   Obviously a little bump to start but I think it's even more satisfying to come through after a bad start and shoot 69.

Q.   The course seems to be quite inceptive.
SHIV KAPUR:   Oh, I don't know about that.   I think the course is playing a lot different than what it does in the Malaysian Open.   The greens are much firmer.   There's a big premium on hitting fairways.   I think if you hit fairways then you've got a lot of birdie opportunities, but if you're slightly out of position it's tough to hold the greens and make putts.   Obviously it's like the tale of two halves, the back nine is obviously playing a lot harder, not just because I played badly on it, but I think the front nine there's definitely more scoring opportunities.   The two par‑5s are pretty short and that's where you're going to make your score.

Q.   After a start like that, I mean with the experience that you've had it's just one of those days that you just keep grinding away?
SHIV KAPUR:   Yeah.   I think that's really what it is.   In the past obviously‑‑ not to say that negative thoughts don't enter your mind.   You obviously think, (expletive), 4‑over after five and things like that happen.   But you just gotta take it in your stride and just keep plugging along and keep giving yourself birdie putts, and I managed to hit a few close and bring it back.

Q.   And the putter was behaving itself as well?
SHIV KAPUR:   It did for the second half of the day, but for the first half it wasn't behaving itself.   I had a three‑putt in the round.   Nothing was behaving the first five holes, but everything seemed to click the last 13.

Q.   This sort of sets you off for the week?
SHIV KAPUR:   Yeah, I mean it's a start.   Being a couple over kind of takes you out of the tournament, but when you're 3‑under, with a good round tomorrow you're still right in it, so I think I'd like to say the old cliche, you can lose a tournament in the first day, but you can't win it.   At least I haven't lost it on the first day.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT