UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2012
Trey Hopkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Now that the defense is having a little more success, is the offense able to feed off of that?   Does that contribute to what Mack said was a more complete performance? 
TREY HOPKINS:   I think that our defense has been working hard this whole season.   I think things are really clicking for them now, and it definitely helps our team.   We're putting together whole games now.   We're not just playing good on one side of the ball, offense or defense.   It hasn't been just this year; it's been in years past. 
Now we're really coming together and pushing each other in practice and being better together to put together those total games like you saw this past weekend.

Q.   Is too much made of the 11 a.m. kickoff and the way you guys have played in those two games Oklahoma and Kansas this year? 
TREY HOPKINS:   I definitely think a lot of emphasis is being put on an 11 o'clock game.   But a game is a game.   You have to be prepared for it, and that's how we have to take it no matter what the time is or if it's not announced until the day before.   It's a game.   You have to come with the mindset that I have to be ready to play when my number is called, whether it be 11 a.m., 2:30, 7:00, whenever it's time to go out there, you have to be prepared.

Q.   Why do you think you haven't played well in those early games?
TREY HOPKINS:   Maybe the silence is distracting to us.   The extra emphasis on it.   I don't think it should be emphasized that much.

Q.   Everyone keeps saying Iowa State is very physical.   Do you see that?   Do you like that?   Bring it on? 
TREY HOPKINS:   I would say it's definitely going to be a tough opponent for us.   They're very good.   Their front seven is incredible and they have a great defense and defensive coordinator.   They're a hard working bunch.   They're going to come out and compete.   It's going to be a great challenge for us on the offensive line.   We're going to have to come with our A‑game.

Q.   What was the 2010 season like when you go on the road, upset Nebraska, a big road win, then you come back and it's a big let‑down game against Iowa State.   What was that like? 
TREY HOPKINS:   Definitely disappointing.   First year I remember being heartbroken at that point.   It worked as motivation for us the following year.   We continue to build on that, get this next one.   We have to continue to correct the things that we did wrong in these past games as well as we've done game to game.   Just try to get the win.

Q.   Are you going to think at all about that this week, avoiding that letdown and knowing what Iowa State can come in here and do? 
TREY HOPKINS:   We're going to handle them as we would any opponent.   We'll watch them on film and evaluate them.   They're the next opponent.   We'll continue to work and do the things that we need to do.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT