UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 29, 2012
Trey Hopkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Trey Hopkins.     
   
 Q.   What do you think of when you think of this rivalry?   
TREY HOPKINS:   I think about my freshman year when we first went up there and played.   It was an exciting atmosphere.   I loved it.   Very loud.   Pretty small stadium, but their fans are going to be pumped.   It's going to be electric.     
   
 Q.   Tech defense, you had your way with them last year.   This year, able to shut down West Virginia.   What do you know about them?   
TREY HOPKINS:   I know they're a very different defense than they were last year.   They're playing a lot more physical.   They're a great defense.   They're going to come out and fight us.   They've shown us they can shut down powerful offenses.   They've done a great job with it.     
It's going to be a great challenge for us.     
   
 Q.   How proud and happy are you for Johnathan Gray?   
TREY HOPKINS:   That's great for Johnathan.   He's still been a contributing factor for our offense.   All of the runningbacks are going to get in and contribute, so...     
   
 Q.   For a true freshman to get that, does he deserve that?   
TREY HOPKINS:   He does, as do all of our runningbacks.   I know all of them are going to get in the game and all of them are going to contribute.     
   
 Q.   Been to class today already?   
TREY HOPKINS:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   People talking about the quarterback situation?   
TREY HOPKINS:   Not too much, no.   Probably because I'm in genetics classes so not too many people are interested.     
   
 Q.   Do they know you're a football player?   
TREY HOPKINS:   I would assume so (laughter).   I think so.     
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)   
TREY HOPKINS:   Again, not too much.   It's because of the classes I'm in, the people I'm around.     
We might have some mumblings about that.   But we'll all have each other's backs.   I don't think there will be anybody leaking things about how they feel about how any quarterback did.     
   
 Q.   Win number six, how do you make sure you have a strong finish now and improve on what y'all did last year?   
TREY HOPKINS:   We have no choice but to have a strong finish because we have a list of talented teams coming up.   The competition is going to be raised higher and higher through the rest of the season.   We have to continue to improve, especially if we want to do better than we did last year.     
   
 Q.   Having such a close game against Kansas, does that hurt your confidence at all?   Do you take some satisfaction you were able to find a way to win?   
TREY HOPKINS:   I think it's taking confidence we found a way to win.   We want to get to victory.   Point difference doesn't make a difference.   When you win, you win.   When you lose, no matter how close it was, it still goes down as a loss.     
   
 Q.   You guys are hot, won two in a row.   Are we starting to finally see the Texas team we thought we would see?   
TREY HOPKINS:   I still think there's definitely room for improvement.   We ask the team to grow each week.   Our coaches are still telling us they're going to demand more from us than what we've shown.   They're going to continue to push us until we reach our full potential.     
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT