UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 15, 2012
Trey Hopkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Is the season over? 
TREY HOPKINS:   No, definitely not. We still have a lot of games to play. Still have a lot of corrections to make. Still have a lot of building to do, and that's what we're going to do. It was a disappointing game, but in no way are we saying that the season is over with. We still have lot of games to play, a lot of fun to be had.

Q. Are you playing for pride, goals?   What's left? 
TREY HOPKINS:   To win, win each and every game the following week. Like I always say, we're just going to the next game, put the last game behind us, put it in the past and just focusing on beating our next opponent.

Q. Mason said the team has to work to build some confidence again. How shaken is this team's confidence and what will it take to build it back? 
TREY HOPKINS:   I think just with a loss, you go back and you say, okay, what did I do wrong as a player, you get to kind of second‑guessing yourself, and that's one thing you have to get over. It's not that we weren't playing hard, it's just that we weren't getting our job done, and I think that's one thing you have to get back to doing.
We don't‑‑ there's not really much confidence that needs to be build in this team, it's just built in ourselves as players, as individuals, that we need to continue to do what we did early in the season.

Q. How big a setback is this because you know what the last two years have been like around here, and when you lose a game like this two years in a row, how big a setback is that? 
TREY HOPKINS:   I don't think it was as big of a setback. It's a loss. It's another loss. It's a more painful loss than others I would say because it is two years and it's the big rivalry game for us. That's part of the reason why you just have to continue to look forward to the next game. You can't linger on it too much and let it affect how the rest of your season is going to go.

Q. Baylor has had Texas' number the last two years, and that's kind of unusual historically. Do you want to beat Baylor a little bit more because of the way the past couple years have gone?
TREY HOPKINS:   I think definitely personally that is a part of it, but we also just want to beat Baylor just because they're the next team on our schedule. It's always important to continue to get wins, and I think that's what we need to do as a team, to get us back to the wins.

Q. How big would a win be for this team? 
TREY HOPKINS:   It would be very big. It's always a big thing to win. We always celebrate or wins, and we always have to try to put our losses behind us as fast as possible. But any win would be great.

Q. Do you guys take it more personal when people blame the coach, Coach Brown, or do you take it more personal when people laugh and cuss you out?
TREY HOPKINS:   We try to stay focused on more within. We don't really try to worry too much what people on the outside say about us because when we're doing good everyone is on our side; when one thing goes wrong everybody is against us. This is really the time when you've got to pull up together as a team. That's what we're here for. We have each other's backs. We're a family. That's what we're here for. People are always going to dog us and dog Coach Brown, but I believe our coaching staff has done a great job with what they've done in the past, it's just that we have to continue to build, and I think that's one thing that we're going to do. We're not going to let someone talking about our coaches because we are all confident in our coaches and team, and that's who we have around us, and I think that's one thing that's going to stay.

Q. Do you all call 911 or press that panic button?
TREY HOPKINS:   No, not at all. Not at all.

Q. Saturday's game you're doing a lot of cancer awareness stuff. Do you know what color ribbon you're going to wear?
TREY HOPKINS:   I am going to wear purple just for overall. I don't really have anyone close to me with breast cancer, but I do have a friend of my mom that works at the hospital with my mom. She has a son who has cancer, so I'm going to wear it for him. I don't know him personally but just always talk to my mom about that. We don't have any‑‑ luckily or fortunately in my close family with people that have cancer, so I'm just going to wear that in honor of him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT