UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 8, 2012
Trey Hopkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Trey, how much better prepared do you think this year's team is to handle the surroundings of the OU game? 
TREY HOPKINS:   I think we're much better prepared just because we've seen a variety of problems that can come up during the game. We're not into a panicking mode anymore. We're confident in the schemes, we understand the schemes, they're not new to us anymore. They're not trying to learn a foreign language like it was sometimes last year. So we're able to focus in and just play the game and not really worry too much about what our opponents are doing. I think that'll help us a lot in the long run.

Q. (Inaudible.)
TREY HOPKINS:   Yeah, definitely. There's going to be huge momentum swings, like you said, going on, with the way the stadium is set up, with the way both crowds are going to be pumped up. It's going to be loud, it's going to be exciting, and that emotion helps to build you up, but it can also help your opponent getting them built up. Just being able to remain calm, remain focused and just stay on the right path will help us.

Q. How was this game explained to you as a freshman?
TREY HOPKINS:   When I was a freshman this game was explained to me as the biggest thing we have. This is the biggest game we have. This is our huge rivalry. They explained the stadium to me as it's going to be a sea of orange and a sea of red, they're going to be separated right down the middle, the people in between are going to be fighting with each other. And when I got there, it pretty much was that. It was very loud, it was the most exciting environment I've ever played in.
As a freshman, it was pretty nerve wracking and I was pretty excited. I got pretty nervous on the sidelines. It's a fun game; I loved the environment.

Q. Did it help you at all knowing what you were getting ready to go into?
TREY HOPKINS:   I don't think my freshman year ‑‑ I don't think there's really anything that can really prepare you for that besides just going out there. Those five first minutes you'll be a little bit jittery, but as soon as you get that first snap you'll be fine.

Q. What would you say to them? 
TREY HOPKINS:   I would say go out there and enjoy the environment. It's going to be a different environment, going to be a fun environment, just enjoy it. But as soon as you get on the field, after that first snap, the jitters are all gone, it's time to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT