AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2018
Daria Gavrilova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. GAVRILOVA/I. Falconi   
6-1, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Must be happy with that.  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, really happy.  First rounds are always nerve-wracking.  I think I handled myself really well tonight.   
 Q.  What worked?  What were you happiest with?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I think I was pretty aggressive and just played really free.  Yeah, wasn't afraid to come in.  I actually was working on that in the pre-season, just coming into the net, finishing the points at the net.  I did that well.   
 Q.  How difficult was it not really knowing your opponent until late yesterday?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: To be honest, we get that every other tournament, every other WTA tournament.  You never know your first round opponent until very late.  I just accepted it.   
 Q.  You played her once before and lost, hadn't you?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Played her three times actually.  I beat her in a Tassie challenger back-to-back actually.  Then, yeah, I lost to her in China at the end of 2016 or '15.   
Well, I knew what to expect.  She probably knew me pretty well, as well.   
 Q.  Did that play into the way you approached the match?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I study my opponents with my team, so I knew what I had to do out there.   
 Q.  Your net play, was that a particular weakness you identified or is it just adding to your game?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: It's just adding.   
 Q.  Something to work on over the fortnight?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah.  I've been working on that.  I think I've been showing a bit of net play in the last few matches so...  Yeah, it's just adding new weapons.   
 Q.  You play Mertens next.  A tough next round.  What do you think of that opponent?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I've been watching her at Hopman Cup.  She's been playing really well.  Yeah, I think she's pretty confident.  Just actually defended her title in Hobart.  It's definitely going to be a tough match.   
 Q.  You lost to her in Perth.  What do you have to do differently this time?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I didn't lose to her in Perth.  Haven't played her there.  Played a really tight match at Roland Garros.   
Yeah, it's going to be tough playing her.  I think it's going to be a very exciting match.   
 Q.  This surface would favor you than playing on the clay, I suppose?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Clay is my favorite surface.  You're doing well (laughter).   
But obviously she's playing great tennis in Australia, so...  I don't think there's a favorite to win this match.  I think it's just going to be a really tough battle.   
 Q.  A couple people left your box during the box.  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: They had to go to the toilet.  It distracted me.  But I just think of the worse things that could happen.  I was like, Is someone sick?  Did someone have to get out of the stadium because of something?  I just create really weird stories in my head.   
 Q.  Who was it?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: My dad.  Kate, I think she left as well.  My fitness trainer.   
 Q.  Strict instructions not to move from now on?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: If they had to go, they had to go.  I just think of the worst things.   
 Q.  Is it normal that all the worst things that could happen go through your mind?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, especially with my family, my dad.  And Kate, she's my closest friend.  Where the hell are they?   
 Q.  You didn't lose focus.  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I did, but I just went on with it.  I was like, Okay, you just got to play this point, then worry about it later.   
 Q.  Seemed like last year there was a lot of drama involved in your wins, momentum swings.  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Sorry?   
 Q.  Last year, a bit of drama involved with the wins.  This year first win seems to be pretty smooth.  Do you feel you've come a long way since then?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I'm probably a lot happier with the way I played this year.  Like I said before, last year I was not in my best form.  I think I was just fighting.  The crowd was helping me.   
Yeah, today I felt like I was a lot calmer, played aggressive, displayed a pretty clean match, apart from a few things.  But that's okay.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT