SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2018
Daria Gavrilova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/D. Gavrilova   
3-6, 6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was really close for a long time in that match.  How did you see it?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I thought almost every game was very close.  I think both of us, we both didn't serve as well as we would have liked to.  That's probably why we didn't have that many easy serve holds as we would have wanted to.   
Yeah, overall I think it was still a good match.  I still think that, yeah, I have improved every match since the start of the season, since Hopman Cup.   
 Q.  Was there any specific reason for that?  Ash was talking about how swirly it was.  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, it was really swirly.  It was changing a lot.  Yeah, sometimes I was, like, thinking, okay, why am I missing serves?  Like I thought my ball toss was good, and I was driving with legs, but just the contact wasn't -- it just felt like the ball was just getting away.   
Yeah, probably, yeah, hit a few, like, shanked a few forehands.  Just didn't get in the right position.  But, yeah.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you have beaten yourself a little bit?  Because a lot of those double faults were key points.  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Say it again?   
 Q.  Do you feel a bit like maybe you beat yourself out there?  I think you had seven double faults, but quite a few of those came...  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: On big points.  Yeah, obviously I got frustrated on that 4-All game.  Yeah, just probably hitting a double fault in the net is probably the biggest -- it's just, yeah, I got frustrated.   
Yeah, obviously we'll work on that a little bit (smiling).   
 Q.  Are you happy, though, with the rest of your game heading into next week?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah.  Like I said, I think since Hopman Cup I have been improving.  I feel like today in the rallies I was still -- yeah, I felt pretty good.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)...the form you're in now, do you feel in a better place in 2018?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Well, last year I actually didn't play that well, but I just -- yeah, I was just competing.  Yeah, I was fighting hard.  In the end, I was getting the wins.   
You know, you just never know.  Like, you just compete with what you have on a day, and it's -- yeah, it's never easy.  Like you could be playing someone outside top 100 or you could be playing someone inside top 10.  They could have a good day; they could have a bad day.   
You never know until the actual end result.   
 Q.  Are you happy, though, with your draw?  I think you've got a qualifier first up.  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I haven't actually looked at the draw, because I'm still in this tournament.   
 Q.  Is there anything you need to take out of this tournament heading into Melbourne?  Anything specific you need to work on?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Probably still work on my serve.  I feel like, yeah, double faults are not helping me at all.   
But overall, I think I'm on the right path and playing good tennis.  I've only three or two days, so it's just chipping away and, yeah, keep working on my weapons.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT