CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 24, 2017
Daria Gavrilova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. GAVRILOVA/K. Flipkens
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You play with a lot of emotion obviously.  For some athletes, sometime it's not so good to have highs and lows.  With that, does it help you to play with such emotion?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I've always been an emotional player.  I guess I show different emotions.  Sometimes I'm positive, sometimes I'm not so positive.
Yeah, I've always been like that.  I try and use a lot of self-talk to get myself going, just to be positive.  And I think, yeah, the self-talk and good body language helps me a lot.  But sometimes I still get negative.
Q. At the end of the first set, you kind of showed some of that emotion.
DARIA GAVRILOVA: First set?
Q. You had the set under control, but looked like you were talking to yourself a little bit.
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I think we had some long games where I would play a good point, and then I would make an unforced error.  Then it was just a lot happening, like she was giving free points, and then I would.  I just had to keep myself going and moving.  I was also getting annoyed because there wasn't much rhythm, I guess.
Q. What went well for you today?  What did you think you did well?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Well, clearly saved a few breakpoints (smiling).  I was just brave on the big points.  I stuck to my plan.  I think I was actually coming into the net a lot more than I actually expected myself.
Yeah, I was pretty aggressive.
Q. I think it was the third game, about a 15-minute game, which you won.  How big is that when you have a game that's going deuce, deuce, deuce, to give you a big boost?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, it definitely gives you confidence.  It was also a tricky situation because I was up 3-Love, and having a lead 4-Love is completely different rather than...  Yeah, it is only one game, but it is a big difference.  So I was really trying to win that game.
And, yeah, it was a very long game and a lot of errors, free points.  But I was really happy with the way it finished.
Q. What about now?  How much is this going to help you in the semifinals, a court similar to what you're going to play in New York next week?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Well, New York, US Open, is a completely different tournament.  I'll probably have different feelings about the tournament, different emotions.  I'm not there yet, so I'm not thinking about it too much.
But definitely getting a few wins and making semifinal is a boost.  And, you know, even if someone, whoever I draw, they'll be like, Okay, she just made semis.  Or I could do more damage here (smiling).
Q. You had a big break to go up 4-3 in the second.  You jumped on one of her serves, great return of serve.  Do you pick your spots when you're aggressive and you can jump on a spot and take advantage of?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I think in women's tennis, girls, we're trying to be aggressive on second serves because -- well, just because I think it's the nature of women's tennis.  I know that I could take opportunities.  I do work on that a lot.
I think, to be honest, women practice returns a lot more than men - or that's just what I think.  Because from what I saw, girls would always hit a serve, then return.  Where guys, even for the match warmup, they're just banging a few serves and that's all.
Q. Did you come into this week thinking, This is a part of my game I have to get better at heading into the Open?  If so, what was it?  Do you feel you've really improved on it?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Uhm, I felt like I was playing pretty good tennis throughout the whole U.S. series.  I had a tough one in Toronto where I lost to Strycova, being a set up, I think I was up 4-1 in the second set.  It was tough, losing that match.
Then I had a tough one against Giorgi.  But I kept my head high.  I knew that I was really close.  I lost to a pretty good player.
So everything I worked on in the training block, I was still showing good signs.  But now it's just paying off a little bit more.
Q. Do you feel like you're playing well enough to get that first WTA Tour title here?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I've come close before.  Made two finals, so...  I think I'm capable of it, of winning the whole thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT