AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2017
Daria Gavrilova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. GAVRILOVA/A. Konjuh
6-2, 1-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You said last time you can't win in under 2 hours.  I think tonight was 2 hours and 1 minute.  I'm sure you probably would have rather gotten it done a bit sooner.
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Would have been nice.  But she's a great player.  You know, I think we played pretty good tennis, so...  I'm happy with the win.
Q. What did it feel like happened in the second set?  She just went to the next level?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I think I stopped moving her.  I felt like I was getting overpowered.  Yeah, I felt like I didn't move her as much as I did in the first set and wasn't as aggressive.  You know, I still had chances.  I felt like I was still in that set, I was still playing well.  I was trying to focus.  I wasn't showing too much emotion, which was good, too.
I knew that it could change any minute.
Q. You spoke a little bit about the time violation on court.  You said you nearly lost your cool a little bit.
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I said I lost my cool in the third when I broke her at 2-1.  But I didn't think I deserved that code violation.
Q. Is that something you think, maybe in intense moments like that during the match, it needs to be let go?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Probably.  But I think I'm very honest.  It really annoys me.  It really annoyed me because I really thought it wasn't fair because I was on the line.  The crowd was going.  I was just trying to concentrate.  Then I get a warning.
I just thought it wasn't fair.  But I think I should probably let go of it.
Q. Is that something you were able to let go and see out the match?  You talked about your maturity.
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yes, I was happy I ended up holding my serve at that point.  I was up 4-3.  It was super important to hold.  Yeah, I'm really proud of myself, that I could actually serve it out in the end as well.
Q. You have a good record against Timea.  How much confidence do you take from that?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, we had some tough battles.  It was never easy to play her.  She's such a great competitor.
But I think it is true that I've beaten her, and it gives me a bit more confidence.
Q. Must be good to have another Aussie, Ash Barty, in the third round with you?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I saw her in the locker room today.  I was, like, yeah, we're doing well.  It's awesome.  Ash is super talented.  I think she can be good at anything.
Q. Have you had much to do with her?  She was away from the game for the last couple of years.
DARIA GAVRILOVA: We would message a little bit.  But I'm not going to tell we are best friends, but we get along.  We train together.  We would have, like, lunch together and stuff like this.
Q. Tonight was obviously your second three-setter in a row.  You play doubles.  Have mixed.  Are you worried about the workload at all?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Not really.  I also hit for, like, an hour before the match.  I think I need to work on things.  I'm pretty fit.  I've had a pretty good pre-season.
Yeah, I'm not concerned.  I've played for three hours before.  Actually, two hours is pretty good.  And I did train for two-and-a-half hours in the pre-season.
Q. Would you like to be back on Hisense?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yes.  I love that court.  I think the atmosphere there is amazing.
Q. This is your first Grand Slam tournament as a seeded player.  It happens in Australia.  How are you living this moment?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I don't know.  I don't really think of myself as being seeded as -- it's cool, but it's the same.  I still have tough matches.  It's pretty special when they introduce me before the match and say, Okay, the No. 22 seed, Daria Gavrilova from Australia.
Yeah, like I said, it's cooler, I guess, to be a seed.  It doesn't make a big difference.
Q. Going forward, what are you going to focus on?  What do you need to improve?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Oh, I don't know.
Q. More of the same?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I'm happy with the way I'm playing right now.  Nothing much to improve.  Just a few tactical things against players that I'm playing.  I've been playing some big hitters the whole Aussie summer, to be honest.  I'm just hustling.
Q. Do you think you're playing better this year than you were last year when you made the fourth round?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I think I'm a better player, yeah.
Q. We know you look at the draw.  We've lost another big seed or two today.  Have you looked?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I have.
Q. Are you more excited about your potential chances?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Well, are you talking about Radwanska?
Q. Yes.
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, that quarter, the girls have a good chance.  I don't even know who's going to be in the quarters.  I think it's a pretty good draw for all of them, for all of the four girls there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT