AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2017
Daria Gavrilova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. GAVRILOVA/N. Broady
3-6, 6-4, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What was the key this evening to win this match?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I think I stayed composed.  I told my coaches that I was really happy about how I handled the first set loss because I felt like I had chances.  I was just trying to believe that I can still turn it around and win.
Q. Is that something you've really worked on?  You've spoken about your maturity over the last 12 months.  Is it more the mental side of things you've worked on?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Well, this is the first step.  I was telling myself during the match, Okay, you're doing well.  Surely it's going to pay off.
Yeah, after the match, I was joking around.  I said, I'm a grown-up woman now (smiling).
Q. There was lots of talk about the pressure and expectation on you on the back of last year's result.  Did you feel any of that?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: No, I didn't feel the pressure.  I just played.  I'm someone who's always going to have tough matches because I can't just blow someone off the court.  I don't have a big serve, like, huge forehand or backhand.  I think all my matches are going to be tough.
Q. I think after maybe it was Sydney you said you weren't too concerned with your leadup form even though you lost more matches than you won.  Why weren't you concerned?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Because I felt like I was playing well.  I lost against really good players.  In Perth I lost against Lucie.  She hit that many winners to beat me.  I was like, Okay, I'll just accept that.
I felt like, I don't know, that I had the feeling that I was playing well.
Q. Do you feel different to last year?  You talked about being more composed.  Is that because of your experiences?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: It was one match.  Hopefully I can keep it going.
But, yeah, we've been working on it.  Like I said before, I was just telling myself, Okay, you're going to be a good girl and it's going to pay off.
Q. We saw some photos of you and Naomi practicing on the same court.  Have you ever done that before, particularly at a Grand Slam?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yes, I've done it against Ana Ivanovic in Rome, and I beat her in three sets.  So maybe that's the key (smiling).  I'll just jump in and I'll be like, I'll share with you.
It happens often, I think, because we both wanted to warm up on the court we were playing on.
Q. Is it hard playing against a close friend?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Not really 'cause it's a game.  She wanted to win as much as I wanted to win.  Yeah, I don't find it too hard.
Q. Talk about her backhand a little bit.  A difficult shot to read, unorthodox.  What makes it dangerous?  What do you think you were able to do to keep her off balance a little bit?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Well, I knew that her backhand is her best shot, especially backhand down the line.  In the first set she hit really good shots down the line.  I think in the end I started reading it a little bit more, covering it.
But, yeah, I think it's really natural for her.  She almost, like, slaps it.  It's pretty flat.  Yeah, it is her strength.  It is different.  But notice a lot of players out there that play differently with different grips, yeah.
Q. You were changing up your game with dropshots.  Is that something you've been working on?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Not really.  It's going to sound arrogant, but I think I've always had a good feel and touch.  Well, my forehand dropshot was horrendous.  But, yeah, I did use my backhand dropshot pretty well today.  I used it at the right times, when she was far behind the baseline.
Q. You keep saying you can't win in under two hours.  Do you have any idea why?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah.  Like I said, I don't have the biggest game on tour, so I always have to hustle.  Sometimes it takes a bit long.
Q. You haven't played your next opponent before.  Do you know much about her?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, she's got a big game.  She's got a huge serve.  I mean, I've never played her, but we've practiced a few times.  It was a long time ago.
I'll just get some vision and study her game a little bit.
Q. Do you feel like playing Naomi with her big serve will sort of help you?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah.  To be honest, I've been playing a lot of girls with big serves.  We've been working a lot on reacting and returning up in the court, just reading serve better.  I mean, I've already played this year against Coco, Lucie.  They all serve around 190, 185, so...
I think I should be okay.
Q. Are you happy out there on Margaret Court Arena or are you ready for matches on Rod Laver Arena?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I love that court, Margaret Court Arena.  It's almost my favorite court.  Hopefully I can keep playing there.
Q. Were you inspired by some of the other Aussies today?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, it's awesome.  I was actually telling myself, Okay, people have come back from being down, men, from being down two sets.  I was like, You're only down one set, so you can do it.
It's awesome that so many Aussies are through to the second round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT