AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2016
Daria Gavrilova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/D. Gavrilova   
0-6, 6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Did you want that a bit too much?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I guess so.  I played very well in the first set.  I guess I was starting to overcook it a little bit in the second, got very emotional.  Yeah, was just going crazy.   
 Q.  Is that something you can learn from going forward?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah.  It wasn't great and I'm very disappointed with myself.  I was being a little girl.  Just, yeah, I'm very disappointed with myself.   
 Q.  You play with a lot of energy all the time.  Where do you think it got to be too much emotion today?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I think, yeah, I got emotionally fried in the second set.  Yeah, I was getting angry with myself, just showing way too much emotion.   
 Q.  Why do you think that happened, particularly in the third set?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I don't know.  Yeah, like I said, probably 'cause I was emotionally fried from playing a lot.  I've never played that deep in a Grand Slam, so maybe that's why.   
 Q.  Do you think you were overawed by center court and the big crowd?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: No.  It's not acceptable.  I don't know why I did that.  I was terrible.   
 Q.  You made it to the fourth round for the first time, lost to a top-10 player, but you seem pretty angry at yourself tonight.  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I mean, I played good.  But, yeah, like I said, the behavior, yeah, I just got to learn from it.   
 Q.  The attention on you off the court has grown enormously.  Your first press conference before the start of the tournament, there were two of us.  Now you're on the front and back pages of newspapers, doing TV crosses.  Has that been overwhelming?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: A little bit, yeah.  Right now I don't mind it.  I don't know what to do.  It's all happening for the first time in my life, so I just go with it.  I got people that help me with everything.  They're guiding me.   
 Q.  Have you learned much about yourself as a person over the past week?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Hmm.  I think I handled myself very well in the first three matches.  I was very happy about that and proud.  But, like I said, I'm very disappointed about tonight.   
 Q.  Having said all that, you must take a lot of confidence out of the way you played, some scalps you got here, putting yourself in a position to almost be in the quarterfinal?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I was beating a top-10 player, I was winning 6-Love, I was up 1-Love in the second set.  That gives me a lot of confidence.   
 Q.  Would you have believed that coming into this fortnight you would have been in the fourth round, pushing a top-10 player on Rod Laver Arena?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Just before the tournament, I said if I played my best I could beat anyone.  So I guess, yeah.   
 Q.  Does this result change your expectations for the rest of the year ahead?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Not really.  I am happy about my results.  After all, I lost against a top-10 player.  She was very tough.  I think still the whole tournament was great.  It gives me a lot of confidence.   
 Q.  You're projected to rise to No. 32 in the world, a Grand Slam seeding sort of zone.  Is that a priority between now and the French, pushing up there so you can be seeded at the slams?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: To be honest, the seeding, I don't care about it.  I think the gap in women's tennis is not very big right now.  You can see a few qualifiers are still in the tournament.  A few girls that are my age are still in the tournament.   
I think it doesn't really matter.   
 Q.  Where does Fed Cup and the Olympics fit in for the rest of the year?  There was some uncertainty about you playing in the first tie.  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I was really looking forward playing in February.  But unfortunately I'm not going to.  We appealed, and I didn't win that appeal.  Very disappointed.  I was really looking forward.   
Yeah, unfortunately I'm not going to play the first tie in Slovakia, but we'll see what happens in April.   
 Q.  The first set you played, was that almost as well as you could play?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Well, apparently I made like three unforced errors, so it was pretty good beating a top-10 player 6-Love, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT