AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2016
Daria Gavrilova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. GAVRILOVA/K. Mladenovic   
6-4, 4-6, 11-9   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Almost three hours on the court tonight.  Must have really tested your fitness.  How have you pulled up?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: To be honest, I didn't feel like it was three hours at all.  We didn't have long rallies so I felt like I could just keep going if I needed to.  So I'm feeling fine now.   
 Q.  Your opponent in the next round was only on the court 51 minutes tonight.  How do you recover over the next couple of days?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Well, I'm playing mixed doubles tomorrow.  I should do fine.  I'm not too worried.  I've had a great training block, so I'm ready.   
 Q.  How important was the crowd tonight?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Very, to be honest.  They pulled me through in the end.  They were great.  I can't thank them enough.   
 Q.  Kristina said herself she hadn't played in front of anything like that tonight.  How about you, is that a similar situation for you?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, it's true.  I never had a match like that in this stage.  Yeah, I could say it is my best win of my whole career.   
 Q.  The nerves grow with every round, or after you beat Petra, do you feel like you have the game to take on the bigger players?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Well, I guess I want to win every match, so I got a bit nervous again serving for it in the third set.  But, yeah, every match means a lot.  So I'm as nervous in every match.   
 Q.  You haven't been a full Australian for long.  When the fans are singing all these songs about being Australian, does that inspire you?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, it does.  I get funny about it and happy.  But I love it.  I'm embracing it.   
 Q.  Do you surprise yourself sometimes at the level that you produce out there, or is it everything you expect of yourself?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, like I said, I trained pretty hard in the pre-season.  I think it's just paying off.   
 Q.  You're one of the few players who actually often smiles between points, particularly if you're playing well.  Do you think that sort of positivity is helping your game?  What goes through your head?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: A lot.  You don't want to be in my head (laughter).   
Yeah, I am very emotional.  I mean, you can see all my emotions.  I get frustrated with myself, and I guess I show it.  Sometimes I shouldn't be.  When I'm happy, I guess I show it, as well.   
 Q.  Your next opponent throws up a lot of moon balls.  What sort of challenge does that pose?  You're not the tallest.  Can that be a bit difficult dealing with it?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I think it's not a bad matchup for me.  She's not a big server, so I think we'll have long rallies, and I don't mind it at all.  I'll have a bit more time.  But she's completely different to all opponents I played against just in this Oz Open.   
 Q.  You've known Kristina for a long time.  Did that help you knowing what she plays like?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I mean, I don't know.  Not really.  I wasn't thinking about how long I've known her in the third set.   
 Q.  You swung the racquet a few times, cracked it.  Is that something you need to control?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I can get bad at this.  Yeah, I don't know, I'm just emotional.   
 Q.  In your past two matches, you found it hard to serve it out.  The nerves get the better of you.  How are you going to overcome that?  Does that just come with experience?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I guess I'm wanting it way too much.  Like I said, I think I was trying way too hard, was going for a little too much.  Yeah, in the last game where I actually served it out, I guess I learned from the last game where I was serving it out.  So I don't know.   
 Q.  There were some moments where you seemed more confident when you were actually receiving rather than your service game.  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Well, there is less pressure when you are receiving.  She's under pressure.  It's different.   
 Q.  Do you have a signature shot you really like playing?  The down-the-line is pretty good.  One shot you really like in your game?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I guess backhand down the line.  Hit it a few times (smiling).   
 Q.  Not often, particularly on the women's side, we have someone in the fourth round.  Are you feeling any pressure or is everything beyond here an achievement?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I don't feel any pressure, but I really want to keep going and keep winning.  I'm just building my own pressure.   
 Q.  Your profile will be growing.  Are people starting to recognize you or are you having to slip around Coles?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I went to the gym today just to have a bit of a stretch.  The person recognized, and I was like, Oh, cool.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT