AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2016
Daria Gavrilova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. GAVRILOVA/L. Hradecka   
7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What's scarier, winning Hopman Cup or winning first round of Aussie Open?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I was as nervous today as I was at Hopman Cup.  All these matches mean a lot to me, and today, yeah, it was hard serving it out in the end.  Got a bit nervous.  Had all those thoughts coming in my head.   
But then I told myself to stop thinking and just playing tennis, just set up points.  I think in the end I did it pretty well.   
 Q.  The fact that you got through with those nerves that you had serves you a lot better as far as you will potentially you will have less or no nerves moving forward with those sort of situations?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: We all get nervous.  I think it's pretty normal, especially, I guess, girls get a lot more thoughts.  Yeah.   
You just have to stop thinking about outcomes and just concentrate on what you want to do and how you want to win points.   
 Q.  First Grand Slam as a bona fide Aussie.  How was the support out on Margaret Court Arena?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: It was great, yeah.  It was amazing.  Actually someone yelled out, Break here, and I actually did break the same game.   
I was like, Oh, thanks.   
 Q.  You said on court afterwards as well you didn't get a lot of sleep last night due to excitement, and you just mentioned your brain is working overtime with nerves, as well.  What do you plan on doing before your next match to ensure you get that sleep and manage to shut the brain off?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I think -- I don't know.  Yeah, I will just try -- I don't know, honestly.  I will probably have another bad sleep (laughter).   
 Q.  How do you go with a lack of sleep?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I have been sleeping well prior to the tournament, so I'm fine.  I still go to sleep early, but I'm just -- anything can wake me up during the night.   
 Q.  When you were playing, at one stage you got a piece of paper out and read over it again.  Was that your game plan?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I think I left it on the court, actually.   
Yeah.  It's just few points.  Nothing -- yeah.  Just to keep me calm and keep me focused on what I'm doing.  Nothing magical.   
 Q.  You must have been thrilled with the way you came back.  I think you saved 10 break points.  Every break point.  Do you recall having a game like that that you managed to save all those?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I don't think so.  I served really well.  At some point I was like, Oh, I should -- I might as well start the game at love-30 or 15-40, because I actually played better after.   
 Q.  Big task ahead with Petra waiting for you.  What do you make of that?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I got pretty close.  I was serving for it in China.  I was up 5-3, and I think I lost in like two minutes the next four games.   
But, yeah, she hits the ball pretty hard; has a good serve.  I'll have to work very hard and run a lot.  Yeah, survive all those big shots and see what happens.   
 Q.  We heard a few, Come ons out there.  Are you a big fan of Lleyton?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I actually was told that I'm a female Lleyton Hewitt once by my friend.  Yeah, I love watching him.   
 Q.  Not a bad person to be compared to.  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: No, not at all.   
 Q.  What else do you feel you have to do better in your next round?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, first rounds are all a bit tricky.  I didn't think I played that great off the baseline.  I was getting a bit excited and jumping.  And, yeah, just I think next round I will be a lot calmer.  Also, I've got nothing to lose, so, yeah, there's not much I can do in this one day.  I can't like fix my forehand or backhand or whatever.   
I'll just get out there and work really hard.   
 Q.  Do you think it was good preparation for you today playing another left hander?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Sorry?   
 Q.  Kvitova is a left hander.  Do you think it was good preparation today?  
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Hradecker is a right-hander, just double backhand and forehand.  I guess I'll try to find a left hander to practice with tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT