BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 6, 2015
Daria Gavrilova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/D. Gavrilova
  6‑3, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously not the result you wanted, but you fought really hard out.   You must've been proud of that effort. 
DARIA GAVRILOVA:   Yeah, she's obviously a quality player and I had to play extremely well.   I thought I could have served better, but I think it's still a good test for me, and I'm very happy about this week. 

Q.   The way you fought your way back into the game, and especially in the second set compared with how you started, was it just nerves?   Can you explain the two different shapes of that game?
DARIA GAVRILOVA:   Yeah, the start was a bit‑‑ obviously it's my first match on a big court like ‑‑ well, it's not my first, but here.   I was just a bit nervous and I was overthinking a little bit and rushing.
But at the end I sort of thought, Okay, like, you have nothing to lose.   Just fight as hard as you can, get every ball back, and I think I did that pretty well at the end. 

Q.   How were the nerves at the end?   You saved a couple match points. 
DARIA GAVRILOVA:   Yeah, when it got a bit closer I was like, Oh, my God, you can actually win it now.   You're very close.   But I still did everything I could, and it's just bad luck today. 

Q.   Where does that fight come from?   It's obviously a major strength of yours and something you develop yourself.   It's something everybody can have, but you seem to have it more than other players.   Where does that come from?
DARIA GAVRILOVA:   I was always just pretty competitive.   I think every player hates to lose.   I just feel like I have a chance every time and I just fight until I'm done with the match, until I can't‑‑ until it's done, until the last point.

Q.   Something you get from your father? 
DARIA GAVRILOVA:   I don't know.   I think I was just brought up like that.   It's something I have.   I can't explain it really.

Q.   Can you describe your whole week?   The public's embraced you and people know who you are and they're following you.   You played some good tennis.   It's been an exciting week for you? 
DARIA GAVRILOVA:   Yeah, it's obviously been a great and I love Brisbane.   Hopefully I will be back here next year.
And, again, it's a good practice before Australian Open.   And just feeling Australian and feeling like everyone is supporting me, it's very great.   It's nice.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Does it feel any different?   Obviously you made your Aussie Open debut I think last year. 
DARIA GAVRILOVA:   Two years ago.

Q.   Two years ago.   How does it feel sort of this time around going into it?   Is there any different feeling for you going into a tournament like that?
DARIA GAVRILOVA:   Well, I'm more confident now because I've had these matches and I still have another tournament before Oz Open, but I'm pretty confident.

Q.   Do you know Sydney or Hobart yet? 
DARIA GAVRILOVA:   I'm still not sure where I'm going.

Q.   Do you have a preference?
DARIA GAVRILOVA:   I would like to go to Sydney.   (Smiling.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT