SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 7, 2019
Daria Gavrilova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Y. PUTINTSEVA/D. Gavrilova
6-1, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Looked like you really had it going when you went into that second set.  How tough was it?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, it sucks.  I always want to win, but, yeah, the start of the season is not great.  Yeah, I felt like I was really off today.  In the first set, I wasn't myself.  I felt like that was the same last week.
Obviously the Grand Slam is next, so hopefully I will find the Dasha that everyone knows and be up and about (smiling).
It's almost like I was trying to be the good girl and not show much emotion, and I lost myself a bit.  Yeah, I'm not going to be that good girl anymore (smiling).
Q. Is that like a thing for you?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Probably was just a bit too calm and too complacent.  I mean, I was trying to be positive, but there was not much to be positive about in the first set.
But I also, like, there was one time when I kind of went off.  But I'm not saying it's a good thing to, like, go off and go nuts, but I should have maybe just gone a bit more aggressive with my footwork, for example.  But I was just, like, flat.
Q. So you feel like you really need to let your emotions out straightaway?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I don't know what it is.  It's only the second match of the year, so I'm not too worried.  I just haven't been myself.
Q. It seemed like the second set you converted some of that anger and fired up a bit.
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah.  Second set I got more pumped up, because I started winning the long rallies and, yes, started making more balls pretty much, because I felt like I was dictating and just like missing forehands everywhere.
Q. It's rare for you to get to Melbourne without at least one win.  Does that worry you?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I mean, definitely doesn't help, but I'll just have to work with it, and, I mean, when I step out on court, I, yeah, I get really competitive.  Hopefully, like I said, Melbourne, Grand Slam, having the home crowd is going to help me and I'll find myself.
Q. You do have a lot of experience winning in Melbourne.
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I just have to back myself that I have done the work.  Yeah, I just need to trust myself in the matches and be more up and about.  Like I said -- I told my coach that I was, like, I can't be positive.  There is nothing positive to be about.
So it's hard, but I guess if that happens next time, I will just have to really focus on being aggressive with the footwork.
Q. How did the rain delay affect you?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Oh, I was back at the hotel because I stayed here.  So I actually went for a nap.  Maybe I napped too long.
Q. (Question about her physical condition.)
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I have niggles everywhere.  I don't know what's happening.  We'll get on top of it.
Q. Is that something you had before or is that new?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: Yeah, I started feeling it this week.  Yeah, like normally I never really have anything, so it's, like, new to have niggles here and there.
I'm getting old (smiling).  When I was 18 I was, like, to be fair, like I didn't have to do anything, like no recovery and never saw a physio.  I was great.  I was sweet.
Q. Do you have any idea what's happening with the foot?
DARIA GAVRILOVA: I don't want to say.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT