THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 20, 2002
Patty Sheehan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Can you just give us some comments on the afternoon. 
PATTY SHEEHAN:  Well, I was still out with the morning matches when the afternoon matches started, so I know you are going to ask me what I said to them in the locker room, and I didn't get to say anything to them in the locker room because I was still out with the morning matches. 
So my players took it upon themselves to be self-motivated and they were very controlled, and they obviously didn't panic.  I really have never seen them panic before, and they obviously knew that this afternoon was  -- it was going to turn around for them.  I am tell you what, I have got some studmuffin rookie pitballs out there.  They are amazing.  They are so much fun and so much fun to watch. 
There were great matches out there.  The first three matches were incredible, birdies all over the place, and Rosie  -- Rosebud Jones did what she does the best, and that's play her own game, and once again, she took on Laura Davies and I don't know how she does it, but she  -- she pulled it off. 
Cristie Kerr started off with a bang in that match, she made some early birdies which were key, put them up, and they just hung on for dear life at the end. 
Laura Diaz and Emilee Klein, two of my rookies -- I actually had to put Laura in there.  I had Beth  Daniel going in there this afternoon and she has got the flu, so I put Laura Diaz in there this afternoon, and what a great substitution that was.  She was not happy that Beth was sick, but she was certainly happy to take her place, jump right in. 
Welcome, ladies.  Would you like me to run the show, Laura? 

MODERATOR: Questions for Patty and then we will talk to the players.
Q.  Patty, how concerned were you after the morning?
PATTY SHEEHAN:  I was not concerned a bit.  In fact, I felt like that last point that we won in the morning was really key, it was a huge momentum builder for us, changed the momentum, and we had Mother Moe on our side this afternoon.  It was  -- simmer down over there, Meg. 
MEG MALLON:   It's going to take me awhile to simmer down.
PATTY SHEEHAN:  It's going to take us all awhile.  That was one of the most awesome matches I have ever seen.  I will tell you what, the Minnesota galleries out here are phenomenal.  I went to the PGA Championship when it was in town, but the galleries were nothing like they are here. 
MEG MALLON:   They helped us.
PATTY SHEEHAN:  They came, and they came to shout for the US, and they changed a great deal of things for us this afternoon.  They came out in droves, and it was huge for our team. 

Q.  Patty, can you talk about the effort that Michele gave you and the team, and did you expect her to play that well?
PATTY SHEEHAN:  Absolutely.  Absolutely, I expected her to play that well.  That's why I put her in there.  You bet.  She is  -- I don't know exactly the number she is on the birdie list, but she is up in the Top 10 someplace.  You tell me where it is, Michele.
MICHELE REDMAN:  I am not sure, but it's the Top 10.
PATTY SHEEHAN:  It's like sixth place in birdies for the year in the LPGA, somewhere in there.  And, you know, why would I not put her in?  I mean, that would be crazy on my part.  I think the world of Michele.  I watched her at last year's  -- two years ago in Loch  Lomond, and I was very impressed with the way that she handled herself that week, and I wanted her to show all of you how good she is. 

Q.  Patty, after this morning, any plans to change anything tomorrow morning?
PATTY SHEEHAN:  Sure.

Q.  After this morning's foursomes, you were 3-1 down.  Will there be any plans to change anything tomorrow morning in the foursomes? 
PATTY SHEEHAN:  You know, I haven't even done the pairings yet.  I need to go back and meet with Jane.

Q.  Patty, when Cristie and Rosie were up four at the turn, how much of that match did you follow on the back 9, and how much did you follow the twists and turns, the dramatics of that one?
PATTY SHEEHAN:  I didn't follow it very much.  I was trying to bring up these guys, and I felt that Rosie had things under control up ahead, and I didn't watch very much until the last hole, and what an amazing last hole that was when Laura Davies hits her tee shot in the water off the tee, one hop in the water, hits her next shot up there 10 feet, and makes the putt for bird. 
And I got my little Rosebud and my little Cristie Kerr up there.  Christie Kerr bombs it to right in front of the green about, I don't know, 15 yards in front of the green, if that.  My little Rosebud, she hits it out there, hits her third shot on the green about five feet, nails the putt for bird.  She took on  -- she carried the world today for me. 

Q.  Questions for Patty?  If not, we are going to let her go to her pairings.
PATTY SHEEHAN:  That would be really cool.

Q.  What's Beth's situation for tomorrow, or don't you know yet at this point? 
PATTY SHEEHAN:  She went back to the hotel to rest this afternoon.  I don't know what her situation is right now, and I am going to go find out, and we will go from there.  I am going to probably give her a little jingle here in a minute.  Thanks, guys, way to go. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT