THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 21, 1994
Patty Sheehan
Sherri Steinhauer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: Well, it was a tough day  out there today.  We played well and fortunate to come  out ahead by 2 at the end.  And it was just a fighting  match.  We were never down.  We were either even or up  the entire day.  We played well.  I think we played  very, very well together.   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Well, I have to say that  Sherri was the pillar of strength and you wouldn't  think that the great veteran I am supposed to be would  have been the nervous wreck out there, but I was.  And  Sherri played very, very well and she was the star.  She drove the ball well and she putted well and hit  some good bunker shots; certainly the one at 18 was  awesome.  And I was just kind of along for the ride  cheering for her.  It was a great match.  It wasn't a  pretty match, but it was a great match and a  hard-fought match by both sides.  And we were just  really fortunate to be on the top.  As far as the highlights are concerned, let  us see, we went one up on the second hole, Pam hit her  shot in the water and they made a bogey.  We made a  par.  And then we went two up on the third hole.  We  made par and they made a bogey.  And then the fourth hole we lost, we made a  bogey, they made a par.  Both from out of the bunker.  And then what happened?   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: Fifth hole we lost.   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Fifth hole we lost.  We made a  bogey, they made a par.  Then we kind of -- 6th hole, did we win that  one?  It is very difficult you guys.  We are in such a  zone and, you know, we are really not -- we are trying  to think here.  Got a great up-and-down out of the  bunker on 6 and we had a great up-and-down out of the  bunker on 7 to tie.  So we are still even.  8.   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Help us.  Number 9, what is  nine?   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: Par 3.   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Par 3.  You hit a good shot in  there and they didn't get up-and-down out of the bunker  and we won that hole.   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: We won the 12th hole.  It was  a great birdie.  They relayed it up perfectly for the  yardage.   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: Yeah, I layed it up  perfectly.  It wasn't quite the number that she wanted,  but -- and then unfortunately it was not a very pretty  lie.  She was right in the middle of a divot and hit a  great shot out about twelve feet, so wonderful shot  from that lie and so I made the putt and we won that  one.   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: You got a great up-and-down on  13.   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: 13, I drove it in the left  bunker, not a good tee shot.  Patty hit a great shot  out, long, just continued on past the other -- the  green and they made par and we got up-and-down for  par.   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Sherri hit an awesome chip to  like this (about 8 inches) for par.   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: 14, what is 14?  I had a  hiccup on my putt and we 3-putted.  I missed a short  one there, so we lost that one to go one up.   
 

Q.  What length was it?  
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: Two feet.   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Three feet.   
 

Q.  What was were you pardoning yourself at two  feet or is she being generous at 3?  
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Looked like 3 to me.   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: Somewhere in there.   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: It was a junior.   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: Yeah. Let us see, what is  the next one.  I drove it down the right side.  You  want to keep it left center on that shot and Patti hit  a great cut with the ball, good shot, right to the  front of the green and we 2-putted.  And then Trish hit  it in the trees on her second shot and Pam hit it on --  they 2-putted, made bogey and we made we made par.  16, they made birdie.  Trish made that par,  right?   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Yes.   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: Trish -- Pam hit a great  shot in and so they made birdie and we lost that one.  17, we halved with pars.  And 18, we won that one.   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: It was ugly.   
 

Q.  Tell us about the bunker shot on 18?  
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: Let's see, it was probably  about a -- 60 feet?   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: No.   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: 50 feet?   
 

Q.  25 or 30 yards?  
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Yards?   
 

Q.  About 25 or 30 yards, so that is 50 or 60  feet.  
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: 30 yards is 90 feet; is that  right?   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: So I just -- I practiced  that shot quite a bit and just kind of a long run shot  and just basically closed my eyes and hit it and was  fortunate when I opened them, but it was -- Patti left  it actually in a good spot.  I was trying to get it  down there as far as I could on my second shot so that  she wouldn't have such a long shot in and she had, how  far did you have?   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: 210.   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: 210 to the pin, so she did  the right thing and if she is going to miss it, she  wants to miss it to the right; give me all the green to  work with, and that was the place to be if you were  going to miss it.   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: And I missed it.   
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: Well, from 210 uphill,  that is not an easy shot.   
 

Q.  What were you hitting?  
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: I hit a 4-wood.   
 

Q.  How did you fancy the putt?  
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: How did I fancy the putt?  It  was -- how did I fancy the putt?  I was happy as hell  that it was given to us.   
 

Q.  How long was it?  
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: The putt -- the putt was  probably four, five feet with a little bit of a break  to the left, but, you know, fortunately for us, we  didn't have to putt it.   
 

Q.  Patti, what is the mood of the American team  going to be tonight?  
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: We are all going to go out and  get drunk, probably.   
 

Q.  Why were you nervous?  
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: I don't know.  I think that  our match was a big boost.  I think that we lost 3 in a  row there and because we hung in tough and brought home  a point, that was a big boost for us and so I think we  are going to be okay tonight.  We still have two days  left and it is early yet, so I don't think that there  is going to be any problems.   
 

Q.  Were you aware of what was going on at the  time?  
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Yes.   
 

Q.  Why were you a nervous wreck, Patti?  
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: I don't know.  I just -- I  want to do so well for Sherri and for the team and for  the country that I guess I put too much pressure on  myself and I was just trying too hard, I think, and it  is just a wicked nerve wracking day, and never really  got settled down, so I don't know, you know, I don't  really know why, but it was just -- that was it.   
 

Q.  Is it always this way for Solheim Cups?  
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Yeah, I think so.  I have had  a little bit of a tough time with nerves in The Solheim  Cup in the past.  You would think the older and more  mature and more experienced you get, the easier it  would be, but it doesn't seem to work that way with  me.   
 

Q.  Did the cold train rattling by, I think it  was on the third or fourth hole when you put it in the  bunker on the par 3, it was awfully loud; was that very  distracting?  
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Actually I didn't hear the  train.  It was just a bad swing.  But it was right next  to Trish when she was hitting; I am sure it was a  distraction for her.   
 

Q.  Did you notice the earlier matches;  specifically, the first match, did you pay any  attention to that, as far as the score while you were  playing?  
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Well, Barb, our observer had a  radio and she told us when they had won and they had  won their match when we were on the 12th hole.   
 

Q.  So does a match like that have any emotional  effect on the matches that follow it?  
 
SHERRI STEINHAUER: I think, you know, when we  were out there playing and no matter what position you  are in, you are out there doing what you have to do and  yet it was great when we found out that they had won  the match, no doubt we were happy and thrilled about  that, but we still had a lot of work ahead of us and I  think both Patti and I were just really into what we  had to do and what we were doing and I know I wasn't  paying attention to the board.  I didn't know what was  happening after that, after the first match.  And there  is too many other things to think about with your own  game to worry about how the other matches are going.  You can't control them.  You can't do anything about  them.   
 
PATTY SHEEHAN: Good answer.   
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT