U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 1994
Patty Sheehan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 LES UNGER:  66 sounds like a good number today.  That is one
that Patti had. If you would take us through your birdies and
the one bogey, and if there is a par that you want to talk about,
that was a save, we would appreciate that.

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  Well, let us see.  Number 2, I had a pretty good
save; hit 3-wood off the tee, 4-wood down into the grassy part
of the bunker to the right, short of the green; hit a pitching
wedge -- chipped pitching wedge up to about a foot made, par there.
 3, I hit a 7-iron to about 12 feet, made that for birdie.  6,
drove it left, had kind of a downhill shot from the backside of
the bunker on the 6th hole; tried to hit 4-iron, hit it short,
right of the green, chipped it to about 12 feet and missed it
and I made bogey there.  7, I hit a good drive, and 5-iron to
about 15 feet and made that for a birdie.  11, hit 9-iron to probably
25 feet and made that for birdie.  12, I hit a 3-wood off the
tee and 3-wood just short.  Hit a terrible chip to about 18 feet
and made that for birdie.  13, I hit a 4-wood to four feet and
made that for birdie.  And then, kind of cruised along and hit
a good drive on 18; 7-iron to about 15 feet and then made that
for a birdie.

 LES UNGER:  Do all of these low scores surprise you?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  Well, not really.  The golf course didn't play
as difficult as it can play.  I think the weather was very favorable
for shooting some good numbers; a lot of good numbers out there
today.  The golf course, you know, is not playing difficult because
there is not much wind.  There is not -- the sun is not out. 
It is not hot.  It is not draining.  It is not a draining day.
 The greens are holding pretty well.  And the greens are putting
very smoothly.  I am sure that in the afternoon rounds they will
be a little bit more spiked up, but all in all, I think that it
played about as easy as it can.

 Q.  After having won this in 1992, is it easier now, you are
not putting a lot of pressure on yourself to play one of these
or are you still putting the same amount of pressure on yourself?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  No, after 1990 I haven't put as much pressure
on myself to win this tournament.  I have realized that there
is a lot more to life than losing the U.S. Open, so, you know,
I took a lot of pressure off myself and it certainly has helped
me play a lot better and my attitude is better.  I am a lot happier
with myself.  I am a lot happier being here.  And I think I probably
prepare myself better for the U.S. Open both physically and mentally,
but I don't put as much pressure on myself as I used to.  I am
an old lady, you know.

 Q.  Speaking of which, there is a lot of experience at the
number, at 66.  Why is that?  Why do you suppose that is?  All
three players that shot 66 are very experienced.

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  I think the older you get, the more patient you
get.  I think that patience is probably the key word in playing
well at an Open.

 Q.  How important was it to have a morning tee time today;
do you think?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  Well, I think it is kind of nice to get out of
the shoot.  You are not waiting around all day long for that,
you know, first round.  You get that first round under your belt.
 An early time means the course is in better condition.  And I
think all in all, it probably is a little bit of an advantage.
 I feel like I am in court with this deal right down here.  Boy!
 (indicating court reporter machine).

 LES UNGER:  Everything is going in there.


 Q.  Do you own a white Bronco?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  No, and I haven't bought a knife lately either.


 Q.  How surprised were you to see the amateur with 66 up there?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  Not at all.  I have known Carol for many, many
years and I know she is a great player and I was on the Curtis
Cup team with her.  She has been on 100 Curtis Cup teams, so she
has had a lot of experience.  I am not surprised to see her up
there at all.

 Q.  How often is the Curtis Cup played?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  Every two years.

 Q.  So she is 200 years old?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  (laughter).

 Q.  What do you think we could expect the rest of this weekend
here if the weather is going to change, the course is going to
change?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  I don't know what to expect from the weather.
I haven't heard any weather forecasts lately, but I do know that
if the weather, you know, turns windy or rainy, the scores are
going to go up.  I really haven't heard what the forecast is.


 Q.  Can an amateur win this championship?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  Yes, an amateur can win this championship. They
have done it in the past, and I don't think that it is out of
the question for it to happen in the future.

 Q.  Does this tournament get really long as it progresses;
not this specific one, but say the Opens you have won where you
have played the playoff round in some of the other Opens where
you played well but didn't win; does it become a really long tiring
process?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  Yeah, I think a little bit more so than a regular
tournament.  Number one, for some reason, the Open always plays
a lot slower than what we are used to playing on the regular tour.
 You know, we are out there for five hours and that is 45 minutes
to a half an hour longer than what we are used to playing.  That
becomes old.  I think, you know, just because it is the U.S. Open,
because it is a harder golf course, you have got a lot of people
out there that you are not used to playing with.  It can become
a little tedious at times.

 Q.  So, therefore, patience comes into that?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  Patience, yeah.

 LES UNGER:  Is it longer than your other majors?  Takes longer
to play than your other majors?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  I think so, yeah.

 LES UNGER:  What factors contribute to that?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  I think there is two factors.  Number one is
that the golf course is usually more difficult than, I would say,
in general, not from year to year but I think in general they
are more difficult.  Number 2, you have got a lot of people that
are not used to playing in major championships.

 LES UNGER:  Amateurs?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  Amateurs.  There are some teaching pros. There
are other pros that don't play the Tour, and you know, there is
a group of people out here that have not been used to playing
in major championships on a regular basis.  So I think that, you
know, it does take a lot longer for them to get around the golf
course.

 Q.  Is that another reason why patience is becoming the word
that most women are talking about here today, patience, patience,
patience?

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  It is that what you have been hearing?

 Q.  That is all we have been hearing.

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  Are you getting board?

 LES UNGER:  It is the buzz word.

 PATTY SHEEHAN:  Yeah, I think it is just the whole atmosphere;
all the factors that go into all of the players that play in the
U.S. Open and the fact that it is a difficult golf course.  You
have to be patient.  Thank you very much.

  End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT