MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2015
Carl Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
CARL JOHNSON:   That's a fact.   No tricks.   I'm happy to pass it on.   
   
 Q.   What did you and Ben say to each other in that embrace there on the 18th?   
CARL JACKSON:   Talked about loving each other.   
   
 Q.   Just that?   
CARL JACKSON:   Just I love you.   
   
 Q.   Can you believe it's over?   
CARL JACKSON:   I don't think I realized that yet, but yes, it is over.   I'll have a glass of wine tonight.  
(Laughter.)   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about what it was like at 14 coming out here?  
CARL JACKSON:   I mean, I was heading over to the truant officer and I was supposed to be going to class, but I was coming to the golf course.   Then, when I got here, I was causing them problems, because I shouldn't have been here.   
But I was doing good at my job.   And the caddies, many of the caddies were my uncle's ages and friends, but they took care of me, you know.   You're not going to mess with Carl.   You can do anything you want to do, it doesn't bother him.   That's the kind of relationship we had going on.   
   
 Q.   How hard was it for your family back then?  
CARL JACKSON:   Very hard.   It was very hard.   There was always a way.   We made it.   But I am proud to say that I never lived in a home that received welfare.   And I'm proud of that.   My granddaddy at the time worked hard and we worked, too.   
   
 Q.   What did you specifically tell Ben on the 18th green?   
CARL JACKSON:   I said, "I love you" and he said, "I love you."   And I said, that's it.  
   
 Q.   That sums it up?   
CARL JACKSON:   That sums it up.  
   
 Q.   Was that the most emotional time you've ever had?   
CARL JACKSON:   No.   No, I mean, when we were writing our book, I mean, to go through those things and realize how the families miss us when we're gone and all those things, but we was crying and belly laughing while we were writing the book.  
   
 Q.   I bet there was a lot of crying on the 18th green there too, wasn't it?  
CARL JACKSON:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Is it a sad day or a special day?  
CARL JACKSON:   Oh, this is a real special day.   Nothing sad about it.   It's a big honor to my friend, Ben Crenshaw.   
   
 Q.   What was the most difficult challenge through all this for you?   
CARL JACKSON:   Difficult challenge?   Just coming back from two surgeries, two different surgeries.   Those are really a challenge.   Again, you just got to fight.   You got to command your body to fight.   And the technology in the hospitals in this country that helped you.   You got to expect to be uncomfortable, sometimes some pain, but you got to remind yourself and your body to fight.   Just give your body a command.   
   
 Q.   What's next for you?   
CARL JACKSON:   carlskids.com.   That's my foundation, and I won't have time to explain it to you right now, but go on‑line and check it out.   But that's where my heart is.   I just like to get ‑‑ I spent ‑‑ it teaches you a lot.   And I just want to, I lived through it and I want to pass it on.   We could help all our other kids, you know, if everybody would chip in and do it and reduce their expenses of whatever the assets are.   They face a tough road now.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT