AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 3, 2021
Pauline Roussin-Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Good scorecard.  Looks up and down.
 PAULINE ROUSSIN-BOUCHARD:   Yes, a lot of colors.  Very colorful day.  Great playing.  We played the right areas on the greens.  I don't recall missing a lot of greens today.  The few I missed, I chipped.  I had some good chips.  Overall, it's a very, very good day.  It's not every day that you can play under par at Augusta National, so I'm satisfied with today.
 Unfortunately I had one more bogey on the par 5 and then had a three-putt, as well.  So it's kind of -- I lost points where I could have, you know, done a little bit better but we can always do better, right.
 But yeah, overall, very, very good round.
 Q. The overall experience, how was it?
 PAULINE ROUSSIN-BOUCHARD:   The overall experience is the same.  It's just amazing to be here.  I'm so glad I got to work with my caddie, Sebastian, this week because it's the first time we actually worked together.  I just loved the experience so much, same as being here.  Like the place, the whole tournament, the organization, is just perfect.
 Right now I just don't have to say anything about the organization.  It was just awesome the whole week.  I enjoyed every second here and I'm happy to count Augusta National as one of the best experience in my life.
 Q. How differently did the course play today versus yesterday with the weather being different?
 PAULINE ROUSSIN-BOUCHARD:   Very, very different.  I didn't expect it, actually, to be this warm today.  It was way shorter.  Greens were very similar.  Obviously less wind.  Some holes were a little bit easier than others.  Some par 5s were shorter and par 4s, as well, and that allowed me to get some birdies a little bit.
 I would say today, I had more wedges in my hands and pitching shots than yesterday where it was more like 8-iron, 7-iron.
 Q. When you look back on the round, which shots or holes stuck out for you?
 PAULINE ROUSSIN-BOUCHARD:   I would say 7 was a very good one because it's so small and it's very tricky to, you get intimidated by it.  Just reaching the fairway and then perfectly reading how I wanted to play the shot left of the pin a little bit longer, back spin and almost holed out.  That one was definitely a good one.  And same as, I think it was 14, I think 14 as well.  So very good drive and almost holed out, as well.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT