U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN
December 10, 2020
Pauline Roussin-Bouchard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Great round, 1-under to get things going her in your first U.S. Women's Open.  You started of off bogey-free on the front nine; birdie on your second hole.  Just how has that allowed you to just get calm out there and know that you were comfortable on this golf course?
PAULINE ROUSSIN-BOUCHARD:   I wouldn't say it's like about being comfortable.  It was just like kept my strategy and taking as much greens as possible, and when there were momentum try to get the birdie or even the par on certain holes.
But it actually feels good to be able to stand by par and birdie and feel that the game might be like in a good shape.
Q. Playing in your first U.S. Women's Open.  How excited were you to tee it up today?
PAULINE ROUSSIN-BOUCHARD:   I was very excited.  Actually spent my whole night playing on this golf course, like dreaming about it.  I don't know.  It was like 36-holes day.
But I was really excited and I'm really glad that I'm with my brother here and my coach and friends here.  So I was really, really excited.
Q. You mentioned your coach.  Your coach who coaches you at South Carolina is on the bag this week.
PAULINE ROUSSIN-BOUCHARD:   Yeah.
Q. How important is he to navigate this golf course with you out there?
PAULINE ROUSSIN-BOUCHARD:   He is really important.  So we have or routines from college tournaments obviously, but it's like I'm playing on my own and when I need to check something, we'll just talk about it and basically keep the same routines when we play typical college tournaments.
Q. Playing as an amateur, 1-under to get things started here, what does it mean to you just through round one to be this high up as an amateur playing in the U.S. Women's Open?
PAULINE ROUSSIN-BOUCHARD:   That's amazing, to be honest with you.  I had some kind of revenge to take from last year.  Evian Championship was my first major and I had difficult first round.
So I really --  I'm happy because I really played the golf I wanted to play and I had the behavior I wanted to have, so really satisfied from this round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT