AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2012
Ryan Longwell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Ryan Longwell.   Third time you played in this event, correct?   
RYAN LONGWELL:   '06/'07.  
   
 Q.   And best finish?  
RYAN LONGWELL:   Ninth in'06, 12th in 2007.  
   
 Q.   All right.   Give us a little bit about your round today, walk us through.   
RYAN LONGWELL:   Hit it pretty well.   Had a good front nine.   Made some key putts.   But I had a couple of birdies there late in the round.   
   
 Q.   Which holes did you birdie?  
RYAN LONGWELL:   I birdied 6 and 8 on the front, and went for 11 with a driver, tugged it left in the hazard and dropped.   Decent chip that ran probably 20feet away.   Made the putt for par.   
Huge momentum in the round, and then just kind of treaded water on the back until I got to 16, 17, 18 and went par, par, birdie and closed pretty well.   Hit it well.   Made putts when I had to.   And I'm pretty happy with it.  
   
 Q.   How many putts total did you have, do you know?  
RYAN LONGWELL:   I don't.  
   
 Q.   Just a good day putting?  
RYAN LONGWELL:   Good day putting, missed a couple short ones, probably misread them more than anything else.  
   
 Q.   How about your position after day one, how are you feeling?   Did you come in here figuring you had a shot to win this thing?  
RYAN LONGWELL:   I did.   I felt pretty good about my game.   I felt like 20 was the number.   Want to get opening day.   You just want to put yourself in position.   You can certainly have a bad day on opening day, put yourself behind the eight ball.   
So to be just past 20, we're pretty happy.   And no one went crazy today.  
   
 Q.   What do you think it will take over the next couple of days?  
RYAN LONGWELL:   I think with the winds the way they are, I think the low 20s is a good consistent round.   I think you're going to have to throw a‑‑ sprinkle a mid to high 20 there one of these days to kind of separate yourself.   But there will be someone that will do it.   And it's just a matter of if it's you or someone else.  
   
 Q.   As far as the guys that you're up there at the top with, who are you looking at?   I know everybody plays their own game and you can't think about the other guy.   But who are you thinking about?  
RYAN LONGWELL:   I think Dan Quinn is always going to be in there.   Romo's hitting it well.   And it's really, around here, it's just a matter of making putts.   And you're going to have a bunch of birdie opportunities if you hit it okay.   You just gotta make them.   And we only birdied one of the par 5s today.   So we'd like to take advantage of that going forward.   But we put up a good number with only doing one of the four.  
   
 Q.   Brett Hull was talking about he did not‑‑ he did not birdie a par 5 and he doubled, I think, one or two of them, bogeyed one of them and doubled another one.   
RYAN LONGWELL:   The par 5s are so reachable that you get overly aggressive.   If you get out of position on one of the shots, all of a sudden you're scrambling just to get par.   If you get in the trees like on 16, you're struggling to make bogey or double.   
So they're enticing because they're all reachable.   But you really have to hit good shots to come out of there with birdies.  
   
 Q.   You said earlier that your goal was to finish around 20 coming in.   Where do you think that was going to put you?  
RYAN LONGWELL:   I thought it would just put me in the mix going forward.   I figured someone would go with a 25, 26 day.   Someone usually did.   But it played tough.   The winds came up and the finishing stretch is tougher in the wind as you're closer to the lake.   
But I just thought 20 would put us in the tournament.   And I've had opening days of 13 and 17 and just kind of always playing catch up.   Then you've got to start forcing shots.   And this course is gettable but you don't want to force shots.  
   
 Q.   And so tomorrow the goal is like‑‑ what are you looking at for the goal tomorrow, then?  
RYAN LONGWELL:   I think you gotta get off to a good start.   And I think somewhere in the 20s is another good number.   You just want to give yourself a chance on Sunday.  
And saving those key par putts to get a point, I mean they become bigger than birdies around here at times.  
   
 Q.   You were comparing this a little bit earlier, what you do professionally to golfing.   Can you just elaborate a little bit more on that?  
RYAN LONGWELL:   I think kicking a football probably translates to golf more than any other position these guys play, just because you're standing around, you're thinking about the kick, you're thinking about the shot.   You stand over it and pull the trigger.   
I think it translates well.   I think with all the chaos of 17, it's easy to focus in and just hit the shot.   Coming from what I do for a living versus coming from anybody else, we see all these people, you get nervous.  
   
 Q.   Is it a little easier to hit a golf ball than kick a field goal?  
RYAN LONGWELL:   No.   The field goal, the ball's leaving my foot straight.   The golf ball is different.   You want me in the game with my right foot, not the putter.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT