WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP MEDIA DAY
August 29, 2001
Michael Garten
Gary Glaser
Steve Stricker
Don Tucker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MICHAEL  GARTEN:   Thank  you  very much.  Let me start by saying a sincere thank  you to all the members of the media that are here with us today.  We very  much  appreciate  it  on  behalf  of  the  Championship  office, your participation  and your attendance at today's event.  It really helps us to promote  and build our event for next February.  I'd also like to say thank you  to  all  the  different  corporate  sponsors  that have joined us this morning  and  in  particular  we'd  like to say a special thank you to Mike Nolan  from  Accenture,  Julie Rosenthal, and Don Tucker who works here and actually lives in San Diego.  I appreciate your being here as well.  Last  but  not  least  I  want to say thank to you La Costa Resort and Spa. There  are a number of folks in this room that are part of their staff that are wonderful to work with on a daily basis, and we always appreciate their hard  work  and effort in partnership with us to produce not only the event like this, but the Championship itself.  Just a couple of comments in regard to February 2002.  First and foremost I want  to  say  we at the Championship Office staff, including myself, we're really excited to be back not only in Southern California buy in San Diego, California  and  here  at  La  Costa  Resort and Spa.  I want to make every effort  within  reason that we possibly can to have the success we have had in  both '99 and 2000 here at La Costa Resort and Spa.  So we're excited to be back.  Secondly,  I  just  wanted  to  make mention one particular area that we're really  making  a big push to improve upon, and that is the sale of tickets for  this event.  And a couple of notes on that.  In the media kit there is some information for any of you that are interested in the details, and let me highlight a couple of items that I think are important.  The  ticket  package  for  this  event is $100 and it's for the week of the Championship.   It  includes  an individual ticket for Monday and Tuesday's practice rounds as well as the Wednesday through Sunday competitive rounds. There's  also  a  couple  of  promotional notes that the first 2,500 buyers receive  a  series  of commemorative golf balls that commemorate World Golf Championship   Series  of  events  as  well  as  an  Accenture  Match  Play Championship  event  golf  towel.   Another note is that the ticket package paid  with an American Express card receives a 10% discount, so it would be $90  for  the  week.   So  we'd like to think there is some value there for those golf fans in San Diego as well as Southern California.  With that said, you will have the opportunity for questions after the panel is  finished  and  after  we  have had Steve Stricker's teleconference.  If anybody  has  any  questions  that  are relative please freely free to ask. Thank you. (APPLAUSE) .

DON TUCKER:  Thank you.  On behalf of the 75,000 employees of Accenture in Southern  California  or around the world, we thank you for taking the time to  come  here  this  morning  to  be with us, to kick off this magnificent event.  This  is the fourth edition of the World Golf Championships Accenture Match Play  Championship.   We're  very proud to be a part of it.  Accenture does have  a  long history of sponsoring local golf.  In 1995, 1997 we sponsored the  Accenture World Championship of Golf.  And this was a tremendous event for  us.   We're  very  proud  of  the  results  of that, very proud of the performance. What  we  believe  is  something  to be very proud of and that was to bring Match  Play  back  into  the  world  of  golf,  really bring its popularity (inaudible)  so  we're  very  proud  of  that  goal  and  very proud of our association with it.  The most recent golf partnership, the International Federation of PGA Tours has  helped us to make the World Golf Championships and the Accenture Match Play  Championship  a  reality.   As  I  said, this reflects our continuing commitment to the world of golf on a local level.  Of  course,  golf  is not our primary business.  As you might know, we're a global  leader  in  management information technology.  We have worked with the  world's  most  successful  organizations  helping them to create their future.   We do it with information technology.  We do it for organizations again on a world level.  The World Golf Championships featuring the world's best  players,  playing  the  world's  best courses, sanctioned by the golf governing  bodies  really  parallels,  we believe, our business commitment. That  is  the  commitment  associated  with  delivering  excellence  to our clients,  serving  their  needs on a global scale.  Our connection with the World  Golf  Championships  is  a  very  powerful  means to communicate the attributes  of  our  brand  to  those  who take an interest in (inaudible). Fortunately  we  feel  the  future of this event is very, very bright.  And we're  confident  that  it is going to continue to be a yearly format for a long  time  to  come.  Among the  many locations around the world there are selected  World  Golf  Championships   that  really  stand out, world class destinations  and a community with the wherewithal and the desire to really be  center  stage.   The  reputation  has  been  earned  by  this community (inaudible).   We  believe  the  combination  of  such  enthusiastic  local support,  high  caliber  competition,  that  have  been  established at the Accenture Match Play Championship, is really unparalleled in the world.       We  hope  that  you, our friends in the media, will take advantage of the  opportunities  here over the next few months; certainly as they relate to  this  tournament,  opportunities  to  thank  the  readers and thank the viewers  to  really showcase the vitality of the area.  We're very proud to be a part of this event; very, very proud to work with you in communicating the  news of the event of 2002.  We very much look forward to seeing you in February.  (APPLAUSE) 

GARY GLASER:  Thank you, James.  It  is  very important that all the guests here today know how proud we are to  be  the  host of the event.  We'd like to thank Accenture and the World Golf  Championships  team  for  being wonderful partners.  We have had some great  integrations and great moments over the past three years and we look forward to the future of them.  On  behalf  all of our 1001 employees, we look forward to the future and we thank  all  the  media  for their participation.  If there be any questions regarding the golf course, or anything on how we integrate, again after the teleconference, I will be here and available for questions.  Thank you for attending today. (Applause) 


Q.  Will  La  Costa  be  a permanent site or host for Match Play at other locations? 

STEVE STRICKER:  How are you doing? 

STEVE  STRICKER:   Well, it meant a lot.  That was my biggest win thus far. I  really keep looking back at that week over there in Australia and it was a great week for me and my family.  It was just a very special win to win a World  Golf Championship, the Accenture Match Play Championship, it meant a lot.   And  I  look  forward  to hopefully getting the chance to defend the title. 


Q.  No  offense but when you hit a bad shot, what is your mental recovery process? 

STEVE  STRICKER:  In Match Play for me it's totally different.  It's to the point  where  I  try  to use it to my advantage as much as I could, because when you make a par out of the trees or in a difficult situation, it really puts  your  opponent  in a tough situation mentally, for sure, it wears him out  if  you  do it two or three times during the course of a round. So you can kind of use it to your advantage, it almost gives you the uppe rhand or momentum.  I kind of would feel that things would switch my way if I made a recovery shot out of trouble, ended up tying the winning hole where you can really  use  it  to  your  advantage.   In  stroke-play  it is a little bit different  where  if  you do hit some bad shots, you know, they tend to get you  down a little bit more.  Even though you recover from them, I mean, it kind  of  wears  on you as the day goes along.  Where in Match Play you can kind of use it to your advantage. 


Q.  Steve, winning a million dollars the first week of the season, did it change  your approach consciously or subconsciously towards the rest of the year? 

STEVE  STRICKER:  Well, consciously I wanted to back it up a little bit.  I wanted to do it the following week right in Phoenix.  I had a good week the following  week  in Phoenix, having a top-10 finish, but I really wanted to win  as  the  season  got going, you know, through the rest of the season I wanted  to  add  another win.  I still have an opportunity to do that.  The season isn't over.  But probably subconsciously, you know, you may let down a little bit, but I am  always trying to tell myself that I got to keep playing hard and trying to  win  again  and  trying to get in contention.  I am sure there's things there  that,  you  know, you really don't even realize that are going on in your  head,  but  I  have been trying to back it up trying to play well the whole season. 

Q.  Steve  the  World Golf Championships are very young relative to other golfing  events historically.  What do you and other players see this event becoming?  Do you have a sense of the future for this event? 

STEVE STRICKER: The Match Play event? 


Q. Yes. 

STEVE  STRICKER:  Well  I hope it continues to grow.  And it's a tournament where you have seen over the course of its history, you know, although it's short,  you  know,  anybody can win just because it is Match Play.  I think that  makes  the  tournament very interesting and intriguing for spectators and  players.   Like  I  say,  anything  can happen.  Anybody can knock off anybody,  and  I  think that's what makes it interesting.  I hope the World Golf Championships - and I see no reason why they won't continue to be very popular  and very strong among our Tour events - I just think that they are looked  at  already  as  a  notch below a major tournament probably and the fields  are  really  strong  and  purses are really high.  Players are very excited  and  get  fired up and work on their game in playing those events. So  I  just see that continuing and making them stronger and growing in the future. 


Q.  You  are in an interesting position because you want to come back and defend this championship but you have to earn your right to defend it.  And you  are  I  think 53 in the ranking.  Has it affected your schedule at all late  in this year, as far as how you are playing or where you are playing, trying to get back here? 

STEVE  STRICKER: No, it hasn't affected it but it's in the back of my mind, you  know, knowing that I still need to get into the Top-64 to make it back to  the  tournament.   So  it  hasn't  affected my schedule but I have been thinking  about  it,  and  I  surely  would  love  to  get  back  into that tournament,  so  I have got a lot of time yet  -- I have got probably three tournaments  this  year  yet, and then the start of next year to improve on the ranking and hopefully get back into the tournament. 

Q.  Does the venue for a Match Play Championship matter?  Is there such a thing as a good Match Play course, and if so, or if not, can you talk about the merits of La Costa as a venue for that type of golf? 

STEVE  STRICKER: I am not sure if there's a good Match Play course or a bad one.   I mean, because really you are playing against the opponent and, you know,  just  one individual guy, so it's really you know, the course really has  little  bearing.  I mean, obviously you'd like to play good on it, but ultimately you are just teeing it up against that individual.  But  I guess if you want exciting finishes, and stuff like that, the better the  course,  maybe the finishing holes be good and La Costa has that. Last few  holes,  they  are  very  difficult and 17 being a par 5 and 18 being a tough  par  4  adds to that difficulty.  Again, I think it's a good course. It's  a  good course for stroke-play or Match Play tournaments.  So I think everybody  is excited.  I know everybody is excited on the U.S. tour anyway that  it  is going to be back at La Costa.  I think the field is just going to be outstanding. 

Q.  With  a  field like this, with some of the best players in the world, can  you  talk  about  your  mental  preparation  and  how you stay focused throughout the tournament? 

STEVE STRICKER: Last year? 

Q.  With a field like this, with some of the best players in the world, a strong  field,  how  do you stay focused throughout the tournament   - your mental preparation? 

STEVE  STRICKER:  Well,  I  mean,  you just  -- you are talking about Match Play?  Or the Match Play tournament itself? 

Q.  I  am  talking  about  this  quality  of  field like a major or a big tournament. 

STEVE  STRICKER:  Well,  I mean, you have to prepare yourself leading up to there.   You  can't  just  go  Monday  of  a  major  week  or  a World Golf Championships  week or any tournament week, you've got to be prepared to go the  week  before  or a couple of weeks in advance or whenever you make out your  schedule,  you  know, you have got to be prepared.  Mentally you have got  to be ready to go.  Your game needs to be ready.  Everything just, you know, you have to feel right about going to that particular event and being a major tournament, even makes it that much more demanding on you mentally, you  know,  you  need  to  be  extra  focused  and just like I say, totally committed  because  the best players in the world are going to be there and you  know they are going to be ready; their games are going to be ready, so you  need  to  put  in  the  time  both physically and mentally and prepare yourself, to play your best. 


Q.  A  little  follow-up  question, could you talk about focus out on the course during a round? 

STEVE  STRICKER:  Well,  I  mean,  I  have  played  this  game  long enough (inaudible)  players  playing  in  a  major  tournament  that it's not very difficult  to  get  focused in a major tournament just because -- it's just something  different.  There are only four of them out of the year, or four of  the  World  Golf Championships events out of the year and those events, you  know,  it's  easy to get excited, easy to get focused and get prepared just  because  the  fields  are so strong.  So out on the course, you know, it's  --  if your game is in good shape, you know, the focus is very simple just because it means so much and you want to play so well. 


Q. Who do you think makes better caddies, men or wives? 

STEVE  STRICKER:  Well,  my wife makes a better caddie for me, I know that. She  has done a great job for me and we have gotten a long great out on the course.   I  don't know if that will be the case for most players.  I don't know  if  they  can  have  their  wives  out there.  But we have had such a relationship  where it has been able to work very well.  This will probably be  her last year doing it probably because my girl is getting a little bit older  and  we're  probably  going  to  try  to have more kids.  I wouldn't recommend  it  to  every player, but for me it was the right combination of having my wife out there. 


Q.  Following  up,  was  your wife jealous when you won down in Australia with your wife not carrying the bag? 

STEVE  STRICKER:  No,  not  at  all.  She was there for two wins out of the three,  and  she  was  just very excited and happy for me and, you know, we still  go  back and talk about that week and she's still interested in what happened during that week.  No, there was no jealously on her part.  She's just happy as heck seeing me play well and winning again. 

STEVE STRICKER:  Thank you.  Thanks, everybody.  Have a good day.  (APPLAUSE) 


Q.  Are  you  surprised at the number of players that passed up a million dollars by not going to Australia? 


Q.  Have  you  ever  considered  changing the format, to the U.S. Amateur match play format where there's playing the first two days to  positions -- 


Q. Michael, you talk about the big push to increase ticket sales.  Why do you think that has been the case?  What sort of expectations you have? 

MICHAEL  GARTEN:   I  happen  to be born in L.A. Cal and raised in Southern California,  so  you talked to me about this particular topic several times before.   A lot of it is just attributed to the Southern California market, especially  being  the  world  of  sports and entertainment, it is about as competitive  as  you  will  find  in the entire planet.  There are a lot of different  things  going  on,  and  (inaudible) it's just the fact of life. With  that  in  mind,  one of the really what I consider big things that we have  done  since  the  event  in  February  2000  is  we  have developed a relationship  with  the  San  Diego  International Sports Council  - Torrey Mickelson  is  here  with  us  today.  I  work  very closely with Ky Snyder (phonetic).   A  number  of  you  may know Ky.  He was the president of the sports  council  before  he  assumed the role of the president of the Super Bowl  Hope Committee for 2003.  The effort, long story short, was to try to penetrate  the  San  Diego  and  Southern California market more on a grass roots  effort   as  opposed to on along the lines of simple advertising and traditional  avenues.  Early  on  we have had some pretty good success with that and hopefully we'll continue to do so.  And  the  other  note,  I  don't know that I mentioned this earlier, unique things  about  this  particular event,  some of the obvious pieces, is that Match  Play  doesn't  necessarily  allow  you  to have that many spectators during the course of the week.  That might not necessarily be the case with Wednesday  but  it  is  absolutely  the  case with Thursday through Sunday. We've  made  a  decision  to  limit  the number of tickets - they come in a weekly  package  -  but  the daily ticket for each day to 7,500 tickets per day.   So  we  hope to provide not only a unique but a very nice experience for the spectators and hopefully the world best players. 


Q.  Gary,  any   changes  that players that were here back in 2000 expect (inaudible)? 

GARY  GLASER:    Although  we  haven't had any significant changes, we have worked  very  closely  with the PGA TOUR Agronomy Department to continue to increase  the amount of sand that we're top dressing our fairways with.  So if  we  would  have  a little bit more precipitation than we would like, we expect  to  have  much  better  drainage  and  much  better overall playing conditions  for  the players but everything we're doing right now is really big-picture stuff.  There have not been any  significant renovations in the past  year,  greens  rebuilt.   Really  just keeping the golf course in top condition, preparing on a year-round basis for the event.  We've  probably have a little bit of room, but approximately two and a half years  ago  we  did  go  through  a tee lengthening program - both our golf courses  are over 7,000 yards and the tournament course I believe picked up approximately  a  potential  for  another  60  to  70 yards in length.  The advance  team  chooses  what they want the yardage of the golf course to be depending  on  the  weather  conditions.   If we have had a lot of rain and course  is going to be playing slow then they are going to keep the tees up a  little  bit.   I think they really look to keep the courses at a certain length  for  most  of the events, so they don't walk onto a golf course and suddenly  have  a  monster that's playing 7,700 yards and the next week the golf  course  is  playing 6,500.  I think they worked very hard to keep the golf course as equitable and playing in very much the same length when they can do that. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT