GRAND AMERICAN ROAD RACING ASSOCIATION MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 6, 2006
Jeff Gordon
Sam Hornish, Jr.
Jimmie Johnson
Michael Shank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 MIKE SHANK: It's something that (Penske Racing President)  Tim Cindric and I had worked on for two years.  Sam and I have a lot of history, which has been written about a little  bit. He drove for me in 1999 in the  Toyota Atlantic series when he was coming up the ladder. We always stayed in touch since then, gone  out for dinner, that type of thing.   
 As it happens, Oswaldo Negri, my  primary driver in the No. 60, is also good friends with Helio. For two years we tried to make this happen,  but things didn't quite work out. Fortunately  this year it did. Sam signed up, which  I'm extremely grateful for.   
 I'm looking forward to it. The team is doing a heck of the job. Helio came out of the box, at the Daytona  test and went exceptionally well. Sam  today on his fourth lap was good as most of the field. We're going to give him about an hour and a  half, two hours in the car at the end of the day today.   
  
 SAM HORNISH JR.: It is kind of totally different. If I hadn't had the little bit of Busch  practice, I wouldn't have had nearly as much confidence not seeing my front  wheels, being inside of a car, definitely with the heat. There are obviously some things that are  quite a bit different.   
 One of the good things about coming  here, doing my first test in the car is I've been on this track with the  IndyCar before and had a good feeling of what to expect out of it. The car handles actually exceptionally  well. I was pleasantly surprised to get  in there. People have said it's not going  to brake very good, it's not going to turn very good.   
 I've had a lot of fun driving it so  far. Hopefully things will go well and  I'll keep it out of the sand trap, all that good stuff.   
  
 SAM HORNISH JR.: We drove most of the night. That was a lesson that helped me out a long  time down the road and in the rest of my racing, which was, some days it's not  going to be there. Just go out there and  try to get as much time as you can. Through  no fault of Mike's or my own, it was a problem with the car that forced us to  drive around for 16 hours on seven cylinders.  We knew we couldn't win, but we just went out there and drove  around.   
 I had a lot of fun. At that time that was the biggest car I'd  ever driven on the biggest track. It was  the first time I'd been at Daytona. I  think it was a good experience. We're  hopefully going back with a little bit different mindset at this time.   
  
 SAM HORNISH JR.: I had a great experience with Mike through  the end of '98, through 1999. Obviously,  this team started to blossom as far as doing the Daytona Prototype. That was definitely something that was in my  mind, how do we at some point in time get together to be able to go and do  this, to run at Daytona, and especially in the last couple years where I knew  that would be something I'd want to do, and had the ability to do it but how  you get there?   
 There are so many things that you  want to do, and sometimes things just don't work out, but this was a great  opportunity that Mike presented to us to come out here and race. Especially  with Helio, he usually beats up on me a little bit on the road courses, but  hopefully it'll give me the opportunity to run a little bit longer with him as  well. Definitely with Oswaldo and Mark doing this all the time and helping me,  it's going to provide me with the opportunity to learn quickly. One of the best  things is, all of these extra-curricular things I've been doing right now, like  driving these cars and the Busch Series is definitely going to help me be a  better driver. I'm happy to have the opportunity.  
  
  
 MIKE SHANK: This series has really helped our business  overall. We just finished and completed,  and you'll be able to see pictures of our new shop we just built in Columbus, Ohio, east of Columbus, a new 20,000 square foot  shop. We're super proud of it. It's as nice as anything in the world, but it  might be a little smaller maybe. We plan  on just rebuilding the cars and going to the three-day with the cars here.   
  
  
  Q.  Sam, where does this fit in? You've  accomplished so much from IndyCar championships and the Indy 500. Where does winning a Rolex 24 At Daytona rank  on your list right now?   
 SAM HORNISH JR.: It's right up there. I mean, I wouldn't be here doing this if I  didn't think it was something that was going to be difficult, first of all. It's  going to be a challenge for me, and it's also something that's very prestigious  to be able to add your name to that list of champions.   
 I'm definitely going into it  thinking that it's like winning the Indianapolis 500, it's like winning the Daytona  500. There are so many things that are  involved, that being able to go in there and even be competitive let alone win  it. You have to have so many things go  right for you.   
 I think it's an awesome challenge  for us. Hopefully it will be one that  we're excited about at the end of it.   
  
  Q.  What does it say about the state of the series that you've got everyone  from Jeff Gordon to Jimmie Johnson to Juan Pablo Montoya and Helio Castroneves,  all competing in the 24 Hours?   
 SAM HORNISH JR.: Definitely, if you look at NASCAR  championships, Daytona 500s, IndyCar championships, Indy 500s, you look at the  depth there, the amount of champions, whatever way you look at it, it's pretty  unbelievable.   
 I'm glad to see that there's that  many people out there because when you go and win something, you want to beat  the best people. You don't want  everybody to try to take it away from you and say, 'If this guy would have been  there, you wouldn't have won.'   
 I think it's great that they have  that many talented drivers in it. I  think it's really going to be a great show for everybody.   
  
  Q.  What are your Busch plans for next year?   
 SAM HORNISH JR.: We're not going to run every off weekend, but  we're going to run a lot of them. It's  going to be a pretty full schedule for me running the full IndyCar Series. That adds basically a month of being at Indianapolis.  There's probably 21 to 22 weekends there. Then however many we run in the Busch Series,  could be anywhere from 6 to 10. It's  going to be a full year.   
  
  Q.  Probably 6 to 10?   
 SAM HORNISH JR.: There's a lot going on. In my opinion, I need as much road course  experience as I can get. If Mike can get  me in the car a little bit more, that will probably help out the IndyCar  program.   
 I feel like I've got a lot on my  plate next year. I think it's something  that is going to be exciting to go through.  The first two Busch races didn't turn out quite like we expected them  to. We wanted to go, we wanted to learn  as much as we could. We didn't expect to  win either. We just wanted to go and get  some laps.   
 We'll go back and we'll keep trying  with that. We've had some things that  look like we're going to do. We're going  to have some kind of a good come out of it at the end of the whole thing. We're just going to keep working at it.   
  
  
  Q.  Mike, have you finalized anything with the No. 6 driver plans?   
 MIKE SHANK: We have.  We're going to announce that at the three-day test at Daytona in  January. I think between the two driver  lineups, we're not playing, we're here to win this race. If we don't win it, we're going to go down  swinging hard. There will be no  conservative to it. We're going to go  out and run hard. These guys are going  to be instructed not to hold back at all.  This race has come to that. Back  in the day, you used to be able to cruise around at 70 or 80 percent. Those days are gone, long gone. We're here to win.   
 The two drivers, Helio and Sam, I  put in for a reason. The two additional  drivers that we'll announce for the No. 6 car at the three-day, they're here  for a reason. They're here to do well.   
  
  
 JEFF GORDON: It's been a blast. Yesterday I was pretty excited just to be  able to drive a car that performs like this on a road course. It's a lot of fun. Obviously, with our track record in the  (NEXTEL) Cup Series on the road courses, I like the road courses. I think Wayne Taylor's team and Max  (Angelelli), they've just been fantastic to work with. They taught me a lot and  I'm having fun.   
 You know, today I'm just getting even  more comfortable than yesterday.   
  
 JEFF GORDON: We were trying to calculate it  yesterday. I think I got about 25 laps  in yesterday. They gave me a pretty good  amount of laps, I felt like. Wayne got in the car for maybe seven,  eight laps at the beginning of the day, and then they put me in for maybe  15. Max got in the car for a good while,  then I got maybe another 10, 15 at the end of the day. Today I've been in there probably another 10  laps or 12 laps, something like that.   
 It feels good. Each time I'm in the car, I get a better feel  for things and find some speed. Today I  felt like I was getting more consistent.  The next step is going to be really the fine-tuning. Also the thing that's going to be the  toughest I think to accomplish is working through traffic. That's something that is important at  Daytona, the 24-hour race. There's a lot  of traffic. There's a lot of time that  can be gained or lost there. Right now  I'm not comfortable enough to just dive in there on guys. But the speed seems to be there, so I'm happy  about that.   
  
 JEFF GORDON: You feel most of it in the braking  zones. (In the Daytona Prototype) you  can drive in so deep and just push the brake pedal down so hard. Of course, the sequential shifting as well  really makes a big difference in the braking zones. The car has a lot of downforce. Through the high-speed corners, like they  call it NASCAR (Turn) 3 and 4, you're just flat through there, wide open. It's fun.  It's great. The braking zones,  you can just really attack, attack, attack.   
 The car actually has quite a bit of  torque and power under throttle in the slower sections, so you get a lot of  wheel spin. Car control is  important. There are some aspects that  are more impressive than I thought and other aspects that are more challenging  than I thought.   
  
 JEFF GORDON: You're looking at it (laughter).   
 I raced on some road courses as a  kid in go-karts. Since I got into  NASCAR, I did some Busch races on the road courses, and in the Cup Series. I did go to the start of the 24-hour race in  2002. That's it.   
 Over the years, as the Daytona  Prototypes have started running with the Cup Series more often at some of the  tracks we go to, Daytona and Watkins Glen, I've had a chance to see them and watch  them, but not really get up close and personal or get involved with what goes  on until I got here yesterday.   
  
 JEFF GORDON: So far I can speak on behalf of Max. I'm extremely impressed. He's very, very fast, and has great knowledge  of the car. He's taught me a tremendous  amount to gain speed, so I feel like I've got a great mentor, teacher there,  and a teammate.   
 I've known Scott Pruett for years  and years and years. Even back when I  was racing go-karts and road courses, Scott Pruett was the man. Everybody looked up to him, including  myself. So to see him progress  throughout his career over all of those years has been something that I've  followed, and I think he's one of the best out there. I think his stats prove that.   
 I certainly know of Andy Wallace's  track record. Everybody speaks very  highly of him that's raced with him. I  can't say that I've raced with him or been around him on the track here,  because I have no idea who is in the other cars. I'm not really sure how to  judge it till we get out there and race with him.   
  
  
  Q.  Jeff, you've accomplished a lot. Where  does winning a 24 Hours At Daytona fit in your 'to-do' list?   
 JEFF GORDON: It would be huge. Obviously when I got into NASCAR, it was a  steep learning curve, to learn the history of this sport. I'll be honest, the first Daytona 500 that I  won, I don't think I fully appreciated it enough just because I was still in  the learning process.   
 I think that's the thing here, is  that I don't really-I'll admit that I don't know a lot about the history of the  24-hour race. I've always admired  it. I've always thought it would be  something that would be a lot of fun.   
 Actually, Rob Dyson is somebody that  I met here recently. He actually flew  down with me from New York.  Just listening to him talk about how great this race is, the history of  it, it really made me appreciate it to a whole 'nother level.   
 I think until I actually go through  it once or twice or who knows how many times we get a chance to run this race,  I think that will certainly build. The  more I'm in it, the more I talk to other competitors, owners, people in the  sport, the more I realize just how big this race really is. Obviously, I know it's the biggest race for  the guys in the Daytona Prototypes, the Grand-Am series.   
 I'm very excited to be a part of  it. It means a lot to me. I'm here to win. But, you know, I also know that there's a lot  of guys out there that are going to make that very difficult.   
  
  Q.  What does it say about this race that guys like yourself, Jimmie Johnson  and Juan Pablo Montoya, are all competing in it?   
 JEFF GORDON: We always complain about not having a lot of  down time and then we come and do this. I think that tells you a lot right  there. We don't have a lot of time. We race a lot. To get the opportunity to drive a car that's  unique and different like this and have fun with it, it's just an opportunity  that we see that you just don't know when that opportunity could come along,  and you want to take advantage of it.   
 That's what I'm doing. I built a relationship with some folks at  Riley, which turned into a relationship with Wayne Taylor and his group. You know, now it's just building. We'll see where it goes from there.   
  
  Q.  When are you going to take a break?   
 JEFF GORDON: No kidding!  You know, by not winning the championship, I certainly got to have a  little bit more of a break than, say, Jimmie did, you know, before New York.  I had a great time with my family for Thanksgiving. My wife cooked dinner for my family. She's a great cook.   
 But really we won't get a break  until Christmas and New Year's. That's  what I do every year, take advantage of those two, two and a half weeks, then  we'll be at Daytona testing for the 24 hours.   
  
  
 JEFF GORDON: As much fun as I'm having right now, anything  is possible.   
 This car is fairly demanding. My biggest thing is I've always never wanted  to disrupt my focus on the Cup Series. My  goal is to win championships there, win races.  As long as this doesn't distract from that, after I've gotten a chance  to be in the car, we'll see what happens after Daytona, but I think I would  like to run some more.   
  
  
  Q.  How comfortable are you with the setups that Wayne and Max like to run  in the car?   
 JEFF GORDON: So far, you know, at first when I got out  there, I mean, the car was all over the place, wheels spinning up off the  corner. I just thought this is  natural. But without the traction  control, that's something they're getting used to. I certainly thought the car was really  loose. I was happy to hear when Max got  in it that he thought it was really loose, too.   
 We're using his expertise and  knowledge to really set the car up. I'm  just glad to know that especially today I feel like towards the end of  yesterday and today, I feel like we're starting to be on the same page as what  we're feeling, what we like.   
 But I feel pretty comfortable with  what Max has out there. I mean, he's  fast. He knows how to really push the  car, get the most out of it. He's been  extremely helpful to me, showing me telemetry, things that I can do. One of them is tire management, just trying  to maybe just learn how to be a little bit smoother with that wheel. I'm really not used to some of the quickness  of this steering wheel. I've got that  big, gigantic steering wheel. It doesn't  do much when you turn it. This one  really does. I'm getting smoother with  the steering wheel and the throttle. It's  a short throttle compared to my throttle, as well. We've got a lot more power, but we've got a  way to manage it and have more control of it than what I've found in these  cars.   
 So far I'm pretty happy with what  they've got.   
  
  Q.  Are you going to need a Post-It note to remind yourself to get out of  the car when you make a pit stop?   
 JEFF GORDON: I doubt it.  As physical and hot as these cars are, I'll be ready to get out whenever  they tell me to.   
 We've done a couple mock driver  changes already here yesterday. We did  one. Today we did another one. The good thing is that Max and I are almost  identical in size. I just have one small  insert for my back, shoulders actually, just to move my shoulders a little  bit. I think my arms are shorter than  his. Other than that, we fit in the same  seat. So that's great. That makes a driver change go a whole lot  easier.   
  
  
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: First of all, I'm glad and honored and proud  to be driving for Bill (Riley), to come down and race once again in the 24  Hours At Daytona, and also at the Paul Revere race that we have with our Cup  race in July. I'm just looking forward  to it. It's been a great opportunity.   
 I've had a chance to test with the  guys at Kershaw (South Carolina).  It's a great race team, great people.  We're focused on winning. I  finished second at this event a couple years ago, in the 24 Hours At  Daytona. I really look forward to coming  back and being with a team that's definitely able to win the race.   
 I've got great teammates. I've had a great experience. I met a few people at the first test, then  today I've been able to meet everyone else.  It's just a pleasure to be here working with these guys.   
  
  
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: Unfortunately it was maybe a two-year period  of time from when I raced the Crawford to when I drove the Riley car. So for me to remember all the things, it's  tough.   
 But I was extremely impressed with  the car under braking and the low-speed corners, how much grip the car had in  it. I didn't recall that or remember  that from my experience beforehand. The  car is very comfortable. The team has  worked with me, done everything they can to show me data traces compared to the  teammates, how to drive the car, where to find speed, how to also take care of  the gearbox and the engine and the different things that are needed. It's just a little different discipline than  what we're used to. I'm just going  through all the paces of learning everything.   
  
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: I think it does a little bit. Fortunately we've been on road courses with  the Cup cars, so I've been able to keep that going. I try to get as much seat time in a road  course car as I can. I really enjoy  racing in the Grand-Am series, enjoy racing on road courses in general. Hopefully down the road when I can slow down  at some point from the Cup schedule, I'd like to get more involved and do more  road racing.   
 I don't want to all of a sudden show  up one day and say, 'Wow, I want to be an accomplished road course  driver.' I want to start working on that  now, addressing those things. I don't  feel like I do as good a job as I need to in our Cup cars. I get in other vehicles and run well, but our  Cup cars, they're their own animal. Jeff  is the master, between he and Tony Stewart are the masters at that. That's something I'm going to focus hard on  this year with our Cup car, how I can be up there racing with the 24 and 20 at Sears Point and Watkins Glen.   
  
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: That's really what keeps me coming back. My first experience with that was three or  four years ago, and I was so amazed at how many world class drivers, champions,  all the names that I've watched as a kid growing up, racing all types of  vehicles, they were all there. When I  came back my second year, things took another direction. Sadly I missed the 24 hours. I'm going to be able to do it this  season.   
 It's really what keeps me coming  back, to be able to do something so unique, so special with all the best  drivers in the world. It's a great  opportunity.   
  
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: That's coming up. Luckily they moved it back. I leave next Tuesday evening to fly over to Paris and get ready for that. I'm looking forward to it.   
  
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: I'm excited I'm going to be testing the  Grand-Am cars so much. I love driving a  race car. I want to do it every day,  every week. The other parts that go with  it, especially on the Cup side, there's so much work needed on the Cup  side. It's nice just to show up the day  of the test, come down, hang out with the Riley team, all my new teammates, and  just have fun and get in the car.   
 I'm excited for it. I consider this an off day, a down day for  me, kind of a therapeutic way to stay sharp and have fun in a race car. I will take some time over Christmas and New  Year's. I have a lot going on with  commercial shoots for sponsors that eat up a lot of December, then January with  the race that we have, the test session for the Rolex Series, test session for  the Cup cars, we have two of them. January  is booked solid already. I'll get a  couple weeks through Christmas and New Year's.   
  
  
  Q.  This is really an off day for you?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: I think so.  This is fun for me. I don't have  to worry about saying the right thing. I don't have to shave today. I don't  have to worry about much except going out and having fun with Bill and the guys.   
  
  Q.  Now that you won a Cup championship, where does winning the 24 hours  rank on your list of things to do?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: That is very, very high on my list of things  to do. Finishing second in the race a  few years ago really, really piqued my interest. I want to come back, I want to win the 24  Hours of Daytona someday. My great  friend Casey Mears won it last year.  Just to see the pride he had on his face, celebrating with him and  sharing that, it's special. Being the  Daytona 500 winner, Brickyard 400, if I was able to win the 24 Hours of Daytona  would be phenomenal.   
 The only thing I'd want to do then,  there's two other races I want to compete in, which would be the 24 Hours of Le Mans, and the Indy 500. I don't think I can do either one of those  while I'm racing Cup. I don't see how  the scheduling is going to work out.  
  
  Q.  What does it say about this race that guys like yourself, Jeff Gordon,  Juan Pablo Montoya, a whole slew of really renowned drivers are competing in this  race?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: I think the Cup movement has been a little  predictable with Grand-Am and its ties to the NASCAR world, Felix Sabates and  Chip Ganassi have their organizations, so it was easy to help Casey Mears and some  Cup guys get in. Tony Stewart has had a  great experience with the Crawfords over the years. I think that's been predictable.   
 To a certain degree the thing I'm  excited to see is the F1 involvement, the Champ Car involvement. Stock car racing to me is just stock car racing. It's what I do. I'm excited to see all these other guys come  in, world class drivers from other disciplines.   
  
  Q.  What have you enjoyed most so far about being Cup champion?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: Probably everything that leads into the lack  of sleep that I've had. We've done a lot  of celebrating. We've been honored  beyond my wildest dreams in New York, what we had last week up there for  the banquet. All that has been a lot of  fun. We had great photo opportunities, and a lot of good times with my crew  guys. It's really the highlight. I had a party for them last Wednesday  night. There was nobody around, no  pressure, nothing. It was just my crew  guys and their wives, a good time. That  was probably the highlight.   
  
  Q.  Where did you have your party?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: A little Irish bar in Manhattan, down the street from the  Waldorf. We just invaded it, chased  everybody out, locked the door, and had a good time.  
  
  Q.  Is it still weird when people call you a Cup champion after going four  seasons of wanting that so much?   
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: No.  It's rewarding to hear 'champion'.  It's an honor to hear it. Those  types of things come to mind. I don't  think I'll ever get tired of hearing it.  It took so much to get to this point.  It does for any champion. To be  the best over the course of a year is something we all strive for. We all know how hard it is when we're racing  each week.   
 To put in four tough seasons like I  did, and then to get it done, I'm enjoying every minute of it.   
  
 JIMMIE JOHNSON: It would be important for my sponsor. I have to say Lowe's, they just want to do  what I do. Going to the race in Paris, they want to be a part of it. Robert Niblock, the CEO of Lowe's, considered  going, but unfortunately he has to work, and can't make the trip.   
 We're also going to produce a show  that is going to be on ESPN. I'm going  to have an hour time block. I'm going to  videotape everything that goes on. We're  producing a show, bringing it back.  Lowe's is going to be the title sponsor on that. There's numerous things I do that Lowe's  wants to be involved with. They love the  ride, love the journey. They're huge  fans of motorsports, huge fans of Jimmie Johnson. It's great to have them involved.   
 They really don't pressure me. They don't need the sponsor mentions. They like the association and like that  people associate Jimmie Johnson to Lowe's.  It's really a great relationship with no pressure.   
  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT