MOUNTAIN WEST MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2016
Todd Simon
Ike Nwamu
Patrick McCaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
UNLV - 108   Air Force - 102 (3 OT)   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, if we can start with you.  Some thoughts on today's game?   
INTERIM COACH TODD SIMON: Obviously just an incredible ballgame.  Probably very entertaining to watch, not so much the ups and downs for the coach.  But we made some incredible individual efforts.  Guys stepping up and, you know, gave everything they had for 55 minutes as a group, and couldn't be more proud of these Runnin' Rebels.   
 Q.  You guys both played 55 minutes.  I'm assuming you've never played those kind of minutes before in one game.  Can you tell us how you're feeling physically, and Ike, how aggressive you were down the stretch, taking the ball to the basket and getting to the free throw line?  
IKE NWAMU: To be honest, I'm a little exhausted right now.  You don't think about that while you're playing.  At this time of the year it's win or go home.   
In regards to being aggressive.  They had some guys in foul trouble, so our coach was telling us to make sure we get down, either get fouled, make free throws or get to the basket.  That was pretty much the game plan down the stretch offensively.   
 Q.  You have three scholarship players two walk-ons on the floor in the third overtime and find a way to pull it out.  What does it say about digging deep like that?  
PATRICK McCAW: It says a lot about our team.  We had two walk-ons, but that's still part of our team.  It's a strong bond that we've had, and that we've grown through the whole season.  We've been through so much as a team, everybody gets along and has fun together.  They brought the same energy and effort and that was huge for us.   
 Q.  Not going back-to-back very often after a game like that, what do you think you'll have left in the tank tomorrow, especially with your legs?  
IKE NWAMU: We're just going to turn the page and start preparing for Fresno.  We're not going to really think about how tired we are, because you don't get an asterisk if you're complaining about being tired.  We're just going to get our feet up, get hydrated and then we'll be ready to go tomorrow.   
 Q.  What explanation was given to you on the foul call that they called an offensive foul that didn't result in free throws during the end of regulation or the first overtime?  
INTERIM COACH TODD SIMON: I believe it was a loose ball foul or something along those lines, player-controlled ball.  It didn't fall under those guidelines that result in free throws.   
 Q.  Did you have anything to say in return to that?  
INTERIM COACH TODD SIMON: Yes.  But probably not the time and place for it.   
 Q.  Another call at the end of I think it was the second overtime, looked like Van jumped into Cornish and got the free throws.  What did you tell your players, because I'm sure they were frustrated, as far as keeping level heads?  
INTERIM COACH TODD SIMON: It's been a theme for us all year, even in the face of any adversity or anything these guys are facing, we constantly preach poise and control what you can control.  And they displayed great hardness as we like to call it.  Nothing rattled them.  They continued to move on to the next play and roll with the punches and move on, turn the page.  And so that's kind of where we were.  And hey, you know, it results in five more minutes of basketball, there could be worse things.   
 Q.  Barry Cheaney maybe didn't play that many minutes his whole career, and he plays 20 huge minutes tonight, some steals, hustle plays.  Talk about what he brought to the team tonight?  
INTERIM COACH TODD SIMON: Dr. Cheaney as we like to call him, even though he wasn't on the team at the beginning of the year, kind of joined us midstream.  He's been a tremendous scout team player every day in practice, mimicking what everybody else does, giving our guys fits in practice.  We had all the confidence in the world that he could do it.  Obviously he goes in and steps up and he really keyed a few of the plays that sparked us in the comeback after the end of regulation, and fronting the post and getting a hand on a loose ball, saving a ball from going out of bounds, these are all winning plays.  And Barry was just tremendous in that.  Extra passes, moving the ball versus the zone.  He was awesome.  He was just awesome.  Could not be more proud of that young man.   
 Q.  After Air Force won the game up there, there was some comments that are well documented about them having more heart and being tougher from Coach Pilipovich.  Is that something you talked about and what does today's performance say about your team's heart?  
INTERIM COACH TODD SIMON: We did talk about it.  It was something we don't believe or agree with, obviously.  But we're going to let our play speak for itself.  And that was the only thing that mattered to us.   
So anytime, you know, you're challenged in that way, for whatever reason, the best way is take the high road and let your play be an example of it.  And I don't think what's happened since and the resolve of this group and guys playing 55 minutes and doing things that they did tonight, I don't think anyone could possibly challenge their heart and toughness in any way, shape or form.   
 Q.  Do you think because of what you guys have been through the past couple of months or so, that helped prepare you for a day like this, when you faced so many challenges?  
INTERIM COACH TODD SIMON: I think so.  I think this group -- the adversity this group has gone through, it's almost a decade's worth in most programs.  And I think these young men are going to have life lessons that will apply and reach back and find for a long, long time.   
And it applies here this time of year when it's championship time, and their resolve and the poise through situations.  The growth the team has shown in those areas from early in the year to now is just tremendous.  The guys consistently demonstrate that they can overcome stuff, that they're not going to get rattled, they will dig and find it.  I think that's obviously what won the game for us today.   
 Q.  You were able to grind it out and fight and get this win.  Can you give us an idea of what you said in the locker room?  
INTERIM COACH TODD SIMON: We talked about it was an epic battle and the pride that I have in them for continuing to dig in and find it, and for guys stepping up.  You get 28 minutes out of Barry and Austin.  And the next man up mantra and altogether, you can't, as a coach, you know, it makes you emotional, what more could you ask than to have a group that's gone through everything like this, and to still believe and still hang on what you're saying to them and to buy in and then to give everything, every ounce of what they have as a coach.  That part makes you so thankful.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT