WUHAN OPEN
September 22, 2019
Li Na
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  In June this year there was the ticketing launch event. You mentioned something about the promotion of your own movie, Chen Kexin. Why did you keep it such a low profile?  
LI NA: Because I don't need to promote the movie. The director is in charge of the promoting activities.   
 Q.  You have a done a lot to promote the Wuhan Open. Any other new plans in promoting the Wuhan Open?  
LI NA: You must work for the Wuhan Open, right (laughter)?   
Well, after the US Open, there are many events in China. Wuhan may not be the best city, but to me it is unique. I am a Wuhaner. I play tennis. I think promoting the tennis tournament is a natural thing to do.   
 Q.  Kim Clijsters --  
LI NA: I'm not coming back (laughter).   
 Q.  Any comments on her comeback?  
LI NA: My manager sent me a message when he received the news. I said, Are you joking?   
Well, to her decision, it is a courageous thing to do. She loves this sport, and that is why she decided to come back. No matter what happens, I wish her every success.   
 Q.  You partnered with her in one of the events. Back then did she mention she was going to come back?  
LI NA: We didn't actually talk about tennis. We chatted about family, our children. I think this is what all mothers do, right?   
 Q.  In the center court, Venus was defeated. Any comment on her performance?  
LI NA: Well, she's still very good. Every player, when she's at the court, she wants to win. Tennis is a magical sport. We have teenagers as well as people like Venus in their 30s who are still fighting. Every player is fighting on the court to try to bring the best performance.   
The core of sport is not to get the championship. Well, getting the championship is good, but the core of this is to challenge yourself to be a better self. I believe Venus is enjoying this process. That is why she's fighting on court.   
 Q.  Any expectations for this year's event?  
LI NA: Well, I'm not good at making predictions. I'm sure every player will bring out their best performances, to bring the best level of play to all the fans, not only to fans in Wuhan, but for all the fans over the world who love tennis.   
 Q.  You mentioned being inducted in the Hall of Fame this year. How did you feel when you finally did it?  
LI NA: It was something I'm really proud of. I'm really proud. Not every athlete who has had a Grand Slam title would be inducted into the Hall of Fame, but everyone who is in the Hall of Fame must have a Grand Slam title.   
My name is placed alongside with so many legends. That is something, a best recognition, the best achievement in my tennis career. Being able to do this is everything to me. Such sense of excitement is no less than achieving the Grand Slam title.   
 Q.  I am a new mom. Many parents feel you are a benchmark. On a lot of tennis courts, parents take their children to practice. Any suggestions to these parents? We want to have a next Li Na. Any suggestions to these parents?  
LI NA: You are a very sensible mom, I think. But I don't think there are many sensible parents around. I think education is most important. First you want to cultivate the interest in sports. When a child is sincerely interested in something, you don't even have to push them to do anything. If you're forcing them to do anything, the result will not be good.   
The truth is not everyone who plays tennis will make it to the very top of the pyramid. Playing sports, it's something that is a good platform to meet new friends, to get the good experiences of your life, to learn something in your life.   
As I said, playing sport is a process of challenging yourself to improve. You don't have to compare yourself to others.   
 Q.  You talked about family first. For women, this society puts a lot of pressure on women. Any suggestions to new mothers in terms of work and family, how to balance these two?  
LI NA: For me, I don't push myself to do unnecessary things. You need support from your friends and family.   
When women make options, if people who are around you, emotionally speaking for new mothers, new mothers are more volatile. When mothers give birth to children, a lot of people are easily depressed because of less concern from the people around them.   
New mothers need to grow up with children. But people around the new mothers focus more on children and less on those new mothers. While I think I'm lucky, I've been an athlete, I'm tough inside, so I don't really need the assistance from other people, but for me now life comes first, family comes first.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
LI NA: It takes time. I have to wait till the child grows up.   
 Q.  What are your expectations for the Wuhan Open this year?  
LI NA: I want Petra to win sincerely.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT