ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 13, 2018
Nashra Sundhu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. After two matches, two losses and a bounce back with a win, I guess this is a turnaround for Pakistan. Explain a bit on it.
NASHRA SUNDHU: Yeah, we didn't perform too well in the previous matches, but today we had to do well because if we lost this match we couldn't qualify -- we would have to qualify for the T20 World Cup again. It was a crucial match for us to win, so we put all our efforts to win this match.
Q. What were the conditions like?
NASHRA SUNDHU: Conditions were good for us to bowl, for spin bowlers and fast bowlers, too. Overall it was good. It was batting pitch also and bowling pitch also.  It was comfortable for us to like play on that pitch.
Q. Ireland said many times before this match they were looking at this one to cause a bit of an upset. How much was that playing on your team's mind and was there any extra pressure with that?
NASHRA SUNDHU: Not extra, but a little bit pressure because they were also making effort to qualify for the T20.  So same as we were also like ready to win this match because if we would not -- we would have to qualify again for the T20 World Cup. So it was a big pressure match but we had confidence on the bowlers and batters would perform good.
Q. So Ireland's bowlers got off to a really strong start.  What was the mood in the dressing room then?
NASHRA SUNDHU: Actually we were not pressurized.  We were calm because we have plenty of good batters in our order. Our batters performed consistently throughout the tournament. Bismah made 50 in the last match against India.  It was a good performance by our team.  We were like confident on the batters so they could perform easily in this match also.
Q. You've been bowling pretty well in the tournament so far.  Today probably the best performance:  2 for 8.  What is the key to doing well on this wicket?
NASHRA SUNDHU: Key to do -- just have to bowl consistently on a better line. So it gives me much benefit because it was a little bit turn in the pitch.  Just nothing to do.  Just have to bowl consistently on the better line and just to check the feet of the batters.  Are they using their feet or like their stand position, using their crease or not.
Q. At the halfway mark, 139, you thought you had enough in the bag?
NASHRA SUNDHU: No, we were like that was much score for us.  We were like not -- there -- like it was a match score for us to bowl confidently in the pitch.
It was a good total for us.  So we were just more confident - spinners and fast bowlers.
Q. I think Sana Mir kept coming up to you and speaking to you.  What was she saying?
NASHRA SUNDHU: She was -- like she's constantly like guiding me in this tournament also but previously in many tournaments.  Like if I feel confused or when I'm under pressure situation, she always comes to me and says - don't be too confused.  You're the best.  Like she always give me confident to do like -- I always feel very comfortable when she talks to me.
So it was like, maybe you can say that's a changing point or maybe every talk click in my mind.  I don't know.  She's too like -- she's very good at doing this.  I feel very comfortable when she talks to me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT