NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS: AUSTIN
March 27, 2005
Kelenna Azubuike
Chuck Hayes
Tubby Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH SMITH:  It is tough any time you get a loss at this stage of the game.  I thought we had a great play to get it to overtime.  Patrick made a great shot there.  I thought we had things in hand there.  I have got to compliment and congratulate Michigan State.  It was a hard fought game.  They deserved the win.  It is just going to be -- you know, we're going to miss our seniors. 
 
Q.  Chuck, can you just describe what you guys were going through while you were waiting for the decision about Patrick's shot and what you thought during that time?
 
CHUCK HAYES:  Well, we know we needed a three at the time.  If we were to miss the attempt and kick it back out and try to get as many three point attempts as we can in that amount of time.  Patrick made a great shot.  He was able to back down the shot with a man in his face.  That built momentum going to the first overtime. 
 
Q.  Chuck, during the time you were waiting, what was that like?
 
CHUCK HAYES:  Scared.  I was praying and hoping from the angle they were seeing it from it was a clear-cut 3-pointer.  You want it to end like that.  I just knew if they were to call it the three, we would pull away from the first overtime. 
 
Q.  In the first overtime you got ahead by four and then that sequence when they got five offensive rebounds and Brown hits it three, how important was that to the outcome?
 
CHUCK HAYES:  Well, that was a very critical part of the game, late from the game in the first overtime.  We scored and Randolph made a great move.  It was there was no prize in the game after basketball than the ball itself and we couldn't get a hand on it. 
 
Q.  Chuck, could you talk about the possessions at the start of the second overtime.  Maybe some guys were standing around.  What did you see?
 
CHUCK HAYES:  We were running the play and that was successful for us during that time.  They were able to adjust and they made the adjustments that they had to do defend it.  We were looking for answers.  You have to give them credit.  They did a great job defending the play. 
 
Q.  What happened at the end of the first overtime in not getting the shot off?  Did you get the ball too late?
 
KELENNA AZUBUIKE:  I think since I got it I should have tried shooting right away.  I tried to create some space.  By the time I did, the time ran out.  I probably should have just shot it right when I got it. 
 
Q.  Chuck, can you just put in words the emotions that you are feeling now to play this kind of game?
 
CHUCK HAYES:  It was a great game.  It was a great game and sometimes you get it and sometimes you don't.  You figure if you give everything you have and all your hard work, you know you will get the result that you want.  The years that I put in here and the season that I have had and the hard work I put in the preseason and this whole season, sometimes you get it and sometimes you don't. 
 
Q.  Chuck, you had four fouls for a long time.  Was that sitting out and waiting to get your minutes back in, was that difficult?
 
CHUCK HAYES:  Yeah, it was.  It is hard to play when you are in foul trouble.  It takes aggression, the aggression that you want to play with.  It helps you play smarter.  I was hampered with foul trouble late from the second half and practically the whole game.  I just wanted to be smart.  I still wanted to play with aggression, but I had to know when to use it and when not to. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about I think you were two for six today.  Can you talk about their defense, your involvement, that sort of thing?
 
KELENNA AZUBUIKE:  I give them credit.  They played good defense.  I was trying not to force anything.  Trying to let it come to me.  You can't blame anybody but yourself.  I blame myself for not stepping up more and not helping this team out some more. 
 
Q.  For people watching this game it will go down as just a fabulous, great NCAA tournament game.  Do you think in spite of your pain now in time you will be able to see it that way?
 
KELENNA AZUBUIKE:  Yeah, I definitely see it that way now.  There is no doubt that was a great game.  We are just upset we didn't get the win.  We have to give them credit.  They played a great game.  They made the stops when they had to and they made baskets when they had to. 
 
Q.  When they turned it over the first two times to start the first overtime, did you sense they were discouraged and it was a chance to jump on them right there?
 
CHUCK HAYES:  Yeah, like I said, we got the tip and we had all the momentum from the end of regulation.  We scored and we got the turnover.  We knew they were going to break but you have got to give them credit with the experience they have.  They got the offensive rebounds they had to get and they knocked down the three point shot they had to get at the time. 
 
Q.  Chuck, what impressed you the most about Michigan State?
 
CHUCK HAYES:  Well, they are well coached.  They are a well-coached team.  Even at times where we make runs or they were down what impressed me was that their seniors, the experience that they had, I feel like they have been there before as a team.  They knew what to do to get the job done. 
 
 
Q.  Coach, Shannon Brown has had a great game with a lot of 3-pointers.  He wasn't shooting that well coming in the game.  Was that a surprise?
 
COACH SMITH:  Obviously we didn't do a good job of challenging him and taking away shots.  I know he got some shots in transition.  You know, when you raise your level of play like he does -- they have got some athletes to match up.  It was a tough one for us.  We knew it would be a tough match-up. 
 
Q.  What was your sense when you were waiting for the three call?  Did you get a good look at it yourself?
 
COACH SMITH:  You see it.  I couldn't see his feet were behind the line.  The officials had a better view.  We were just trying to keep the guys positive and talk about this overtime and talk about what we were going to do.  It seemed like it was lasting for eternity.  It was a great, great shot and a great play.  A great effort on Patrick Sparks' part and our team's part.  We got it back late to get that one off.  That was very dramatic.  It will go down in history as a great college basketball game.  It hurts right now.  I am sure these guys will appreciate it later on. 
 
Q.  At the end off the first overtime when the ball was shot and went out of bounds, did you call a play or what were you looking for there?  Was Rondo going to create something?
 
COACH SMITH:  When was this?  
 
Q.  At the end of the first overtime?
 
COACH SMITH:  When he didn't get a shot and Kelenna dribbled around?  Yeah.  We wanted Rajon to try to beat his man off the dribble and penetrate.  I think he pitched it to Kelenna and I think he waited until seven or eight seconds.  We held it to the right time.  I hoped he would take it all in.  We were looking to get a foul.  We probably should have dumped it inside.  We were running the play.  They were defending it pretty well and trying to get it inside to Chuck to try to draw the foul.  You hand it to Kelenna and hope he would jump up and shoot it, but he didn't. 
 
Q.  At one point in the second half, Michigan State was 15 of 18 from the field.  What did you see from their offense and your defense in the second half?
 
COACH SMITH:  Just poor -- I thought we just -- they really started taking us off the dribble.  We just couldn't stop them.  You get in that shooting zone sometimes and we were having defensive breakdowns.  That is pretty much what was causing the great shooting on their part.  They made them and you have to give them credit.  They made some big shots.  A lot of it has to do with experience and being able to make those plays.  My hat is off to them. 
 
Q.  Ramel Bradley stepped in when Rajon got in foul trouble.  Could you comment on his contribution then and if you know anything about his injury?
 
COACH SMITH:  He has had a couple of concussions this year.  We were concerned about that.  He took a very hard fall there.  He seemed to be coherent and okay.  He definitely had a concussion.  He hit his chin.  He was doing okay when I left him in the locker room.  That was tremendous effort.  We kind of threw the ball up there for grabs.  He did a -- we were looking to attack.  We thought we had it over the top.  He went over it and the collision took place.  When Patrick went in I think there was 20 seconds left in the game.  But he is a tough kid.  He has a hard chin.  He will recover.  He did a good job for us.  I was impressed with his running the team.  I think our situation is very solid there for the future with our back court with Patrick, Ramel, Rajon and guys like that.  I am proud of the effort they gave, especially Ramel. 
 
Q.  Offensive rebounding was really crucial down the stretch for Michigan State.  Talk about that.  What was going on when the -- the sequence with three or four key offensive rebounds for them?
 
COACH SMITH:  Chuck is a guy that gets a lot of those rebounds.  When he is hampered with fouls -- they were really just controlling both backboards, especially the offensive glass.  That is demoralizing when you give up two and three offensive rebounds.  I think it was couple of air balls, balls shot on the basket.  One of things, Davis dunked and we fouled him twice on it.  Those are critical plays, scores that just take the wind out of your sails.  You work so hard on defense, to have that type of breakdown, it will crush you.  Again, that is what Michigan State does as well as anybody in the country, is attack the boards. 
 
Q.  About the collision.  You said it was a --
 
COACH SMITH:  It was a hard fall. 
 
Q.  Tubby, on that subject, from our side of court, could you see from your vantage point whether or not there was some contact when Sparks shot that three point shot?
 
COACH SMITH:  You never know.  I thought there was contact.  But then again, you can't see -- the official had a better view than we did. 
 
Q.  Can you share what you are feeling about Chuck right now?
 
COACH SMITH:  Chuck is a special person.  He is special young man.  He understands what it means to -- what sacrifice means, what commitment means.  He is a living example for all players to follow.  He respects everything about college basketball that is good and wholesome.  Certainly we're going to honor him.  He has done so much for us, things that you can't really look in the box scores and see.  We just hope and pray that he is able to continue to reach his dreams and goals.  I know he wanted this pretty bad.  It just leaves an empty feeling when a person has worked as had as he has.  He has done everything the right way.  He will be someone that is always in our memory and always a part of our family, the Wildcat family.  We love him.  Again, great career and a special person. 
 
Q.  Tubby, I know any loss is disappointing but just from the emotions standpoint and ups and downs and everything, is this the most disappointing tournament loss for you?
 
COACH SMITH:  I thought our guys had a tremendous year.  I have had a chance to -- just to get to this point, I thought we had a chance to move on to the Final Four.  I know that we still have a very young team with a lot of potential.  The future is very bright.  Knowing that, I am not going to dwell on it.  No one has prepared any harder all year long.  These guys, my staff, we haven't had any days off in forever, seems like.  So, I know these players have just been a joy to work with.  It is disappointing but it is gratifying to know that I think they gave it all they had all year long. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT