PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 30, 2014
Mi Jung Hur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You have to feel very good.   For her really good round.   How do you feel after that round?  
MI JUNG HUR:   Yeah, I had a good round, but my minor didn't working as much yesterday, but my short game was really great.   
But around the green, hit a lot of chip shots because I missed a lot of greens.   I think I hit only 10 greens today, but my putting and chipping‑‑  
   
 Q.   Was good.   
MI JUNG HUR:   Yeah.   It saved me‑‑  
   
 Q.   Big time?  
MI JUNG HUR:   ‑‑ for the day.  
   
 Q.   Has to be reassuring, just knowing that you made some mistakes, but could save it.   Is that a reassuring feeling going into tomorrow, knowing your short game's on?  
MI JUNG HUR:   Yeah.   I feel good.   I want to keep this momentum till tomorrow.   I also, like I said yesterday, I'm just going to focus on each shot.   It will help me a lot.  
   
 Q.   Yeah.   You said that yesterday.   How was that today?   You thought it was just as good or did you get ahead of yourself a little bit?  
MI JUNG HUR:   It was good, but not as much good as yesterday, yes.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it was any because you're up at the top of the leaderboard you got a little distracted or do you think it was just‑‑  
MI JUNG HUR:   No.   Like today if you had a second shot, the green speeds are really inconsistent.   So if you hit a same iron, some greens are release like over 20 yards.   Some greens are stop right away, so it's really hard to pick the yardage, correct yardage for me.   But without that one, I played good today.  
   
 Q.   Who is your caddie?   Is he your regular caddie?  
MI JUNG HUR:   I met him here.   Local caddie.  
   
 Q.   What is your last name?  
JOSH KOEPKE:   Josh Koepke.  
   
 Q.   It's been going pretty well?  
MI JUNG HUR:   Yeah.   We had fun on the course.  
   
 Q.   Are you a member here?  
JOSH KOEPKE:   No.   I actually live on the Oregon coast.   Bandon Dunes Golf Resort, I'm a caddie there.   
   
 Q.   Very cool.   Awesome.   Okay.   What about going into tomorrow?   How do you feel?   What's the mentality?   Any game plan you have going forward?  
MI JUNG HUR:   I really want to play aggressive tomorrow, because I got a chance, four years ago, another chance here, so I don't want to lose anything for tomorrow.   So I'm just going to play‑‑  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you have nothing to lose?  
MI JUNG HUR:   Yeah.   Nothing to lose.  
   
 Q.   Heading into today are you surprised the lead is only at 11?  
MI JUNG HUR:   Oh, you mean 11‑under par?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   Are you surprised that has a share of the lead heading into Sunday?  
MI JUNG HUR:   Not really because I think the course conditions for today was a little difficult than yesterday, more windier, and rainy; kind of up‑and‑down weather.   That's why the leaders are 11‑under par right now.   
   
 Q.   How tough is it playing with Suzann who's won here before and who's obviously Top 10 every week the last five weeks?   How tough will she be to beat tomorrow?  
MI JUNG HUR:   I don't want to think about any other player during my play.   I just want to focus on my game and focus each shot will be healthy.  
   
 Q.   Playing with I.K., are you guys close?   Have you guys played a lot of golf together?  
MI JUNG HUR:   I.K.?   Yeah.   I knew her when I was like 11.  
   
 Q.   Really?   Since 11?  
MI JUNG HUR:   Yeah.   We had a lot of fun today, but her putting didn't work today.  
   
 Q.   On and off?  
MI JUNG HUR:   She will be fine tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT