SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 19, 2010
Mi Jung Hur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: M. J., welcome. Great round today. First we're going to go through your birdies and bogeys, and just tell us what you hit on them and how far.  
 M.J. HUR: Which one?   
 MODERATOR: All of them. I'll tell you which ones. Yeah. Birdie on 3.  
 M.J. HUR: I hit driver and hybrid and 20 yards past the pin and two-putt, so birdie.  
 MODERATOR: 20 yards? Yards or feet?   
 M.J. HUR: Yards.   
 MODERATOR: Birdie on 5.  
 M.J. HUR: I can't remember.   
 MODERATOR: Birdie on 5 was a par-4.  
 M.J. HUR: You know, I have a really bad memory.   
 MODERATOR: Any of them that stand out?   
 M.J. HUR: Yeah. I had a really good club today, same like last week, and also my shot was perfect. So it's very good. I'm very confident with every shot.   
 So I play like really aggressive today. I think it's working for me.   
 MODERATOR: Yeah. You were second last week. You didn't play quite as well all weekend. Is there anything that you took out of that that you can sort of apply to tomorrow to get through, to break through?   
 M.J. HUR: I have a bad memory right now. I try to forget it and get good sleep tonight and get good conditions tomorrow and try to focus on my ball. That's all I want to do tomorrow.   
 MODERATOR: Okay. Questions?   
  
  Q. The wind picked up a lot in the afternoon today. Can you talk a little bit about the difference between playing in the morning and playing in the afternoon here and what you have to do differently? Also, apparently a lot of players seem to think that the greens change a lot during the day.  
 M.J. HUR: You know, yesterday was no wind, not many winds, so it was a great day yesterday. And today, the afternoon, a little bit of wind started, so I'm worried about the wind when I start. I tee off at 2:09, but you know, just checked the wind blow with the grass and 10 yards more or 20 yards more, and I just chose my club and hit it good. That's all.   
  
  Q. You had an opportunity at 17. Can you tell us what happened on that, and how did you put it behind you and come back and birdie 18?  
 M.J. HUR: No. 17, I hit a really solid pitching wedge with 15 yards into it. But that was a short putt. I tried to hit a little hard, stay in the center and hit hard, but I aim in center and hit it -- pulled it. So I was thinking, oh, stupid putter, what are you doing? I hit my putter and forget and go into the next hole.  
  
  Q. Is that something you've been working on, the ability to forget about the bad shots and just think ahead? It seems like you're very good at leaving the bad stuff behind.  
 M.J. HUR: You know, like one month ago I was really bad with the mental. I mean if I made a bogey, I'm going to be really mad at myself.   
 Right now I have a good caddie. Her name is Kylie Pratt. She always says to me, forget it. It's okay. You have a lot of chance after this. You don't worry about it. She talks with me, so it's very helping a lot.  
  
  Q. And how long have you been working with her?  
 M.J. HUR: This is my fourth time with her.   
  
  Q. So your caddie has really made a difference?  
 M.J. HUR: Yes.   
  
  Q. You won last year at Safeway. Did winning take the pressure off you or how have you reacted to winning and your thoughts of winning again now?  
 M.J. HUR: You know, that one was I just had a very long final round, and I got a chance to win, playing with two other players. I just tried to get my chance. So this time also I will do my best tomorrow.   
  
  Q. You have a line-up of good players right behind you, Paula, Ai Miyazato, a lot of people within a couple of shots of the lead. How do you avoid just focusing on what you have to do and not look back? How do you avoid worrying about what other people are going to be doing tomorrow?   
 M.J. HUR: You know, I am playing with Paula tomorrow?   
  
  Q. Depends on who finishes where.   
 MODERATOR: Possibly.  
 M.J. HUR: Anyway, every hole there's a scoreboard, isn't there? So you know, I'm barely seeing that on every hole.   
 But it may be more pressure, but good pressure. I have to go forward, not backward. So that's all.   
 MODERATOR: Okay?  
 M.J. HUR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT