CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2009
Mi Jung Hur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just talk about your round today. Right now you're 7-under par, which is tied for third. How did your round today go?  
 M.J. HUR: I played really well today, but I missed short putts sometimes, like two short putts. That makes me a little hard, but I had a good round today.  
  
  Q. That's good. Do you feel a lot of confidence coming off of your win from last week?  
 M.J. HUR: Yeah, definitely, yes, because I played playoffs last week and with Suzann. It makes me really confident for me, and more focused the whole week.  
  
  Q. What does it mean -- have you been working on a certain part of your game or why do you think you've been doing so well, last week and this week?  
 M.J. HUR: Because I working really hard last winter training, and during the tournaments. Yeah, I tried to fix my swing.   
 I think that's what's working for victory.   
  
  Q. Yeah. Absolutely. Now you're here in Calgary. What's the best part of the course for you? Is there something that works really well for you? Are you driving it well? Are you hitting your irons well?   
 M.J. HUR: Um --  
  
  Q. Are the greens --  
 M.J. HUR: Last week and this week, I hit -- my shot is really good, and my putting also really well. So that's why I had the good score two weeks.  
  
  Q. What does it mean to be part of a rookie class that has done so well this year, as a rookie, like Jiyai Shin has won; Anna Nordqvist has won. You've won. Everyone's been doing so well. How does that feel to be part of such a talented rookie class?  
 M.J. HUR: You know, last year Yani Tseng won the McDonald's, and this year Jiyai Shin and Anna. So many players doing well whole year and every year, so it makes me keep working hard. So it's good for everybody.   
  
  Q. And what is the strongest part of your game right now?  
 M.J. HUR: I think it's putting, yeah.  
  
  Q. So looking forward to this weekend, what do you think you will have to do this weekend to maybe win again? Do you think you can win on Sunday?  
 M.J. HUR: Yeah, I feel really good, and I try to focus on my ball every shot, and I want to don't care about the other players.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT