KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2017
Mi Jung Hur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under today; 6-under for the tournament.  What's been going so well for you so far?
MI JUNG HUR: I have good iron shot today and yesterday as well.  I hit some greens but I missed short birdie opportunities because the wind here.
I'm satisfied with my round today.
Q. You've had a pretty strong start to the season.  What did you work on in the off-season to get ready for 2017?
MI JUNG HUR: I work on my swing a lot, because try to hit more green every day.  It works better these days.
Q. Take us through your round today.  Any highlights for you?  Any long putts?  What was the key to such a strong round?
MI JUNG HUR: Today?
Q. Yeah.
MI JUNG HUR: I think it's more like putting.  You can see the footprints in the putting green during the afternoon.
So a lot of players, even me, missed short putt or the ball is not very (indiscernible).  I think the key is the putter.
Q. Does that make it tough to stay patient out there when you have to deal with that sometimes?
MI JUNG HUR: Yeah, a little bit, because even I thought it's good putt, and the ball is just rolling somewhere.  I really disappointed with my putter.  You have to be just patient and keep focus my game.
Q. And then finally, what's the game plan for the weekend going to be?  In the last couple groups probably.
MI JUNG HUR: I don't want to think too much about the weekend.  Always same.  Just play like Thursday and Friday will be a good result.
Q. I read in your bio you talked about how you might like to one day own a restaurant.
MI JUNG HUR: Yeah.
Q. You might like to be a chef.
MI JUNG HUR: Yes.
Q. Anything in particular that you specialize in cooking?
MI JUNG HUR: No, I just like love to cook, that's why.  But I think it's more like for few years later.  But my older brother is chef in Japanese restaurant, so I'm just -- I just like him to cook.
Q. Are you going to follow in his footsteps?  Could you see yourself being a chef in a restaurant?
MI JUNG HUR: But I have to learn a lot if I want to.  Yeah.  It's going to be my second life.
Q. Okay.  You could teach him how to golf; he could teach you how it cook.  Okay.  Are there things that you really specialize in that you like a lot to cook, things that you like to cook?
MI JUNG HUR: Yeah, sort of Korean food.
Q. Okay.  I'm not that well versed with Korean food.  I know that barbecue is popular.  Is there a particular type of Korean food that you really enjoy preparing?
MI JUNG HUR: There are lots of different sauce.
Q. Sauces?
MI JUNG HUR: Yeah, different taste as well.
Q. Okay.
MI JUNG HUR: There is like over hundred different dishes, so if I be a chef I have to learn about Korean food a lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT