REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
September 30, 2016
Mi Jung Hur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What an incredible round.  63 out there today.  Seemed like everything was going right for you.
MI JUNG HUR: Yeah.  I just can say, Oh, my gosh for my last round.  Everything is doing really good.  Even I made one bogey on second.  I miss my tee shot to right and had an unplayable; hit three on the green and made a two-putt.
After that, I mean, everything was working really good for the day.
Q. I think we'll forgive you for the bogey given the two eagles coming down the stretch.  Exciting finish.
MI JUNG HUR: Yeah, I made one eagle 16 which was chipped it in near the green.  Last hole I had a 230 yards to the flag and I just hit a 3-wood.  Actually I aim a little more left of it, but just turn on the line and got a luck and made eagle.
Q. You have to think after that you would also be looking pretty good for the Red Bull challenge the last few holes, and you're top of the leaderboard.
MI JUNG HUR: I was think about it yesterday, but I didn't think about today.  So maybe I better not thinking about those Red Bull challenges.
But I definitely want to win that challenge as well.
Q. 63 for today.  Are you happy with the way you're playing?
MI JUNG HUR: I am definitely happy with my round today because 10-under par is my record for my life.
So I'm so happy right now.  First of all I made a birdie with great iron shot, just tap-in birdie.
No. 2 I made a bogey with bad tee shot.  Hit 3-wood and just pushed to the right so I couldn't play the ball.  I had unplayable.  Hit a three on the green and made a two-putt.
Next hole I hit good iron and good putt.
After that, my short game was great and also my irons working really well.  Also my putter.  Everything was good.
No. 16 had a driver and hit 3-wood on the second shot and about 15 yards to the right.  Chipped it in.  That was my first eagle for the round.
Then even 17 hit a good putt and just lip out.  Was very frustrating because I was look forward to set my record.  (Laughter.)
Yeah, I had 240, 235 yards to the pin; 3-wood and tap-in eagle.  Kind of tap-in eagle.
Q. What was working so well for you out there today?  Talk about your caddie.  Maybe he help you a lot out there on this golf course.
MI JUNG HUR: Maybe you can tell the story.
Q. Of course.  We have a story.
MI JUNG HUR: You know, we have a free room for the player and I supposed to share the room with another player, So Yeon Ryu, but she's not come this week.  I was worry about my caddie.
So we have two rooms, and one room supposed to go for our caddies, and So Yeon didn't come this week and I was worry about my caddie couldn't find a room.  If he didn't find a room it's big trouble for the week.
So I just called to so Yeon and said maybe I can work with Tom this week, her caddie.  My caddie's name is Jack.  Tom was already on the plane; Jack wasn't.
So I just called to Jack and said, We have this situation.  What do you think?  He said, Maybe I can change my flight to Taiwan and you can work with Tom.
Q. They agree?  Deal?
MI JUNG HUR: Yeah, that's it.  I mean, we were good friend anyway, so this is -- it was my first time working with Tom.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT