CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 25, 2016
Mi Jung Hur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Take us through that birdie on 18 to close it out.  
MI JUNG HUR: Yeah, actually I tried to hit it short of the bunker on the right.  I hit a 5-iron.  It was 105 yards to the lay-up, and I hit a 5-iron and it went in the rough, and I was so disappointed because I tried to make a birdie on the last par-5.  But fortunately I made a good putt from the edge.  I liked it.   
 Q.  About how far do you think that was?  
MI JUNG HUR: The putt was about 10 yards.   
 Q.  Was it just off the green?  
MI JUNG HUR: It was off the green, maybe half of five yards and half of the green.   
 Q.  What was today like to get started and then have such a long delay and be back out there?  
MI JUNG HUR: Actually I stopped on No. 14 tee, and we had a break about two hours, but I just talked with my friends and enjoyed, had lunch and relaxed.  It helps me to continue through the rest of the round, so I liked it.   
 Q.  It didn't bother you too much?  
MI JUNG HUR: It didn't.   
 Q.  Just a nice little lunch break?  
MI JUNG HUR: Yeah.   
 Q.  Nice to be able to finish your round; some of the ones this afternoon probably won't get it in.  
MI JUNG HUR: I think most of the players in the afternoon will finish, but maybe a few groups will not finish and they will continue to play the next morning, and we are on late afternoon.  But I have a good time to rest for another three rounds, so I'll just enjoy the weekend and do my best.   
 Q.  How do you like this course?  How does it set up for you?  
MI JUNG HUR: You know, I was here about seven years ago, in '09, and I have good memories.  But this year the conditions are super nice.  The greens are super fast.  I think this is the fastest greens I've ever had on the Tour.  But I'm trying to focus on my speed when I putt it; it helps me a lot today.  I will just keep focused on my speed.   
 Q.  You said you had some decent memories from last time.  You enjoyed it last time here?  
MI JUNG HUR: Yeah, that was my rookie year, and I think I finished about 11th, something like that.  I just like this course, the conditions and also the setup, the wind.   
 Q.  What was it like last Saturday to see the finish in Rio, to see Inbee win the gold medal?  
MI JUNG HUR: Yeah, she just won the gold medal, and it was amazing for everybody, and she just did it.  She had a career Grand Slam.  She's the hero right now for other junior players in Korea.  It was very emotional moment when she got the gold medal, when she made the last putt.  Yeah, I was cheering for her.  I was in Korea to watch her play.  It was a good time to watch.   
 Q.  It must have been very cool to be in Korea as it was happening.  
MI JUNG HUR: It is.  It was really big news because I think nobody going to make that career for a long time at this point.  Maybe Lydia, but we still have four years to next gold medal.   
 Q.  When you see something like that, does that kind of inspire you to want to start --  
MI JUNG HUR: Definitely, yeah.  I think for everybody, yeah.  She's a good model to learn how to play and how to act.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT