LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 17, 2014
Mi Jung Hur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Very good day, there weren't many low scores.   What was the key today to your round?   
MI JUNG HUR:   Overall, I think my shots were overall I think good.   I was making shots and no big misses.   But I think that I could have lowered my score considerably if I had putted better.   I think putting‑wise, I wasn't up to par today.   
   
 Q.   The third event in Asia, was there a goal coming into this stretch?   Did you have anything in mind you wanted to achieve in the couple events we'll play here?  
MI JUNG HUR:   I didn't really have any specific goals coming into the Asian Swing.   But I was looking forward to this championship because it's held in Korea and it's been three years since I've played here.   There are a lot of fans and supporters out there, so I really want to end this championship with a good score.   
   
 Q.   Why have you not played it?  
MI JUNG HUR:   Because I played bad the last three years.   
   
 Q.   You couldn't get in the field?   
MI JUNG HUR:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   So you were excited because you finally got?  
MI JUNG HUR:   Finally, yes.   
   
 Q.   Who is here with you?   Family, friends?   Anybody watching?   
MI JUNG HUR:   A lot.   
  
 Q.   Who is in the group?   
MI JUNG HUR:   Definitely my parents and my father's sisters and brothers, my mom's sisters and brothers and my friends.   It's pretty a lot.   
   
 Q.   So how many do you think?   
MI JUNG HUR:   15.   
   
 Q.   Have you been looking back on your win at all, just replay it in your head for some confidence?   How big of a boost has that been?   You've been playing well since it, which is good.   
MI JUNG HUR:   I think I don't really look back or replay the win in my head.   I think it has not really impacted my confidence, but I have to say that before that, my shots were a bit shaky.   But now I think it was a bit uncertain.   But I think that it got rid of a lot of my nerves or the uncertainty in my shot but it has not really impacted my confidence.   
   
 Q.   Was the wind worse or better today?   
MI JUNG HUR:   Less windy compared to yesterday but the direction of the wind is completely changed.   But overall it was less windy.  
   
 Q.   Comfortable on this course?   How many times have you played it?   
MI JUNG HUR:   So it's my third time at this championship, and actually maybe it's because it's been held in Korea, I feel much more at home and comfortable compared to any events in the U.S.   So I think that's why I'm shooting better.   
   
 Q.   How far is home from here?   
MI JUNG HUR:   Two hours.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT