LONGS DRUGS CHALLENGE
October 10, 2008
Mollie Fankhauser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON TAYLOR: Thanks for coming in. 4-under for the day, 7-under overall. You're currently one back from the leader right now. Just talk about your round.   
 MOLLIE FANKHAUSER: It was pretty steady. I hit a lot of shots and was fortunate that make more putts today. Just tried to keep it simple with the yardage and tried to calculate the wind and everything.   
 So just pretty steady out there. Nothing spectacular, just kind of make some putts.  
 JASON TAYLOR: How much of a factor was the wind?  
 MOLLIE FANKHAUSER: It was a pretty big factor, especially on holes that where there was an elevation change. Just trying to calculate the elevation and the wind, my caddie did a great job just giving me some good numbers out there.  
 JASON TAYLOR: Great. Questions.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MOLLIE FANKHAUSER: Yeah, I mean, I didn't even really think it was cold or windy today. Yeah, I think definitely even though I've been out of school for a few years, it's a nice advantage just to go out in 45 degree weather and think that I've played in 35 degree weather when it's 40-mile-an-hour winds and almost snowing.   
 So that's always nice to go out into. And then just to be able to enjoy the day because it ends up warming up. I think it's definitely an advantage.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MOLLIE FANKHAUSER: I think I pretty much got all the bad rounds out of my system. It was really hard. I had some good expectations for myself, but I've gone through a couple coach changes. Now, you know everything is just a lot more simple and I just trust in a lot of the things that I'm working on.   
 It's just really simple for me to go out to the golf course and be able to copy whatever I'm working on back home and bring it out on the road.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MOLLIE FANKHAUSER: It was pretty recent. It was maybe, gosh, the week before Springfield, which was maybe two months ago. So it's been pretty recent. I saw immediate, you know, just changes as far as my game.   
 The week -- I took one lesson and played in Springfield. I missed the cut, but I shot 69 the second round, and that was like light at the end of the tunnel for me. Ever since then I've just been making cuts.   
 I missed the cut in Portland, but it was a gradual progression of -- at least now I'm making a cut to now I'm actually able to actually feel like I can be in contention and be comfortable there and know that that's where I belong.   
  
  Q. What's your coach's name?  
 MOLLIE FANKHAUSER: Don Sargent. He teaches out of Scioto Country Club in Columbus. Just a very simple southern man. We've been working a lot on timing. He keeps it simple for me so that I don't necessarily get overwhelmed.   
 It's just a lot of swing work that's very simple for me to take out course. We do some video, but that's very little.   
 This last week when I was at home we did mostly putting and short game, just because I think that was the only thing that was holding me back from winning in Mobile a couple weeks ago. We worked on that, and it's starting to look better.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MOLLIE FANKHAUSER: Yeah, I mean, I've been thinking that the last few weeks. I think that's an advantage of playing on the Duramed Futures Tour. Every week is an absolute pressure week. Because if you slip a week out on the Duramed, you're going to slip a couple spots from making your exempt card out there.   
 So I think I've learned a lot from playing on that tour last year and knowing that I had to finish strong the last few tournaments last year to make it out here this year.   
 That's kind of what I'm going off of this year, is my past experience of this is a pressure situation as far as me keeping my card, but I'm very comfortable under pressure.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MOLLIE FANKHAUSER: Yeah, I mean, it's fun. It's better than missing a cut. You know, I've missed six or eight cuts in a row, so I don't really care if my name is first or second on the leaderboard. I just love the opportunity. The last time was probably a year ago, uh-huh.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MOLLIE FANKHAUSER: Yeah, it's a little tame today, the black. But, you know, it's just hard with the layering. Yeah, I love -- I'll break out some good ones this weekend.   
 I just need a shoe deal. I think adidas needs to spice it up a little bit and I'll be good to go.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT