DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINALS: SPAIN v USA
April 7, 2007
Feliciano Lopez
Emilio Sanchez
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  The Americans talked several times this week about the atmosphere in Seville a couple years ago.  Your impressions about the crowd here, sort of what you thought of the atmosphere? 

 FELICIANO LOPEZ:  Well, I think with 14,000 people, it's normal that the people, they get really loud at the crucial moments of the match, especially at the end of the fourth set where the match was pretty close.  The crowd, they get really excited at this time, no?  So that's normal.  This is something that we already knew before coming here to play because we knew that everything was sold out. 

 So that's Davis Cup.  We have to expect that that is going to happen when you play away.  So we did enjoy also because is also fun to play against the U.S. team in front of this wonderful crowd, no? 

 On one way we really enjoy it and on the other way we have to, you know, expect that when you play away, this is the normal -- a very normal situation. 

 Q.  Emilio, Sweden has already beat Argentina.  Could you talk about a U.S.-at-Sweden semifinal.  How would you see that playing out? 

 CAPTAIN SANCHEZ:  I don't know if you want my advice (laughter).  I read your paper today.  It seems like you know everything, so why you want my advice? 

 The Swedes beat Argentina, which is one of the best teams in the world, and they beat them very easy.  You have a great team, but you have to be careful.  You go there, they will put you in one of these surfaces that no one knows.  Maybe they play on a much faster surface than here.  Maybe against you they choose clay because they can play also on clay. 

 Mats Wilander is the captain, so you have to be careful (laughter). 

 Q.  Fernando, what was the difference after the first two sets when you got back in the match in the third and fourth sets? 

 FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I think that we was more aggressive and doing the things like we know better.  We was I think with the serve more solid, with the return too much more I think.  I think we was at the, you know, end playing so much better than in the beginning of the match.  We was, I don't know, more inside the match.  I don't know, it was a lot of things, a lot of things to see. 

 But the thing is, like, we are very happy that we are improving all the matches.  Maybe we will be very good team if we are playing like this all the matches like today. 

 Q.  Fernando, all the players involved the last two days, the 3-0 win, how do you see the last two days as they played out? 

 FERNANDO VERDASCO:  The American guys, so good.  Everybody knows that these players are so good.  They have Bryans in doubles, and Roddick and Blake in singles.  For sure is always a tough team to play against him. 

 But we was trying to do our best.  You know, they was playing at home.  This is a lot of advantage in these kinds of ties when you are playing with a lot of good players.  It's difficult to beat him in his house, you know. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT