DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINALS: SPAIN v USA
April 6, 2007
Emilio Sanchez
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the crowd, the effect it seemed to have on the match.   

 CAPTAIN SANCHEZ:  The last match?   
  
  Q.  Yes.   

 CAPTAIN SANCHEZ:  Well, I think the crowd was very good today.  It was very colorful.  They were enjoying the matches, the wins from the American team.  But in the crowd there is always with such a big crowd one or two guys which go out from the normal.  Those guys, they say -- every time was a difficult point or something, they were saying some things to Fernando.  At the end, was a bit of losing nerves and situation was a bit tight.   

 But I think overall was a great crowd besides those two guys.   
  
  Q.  For tomorrow, are you keeping your same team?   

 CAPTAIN SANCHEZ:  Yeah, there is no changes for the moment, but we can change until tomorrow in the morning.  All will depend how they wake up, if they feel well.   
  
  Q.  Fernando wants to play; he's already expressed that to you?   

 CAPTAIN SANCHEZ:  We didn't have much time to talk.  He had a very tough match against a great opponent.  For the moment, he has to digest this match and then we will talk tomorrow, try to get him motivated and pump him up for tomorrow's match.   
  
  Q.  David remains an option for Sunday?   

 CAPTAIN SANCHEZ:  Well, the only option for us that remains is tomorrow.  Sunday is a bit far away for us because we are 2-0 down.  We have to concentrate in time to make a good match tomorrow.  We play against the best players in the world.  Is not going to be easy match for us.   

 We going to try to give a surprise, to keep the tie alive, then we can think on Sunday.   
  
  Q.  What was your conversation at the end with Andy and the officials?   

 CAPTAIN SANCHEZ:  Well, I was complaining because Fernando, he got a warning from the umpire because of these conversations with these guys from the crowd.  But then Andy, after one of those breakpoints, he had a tough conversation with the crowd, as well.  Then I complained why we get a warning and Andy was not getting when he was saying not such a nice things to the crowd.   

 But these are all things that during the match happens all the time.  There is not big deal.  Is part of the match.  I think the American team was overall today very professional and very consistent and they play much better than us.  They win pretty easy because they win 3-0, 3-0 both matches.  There is no excuses for us.  We try our best, but they were much better.   
  
  Q.  Fernando, how difficult was the surface for you today?  Obviously played into the Americans' hands.   

 FERNANDO VERDASCO:  It was the same like the practice, no?  I think they didn't change the court.  Then the feelings was okay, but I think he play good.  He serve all the match so good.  The second and third set, he get almost a lot of first serves.  Everybody know how Andy serve.  He's tough.   

 Then, you know, if you are not solid with your serve, is difficult to be in the match and play with him.  He is all the time doing the slice with the backhand, then is difficult to attack.  I don't know, I was trying to move him and try to do my best, but it was difficult anyway.   
  
  Q.  Fernando, did the crowd affect you?  Obviously you were upset at a time.  Did that affect your play at all, do you believe?   

 FERNANDO VERDASCO:  No, I didn't was upset with all the people.  I was upset with one stupid guy that was there and all the match speaking in my match and Tommy's match and saying bad things about my racquet, about the serve, about the serve of the Spanish people.  Then you are playing, and at the beginning you are inside the match, you are focused, you try to do your best.  Then, you know, is not good that you are listening all these things.   

 When you are losing, you are nervous because you know that you are near to lose, all the pressure and all the things going out, this is why I said to him, you know, all the things I said.  That's it.   

 I don't have any problem with all the other people.  They was correct all the time, supporting his player.  This is okay, no?  The bad thing is the two guys or the one guy that was there all the time saying stupid things.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT