DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINALS: SPAIN v USA
April 3, 2007
David Ferrer
Tommy Robredo
Emilio Sanchez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CAPTAIN EMILIO SANCHEZ.  ...I like how Tommy plays, but maybe he don't like.  But when the country playing, is everybody goes with Tommy.  So it's maybe competition.  And we have national TV here making a big setup, and it's a big repercussion in Spain.   
 So we really like to compete for our country, and we hope that we can represent our country in the best way possible.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about facing Andy Roddick.   
 CAPTAIN EMILIO SANCHEZ:  Well, he's been practicing.  So for the moment, until there is no announcement, we think that he's the most successful player from the American team.  So I think that if he say he's healthy, he will play.  If he doesn't play, then we will work hard these days and try to be as competitive as possible in the matches.  We will not change our way of approaching the tie because he plays or don't play.   
  
  Q.  This question is for David.  Can you talk about being here in Winston-Salem.   
 CAPTAIN EMILIO SANCHEZ:  I thought I was the only one around that time speaking English.   
 DAVID FERRER:  About this place, we been here a couple days, and we are for the moment very, very glad.  It is a great stadium and great hotel, and the people is treating us very well.  USTA is doing their best efforts to make us happy, so we are very well here.   
  
  Q.  Tommy, are you confident about playing?   
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Am I gonna play?  I don't know if I'm gonna play.  I know I'm gonna play on Wednesday -- on Friday, on Saturday or Sunday, or if Andy is gonna play.   
 Anyway, I don't care if he beat me in the past or if he's gonna beat me in the future.  What is important is to beat him here.  If I do this, it's great.  If another one is doing that, it's perfect, no?   
 Anyway, the important thing is to win three points here, and that's why we are here.  If not, we will be at home preparing for the clay season.   
 TIM CURRY:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT