U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1992
Emilio Sanchez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   Was it fun to play your brother today?

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  Was it fun?

 Q.   Was it fun?

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  Well, I don't think so because he make my life
so difficult.  I don't know, before going to the match, he never
beat me.  I was really not afraid.  I was a little nervous about
the match, because I knew that was going to be a match-- tougher
match than the other times, because, believe it or not, he, in
the other times, he was more like, geez, I am playing with my
older brother and everything.  But he doesn't think like that.
 He takes me like a normal player now and I knew that was going
to happen and I knew it was going to be a difficult match.

 Q.   He said that he thought this might have been the best
match that you two ever played together.  Do you think that?

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  Well, I think it was his best.  I don't think
I did play well today, but I fight a lot at the end, workout.
 It was the best match overall, because it was very exciting and
a lot of ups and downs and a lot of changing of the match.  So
probably in his life probably be the match, I suppose.

 Q.   Have you taken advantage of him in the past?  He said
before that he was playing you like an older brother and not just
like a normal player, but today that changed?

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  That goes-- that goes with the age, I suppose.
 I don't know, I think he has always been with me.  I think I
help him a lot during his career, and I support him a lot.  So
maybe that was what is happening in his mind when he was playing
me, but now he is more himself, and he plays more of his tennis
and he doesn't depend as much as before, and I think that -- when
he prepared for the match, and everything, you can see that, and
it was different.

 Q.   Is that satisfying to you, gratifying to you to see that
maturity in him?

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  Well, I think that is good.  I think it is good
for everyone, even if most of the people always see him like my
small brother, and he is doing always the same thing as I do.
 I think it is good that the people start to see that is not happening
anymore and he is himself, and he has his own career, and I have
mine, and we are not -- we are not in the same.

 Q.   What is it that allows you to beat him? What do you know
-- I mean, do you know everything about his game and he knows
everything -- why do you beat him all the time?

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  I don't know.  I think today it was so close
that anyone could win.  But, I don't know, I like to fight.  I
have been doing this all my career, and I am going to take my
chances all the time.  We play very similar, and I don't -- I
don't know, I cannot say why I beat him.  I think I just do my
best and we have very similar game.  And the match, you can see
like two players doing the same things all the time; style of
play and the way we go to the ball and everything, all very similar.


 Q.   Like playing in a mirror?

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  A little bit.  I don't know.  Before I think
my game was a little bit more powerful than his and that is why
at the end I always beat him.  Now I think we are very  -- pretty
even.

 Q.   Did you wish your brother beat--  

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  Did I wish my brother--

 Q.   -- Beat his today's opponent?

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  No.  No.

 Q.   Did you talk to him at all during the day before the
match, during the match, after the match?  Were there any exchanges
between you?

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  Well, after the match, no, because I think he
went -- he came here and I was in the shower and everything. 
Before the match, we just talked, but everything like -- nothing
about the match.  Few days ago when we knew that we were going
to play and then each one make the comments, whatever, I am going
to beat you or this and that, but today was the day of the match,
and each one went his own way.

 Q.   Are you staying together here?

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  Yeah.

 Q.   You stay in the same apartment or hotel?

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  Yeah.

 Q.   Have you been practicing together before?

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  Not today, no.

 Q.   Yesterday, yes?

 EMILIO SANCHEZ:  Well, we always practice together, but when
you are playing a tournament like this, like the U.S. Open, where
you have so many matches and everything, you don't practice as
much like you are at home, like you play everyday and you just
warm-up for the match and for the warm-up, each one warm-up by
himself.  

 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT