COLLEGE WORLD SERIES: BATON ROUGE REGIONAL
June 2, 2017
Jose Camacho
Anthony Martinez
Michael Robertson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LSU - 15, Texas Southern - 7   
THE MODERATOR: Get us going with a few opening comments.   
MICHAEL ROBERTSON: I like the way that we started the game.  We obviously haD a lot of synergy, which I thought that was very important, us getting off to a good start so we can relax.   
Our starting pitcher did that.  We put some really good swings on what I thought was one of the best pitchers in the nation.  So we did a great job of creating pressure early on.   
Obviously, the second inning, we missed the (inaudible), and the game turned.  All in all, we stayed in there against one of the best teams in the country.  It tells a lot about this ball club and where this program is headed.  All in all, just a lot of pressure.  .294 hitting team, and they have a lot, a lot of pressure.  It wasn't an easy task.   
(Inaudible).  It was a walk and hit by pitch.  Watson put two good swings on him.  They get two home runs.  Just a lot of pressure.  Maybe a little bit too much for us that we're not used to seeing.   
But all in all, I thought our kids collectively a good team effort.   
THE MODERATOR: Starting pitcher Anthony Martinez.  Anthony, why don't you talk a little bit about that second inning and maybe the Watson at bat.   
ANTHONY MARTINEZ: When I first came in, I knew it was going to be a tough game, and we had to compete.  As soon as I got here, I was like I have to give it my best, and this is what I've been waiting for.   
I started off really good.  Our offense started off really good.  I knew I had to come in and come in clutch and do what I had to do.   
That second inning, I just left a change-up high.  I knew I would have to pay for my mistakes, but that was one of the mistakes that cost me a lot.  I just went from there and did what I had to do.   
THE MODERATOR: Third baseman Jose Camacho, big day at the plate for you as well as a nice play defensively.  Three big hits.  Talk about your day, please.   
JOSE CAMACHO: I just went in with the approach.  We talked about it all weekend.  I'm just looking for fastballs.   
 Q.  (No microphone).  
JOSE CAMACHO: Coming in here as the underdogs, I've been watching LSU.  I knew they were on an 11-win streak.  We came in here and tried to give it all we had.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT