U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2015
Sammy Schmitz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Quite a tee shot you hit in here.  About 279 it was playing today.  
SAMMY SCHMITZ: We shot it at 283.  I'd been hitting a cut all day, but the wind called for a little draw and I just teed it up and hit it hard and got a piece of it and had a nice little lucky bounce at no time back slope here.  We knew it was there so we thought it might be an option.  Just tried to stay aggressive, not a lot of birdies in this match.  I think I birdied 13 and missed a little shorty on 14 for birdie, and then obviously birdied (inaudible), but those were my first three birdies of the match.  So a little slow start this morning.  We both kind of started off a little bit cold.   
 Q.  I was going to say, you won a few holes with pars to get yourself a lead.  
SAMMY SCHMITZ: Yeah.   
 Q.  Again today, what were you doing well this morning?  
SAMMY SCHMITZ: Tee game was good.  Just keeping it in play, keeping it in the fairway.  The air was heavy.  The grass was wet.  We knew that going in.  We really wanted just to make sure the ball was in the fairway.  Pins felt like they were a little tougher today, a little trickier.  They've picked up on the difficulty level as the tournament has gone on, so we're really trying to pay attention to the greens.  But really just playing fairly safe.  I saw him, he bogeyed the first two out of three, so the goal was just to keep it in play, make as many pars as I could, and really move forward.   
 Q.  And then tell me about that birdie at 13 that gave you the 3 up lead again.  
SAMMY SCHMITZ: 188 or so, hit a 6 iron, kind of missed it a little bit, hit it on the right side.  Had an uphill about a 30-footer, and I got a great read from my caddie, and I hit it right there and it went in.   
 Q.  Tell me how excited you are to be in the semifinals.  
SAMMY SCHMITZ: I'm excited.  I'm trying not to think too much about it.  Just trying to stay focused.  I think there's some things I can improve on from the morning round.  I feel if I don't, I won't last.  So we're going to go work on that and hopefully I can make some improvements and have a good second match.   
 Q.  I see you're going to go play the last three holes.  Is that to familiarize yourself --  
SAMMY SCHMITZ: We're going to go take a look at the hole locations.  I think the key -- I don't want to be coming down the stretch and be unfamiliar with what lies ahead.  I think if I have a chance to go take a peek at it, I'll go take that chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT