AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS VS BLUE JAYS
October 14, 2015
Jose Bautista
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Blue Jays - 6 Rangers -3
Q. Congratulations.  I asked both managers this as well.  Have you ever been involved in a baseball game quite like that ever?
JOSE BAUTISTA: Not in the Big League level, not in the U.S.  Maybe in Winter Ball, but that was about it.  It was a lot of emotions, a lot of changing dynamics of the game and the momentum from team to team.  Obviously in a do-or-die game, tensions are going to be running high.  People's emotions get involved and it's a different type of game.  Ultimately we came out on top and that's what we came here to do.
Q. Speaking of emotions, can you just talk about what was going through your mind after you hit the home run, just that reaction when you dropped the bat and everything that happened afterwards?
JOSE BAUTISTA: I can't really remember what was going through my mind, to be quite honest with you.  After I made contact, I just, you know, I didn't plan anything that I did and so I still don't even know how I did it.  I just enjoyed the moment, rounded the bases and got to the dugout.  And after all the guys stopped punching me and hitting me is when I kind of started realizing what happened.  I knew I did something great for the team at the moment of impact because I knew I hit that ball pretty good, and I gave us the lead in a crucial moment so I was happy to do that.
Q. What was going through your mind and what were your teammates talking about when Russell was awarded that throwing error and Odor scored in the top of the 7th?
JOSE BAUTISTA: It's a tough moment in the game.  I don't think Choo did anything intentional, and it was just an awkward play.  And the fact that it was late in the game and it was such an important game in the playoffs made it kind of seem more than probably what happened.  I don't know those rules, I don't have them memorized and the rule books.  I have no idea what the call is.  We're looking at replays and in the moment you're like, you know, that should not be able to happen.  But if you look at the video, I don't think Choo did anything intentional.  Ball hit his hand and they got that run and it was awarded to them at the moment.  Obviously it was a little disappointing because you feel like it was not a baseball play that awarded them that run, but I'm sure that the people in charge looked at all the rules and made the decision that they had to make.
Q. That situation that started with the benches clearing, apparently Dyson just said that he told Edwin that you shouldn't be doing that when you threw the bat and that it's backyard baseball and it shouldn't be done.  Do you have a reaction to that?
JOSE BAUTISTA: No.
Q. Your first Postseason appearance, pretty crazy series with the Rangers.  How fun has this been for you?
JOSE BAUTISTA: It was fun.  Everything that happened kind of led to that big moment with the home run and that's what made it fun obviously because we won.  It was two teams battling, two great teams battling.  They did a great job pitching in the first two games and we were able to score runs the last two games and obviously today you guys watched, it was unbelievable competition.  Everybody was trying to win for their team and you see it on a slide at second base, a reaction after a strikeout, a reaction after a base hit and I think that's what baseball's all about.  Just play with your heart, play with emotion and just try to win.  I think I like watching players play that way because I know they're giving it their all.  I enjoyed the whole series.
MODERATOR: We'll let you go give your all to the celebration.  Thank you very much.
JOSE BAUTISTA: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT