MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 12, 1999
Jeff Bagwell
Nomar Garciaparra
Shawn Green
B.J. Surhoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Shawn, could you just get some reaction to having to follow up what Mark did?
 
 SHAWN GREEN: I wish he would have given me a few home runs to start off with. I was a
little nervous going in there, I think a lot of us were, but it just made it that much
longer of a wait, and as fun as it was to watch, it definitely added to a little bit of
the stress. 
 
Q. Nomar, how did you feel up there?
 
 NOMAR GARCIAPARRA: I felt great. I had an absolute blast. The crowd, hearing the fans,
all I was worried about, my goal was to hit one, and I hit two, and it was like, oh, thank
God. I figured out I better get out of here, and watch Big Mac and the others take over. 
 
Q. How was watching that show, Nomar, when you got to sit back and watch?
 
 NOMAR GARCIAPARRA: How was it? I felt just like you did, wow. Playing against these
guys, seeing what they could do, it was absolutely unbelievable. I like to question a lot
of those measurements on some of those balls, I don't think -- I don't think it's 480 to
the mast pike. But just like you guys, like I said, we don't only play the game, we're
also fans, and it's always fun to watch that. 
 
Q. Nomar, that was the biggest ovation you've received here in your career at Fenway.
What are your thoughts as you were approaching the plate and it was building and building?
 
 NOMAR GARCIAPARRA: It was unbelievable, it really is, going up there. I was nervous,
without a doubt but it's also kind of a nice, warm feeling when you just hear the crowd
behind like that. And I'm sure you saw my face with a smile from ear to ear, and it still
hasn't left me. It was just something special. 
 
Q. Jeff, your thoughts on coming back to Fenway and your performance tonight and what
it was like doing this at Fenway?
 
 JEFF BAGWELL: Well, it was great. Obviously coming back here, a place I always dreamed
about playing, obviously it was a big thrill to me. Standing and hitting a ball over the
Green Monster, and everything I dreamed about as a kid, I had a great time. 
 
Q. Jeff, had you ever stepped foot on the turf here?
 
 JEFF BAGWELL: I played a college All-Star Game here, but there was like 1,200 people
there at that game, a little different. 
 
Q. BJ, how did it feel for you, being with some of the best home run hitters ever?
 
 BJ SURHOFF: Well, I was supposed to hit after Mac, and I made Shawn go, made sure I
wasn't going to get in the way. I was ecstatic to be there. I felt real good and was real
happy to hit a couple of balls out. It was a great experience, and I think these type of
experiences that you look back and you'll draw on, when it comes to the season and getting
in tight situations. 
 
Q. Jeff, I know it was a while ago, but can you just kind of describe to us what it was
like to leave the Red Sox organization and now what it's like to look back with the
successes you've had.
 
 JEFF BAGWELL: Obviously it was tough at the time. I was perfectly happy where I was. I
was in Double-A and making my progression, hopefully going Triple-A next year to get
traded. But I learned at an early age, that's baseball, and it's a business. It turned out
to be the best thing that could ever happen to me, who knows what would happen if I stayed
with the organization. And now it turns out I played a while in the Big Leagues and I'm in
Houston. 
 
Q. Nomar, you saw the applause tonight, can you put into words how you think it's going
to be tomorrow night?
 
 NOMAR GARCIAPARRA: No, I don't know. I don't know what to expect. I kind of go out
there and just take it all in as it comes. But I tell you what, me smiling, it will still
be there tomorrow. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT