AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2009
Jessica Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. PENNETTA/J. Moore
  6-4, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. A couple of mixed results this year. What do you take out of it? What have you learnt from the experience?  
 JESSICA MOORE: Today I learned a lot within myself 'cause I had this experience last year where I went out on Margaret Court against Peer and I was pretty nervous.   
 Today I felt I went out there pretty good. I started pretty well. I had a good first set. I'm pretty happy with the way I played today.   
  
  Q. With winning the first round, do you take a belief when you go to a Grand Slam you can walk out and beat anybody?  
 JESSICA MOORE: Yeah, uhm, it gives me a lot of confidence. You know, I want to continue playing consistently well. I think this year I was pretty much up and down, even though I had a good January.   
 But my goal for the next couple of months is to play in between WTAs and ITFs, so hopefully I can play consistent tennis.   
 Yeah, I have a better belief I can match up with the top girls.  
  
  Q. Did the crowd get distracted during the pressure points of the game?  
 JESSICA MOORE: No, it was pretty cool actually. I was starting to get pretty pumped in the first set. I felt they were helping me along pretty good.   
  
  Q. How distracting were the conditions? Pretty tough, was it?  
 JESSICA MOORE: Yeah, it was really tough. The wind was a joke. Like it was hard to pick because it was so swirly. There were a few important points where I came to the net and I thought I had a smash, and then I had a backhand low volley. It was ridiculous.   
 For both of us, I think she probably dealt with it a little bit better. You can't do anything about it, I guess.   
  
  Q. Still feel the hunger for more appearances here now that you've had four matches?  
 JESSICA MOORE: Yeah, definitely. You know, a couple years ago I was pretty scared of doing what I did today, but I'm starting to really enjoy it. I can't wait for the future to be going out there and winning some good matches.   
  
  Q. There's obviously been a lot of hype about the Aussie youngsters in the men's singles. There's been some good results for the women, as well, for Australian players. How do you think the young women players are coming through? Are you excited about it? Could we see a future Grand Slam champion?  
 JESSICA MOORE: It's really exciting. It's great to have so many girls coming at the same time, because we all push each other along. I think that's where we might have been lacking in the past, where we'd have one or two players, but we wouldn't have a group of us to help each other along, encourage each other.   
 No, it's really good. I think it's great for Australian tennis. I hope that everyone realizes that we are working hard and that there is a bunch of us coming through. So it's pretty exciting.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT