AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2008
Jessica Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Must be a pretty good feeling to get this far.   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah, definitely.  Being able to play this week after playing last week and experiencing that, coming out strong as I have, it's a pretty good feeling.   
  
  Q.  Australia Day final for you tomorrow.   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Something special to you?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  I hope so.  I hope the crowd gets behind it.  It will be fun.   
  
  Q.  Take us through the last couple weeks.  Has been a bit of a rollercoaster for you.   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah, it has.  Like I said before, I've been able to experience playing with the top players.  I now know that I can compete at that level.  Going out this week has been really good to be able to get the matches under my belt, play with confidence, play the way that they play on the senior tour.   
  
  Q.  Casey said she got that belief after a couple big wins.  Same sort of experience for you coming into the juniors?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah, for sure.  Having wins like I did last week is just priceless.  It's something that you just can't buy.  It's such a confidence booster, especially coming out against the juniors this week.   
 It is a bit different.  But I'm trying to go out there with the same mentality as I did the week previously.  So far so good.   
  
  Q.  Have you noticed a massive difference in your game from before the tournament to where you're at now?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Is it tangible that you can feel the difference?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  I can feel that what I do in practice when I'm relaxed is coming out in matches.  I'm letting it happen.  I'm allowing it to happen because I'm more confident that it will happen.   
 No, I'm not as stressed or tight when I play.  I'm not scared to miss anymore.  Obviously it's not over yet; I've still got tomorrow.  I'm going to go out there like I have been every other day and just play as well as I can.   
  
  Q.  You have to be happy, your first-serve percentage was up around 75.   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Last same you said the same thing, so I just thought you liked my serve.   
  
  Q.  I just noticed earlier on you were struggling with it.  You said that was something you were trying to improve.  You've got to be happy if it's up at 75.   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah, for sure.  Like I said, it's something that I've altered a bit in the last couple of months.  It's definitely improving as I go on.  Like I said, with everything, my confidence is building, so I'm feeling like I can step up and hit it.   
 Yeah, no, it's great.   
  
  Q.  She seemed to hit the ball quite hard.  What was your strategy in regards to that?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Well, I hadn't seen her play recently.  I've seen her play probably a couple years ago in junior Fed Cup.  But, yeah, she hits it pretty hard and flat.  But I've experienced that last week and I knew what to expect.   
 So I'm just going out there trying to suck those balls up, get that one back, look to play my game and be on top of her.   
  
  Q.  Do you let yourself look ahead to next week, as well?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  You mean Fed Cup?   
  
  Q.  Yes.   
 JESSICA MOORE:  I had the best couple of weeks.  I mean, to be told -- to be playing Fed Cup is pretty awesome.  I haven't had too much time to think about it yet.  But I'm looking forward to it.  Just got to stay concentrated on tomorrow.  As soon as that's over, I can't wait to represent Australia.  It will be awesome.   
  
  Q.  Do you know Bernard fairly well?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  I know him a little bit.  When I was in Fed Cup, he was in Davis Cup team.  We went on that trip together.  But not really had much to do with him.  I know he's doing unbelievable, as well, this week.  It's really great to see we have two Aussies.   
  
  Q.  Would that be something special if you both won it?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yes, it would be awesome.  It would be something that I don't think happens very often.  Having Brydan win last year is awesome.  But having two would just be unbelievable.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT