AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2008
Jessica Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We'll take questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Was this your biggest moment?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah, it has been so far.  No, it was pretty exciting going out there today.  I was very open-minded.  All the hard work that I've done so far has paid off.  So it's a really good feeling.   
  
  Q.  You must have gone in thinking it was a winnable one, that it was not the worst draw you could have had?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah, definitely.  I didn't know a lot about her, but my coach saw her playing in the Gold Coast a couple weeks ago.  Compared to my previous draws, yeah, definitely I thought that.  Took it like every other match and I just kind of went out there and tried to play my game.   
  
  Q.  Not like every other match when you're coming out in your home Slam?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah, I was obviously nervous.  But it's a Grand Slam and it's a pretty exciting moment.  But I had a lot of support out there.  I was pretty lucky to have all those guys out there supporting me.  It was very exciting and it was nerve racking, but I got through it and I'm very happy about it.   
  
  Q.  Where's your game gone just in 12 months ago to now?  Where are the differences in your game?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  I've been very lucky in being with the AIS this year.  I've had the opportunity to work with David Taylor, and Sandon Stolle is now coaching me.  I've changed my game a lot.  I'm a lot more aggressive and playing on my terms more than reacting.  I think obviously that's the way you've got to play in the now.  So, yeah, I feel like it's really paying off.   
  
  Q.  Working on any particular strokes?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Just all around, like I'm trying to be very like aggressive on all strokes, trying to be an all-around player.  Just keep working at it, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Is this your best surface, hard courts?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah, I think so.   
  
  Q.  How does this compare to your court back home in Wiliiams?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah, slightly.  There is a court back at home, but I don't know if I should call it a court.  It's kind of gravel with lots of weeds and stuff.  I shouldn't say that.  Dad would be a bit annoyed.  I like the surface, the new color.  It's a change.  And I think TA should be happy with it.   
  
  Q.  You had such a good start.  That must have been important, given you confidence, take away the nerves a little.   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah, definitely.  I knew quite a bit about her tactically because my coach filled me in.  I tried to stick with my game plan.  I thought that really worked especially at the beginning.   
 Yeah, for some -- I was just going out there, I was nervous going on, but as soon as the first point started, I felt pretty good about it.  So, yeah, I was pretty prepared.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel about what you can achieve these couple of weeks?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Anything can happen.  I'm just going to go out there Wednesday with the same mentality I was today, and, you know, I just hope for the best.  Play well and we'll see what happens.   
  
  Q.  How many family members and friends here?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  My brother came in last night, and aunty.  Yeah, I think I had a lot more than what I actually thought I had.  Mom and dad came up to me, She was here, he was here.  So that was good.  It feels really good to have them behind me.   
  
  Q.  Australia is impatient for another good woman player to emerge.  What's your progress been like compared with how you would like it to be?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  I probably put a bit of pressure on myself because I do want to see Australian tennis going forward, and I'd like to be the someone, as well as the other athletes coming through, to make it up there with everyone else.  So there is a bit of pressure.  But I think I probably put that on myself because I want something to happen, and hopefully this will be the start.   
  
  Q.  So have you come along as quickly as you'd like to or expected to?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  I don't know.  Like I spoke about that to a few people, and I think every athlete is different, they take it at their own time.  And as you can see, there's a lot of young girls coming through, and very young.  And, you know, I think it's just each athlete's different, so...   
  
  Q.  Second, third or fourth round here, does it change your scheduling at all?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah, I have no idea what my ranking will be set at at the end.  But it's not something I'm going to be thinking about.  But scheduling my time of where I'm playing is kind of hard at the moment because I'm kind of in between juniors and seniors, so I'm just going to go with the ride I guess.   
  
  Q.  In terms of your performance, do you feel more comfortable playing here because there are a lot of Australians in the crowd?  Does that help you settle the nerves and that sort of thing?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  Yeah, I mean, it's great having people call out your name.  Feel like everyone's wanting you to win.  And it would be pretty sucky to have it the opposite.   
 Of course, they help you get there.  And it was great coming off today, having so many people come up and being happy with me.  So hopefully it will continue.   
  
  Q.  Do you know who you got next or is it yet to be played?   
 JESSICA MOORE:  I haven't looked, to be completely honest.  We'll see what happens.  We'll go for the ride.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT