SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2018
Norman Xiong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NORMAN XIONG: I just want to play well here, have fun, and then see wherever it goes.  Just try to stay in the moment.   
 Q.  Would you then -- if you got a top 10 --  
NORMAN XIONG: It'll depend.  I'll think about it.  Yeah, we'll see.   
 Q.  Very exciting round here at the Sanderson Farms Championship.  Couple hole-outs and an eagle.  Walk us through the highlights.  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, there were birdies, chip-ins, two chip-ins, and then an eagle on 11 that was just off the fringe.  You don't really expect those, but when they come you take it and build off momentum.   
They really kind of take off the pressure on a day like this when it's windy and the pins are not as accessible to where you can play safe off those good breaks.   
 Q.  Windy and cold and you battled both elements very well.  You're at the top of the leaderboard at a PGA Tour event for the first time.  What kind of thoughts popped into your head?  
NORMAN XIONG: I've been working hard on my game; I've been learning a lot.   
 Q.  You been on top of plenty collegiate and amateur tournament leaderboards, but have not made a cut in a PGA TOUR event.  Not only are you going to make the cut, but you're going to be on the first page of the leaderboard likely.  What confidence does that give you?  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, I mean, it means a lot to me.  I guess it finally proves that I belong out here, or hopefully one day eventually can be out here permanently.   
Yeah, definitely means that everything is working and I'm learning a lot.   
 Q.  Short game has always been a strength?  
NORMAN XIONG: No.  It was probably the weakest part of my game inside 100 yards, 60 yards.  But at the end of college and especially right now, I realized that's where I need to work on the most, and it's obviously paying off.   
I've always been a decent ball striker err, so decided to get a short game coach and it's been paying off.   
 Q.  Who is that?  
NORMAN XIONG: Josh Gregory.   
 Q.  What part of the season last year did you think of going pro?  At the end?  
NORMAN XIONG: Probably just when I kept winning.  That was kind of the proof that I should leave and go on to the next stage.   
 Q.  I know you're confident, but were you a little bit surprised?  You won six times last year.  Were you surprised almost every week you went out and knocked one out?  
NORMAN XIONG: Last year?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
NORMAN XIONG: A little bit, yeah, I guess.  That can happen in college.  The fields aren't as deep, courses aren't set up to where they're like PGA TOUR courses.  They're more forgiving.   
Yeah, it's not too surprising.  I feel like every year that happens where someone goes off or there is two or three guys that just keep winning and winning.   
 Q.  You talk about this maybe being the first time you felt comfortable in a pro event.  Anyone give you good advice or tell you to be patient?  
NORMAN XIONG: Not really.  Just learning and self-awareness.  This is my first cut I made, so through all the struggles of missing those cuts by a few shots I've learned a lot.   
I feel like I'm more comfortable out here.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  Frustrating or surprising that...  
NORMAN XIONG: It was very frustrating.  I mean, I felt as though my whole game was really solid.  But there was not one thing or, you know, few more putts dropping that brought me, you know, more birdies and more under pars.   
Out here you have to always shoot under par to make the cut, which is tough to do on a course like this with conditions like this.   
 Q.  Obviously you were a First Tee member.  What did that mean to you in your development?  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, it meant a lot.  It's a part of me and always will be.  Yeah, it was kind of like I guess the whole of my childhood.  It was like my second home.  I made a ton of friends there and I dedicate like who I am to that place.   
 Q.  You were a pretty decent golfer when you got here as a child.  What did that do for you there?  
NORMAN XIONG: It just made me a better person honestly.  Without them, I wouldn't, I guess, be as nice as I am or as honest.  They really focus how to make golf -- how to teach golf and how to teach you to become a better person.   
 Q.  I guess obviously then there is First Tee people at this event.  (Indiscernible.)  
NORMAN XIONG: No, definitely not.  It's awesome being with them.   
 Q.  What are some of the things you miss about college?  
NORMAN XIONG: Traveling with the team for sure.  I miss my teammates a lot because you can relate with them and they're your peers.  Just having people around, I guess, but I like it here, too, being on my own.   
Yeah.   
 Q.  Which second stage are you at?  
NORMAN XIONG: Bear Creek.   
 Q.  Okay.  Is it weird to now be in what would be the fall schedule?  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, it is really weird.  I'm following my team and it's like I should be there but I'm here.  It's really different.   
 Q.  Are you staying in touch with Casey?  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah.  Yeah, I am.  I went to go visit them about a month ago, which was really fun.  And then, yeah, we text back and forth here and there; call a few times.   
 Q.  Any advice he's given you or anything?  Any guidance?  
NORMAN XIONG: No, he hasn't really told me anything directly.  What he would say probably is, Stay patient.  I know if I were to ask him that he would have a deep belief in me.  He knows what it's like out there, and probably just tell me to be patient.   
 Q.  Any former teammates text you and say, Have you cashed any checks yet?  
NORMAN XIONG: No.  They know, so they don't want to put me down or whatever.   
 Q.  You and Aaron didn't overlap, but you played in Eugene, right?  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah.   
 Q.  What are the strengths of his game and what contributed to his strong rookie season?  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, I really like his game.  I'm a big fan of his game.  I think he just does everything really well:  He drives it well, putts it well, and I think it mental game is probably the toughest part of his game.   
 Q.  In what way?  
NORMAN XIONG: I don't know.  He's just different I feel like than any other player.  He reminds me I guess of Brooks Koepka because he just seems a little different when I play with him or when I play games with him for fun or watch him play.   
 Q.  When did you start with Josh Gregory?  
NORMAN XIONG: Right when I turned pro, so few months ago.   
 Q.  What has been the biggest adjustment?  You mentioned getting under par and scoring out here, but what are the subtleties?  
NORMAN XIONG: Probably the caddie.  Caddie and then getting here a lot earlier before the tournament than college.  You're out here three days, two days at least before, and then you have all this time to prepare or do whatever you want.   
In college, you show up, play a practice round, and go compete the next day.  That's something that...   
 Q.  Forces patience.  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, it does.  I'm only 19 and my body can handle it, but once you start the competition you can feel it kind of draining you out.  That's what I learned the most the first tournament I played in.   
 Q.  Is that one of your old teammates on the bag?  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, he is.   
 Q.  What's his name?  
NORMAN XIONG: Nigel Lett.   
 Q.  Has he caddied for you a bunch?  
NORMAN XIONG: First event, yeah.   
 Q.  Were you just using guys from the TOUR?  
NORMAN XIONG: I was using, yeah, a guy from the TOUR for all my last two events.   
 Q.  What has having a buddy, a teammate, done for you?  
NORMAN XIONG: The other guy was also a buddy, but, yeah, I'm good obviously.  We'll see after this week how it continues to go.   
 Q.  You know Nigel will take credit if you...  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, for sure I know.  Obviously.   
 Q.  You guys seem like you're fairly aggressive game plan off the tee.  Hitting a lot of drivers.  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, the fairways are narrow, but you have a wide margin to miss it to where you can still hit it out of the rough onto the green or middle of the green.  So, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT