THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 4, 2018
Norman Xiong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll go ahead and get started.  Like to welcome Norman Xiong to the interview room here.  Thanks for joining us for a few minutes.  We know you have a busy schedule today, so we'll make it fairly brief.  Making your professional debut this week.  So just a few comments on being here at The Greenbrier this week?   
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, it's definitely very exciting.  It's pretty low-key here, so my mind is pretty settled.  Just trying to prepare the best I can for the upcoming week and weekend.   
 Q.  Have you had a chance, I'm guessing, to be out, see the golf course and how it sets up and suits your game?  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, I played two practice rounds.  Really like the course.  I think it does suit my game very well.  It's a very traditional course, not too hilly.  Fairways aren't too narrow or too wide, but, if you obviously hit them a long ways, you'll have a short wedge in and be able to score.   
THE MODERATOR: Coming over from Guam as a 6-year-old, if you could run us through a little bit of history as to how you got situated into the game of golf and when you realized it was something for you?   
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, so my uncle played golf, and that's kind of where I got it from.  Started when I was four-and-a-half.  Just went to the range with him one day, was curious what he was up to, and from there on he just taught me the game, taught me the basics, and I really loved it.  Found it really fun.  And it was really him that could tell that I had a certain talent for this game.  So we both didn't want to waste that.  Then moved from Guam, when I was six years old to San Diego, and it all kind of started from there.   
 Q.  Have you gotten a chance to play the course already, Norman?  
NORMAN XIONG: Yes, two practice rounds.   
 Q.  I just wanted to ask you about the par threes and how you approach them?  They're pretty tough at this course.  
NORMAN XIONG: Yes, yeah.  They're definitely tough.  Especially if the greens are really firm.  None of them are really short, except for 18.  Hopefully, you know, all four days I can just hit it to the middle of the green, lag a putt close, take par and get out of there.   
 Q.  For you, has this week been about soaking things up as a professional and just taking it all in?  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, definitely.  Like I said before, this is kind of where it all begins again.  I've definitely played some great golf in college golf and amateur golf, but it's a different stage.  It is still golf, so on the course, hopefully, I can make it the same and play the game that I have.  But, yeah, definitely just trying to soak all of it in.  All the extra stuff that goes on, you know, so it's kind of a new beginning.   
 Q.  What do you see as your biggest challenge this week, and also what kind of interaction have you had with the guys on TOUR?  
NORMAN XIONG: The biggest challenge will be just probably to be in the moment as best I can, and try to get enough rest.  If I can do those two things, I think I can bring out my game the best I can.  If I can do that, I know I can play some good golf.  I don't know too many guys out here.  I know a few of the younger guys, played a few practice rounds, but not really too close with enough of them yet.  Hopefully soon I can make some friends.   
 Q.  How did you decide this week to turn pro?  
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, so I had a great college career, great kind of finish to my sophomore year, and it was really another year wouldn't help me as much.  I was pretty set with sponsors exemptions.  My game felt good.  I felt mature enough and emotionally ready to handle what's going to come ahead.   
THE MODERATOR: Norman, thank you so much for your time.  Best of luck this week.   
NORMAN XIONG: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT