U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2017
Norman Xiong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you finish at minus 5?
NORMAN XIONG: Minus 6.
Q. Well played.  Pretty good stretch for you right here.
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah.
Q. Winning the Western and then 6-under in the first round of stroke play at the U.S. Amateur.  Tell us how you did it.
NORMAN XIONG: Well, I mean, I just went out and played my game.  I just tried try to keep it in play, hit a lot of greens, give myself a lot chances.
Didn't want to shoot myself out in the first day, so...
Q. Had you played here before this weekend and today?
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, I played one practice round here before I went to the Western Am, and then just one practice round just right before.
Q. How are the conditions out there?
NORMAN XIONG: Today they were amazing.  I mean, it was immaculate, I think.
Q. Wind pick up at all?
NORMAN XIONG: It did.  It was probably half club after a couple holes early in the round, and then at the end it was probably close to a club of wind.
Q. Seemed like the holes were pretty tucked.  Would you say it was pretty tough consistently throughout?
NORMAN XIONG: I mean, it wasn't too bad.  I don't think it was too bad.  I hit it well, so...
But I don't think -- I mean, if you hit it -- if you just favor the bigger side of the green, I guess, you'll still have a great chance at birdie, so...
Q. Is that something you kind of figure out in practice, that the greens are small and...
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah.  Just hit it on the green and give yourself a chance.
Q. So six birdies with no bogeys.  How close were the putts?  Hit it in pretty close?
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, I think like half were close and half were from long range.
Q. Did you have expectations coming in after winning the Western and you're playing well so you have the feeling?
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, I knew I was playing well, but that tournament took so much out of me.  I had to rest for a long time.  The only golf I've played well was the last two practice rounds.
My main goal was to make it to match play.  That's what this tournament is about, so that was my expectation, just to get in.
Q. How about knowing the history and tradition of this course and what you did today?  It's got to feel a little extra special.
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, I didn't know much about this course, but to do that out here today was really nice.
Q. Time to look it up maybe.
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, I think so.
Q. Was the Walker Cup can your goal list?
NORMAN XIONG: Yeah, it definitely is.  I mean, ever since the summer started really it was in the back of my mind.  Then I made it a really big goal of mine, so hopefully I get in.  I hope my play keeps up and I can get in.
Q. Feelings on Bel-Air?
NORMAN XIONG: Totally different than this, but scorable.  There are a lot of chances to kind of hit it out of play and make a big number.
My biggest goal would be the same thing:  keep it in play, get it on the green, and score from inside 150 yards in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT