UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 24, 2018
Greg Campbell Jr
C.J. Levine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
North Texas - 24, UTSA - 21   
 Q.  For both of you, I know you guys are out there with the fans and you guys are both seniors.  What was it like to just take in those last few moments on the field?  
CJ LEVINE: Just enjoying the moment.  The moment, we knew going into the fourth quarter at the end once it was over it was over.  So after that it was just enjoying the moment and enjoying the time with my teammates, enjoying the time with the fans and also giving them an opportunity to come congratulate me and talk to them and also being interacting with them.  It was a great opportunity.  I just love everybody here and the school and the fans as well.   
GREG CAMPBELL JR: Like he said, just enjoying the moment.  We talked about all week it was the last one.  Up until today it didn't really feel real.  But, man, just enjoying the moment, man, that's all.   
 Q.  Greg, can you describe your emotions over setting the school record in receiving yards today and then the game turning out the way it did?  
GREG CAMPBELL JR: The win is always what the goal is.  That's the biggest goal.  But as far as myself, I'm happy about my performance for my last game.  It's great to go out this way.  Would have been better with a win, but I got no regrets.   
 Q.  Greg, for your offense overall that's the most productive game you have had all season.  What was the difference you saw overall and the big picture for your group?  
 Q.  Greg, over 50/50 receptions on the season.  C.J., over ninety tackles on the season.  How would y'all recap your season thus far?  
GREG CAMPBELL JR: Individually or just ...   
 Q.  Individually.  
GREG CAMPBELL JR: This is the last season.  I wanted to go out the right way and do whatever I can to help this team win.  We know some games, most games we came up short, but just coming to work every day trying to get better, trying to help this team win, that was it.  Yeah.   
 Q.  CJ, can you just talk about that last defensive stand where Kevin came up with that tackle for loss on fourth down?  What was the emotions like on the field then?  
CJ LEVINE: For us it was very, it was basically we get off the field, we're going to get off the field.  That was our mindset.  We are getting off the field.  So we came down, played man, and everybody got played their assignments the right way and it figured out right for us.  So it was a great pleasure to see us go out on that.  We got stop after stop and we were able to stop their offense and we were able to play free and be able to play fast.  So I loved that about our defense on that last stand.   
 Q.  CJ, I wanted to ask.  They scored on their first three possessions, but then I think y'all stopped them on five of the last six times they had the ball.  Stopped them without points.  Were there adjustments that were made to turn that thing around like that, or was it more just kind of a mindset?  
CJ LEVINE: It was more of us adjusting and us like doing what we do, because we had some busts and we had like people out of place, but we talked about it on the sidelines, gathered our composure because it came out, we were excited, we had energy, but we got to calm that down and come to a level where we are playing with energy, we're playing with passion, but also playing with our minds and playing the game how it should be played and doing our technique each and every play.  So I think like those first three drives where they scored, it was more or less on us than it was what they did and I ended up giving up the touchdown and right in front of me as well.  So that was me more or less me not doing my job and not being accountable for myself.  So I hold that accountability on myself.   
 Q.  Greg, did you see a shift in the way the plays were called on offense?  You guys had more of a down field passing game this game than previously.  
GREG CAMPBELL JR: I think that was more so our game plan.  We knew what people hurt them on in the past and we tried exploit those things a little more, just tried to push the ball down field, make catches for Bryce so that he feels comfortable, get the fans involved, so things like that.   
 Q.  For both of you, obviously a tough year with only three wins.  What's the legacy you hope to leave behind so that this program could continue to improve in future years?  
GREG CAMPBELL JR: That we're going to come to play every week, no matter what the week.  We know what kind of season it was and we're very aware, but just UTSA is going to come to play every week.  That's what we wanted to leave.   
CJ LEVINE: Yeah, biggest thing for us is coming out, being able to finish.  It don't matter who the opponent is.  We're going to come and we're going to play.  And y'all got to play us, so it's a mindset of us waking up each and every day knowing that we're going to be playing somebody different.  So it ain't about the opponent, it's about the execution and us being a team.  It's more or less us being a team and being together and holding each other accountable.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT