UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 20, 2018
Joe Dineen, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas - 16, Texas Tech - 48
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. If the first half you had almost the interception, then the bounce to get the fumble recovery.  Talk about keeping the defensive ranking high.
JOE DINEEN JR.: Yeah, that's a crucial part of our defense and what we try.  We try to get the ball in the offense's hands as many times as possible throughout a game.  That gives us a good chance to win any time you can give them the ball down close to the goal line.
We're just going to try to keep getting our hands on some balls, causing turnovers.
Q. The defense forced chances inside the red zone, but the offense was unable to convert those into more points.  How do you not let yourselves get dejected as a team?
JOE DINEEN JR.: I mean, it's just kind of we're doing our job.  Coach gets us mentally prepared, gets us ready to play.  Every series we got out there, we know we don't have much control over what the offense does.  Just got to give them the ball with good field position.  From there, what they do, I mean, we have as much confidence in them, more than enough confidence in our offense to score.  Sometimes their defense will make a good play.
But coach does a good job of getting us ready to go.
Q. What kind of challenge does their turbo speed present for the defense making reads?
JOE DINEEN JR.: Substitutions and the communicating part is really difficult because, I mean, they're out there going so fast to screw you up.  They do a good job.  They have it down to a science.  They're throwing the ball all over the field, sideline to sideline.
Coach Kingsbury does a very good job.
Q. Were you expecting to see Bowman at quarterback today?  How much did you have to prepare for multiple guys?
JOE DINEEN JR.: Our defensive game plan was all around Bowman.  Our coaches knew that he was going to be able to go this week.  So we really prepared for him.  We talked a little bit about if their backup came in, but most of our defensive scheme was around Bowman.
Q. What led then to have such success through the air with him back this week?
JOE DINEEN JR.: I think it just comes down to making plays.  They had receivers go up and grab balls, 50/50 balls.  I mean, they're on scholarship, too, so they're going to make some plays, as well.
I think we just got to go back and see what we can improve on in coverage, try to get some of those balls out of their hands.
Q. How much did their height make it difficult for defensive backs?
JOE DINEEN JR.: Yeah, I mean, any time you can throw to guys like that, it makes his job a little bit easier.  Credit to those guys.  Those guys go up, make plays, catch the ball at the highest point.  They're really good receivers.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT