STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 21, 2015
Brennan Scarlett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








California - 22  Stanford - 35
BRENNAN SCARLETT: This game was all about beating Cal and clinching the PAC-12 championship.  So that's what we did and we're proud of that.
Q. What was the first drive like against your former teammates?  And what was the postgame kind of handshake period like?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: First drive, it was just, honestly, like any other drive.  Didn't really think about knowing them so much as what are they about to run, what plays they're going to run.  And especially that first drive, they were marching and we were just trying to get after them.  It was all right.  The postgame, it was cool.  It was good seeing all those guys again.  We're all pretty close, so it was great playing them.
Q. Did you talk to any of the guys before the game?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Not really.  Not too much talk.  Throughout the week, like, a little bit here and there.  Them just wishing me luck and me doing the same to them and kind of saved the adversity for the game.
Q. (No microphone.)
BRENNAN SCARLETT: It feels great.  Been a long time coming for me to win the Axe.
I never played in The Big Game.  Obviously, never had the Axe.  And to be a part of this team, and contribute to keeping the Axe, it's a huge deal for me.
Q. You said earlier this week you and the Axe were on the same campus, but it didn't really feel like you'd earned it.  How has that changed now?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: I feel like I earned it.  I feel like our whole team has earned it this year.  It was a tough week of preparation and the game Cal came out and gave us all they had and it was a tough -- they put up a tough game.  To just come out of that victorious, it's always, always feels great.
Q. Did you and your ex-teammates share any words during the game?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: No, here and there talking a little bit.  But nothing too crazy.  Tried to just stay focused on the task at hand and not get distracted by anything else.
Q. What does it mean to you to beat your old team in the big game?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: It means a lot.  More so it means for me at least being able to be with this Stanford team and train, we trained hard to get to this point in the year and to finally be here is a blessing.
Q. Are you glad you don't have to tackle Christian McCaffrey?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Oh, yeah, Christian's a hard guy to tackle.  I know.  I know from experience in fall camp.  It's hard to get your hands on him.  And seeing what he does out here on Saturdays, he's an amazing player.
Q. You said last week that this was the first big game that you have gotten to play?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: That's right.
Q. So just talk to me, was it everything that you expected it to be, was it more?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: No, it was pretty much what I expected it to be.  It was a pretty emotional time for me.  And even being with my teammates out there was, it was a great feeling.  Great feeling to be here.
Q. You really felt attached to your Stanford teammates, even though it's only been really a few months with them as opposed to the four years you were with your Cal teammates?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Yeah, you know, and that's interesting, but I definitely, these guys here, they have embraced me through this transition process.
Q. You said that before that they really kind of took you in.
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Yeah.  And we work hard every week and so I become pretty close with those guys and I consider them as brothers.  So it's great going out there every game with them.
Q. You didn't have any odd feelings when you went on the field and saw your old friends out there in those uniforms?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: A little bit.  It was definitely weird.  Because I never played a team where I know everyone.  So that's kind of weird.
Q. And you played on the team?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Exactly.  But honestly, during the game, that was all set aside and it was intense in there.  They gave me all I could handle in that and that's what I expected out of them and it was a tough game and just glad we came out on top.
Q. There was very nice write-up on you in the San Francisco Chronicle.  I don't know if you saw that.
BRENNAN SCARLETT: My mom sends me those, so I'll have to check them out.  Thank you.  I appreciate that.
Q. Are you thinking about Notre Dame yet?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Well, yeah, now, looking forward.  We'll review this film and see how we can improve off of this big game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT