STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 12, 2015
Brennan Scarlett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Did it feel any different for you this week from last week?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Well, I mean, definitely our defense definitely was better this week, are doing their job, and didn't give up any big plays until the end.  So it was good, a good game for us.
Q. I know the defense likes to pride itself on shutouts.  They had two of them at home non-conference last year.  On the sidelines is it a little disappointing to see them breakaway?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Yeah, definitely wanted to keep that up there, but we'll get it sometime.
Q. Losing your shutout is the worst thing (Indiscernible)?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: That's right.
Q. I think it's pretty interesting that you're playing across the Bay this year.  So tell me what that's like for you?  Does it seem weird?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: You know, originally first coming over here it was a little strange.  Definitely because of the rivalry and everything.
Q. But you obviously picked it because you wanted to go to school here?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Yeah, yeah.
Q. So playing football is a nice way to pay for going to school?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Definitely.
Q. And you enjoyed it and you're available?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: And the coaches here are great along with the players and everything, so they made the transition as smooth as it could have been.
Q. Have you enjoyed it so far?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Oh, yeah, I'm loving it.
Q. Obviously, you're very good at it.  Brennan, congratulations on the game.  Talk about playing the rest of the game after Aziz was ejected with just you and Solomon Thomas playing basically every snap?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Yeah, it's tough, but we expect those type of things.  If a man goes down, then we have to be able to pick up his load and carry it the rest of the way.  It was unfortunate that Aziz went out early in the game, but we have to contribute to our hard work and practice and stuff and we were able to finish it out.
Q. Was that your first fumble recovery?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: I think it might have been.
Q. In your career?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: I think it might have been.  I've had some close fumble recoveries, but it didn't go well for me, so first official.
Q. So we were having a little conversation about going to school across the Bay rather than football.  You felt that having another year of eligibility was worth spending the extra time to play football even though you're in graduate school?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Yeah, definitely.  My extra year of eligibility allowed me to come here on a scholarship.
Q. Why did you have the eligibility?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: My junior year I red-shirted.  So I had a fifth-year to play.  So I played my senior year and got hurt, and was thinking about what I'm going to do educationally because I graduated in the spring of '15, and then I wanted to get my masters.  I started looking at Cal, and I eventually looked at Stanford and found the program that I wanted to do.
Q. How has it been having your brother?  I'm sure people ask you a lot about being on a team with him, but is there anything specific that you kind of tell him?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Yeah, it's been good.
Q. What's family dinner like?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: It's been good, especially nights like tonight, game day, having him there on the sideline and talking to me.  I go up and talk to him and walking out of the tunnel together, those type of things are really special to me.
Q. Is it cool to see the excitement like remembering when you had it when you were that age?  Is it fun to see that?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: Yeah, it is cool because it's his first year of college and everything's new and exciting for him.  I'm just glad I could be here to watch him go through it.
Q. What's one important lesson you could impart to him if you could tell him anything after all your years?
BRENNAN SCARLETT: I told him because he's red-shirting right now, coming in as a freshman you always want to play and you want to be the guy.  Just to take that as an opportunity to get better and improve.  Don't look at the negative, but more so look at the positives, so that's kind of my wisdom I've imparted to him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT