KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2021
Annie Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Let's get right to it.  6-under par 66.
 ANNIE PARK:   Yep.
 Q. And you were just trying to keep up with your playing partner.  Take us through the day.
 ANNIE PARK:   Well, Madelene and I had a rough 1st hole and it was kind of slow, and then I was -- just the whole day I was trying to catch up with her.
 I hit some great shots out there, some really good putts.  I did leave some out there, but these greens are not easy to read, so hopefully tomorrow is a little bit better.
 Q. What was the mindset after the bogey? (Indiscernible.)
 ANNIE PARK:   Yeah.
 Q. What was the mindset for you?
 ANNIE PARK:   I mean, I thought I hit my first putt really good and then we both went over the green.  So the greens were slick this morning, and just trying to adapt to the fast greens that quickly was kind of a struggle in the first couple holes.
 And got into it, so...
 Q. Made a big dent on the leaderboard; put yourself up there on the first page.  I would imagine scoring conditions are probably going to be similar tomorrow.
 ANNIE PARK:   Uh-huh, yeah.
 Q. How gettable was it out there today?
 ANNIE PARK:   You know, there were some greens that we were able to reach from the tee and some par-5s that they moved up the tees.  There were a lot of birdie holes out there.  I actually hit a really good shot on 9.  I had about, what, 12 feet and misread it, so...
 But, I mean, I hit some really great shots and really god putts, so I'm looking forward for tomorrow.
 Q. Have you ever had a round where you've been able to perform the way did you and also have a playing partner do that?
 ANNIE PARK:   Oh, man, I mean, I think the last time I remember was probably Symetra when I played with Vicky.  We were like head to head for first, and that was a tough match.
 But playing with Madelene today, she hit some really great shots out there and really good putts, and just looking at that I was like, you know, we can make some birdies out here, so just trying to catch up with her all day.
 Q. I would like to ask you about the Kia Classic being back.  What's it been like this week to be back at Aviara and have Kia back on the schedule?
 ANNIE PARK:   Yeah, I always love being back at Carlsbad or just in California in general.  I went to school out in L.A. and I miss it.
 But they have a great event, great food.  The weather is always nice.  It was a bummer that we couldn't play last year, but I'm so glad to be back this year.
 Q. Had you ever been here before turning pro?  Did you ever come down here with USC or anything like that?
 ANNIE PARK:   We did have like a college event around Carlsbad, but never really played this course before LPGA.
 So I'm so glad that we were able to play out here.  It's one of my favorites golf courses to be at.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT