HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 27, 2019
Annie Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kind of the definition of a rollercoaster round there in the beginning, but just explain your feelings after this entire third round.
ANNIE PARK: What's really funny is because yesterday my coach messaged me and he said, You and your rollercoaster scorecard, so that just remind he me of yesterday.  I had a similar round that was today.  Just rough front nine, and then threw in an eagle, couple birdies.
So actually the first two days I've been over-parring this back nine, and I really wanted to change it up today.  So glad that that actually happened.
Q. So after the double bogey, especially on the front nine, what did you say to yourself to really give you that jump start to be able to have the back nine that you did?
ANNIE PARK: Yeah, I was just trying to not think too much negative.  I just said that, you know what, I tried my best.  There is still more golf to play.  We'll just focus on what I need to do.
I tried really not to let that bother me for the next hole.  Tried to make a birdie; didn't work out.
The 8th hole I got my birdie and slowly got back in my mojo.  Back nine I holed out, and I think that jump started a little bit of everything.
Q. What were some the improvements you made after yesterday's round into today?
ANNIE PARK: I don't know.  I think it's just these greens are tough.  They're definitely tough to read.  I've misread a couple putts out there that I knew I could have made.
Just hopefully tomorrow maybe hopefully no bogeys and more birdies.  We'll see.  I think I'm starting to get the hang of the golf course here and there.  Hopefully tomorrow will be a really good day like today.
Q. You've seen this golf course before, especially you claiming this area almost like your second hometown.
ANNIE PARK: Uh-huh.
Q. How different is it out there of what you did over the past couple days to maybe what you used to be used to?
ANNIE PARK: Right.  I mean, I technically call California my second home just because I went to school here for four years, graduated, all my friends are here, so definitely call it my second home.
My sister actually got me a sweater, New York is my Baby, but L.A. is my Boo, with I totally me.  It's just nice to be back here playing this golf course.  It's a great golf course, especially the finishing 18 with the par-3.  It's challenging.  Great prize if you get a hole in one.  I think everyone can relate to this golf course, even with the renovation.
I haven't really played it much.  I think the toughest part was trying to get the hang of these new greens, and they're tough.  I think hopefully I can read it a little bit better.  It's a good golf course.
Q. I was going to say, what's that going to take tomorrow to kind of rise above the rest?
ANNIE PARK: I think just like my back nine, just driver straight, hit a good second shot, approach shot.  Maybe just another few eagles.  That would be great.
But just staying calm out there.  I think you could have a little bit of rally up on this golf course, and I think just trying to remind yourself to stay calm and not get ahead of yourself I think might be the key tomorrow.  We'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT