SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 10, 2018
Annie Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  In this game no one is exempt from going through periods of struggle; you've had your fair share of challenges.  You started this year without hardly any status.  You win your first LPGA tournament.  I can't imagine what this is feeling like for you right now.  
ANNIE PARK: I can't really describe it in words.  I've been through a lot of struggles, and thank my family for being here.  There are so many people that supported me.  Without them, I can't be here where I am today, so I thank them so much.   
 Q.  I would say special is an understated word.  You're less than 150 miles from where you grew up; almost your entire family and friends are here watching.  What did it mean to have them out here?  
ANNIE PARK: I mean, they've been great at supporting me ever since I started golf.  I mean, I would like to thank all the fans for coming out and supporting me throughout this whole round.   
Just so many thanks to everyone.   
 Q.  This round itself was incredible:  63 to win for the first time.  Tell me how you were able to do it?  What was clicking?  Didn't seem like anything was much of a struggle today for you.  
ANNIE PARK: I had some tough approach shots, which they ended up better than they ended up, but, I mean, my putting was great.  It was just amazing how the putt that I look at goes in.  Just a great day.  Personally I was trying to break my own personal record of 8-under.   
I wish I could birdie the last hole to break that, but there is more golf to play.  I can't wait for it.   
 Q.  Were you nervous out there?  How did you handle the nerves?  
ANNIE PARK: I mean, I was definitely nervous.  I mean, if I wasn't, that's a lie.  But I kind of got comfortable out there after nine.  Just focusing on each shot was the key; staying calm out there.   
With all that nerve, I mean, it was such a crazy day.   
 Q.  You made it look easy and fun, and I know you want celebrate with your family.  The 2018 ShopRite champ.  Has a good ring to it, doesn't it?  
ANNIE PARK: Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT