SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
September 30, 2020
Annie Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon and welcome to the virtual interview room for the ShopRite LPGA Classic presented by Acer.
 With that, I'm pleased to welcome the 2018 ShopRite LPGA Classic presented by Acer champion, Annie Park.
 Annie, thanks for joining us.
 ANNIE PARK:   Thanks for having me today.
 THE MODERATOR:   You captured your first LPGA title here in Galloway in 2018.  What do you remember most from that victory, and what emotions come back to you when you return to Seaview?
 ANNIE PARK:   I think I remember most about my last round of that final day just making lots of long putts.
 So I was doing my practice round yesterday, and today I'm just like, How did I even read that putt?  How did it go in?  Just trying to reenact the putts, and I'm like, This is your crazy.
 But this is like the most thing that I remember of that day.
 And then just celebrating with family after the round.  I mean, I was just lucky enough to have my family there, and being so close to home it was a very memorable moment.
 THE MODERATOR:   The win really catapulted you in a sense.  You made 17 total cuts that year across 19 starts in 2018, and then followed that up with your first Solheim Cup berth for Team USA last year.
 So the victory in Jersey kind of carved a nice path for you on the LPGA.
 ANNIE PARK:   It really did.
 THE MODERATOR:   What has it been like on tour in your shoes since winning here two years ago?
 ANNIE PARK:   Yeah, I think I am so grateful just to have a set schedule.  Just being so grateful for knowing what tournaments I'm in and what tournaments I can play.  I think leading up to having conditional status up to ShopRite I didn't know what my schedule was.  I didn't know what to book and what not to book and getting in last minute.
 That was, I will say, a little bit stressful just to juggle Symetra and LPGA and some Monday qualifyings that year.  So ever since that I think just experiencing all of that I've been -- I've definitely been so grateful just to know what my schedule is going to look this year, what it's going to look like next year.
 That's been a huge change.
 THE MODERATOR:   What is it about the Bay Course here at Seaview that makes it a unique track on the LPGA?
 ANNIE PARK:   I would say, one, we're close to New York, and so just people from New York, people from Pennsylvania, when we did have galleries, that was probably one the best traits of this tournament.  And also being so close to Atlantic City and just kind of being near the water.
 This course gets pretty tough when wind starts to pick up, and it's very unpredictable when it's going to do it.  Like this morning, I played at 7:00 a.m. and it was kind of raining a little bit, gloomy, and then the wind just was like monstrous this morning.
 So I was playing with Megan Khang and it was like, I feel like we're in Scotland again.  This is so bizarre.  And then hour and a half later it was just like bright and sunny.  I was like, Wow, like we just played in the most miserable weather this morning, and now it's is sunny and so nice.
 But, yeah, this course has so many traits, and that's what I like about this course.
 THE MODERATOR:   This tournament is playing as a 72-hole event this year.  That's only happened one other time in tournament history back in 1990.
 When you have consistently competed in the ShopRite LPGA Classic and you kind of expect that three-day sprint to the finish, are there any adjustments needed, maybe mentally or strategically specifically on how to play this course over four days versus three?
 ANNIE PARK:   I would say just being patient.  I think with any event I think patience is key.  You kind of get ahead of yourself and you get a little too past by yourself, and I think always staying in the present is the hardest part.  Not just golf, but in general.
 I just hope like -- I'm going to try to be as patient as possible this week.  There are going to be weathers that are going to be cold -- it's going to be colder than the other few years.  It will get windier.
 So just kind of adjusting and adapting to the environment.
 THE MODERATOR:   You grew up just 80 miles from here in Levittown, Pennsylvania.  I would imagine played a lot of junior golf in the New Jersey are, just the greater North East the greater Northeast in general.
 What is it like for you to come back to this area and play professionally?
 ANNIE PARK:   Honestly, it feels like home.  Even though it's not New York, I always considered states around New York home just because it's the same four seasons, you get similar vibes.
 It's nice.  You know, I don't feel like I'm away for an event.  I feel just right at home for an event, which is nice.
 THE MODERATOR:   And I would imagine probably a little different to be in this neck of the woods in the fall when we're typically in the different area of the country or somewhere around the globe.
 ANNIE PARK:   To be honest, I love fall in New York and New Jersey.  It's so pretty to see the leaves change and fall off the tree.  I love sweater weather, so I love this weather right now.
 THE MODERATOR:   So sweater weather, bust a few of those out over the weekend?
 ANNIE PARK:   I love it, just love it so much.  Even if it's 70 like I'm going to wear a sweater.
 THE MODERATOR:   There are 21 major champions in the field this week, and obviously next week the KPMG Women's PGA Championship.  First things first, of course, focus on the task at hand.
 But how much of a week leading into a major is about finding a good rhythm for that big event next week?
 ANNIE PARK:   Yeah, I think just going to try my best this week and next week.  I mean, yes, it is a major, but we're still playing golf.  So just kind of not getting too ahead of myself.  If I put over 100% in each shot, then I'm happy with that and we'll move on to the next shot.  That's going to be my next two goals.
 THE MODERATOR:   Good mentality.  Since ShopRite took over in 1992 as title sponsor, they ave donated a little over three $36 million to charities, including food banks, healthcare, and education programs in the communities they serve.
 How inspirational is it to have the support of a title sponsor that gives back like ShopRite, and have you ever been able to witness or learn about their impact firsthand in any way?
 ANNIE PARK:   Yeah, I learned a little bit last year when I came here for another media day.  I learned so much how much they've donated and invested their time for charities.
 You know, it's just great to be part of an event as players that represent that.  I think that's great and that's very inspirational to not only players, but to anyone that's watching this event and the little background of ShopRite.
 THE MODERATOR:   Last one I have for you before we open up to questions.  You're a past Symetra Tour graduate.  Obviously a little different on the road to the LPGA this year with only five players earning their LPGA card to join you and the other players out here next year.
 But as they hit the final stretch, I think only four events left, what advice would you give players striving for that Top 5?
 ANNIE PARK:   Anything can happen.  That is golf, right?  So just try your best.  If you gave it 100%, ideally over 100%, there is a lot more in you that you don't know about, and you just got to keep digging deeper.
 In the end, if you tried your best, you can't be too, you know -- be too result oriented.  It was all about the process, and through this process the results will follow.  Just enjoy the moment.
 There are going to be stressful moments and pressured moments.  Just kind of enjoying through that.  Like we're very grateful to even play this sport during this time just in general.  I think being able to travel and meeting new friends, there are a lot of bright sides to whatever happens.
 So just remembering that helped me a lot.
 THE MODERATOR:   Good advice.
 Questions?
 Q. Does the course play any different this October than opposed to May?  What is the overall condition of the course?
 ANNIE PARK:   Yeah, so yesterday and today -- well, so yesterday I played in the afternoon.  It was playing great.  It is a little bit windier.  Does feel windier.  The greens are a little different.  The rough is definitely thicker, so I definitely had to hit a couple shots out of there.  They're definitely thicker than I remember.
 Then this morning there was just a lot of rain, so the course is just playing a little wet right now.  Hopefully the weather is good the rest of the week, that it could drain out.
 Overall it's been pretty good.
 Q. There is lips on your hat.  What's going on there?
 ANNIE PARK:   The hat, right?  It's a company called Foray Golf.  It's a women's clothing brand for golf, and I just love wearing -- they have really nice clothes.  They're fun, they're stylish.  The sweater is keeping me warm right now, so they're very like movable and I love wearing their clothes this year.
 Yeah, they've been great.
 Q. Where did you spend quarantine?  And given the restrictions here and the importance of pro-ams at this event, how worried were you that this event might not happen?
 ANNIE PARK:   Yeah, I think that was a very -- that was a most liked question going into this event just because it was New York and New Jersey and having high restrictions.  It's so nice for us that an event is happening and another event is happening, so that was great.
 Where did I stay during quarantine?  I was stuck in Orlando just playing with my dog.  He's so used to not being -- like for me being home, so he's just like, When are you going to leave?  You're in my apartment?  You're invading my space.
 But it was so nice to just be able to spend some time with him.  Picked up some new hobbies.  I picked up learning new dishes for cooking, worked out a lot, bought a guitar impulsively and tried to learn like two songs.  I was like, This is just way too hard; put that on hold.
 Then I've been obsessed with Fortnite.  Been playing with some seven year olds and just they're beating me.  So, yeah.
 Q. What songs, if any, can you play on the guitar?
 ANNIE PARK:   Yeah, I've learned Best Part by H.E.R.  and Daniel Caesar, and like two Billie Eilish songs.  One was called I think Bellyache.
 If you asked me now and I had a guitar I would be like, I do not remember anything.  I have to watch the YouTube video again.
 Q. What are you and Sean Foley working on?
 ANNIE PARK:   So we're just trying to work on trying to be a little bit more levelled with my irons.  I'm a little bit hitting it like a driver with my irons.  I don't know how that started.  But, yeah, so that's what I'm kind of working on.  Just trying to get more level throughout the ball.
 THE MODERATOR:   I have one more for you:  There is a lot of fescue out on the course.  Is there any strategies that go along with if you find yourself in that, how do you play it?
 ANNIE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, hopefully I don't put myself there, but honestly I haven't really practiced out of the fescue because I was convincing myself that I'm not going to be there.
 In my previous experience in the fescues they are very thick, and not being greedy to go for any shots, even though if you have a good lie.  They're just so unpredictable of what's underneath the fescue.  Some could only out very nicely and some are just super thick and you just didn't even know it.
 So just not being greedy and pinching out is probably the best bet.  Plus, it if it gets so windy out there, you definitely don't want to go for anything that's not -- that just doesn't make sense.
 If I'm this the fescue I'm going to try not to be too greedy with it.
 THE MODERATOR:   Awesome.  Thank you for your time.  Thank you everyone for joining.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT