U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2013
Annie Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you tell us how you felt on the front nine?   You hit great shot after great shot.   You hit four birdie putts and just couldn't get it to go in.   
ANNIE PARK:   Compared to yesterday, I definitely played better.   It was still frustrating that I just couldn't make any putts, especially like short putts for birdie.   Mentally it was frustrating.   I knew that I could make more putts.   It just didn't drop.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible) the approach at 14 and the tee shot at 17?  
ANNIE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, I feel like I'm not at my best with my ball striking right now, but today it was better than yesterday.   And I tried to‑‑ I held it together.   I mean, I did hit some great shots.   I just feel like I could have hit more great shots with my swing feeling good.  
   
 Q.   What do you take out of these two days?  
ANNIE PARK:   It was a great experience.   It was just unbelievable with the fans just coming out to support not only our group but just coming out for the other players.   I mean, it just seems so nice not only to see it so popular in the men's Tour but also in the LPGA Tour.  
   
 Q.   What do you learn personally for your game out of these two days?  
ANNIE PARK:   I mean, it was definitely not my best from the past two days when I do‑‑ I feel like I can, you know, be at the top.  
   
 Q.   How did the setup feel compared to the times you played it just playing near here?  
ANNIE PARK:   So last year, the yardages were obviously shorter.   So it was like playing a different golf course with the tees back.   I'm still not used to like No. 1‑‑ No. 1 being No. 2, No. 9 being No. 1.   So I mean, that was kind of like confusing.   
But I mean, overall, it was just a great setup.   And the greens were rolling pretty good too.  
   
 Q.   When you came out today, did you have a particular goal or what did you think you had to do to make the cut?  
ANNIE PARK:   I was ready to go out and just play.   I mean, personally I know that, you know, once I have a bad round or a bad front nine, I mean, I'm usually back on track getting it back to even, but today it was‑‑ I was hitting it good, it was just my putts.   I was giving my best efforts and it didn't drop in.   I can't do anything about it.  
   
 Q.   It seemed like a lot of putts went left.   Did you notice that at all that you pulled a few?   
ANNIE PARK:   I think the ones that I pulled‑‑ it was ones I missed my putt right, I tried to miss it left.   And then I don't know.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Two years in a row you have been in it.   What does it do for your hunger to be in the U.S. Open, your enthusiasm for the U.S. Open, where does that stand right now?  
ANNIE PARK:   I mean, even if I just played the last few days, I'm honored to be on the tee and hitting balls or shots on this great golf course.   I mean, it would be nice to be able to play every year, but we'll see.  
   
 Q.   What does the rest of the summer look for you?  
ANNIE PARK:   So I actually start summer classes in two days.   And I have two amateur tournaments, the North and the South, and the Women's Am.   I will be pretty much preparing for that as well.  
   
 Q.   When you think back to six months ago, you were finishing up high school, how far do you feel you have come in these past six months?  
ANNIE PARK:   I mean, my goal was to, you know, accomplish some goals that I had beginning this past semester and I mean, I've accomplished more than I expected and I feel just great and honored to be part of it.  
   
 Q.   When you look at yourself and you compare yourself to some of the good players today, if your putter had cooperated today you might have had one of the best rounds out here?  
ANNIE PARK:   I believe so.   I mean, if those putts dropped, I would have at least been 3‑ or 4‑under easily.   But I mean, it's golf.  
   
 Q.   What does that tell you about where you stand next to these women?  
ANNIE PARK:   I mean, obviously they are all great players.   And if I‑‑ after today and yesterday, I've noticed that, you know, I still have a long way to go and to learn a lot from my coachers and I'm just going to prepare myself for the professional Tour.  
   
 Q.   Do you like the way you held up mentally?   You kept hitting good shots and hitting it close?  
ANNIE PARK:   Yes, I mean, I start to get used to, you know, the pressure and all the attention.   But I mean, I just hit one shot at a time and just‑‑ it was definitely frustrating.   I just couldn't get over the putts that I missed.   But, I mean, you just learn from them.  
   
 Q.   When you look back, what do you think will be the biggest thing staring back at you in your game and what you need to do to prepare to compete on this level?  
ANNIE PARK:   I feel like I should‑‑ I have a lot more to experience bigger tournaments, obviously this is one of the biggest, but just playing against the pros, the best, and just handling pressure, learning ways of how to handle those pressures, even though I know a few.   But there is still a lot more to learn.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT