KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2019
Annie Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First of all, just sum of your day and how happy you were walking off the golf course at 2-under.
ANNIE PARK: It was great.  I was hitting it really well out there.  I left a couple of putts there at the beginning.  Putted kind of clicked.  Left something out there again towards the end.  Just worked on my putting today and hopefully everything works out tomorrow.
Q. About the weather and the wind kind of started to pick up, how it affected you, if it did.
ANNIE PARK: Yeah, that wind gusted really quickly.  I don't know.  The last hole was playing a little tough just because it was the wind left to right and kind of almost hard to get the ball on the green.
Pulled my shot into the bunker and had to get up and down.  Yeah.  Tomorrow afternoon if it's windy like this and play really tough, got to adjust and adopt to it.
Q. What about this course as well, it's playing really long.  How does that suit your game and what are your thoughts on the course and how it played today?
ANNIE PARK: I think I tend to like the KPMG courses.  I don't know if it's because I grew up kind of similar look and type of grass growing up in the Northeast in New York, playing a bunch of tournaments in the East Coast kind of used to, you know, the layout of the course and I really like the golf course.
It's in great shape.  Definitely plays tough.  So, yeah, it's a good week.
Q. How do you approach Major Championships?  Do you do anything different, your preparation or how can you kind of keep the pressure off?
ANNIE PARK: Well, actually was my first time seeing the course yesterday.  So, I got my good rest on Monday, just practiced Tuesday and then played 18 yesterday.  So, I think kind of like doing that, seeing the course last minute.  You know, still the same game, just have to adjust to what the course you're playing.
Yeah.  I guess, I don't know, maybe just that last minute look up the course.
Q. You do that for other courses that rotate?
ANNIE PARK: Yeah.  The other golf courses I played couple times and I would love to play -- I wish I was playing on Monday but didn't work out.  Kind of had no choice but to play 18 yesterday and see the course.  I guess it's worked out so far.
Q. How much more confident do you find yourself after getting your first win last year and being announced as a winner, how much more confidence does that give you knowing you've been there and you can do it in a Major?
ANNIE PARK: Yeah, it definitely helps just because I've been there and I know what it's like and I know I can do it.  So, I don't really approach any week any differently.
I treat every tournament the same and kind of have my perspectives on that.  I think I'm a little bit more comfortable out there just playing my own game and just focusing on that and I grow and learn everyday playing each week.  So, that's what I can take away from it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT