NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2019
Mark Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congratulations, Mark, talk about those last couple of seconds and your victory tonight?
MARK HALL: Just being greedy in all positions, taking those deep waters, take it to overtime.  I haven't had an overtime match in years, you know, so just knowing how to win.  Perfecting my craft, just knowing I can get it done from anywhere.
Q. Mark, you said this is the first overtime, but you have had close matches.  You look comfortable in those settings, do you feel that relaxed?
MARK HALL: Yeah, I just think it's grit.  I've been here, been in those positions, those tight ones.  Experience goes in there, I think.  So, yeah, I mean there is a lot of that.  But at the same time it's just, you know, being relaxed and keeping myself where I'm good and ready to go.
Q. Mark, he is someone you have faced many times before and Valencia many times in the finals.  How do you prepare yourself for that?
MARK HALL: Same thing every time.  Same routine, the way I prepare for anyone else.  Being in that Big Ten match-up, we wrestle sometimes two, three times a year.  So that's definitely a factor, just preparing the same.  No one is different, no one gets any more of me than what I would give to anyone else.
Q. Mark, the back half of Penn State's lineup has been getting it done all year and seems like been getting it done in the NCAA Tournament for a number of years.  How are you guys able to be so consistent when it comes to big matches?
MARK HALL: We all wrestle together so people think it's just big match after big match out there.  Well, we have big matches with each other every single day.  So, yeah, I think that's pretty important.  So I just think we're ready to go, and it's because of our preparation, our partners.
Q. Mark, for anyone who hasn't seen you since last year, what kind of things in your wrestling do you think you focused on, that you've improved on, things that you're proud of as far as your development as an athlete and as a human?
MARK HALL: I think my discipline has gotten better, you know, I just throughout the season this year, I just felt like I was clutching things out, winning the close ones, getting that takedown in the last 30 seconds when I'm up by sixth or 7, getting a major decision, things like that.
So I'm proud of that, and I think a year ago, you know, I was getting like the bonus point wins, the pins, things like that.  But this year there is nothing wrong with that.  I just found a way to be winning different ways and so just gotta make sure I wrestle hard and don't really focus on anything else.  If I wrestle hard all of the other things will take care of themselves.
Q. Mark, this will be the fourth time you wrestled Zahid.  Talk about your rivalry and how you are going to approach this match knowing that you beat him last?
MARK HALL: Yeah, I think I'm just going to wrestle.  Prepare the same way I did last two days, any other match this year.  Just be ready.  Rivalries are great for the sport, I think.  I remember growing up, you know, watching matches that everyone was looking forward to, all the big names that everyone wanted to see wrestle, right?  And they got it two or three times a year, every year.  So I'm really excited for that and like you said, we're just -- at the end of the day we're just competitors.
Q. Mark, what makes you so calm in those tight pressure situations at the end of matches that you seem to win more often than not?
MARK HALL: Yeah, I think, you know, may be in the wrestling room I've got to hold down Joseph and Anderson, you know, if I can find a way to hold that guy down for 30 seconds, I can hold anyone down for 30 seconds.  Yeah, just doing a good job of finding a way, and like I said, people don't see me outside, like in competition in those positions a lot, but very familiar, just going with the practice partners I have and our coaches.  They know what they're doing.
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Mark.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT