AL DIVISION SERIES: TIGERS v YANKEES
September 30, 2011
Jim Leyland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TIGERS  – 1
  YANKEES  – 1 (2ND INNING, SUSPENDED)

 JIM LEYLAND: Heck of a game. It was great. (Laughter). 

 Q. Jim, can you tell us your pitching plans for tomorrow as far as you can? 
 JIM LEYLAND: Fister will start tomorrow's game. Followed by Scherzer on Sunday and Verlander on Monday. 

 Q. Jim, were you surprised by the weather? 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, you know, they told us before the game that they thought it was going to be pretty light all the way through. Just a light rain, really; it looked like we would be okay. Then late tonight real hard. But obviously nobody knows how that works out. 
 This is not a big deal. Everybody does the best they can. Everybody is kind of scurrying around right now. There's no sense getting excited. It's the way it is. 

 Q. Jim, can you talk about the disappointment or the effects of that Verlander would only pitch once now in the series? 
 JIM LEYLAND: I don't worry about stuff like that. I think when the manager makes a big deal about something like that, it affects the players. It is what it is. Good Lord, it rained. So what. It's all about three. It's all about three. Win three, lose three. That's what this is about. The magic number is three for both teams. That's the way it is. There's no sense getting all excited. 

 Q. Jim, how long would you have waited through that delay to let Verlander go back out? How long would you have sat and let him continue? 
 JIM LEYLAND: You'll never know. (Laughter). 

 Q. I don't know if you want to say, Jim, but does this mean Fister is in line for Game 5? 
 JIM LEYLAND: That would be correct. That's how it would figure out. 

 Q. Do you know anticipate needing a fourth starter for Game 4? 
 JIM LEYLAND: I'm going to still use -- I have to start over. I'm using my four guys. Porcello will be pitching at some point. Doesn't look real good for tomorrow. 

 Q. Jim, it's a suspended game, but they're changing to a right-handed pitcher. So what will happen with your lineup, if anything? 
 JIM LEYLAND: That's a good question. That's the one little dilemma probably, but it will work out. I'm going to keep my lineup in there and see how the game plays out. Obviously, I'm not going to start pulling guys out. I'm not going to change my lineup in the bottom of the second inning tomorrow. My lineup will be the same when we take the field. It would be the same. There could be a point where a pinch-hitter could be a factor because of what you ask, which is a good question. That's the way it is. There's no sense getting all excited. 
 I do feel bad for the national audience, you guys, the fans that were here tonight. Certainly, it was really a marquee match-up. That's a little sad, but that's just the way it is. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT