MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 7, 1998
Jim Leyland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Joined by the manager here of the National League. Jim, are you going to get
everybody in the game? Seems like that's one of your biggest concerns?

JIM LEYLAND: It's going to be real close. I have to be real careful. I want to be
careful. It's a tough game for most guys to match because you want to get guys in. I might
have let him go, little bit at the same time. You have to be careful, San Diego opens up,
pennant race. I don't want to hurt anybody's chances of advancing to the post-season play.
This is a fun thing. I'm having fun with it. We're in pretty good shape. If we can come
around really, Alou, Reed, maybe a couple guys get on, I have Vaughn waiting in that one
spot for Hoffman, a chance to hit a big fly.

Q. You say you're having fun. I know you're as competitive a guy as there is out there.
Does the score bother you?

JIM LEYLAND: Right now, I don't like it because we're behind. But, you know, I don't
know. The score, I guess, for us athletes is always the most important thing. But in a
game like this, you can't get crazy either, you know, Jim. I'm going to watch it.
Obviously, I don't like the way it looks right now. In this ballpark, you never know.

Q. What is it like for you to have many of your guys back with you who were with you
last year on the Marlins?

JIM LEYLAND: It's been enjoyable. Good to see all the great players from around the
league. A nice reunion. It's too short, but it's been fantastic.

Q. A lot of people are wondering what you might do in your situations with the Marlins?
Will you address that here in the second half of the season? Will you continue the season
with them? Would you be willing to come back in this entire rebuilding process or would
you care to move on?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, I can tell you this. If I can come up with a team like I got
tonight, I'd stay there for a long time (laughter).

Q. Good way to dodge that one. We won't badger you here on your own bench.
End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT