MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 7, 1998
Jim Leyland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jim, is the tip-off kind of when Glavine couldn't pitch well in the third inning?
Was it a tip-off to the kind of night it was going to be?

JIM LEYLAND: No, I don't think so. I think it was -- in some ways, it was a Coors Field
type game. You saw some balls bloop in, freak hits, guys had to play deep. Then they hit
some balls out of the ballpark. One big blow by Barry. It was kind of a Colorado Coors
Field game in some ways.
MODERATOR: Any other questions? In the back.

Q. Great atmosphere, great time for the fans. What was it like for you to be here?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, I think you saw all the festivities, it was wonderful. Obviously, we
didn't like losing the game. Would have liked to have won it. I think you have to give
Mike Hargrove and his staff a lot of credit. Aggressive on the bases. I'm not going to
duck anything. I don't know if they did or not, we didn't put pitch outs, hold Tom Glavine
step out for this game. I don't want to mess with pitchers that I don't know very well,
breaking up their rhythm and pattern. Maybe it was my fault that we kind of let them run
at will in this ballpark. I'll take that responsibility. Like I said, when you don't have
the particular pitchers pitching for you, Greg said right away, I should have thrown home
or something. If you want to throw on your own, that's fine. I talked to Mike about it. We
didn't put in a game plan for a running game on purpose because, like I said, I don't want
to be messing with the pitcher I don't know that well, messing his concentration. Your own
staff you can do that, in this particular case, we didn't do that.

Q. Are you surprised when Vina was waved in with nobody out? 

MODERATOR: Surprised that Vina was waved in? 
JIM LEYLAND: I haven't talked to him about it. Might have been a situation, to be
honest with you, where he thought the ball might go to second base because of score, got
burned by it. I haven't talked to him about it. I don't have any problem with those
things. It's baseball. That's why it's a great game. 
MODERATOR: Anything else? 
JIM LEYLAND: Let me congratulate the American League. They did a great job. Great
opponent for us. They did a wonderful job. We were very excited to be here. Thank you,
very much. 
MODERATOR: Thank you.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT