MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 22, 1997
Jim Leyland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Jim, are you concerned with the production out of the lead left spot?
 
JIM LEYLAND:   No, not really.  Devon is fine. 
 

Q.  What's his struggle all about, this striking out four times.  What's he doing?
 
JIM LEYLAND:   Well, I think you have that situation where he got some counts, and went out of the strike zone and like he said, he's not quite trusting his hands.  He's getting the body going, he's not quite trusting his hands, and he's charging a little bit. And he swung at some bad balls when he had the count in his favor. 
 

Q.  I know it's just looking at the positive here, you get a chance to go back home for Game 6 if you win tomorrow night, and win it in Florida, is that any consolation, when you look at this?
 
JIM LEYLAND:   Well, I don't think anybody feels any consolation right now.  I think the Series is tied up at 2-2, what's wrong with that?  This is the World Series, they won two, we won two.  It's pretty good, I think.  We know we're going to play again in  Florida, we're not thinking about that, we're thinking about playing tomorrow night.  So like I say, this is the way really it's probably supposed to be.  The two pennant winners with their respective leads, and we're 2-2 after four. 
 

Q.  Did you get the feeling in the 6th inning when Moises hit the homerun and that this could happen again, a repeat of last night?
 
JIM LEYLAND:   There was no doubt in my mind, when we got it to 6-3 we had a shot, but we couldn't stop the bleeding.  We didn't get off on the right foot early, and when we did make a little run there, we couldn't stop the bleeding.  And sooner or later, if you keep giving a couple and letting them add on a couple, sooner or later you get yourself in almost an impossible situation, that's what happened. 
 

Q.  Do you feel this is a game of missed opportunity, because Jaret Wright didn't come with his best stuff tonight?
 
JIM LEYLAND:   I will say that I was very impressed with Jaret Wright.  He's everything I heard and more.  He did throw a more 2-seamers than I thought, I thought he'd flow more 4-seamers, but that's a great arm, with 2-seamer, 4-seamer, breaking ball, and I can tell he's obviously working on his change  up.  But he has all the ingredients for being a great one from what I saw.  I was very, very impressed, and he was popping the ball real good. 
 

Q.  I think the third inning with the three walks, two errors and three singles was sort of the killer for you, even though they got a lot of runs after that, kind of another ugly inning like last night?
 
JIM LEYLAND:   Yeah, we had an ugly inning there.  Normally, to be honest with you, the key is normally your starting pitcher, and I think Tony -- I think the change up that Alomar hit confused him a little bit.  I think it got him trying to be too perfect with his pitches all of a sudden.  I think he threw a decent change up and Alomar hit it in the center, and then he was trying to be perfect.  He was bouncing his change up, and he felt like he had to make a perfect pitch every time to get the club out.  When he comes in here I have no idea what he'll tell you, but that's what it looked like to me.  And normally a good game a dictated by your starting pitcher. 
 

Q.  Do you feel kind of fortunate to be 2-2 giving the fact that your starters haven't really been that -- they haven't been that much in the series?
 
JIM LEYLAND:   Well, I'm not overly excited  about what we've done, I'm certainly not disappointed. Like I said it's 2 and 2, we play again tomorrow, and we definitely play at least one in Florida, so, yeah, I feel good about where we're at, and I'm sure Mike feels the same way.  This is the way it's supposed to be, in my opinion.  We'll see what happens, but I feel real good about our club, that's why we're here, and I think we'll be fine.  I'm sure Mike feels the same way about his club. 
 

Q.  Of 21 runs Cleveland scored the last two games, nine of those runners have reached base because of a walk.  I wondered how much could be attributed to the cold or to just not getting the job done or what are your views on that?
 
JIM LEYLAND:   I think it's not getting the job done.  We walked quite a few people.  We're pretty high in walks.  And that was one of our downfalls a little bit because overall basically I think we've pitched pretty good, but we did walk too many people. And particularly a ball club like Cleveland, or a ball club like ours, and particularly when they have the DH, you know, for me a walk is like an extra out.  When you start giving good teams for a -- an extra out, you're going to get beat. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT