MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 20, 1997
Jim Leyland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jim, what are the check points you look for with Leiter to know if he's on his game
or not?

JIM LEYLAND: Basically overthrowing, that's the No. 1 with him. He gets pumped up and
has a tendency to overthrow, and when he does, subsequently his control is not very good.

Q. So he just gets too pumped up?

JIM LEYLAND: I think so. He has a tendency to overthrow, and consequently that means he
-- he's got to stay kind of calm. And have good rhythm, that type of thing. When he does
that, he's fine. I think he'll be fine.

Q. It looked like Bobby last night in watching him play was bothered several times by
his hamstring, he reached back and grabbed it when he was swinging. Will the cold affect
your opinion about DH-ing him?

JIM LEYLAND: When you have leg injuries like that, that's a possibility. He's not going
to DH, he's going to play. He should be ready to go. You get in a habit of doing that. I
didn't notice that particularly, him grabbing his leg that much, I'm sure he was. But
that's the one thing you worry about in the cold a little bit. I think not only guys that
have a little bit of a problem with their legs, but you worry about anybody with their
legs, if it gets real cold, that can happen. That's something that normally happens, early
or real late in the season, when you get cold weather that can happen to anybody, somebody
that doesn't even have a little bit of a pull to start with.

Q. Particularly important to keep him in there with all the walks Sheffield is getting?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, it's important to have your best team out there, and Bobby Bonilla
is part of our best team.

Q. Jim, how is Sheffield's hand today, is he all right?

JIM LEYLAND: I think he's okay, he was all right last night. He had his wrist wrapped
and glove on, so I think it's okay. To be honest with you, I haven't seen him yet, I've
been in my office working on some things. But I'm sure he's fine.

Q. Is the way Sheffield has been pitched to now, is it similar to the way he was
pitching the first part of the season?

JIM LEYLAND: I don't think it's that extreme, but it's obviously -- obvious, like I
say, most teams normally pick a guy, they don't want to hurt him too much. And it's pretty
much been Sheffield for us all year, I don't expect that to change at this point. But
Bobby behind him is doing fine, hit 286, I think he's got 7 RBI's, I feel very
comfortable. I think Bobby is swinging the bat very well.

Q. Did you guys take any x-rays of Sheffield last night or do anything like that after
the game?

JIM LEYLAND: To my knowledge, no.

Q. Jim, could you address the idea of the weather, both what it could affect
physically, and also mentally, because it's something your players, your Latin players,
especially will be asked about.

JIM LEYLAND: Well, one thing I don't understand is why everybody is really making a big
deal about the weather, only for the Florida Marlins. If it's real cold, I don't think
Cleveland has been playing cold weather all year long, they played it early, and so did
we. We played, I believe they checked it, I believe it was proven to be true, that we
played in the coldest game in the history of Wrigley Field in the beginning of this
season. And I can remember telling my team then, that, hey, it's going to be cold in
October.

Q. Do you have any memories of that game, how cold it was?

JIM LEYLAND: It was like zero chill factor.

Q. Can players actually not do things in the game they ordinarily would do, did it
really affect them at all?

JIM LEYLAND: I would say so.

Q. Jim, I realize you haven't been on the field yet, but you have experienced some of
the weather. Have you heard any comments from the players as they walk out of the hotel or
any references about the weather at all?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, no, not really, but I saw a lot of coats on the plane. So I really
haven't talked to them about that. I'm not going to make a big deal about that. I'll tell
you one thing, I've always been straightforward with my players, it's pretty hard to tell
your players, like that day in Wrigley Field that it wasn't cold. I mean I didn't go out
there with short sleeves, myself. It's cold, so what? They know it's cold, I know it's
cold, the other dugouts know it's cold. You all have coats on today, you're not in shorts
like you wear down in Florida. It's no big deal. That's part of the game this time of
year.

Q. Jim, does Cleveland have as good a defense overall as you've played against this
year, and if they do, does that take anything away from a manager strategy-wise to play
against a good defensive team?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, I don't know whether it affects your managing, but they definitely
have a very good defense. I don't know that I've ever seen many like Vizquel. I can't get
over how good he is. I haven't seen -- they've got a great defense. It may dictate where
you bunt once in a while. You might want to bunt right to Matt Williams. I don't think
there's a lot of secrets. So the defense can dictate some things, but like I say, what we
always talk about in here is the reason why both teams are here. We think we're pretty
good defensively, too. It could change your strategy on putting on a certain type of
defensive bunt play, depending on who the people are. They're very good at a lot of
things.

Q. Does the cold have an affect on the game at all, can it slow it down, maybe don't
want to run as much?

JIM LEYLAND: It's not going to slow it down anymore than the commercials, I can tell
you that. It's a long night during postseason play.

Q. Will it slow down the running game?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, we only stole three bases. We're not a big running team. I think
Cleveland stole a few more than that. I don't have that many guys that would be stealing
bases, I don't think that's going to have an affect. We tried a couple. Sheffield got hit
on one, if we see fit, we're going to try to take one if we get a shot. But we're not a
big base stealing team.

Q. You said Bonilla will play at third, who are you looking at at the DH position?

JIM LEYLAND: Tomorrow night it's going to be Eisenreich.

Q. Is Daulton playing first base?

JIM LEYLAND: That's correct.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about Marquis Grissom?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, I have the pleasure of seeing Marquis for a long time. And I know
what an exciting player he's been, and what a great player he is. He's always been one of
my favorite players, because I think he's such a class act. He just goes about his
business the way -- like a professional, the way you'd like your son to go about his
business. He's a true professional, he's an outstanding player. There's not too many
players playing in this World Series, there's not any, that can't do some things pretty
good. That's why we're all here. 

Q. Jim, I know your family is coming up, it's going to be a special night obviously
with your family, your mom is coming to the game. Can you reflect on that and having your
relatives here for the game from Ohio?

JIM LEYLAND: Yeah, I'm more worried about the cold for my mom more than I am the
players, but I'm not going to buy her a fur coat today, I can tell you that.

Q. You mentioned how much you admired Vizquel, how do you stack up your shortstop
against him physically?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, I won't touch on it now, other than the fact if you're a baseball
fan and you enjoy watching a great shortstop, this ought to be heaven for you, because
these are two of the best. It's great to watch both those guys play. Like I say, they're
two of the best. And very, very impressive at what they do.

Q. Just so we know, could you tell us your mother's name and age?

JIM LEYLAND: My mother's name is Veronica, and her age is 85.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT