MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 19, 1997
Jim Leyland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Jim, does Leiter's struggles recently concern you? What do you think have been his
problems?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: I think he had some health problems early on. I think he got behind a
little bit in Spring Training and I think it took him a while to catch up. His stuff is
outstanding, he just hasn't been consistent as he needs to be. But he's capable at anytime
of pitching an outstanding ballgame. And it's just a matter -- I think like I said he got
behind early in Spring Training, he couldn't run a lot, he had a bad leg. He could ride
the bike but that's not getting your resistance like you need to have it. I think he got
behind this year, and it set him back a little bit. 
 
Q. Jim, the -- there was some radar readings on Nen last night over a hundred, several
in fact, do you think they're accurate or was he pumped up? Do you think they went over a
hundred?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Yeah, I guess it was, if it was accurate for the other guys, I'm sure it
was accurate for me. The most amazing thing like that is I think Justice pulled one of
them. 
 
Q. Jim, you've selected him (Leiter) for Game 3 and Game 7. That's an unusual
combination to a guy, and normally your No. 1 guy winds up in Game 7. What was your
thought process on that?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, number one, everybody knows that Kevin Brown had like a week's rest
between each of those last two or three starts, and then he was sick. He pitched a
complete game against Atlanta. Obviously that would have been pitching him on three days,
if I was trying to do what I originally wanted to do in the NLCS, I couldn't do that
because a lot of situations dictated us doing different things. We've had to make
adjustments in Alex's situation and Brown. So it didn't work out that way. So like I said
Al's going to pitch two games, everything is not perfect. Basically my thinking was I was
not going to pitch Kevin Brown on three days rest. We haven't done that all year, and I'm
not going to do it now. I was going to try it in the NLCS, but now the situation is
different because of Brown had to throw a lot of pitches against Atlanta and I wanted to
give him the four days. 
 
Q. Jim, how is having a guy like Nen, what does it allow you to do versus the bullpen
approach you had to take in Pittsburg without a real hammer out there?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, to be honest with you, normally what it does is it keeps you guys
off me, because it's hard -- I said this all along, my mom could bring in Goose Gossage in
his heyday, and Dennis Eckersley, and that's no disrespect to Tony or whoever was managing
Goose at the time. When you can throw it at 102 miles an hour -- so he's our closer. It
becomes an 8 inning game if you've got the lead. It really kind of makes it a no-brainer
for you, if you've got the lead in the 9th, normally you're going to have your closer in
there. And like I say when you have to mix and match like we did in Pittsburgh, I guess
this is selfish, but you leave yourself open for second guessing. Why did you pick this
guy, not the other guy. In this particular case when you have a dominant closer that's
your choice. 
 
Q. Jim, you've obviously worked for a lot of different people, what is Wayne Huizenga
like as an owner?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, I think Wayne with the Dolphins and the Panthers, and of course us,
he's committed a lot to try to bring South Florida a winner. And I think a lot of times
people in his situation, like anything else, you can't please everybody, and some people
are going to take shots at him. But I think what he's done for this area, I don't think
anybody in this room would disagree that last night it was pretty exciting. And I
certainly credit most of that to Wayne Huizenga. So I think it speaks for itself what he's
done. He's very nice to his players, and I'm talking about in many, many more ways than
financial ways. Obviously he pays well. But he's very caring about his players, and he's
gotten caught up in this thing. That's one thing I'm very proud of, I think that gradually
with what our ball club has done, Wayne is having more fun with the baseball, itself, and
I think it took him a while for that because maybe he didn't understand all of it, but now
he's gotten into it, and I think it's done a world of good for him. I think it's
unbelievable what he's done for South Florida. 
 
Q. Have you given a lot of thought to a DH situation when you're in Cleveland and it's
going to be a matter of plugging either Conine or Daulton in that spot?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Yeah, I've thought about it, but I think you should add Eisenreich to that
mix, I think he's certainly a candidate. And I think there's a possibility he'll be in
that spot at some point. You can go different ways with that. So I think obviously
Daulton, Conine, Eisenreich, possibly even a Floyd could be involved in that situation. 
 
Q. Jim, is too much made of Leiter's home and away numbers, and how much weight do you
put on those stats?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, I know why -- we got what we got. We got four starters. And I feel
very comfortable with all of them. You know what the biggest part is, if I didn't, it
wouldn't make any difference that's what I've got. You like to always make your pitcher
feel comfortable, if he feels better, and you think it helps by pitching him home, you've
got your shot, you take it. In this particular case I didn't want to do it, I don't want
to disclose the reason why I wanted to pitch two right handers here in the first games, I
don't want to get into that, but that was my thinking. It's like I'm talking about our No.
1 pitcher, he's the one that's out there tonight, it's Kevin Brown. For them it's Ogea. 
 
Q. Jim, when you had the mix and match at the end of the game in the bullpen, did you
feel envious of the teams that had those true closers, instead of mixing and matching? 
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Without any question, absolutely. 
 
Q. Jim, besides Bonilla's hamstring, do you have any other concerns to taking this team
to what's going to be a cold-weather series in Cleveland?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: I don't know, it's going to be cold there, but in the situation we're in
and what the stakes are, the heart stays warm. The feet get cold and the hands stay warm,
hopefully the heart stays warm. 
 
Q. Since you haven't had to use Nen very much up to this point, is that a benefit to
you, how much can you pitch him the rest of the way?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: I can use him every day now. I believe it was Dave O'Brien -- asked a good
question yesterday, it bothered him he hadn't had much work. It did bother me a little
bit. I have to do what it takes to win games. I was concerned about that, but like I said
yesterday, he's been throwing a lot. He throws a lot. He came in the off days and threw a
lot with Larry, that was the day the Dolphins played here, we had him throw in the
morning. Like I said, nothing is perfect. 
 
Q. How is Gary Sheffield, I know he was sick yesterday? 
 
 JIM LEYLAND: He's all right. 
 
Q. Jim, could you talk about the job Cook's done in the postseason and whether it's
been beyond expectations?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Cook's done a great job all year. And I answered a little bit of this last
night, we signed Dennis because we really were short on experience in the bullpen, and to
get a veteran left-hander was one of the main reasons we signed him. But he's done a great
job all year, this didn't happen in postseason play, he's done a fantastic job for us all
year. He's a security blanket for some of the guys in the bullpen. Robbie is not seasoned
veteran, Alfonseca, Stanifer, we really have a young bullpen. So he's been fantastic. 
 
Q. When you see him pitch like that, does it make you wonder why he's been bounced
around in his career?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: No, it doesn't make me wonder, I think I know the answer to that, but I
will not comment on it. I will comment on it, probably when you do as good as he does, you
have to pay a guy like that. He gets up there, what are you going to pay him? Quite a bit.
And most guys are saying, can't we find somebody like that a little cheaper, if you want
to know the truth. I think that's what it is. 
 
Q. How is life in your dormitory back home, are you getting any sleep?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, yes, I got some sleep. And I think there's 14 bunks right now, and
they're all full. And my son stayed with me after the game last night. Of course my wife
went to the party in the tent and I took my son home. And on the way home my son fell
asleep chewing Big Red gum, and when I woke up this morning he had it in his hair and on
his neck, and he's in severe pain, his head might be stuck to the pillow, he might be
wearing a pillow, but other than that things are going great. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT