MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 19, 1997
Jim Leyland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jim, what did you think it was with Brown, he didn't seem to get hit hard, but
things started to build up on him?

JIM LEYLAND: I think tonight he had his arm in a different slot, I think he was
throwing from different slots, it seemed like he was searching for the right release point
and couldn't find it. I think basically that was his problem. Looked to me like he was up
on top some, he kept trying to find his arm slot and seemed like he couldn't find it.

Q. Jim, is it comfortable to go up to Cleveland for three games, does that put a little
more pressure on the team?

JIM LEYLAND: No, we talked about this last night. Whoever pitched their best night
would probably win, and tonight they pitched the best. In defense of Kevin, when you're a
sinker ball pitcher you live and die with the ground ball. When they hit it at somebody
it's great, when they find the holes like they did in the one inning, even though he
wasn't sharp, I'm not making any excuses, if they find the hole, it can be a longer night
for a sinker ball pitcher. Tip your hat to Alomar, he got a big blow. We felt we were
still there 4 to 1 and the two-run homer hit us bad. Ramirez hit a ball pretty good in the
game, we turned a double play on it. When they find holes, they'll hit it on the ground a
lot, and when they find the hole you'll have a longer night.

Q. Jim, it seemed like the National League rules worked better in the 9th inning, where
he had his pitcher out --

JIM LEYLAND: I know Orel Hershiser from a long way out. He can do a lot of things, and
Ogea looks like a great athlete. He walked into the batter's box. He was aggressive when
he had to swing, and he got the bunt down. I think tonight's game, you've got to credit
Chad Ogea, he pitched a great game. He changed speeds, mixed his pitches, threw them at
anytime in the count. This is not a night to be critical of Kevin Brown's performance. You
run into these nights. You tip your hat to the other team, Ogea pitched outstanding.

Q. What did losing the runner at third base in the second inning, the score was tied,
it was going to be a man on third with one out?

JIM LEYLAND: I don't really put much stock in stuff like that. My favorite answer to
stuff like that is this game is played by human beings and not mechanical men, and those
things are going to happen. And Alomar made a good play, who knows, I don't know if it
would have made a difference, we might have got him over there and popped him up, I don't
know. Tonight's game was dictated, as most of them are by starting pitching. It wasn't
Kevin's night tonight and it was Chad's.

Q. Are you frustrated you had four doubles and you couldn't get any of the guys in?

JIM LEYLAND: I think that was a big part of the game. I think early on we had a chance,
one more big hit or one big hit could have given us a chance to really get into it and
build on it and we couldn't get that big hit tonight. There's no question about it. But
that's usually a combination of things. Once in a while it's a combination of not so good
hitting, and in a lot of cases it's a combination of some very good pitching. And Ogea
made some big pitches when he had to.

Q. Do you think that the cold weather will affect -- that is expected starting in Game
3 in Cleveland will affect the Series overall and maybe particularly your team, because
it's used to the warm weather?

JIM LEYLAND: I really don't think so. I'd like to think not. It's probably been quite a
while since Cleveland's really played in cold weather. There will be no excuses here. Are
we going to be cold? There's no question about that. And I think when you take the
approach that, hey, it's going to be cold, we know it, and turn the page. If we're sitting
around looking at each other shivering, we've got problems. Who knows, I watched the press
conferences earlier today, I listened to Al Leiter talking about the problems -- sometimes
the ball is slick. Well, it's slick for both pitchers. I really don't think, and I hope
that's not a factor, but I don't know the answer for sure. But I don't think -- it's not
the time to be playing mind games worrying about the weather. We're playing the World
Series. The fingers and the feet might get cold but the heart stays warm.

Q. What's going through your mind in the first inning, seeing Sheffield on the ground
after getting hit in the hand?

JIM LEYLAND: That's baseball. It was smart pitching, he was trying to come in, he had
him leaning out. He was throwing the ball away, and he made a pitch inside, and Gary dives
a little bit. Gary didn't have any problem with that. I was as concerned as anybody else
would be, the way he went down I thought there was a possibility he had a broken hand or
finger, I wasn't sure where he hit him, it was right up in here (indicating the wrist)
thank God he had some padding on the wrist, that possibly could have saved him.

Q. How is Bobby Bonilla doing, how is the injury affecting his play?

JIM LEYLAND: I don't think it's having anything to do with his playing. I think he's
doing fine. That's the one thing that the cold weather -- you're concerned a little bit
about it if you have some people with leg problems, you are concerned a little bit more
about the cold weather, but like I said five more games, I think everybody will be able to
make it.

Q. Jim, how encouraged are you with Alou stringing together more quality at-bats today,
did you know that first inning it wasn't going to go out?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, I didn't think it was going out. I thought he had real good at-bats
tonight. No, I did not think the ball was going to leave the ballpark. I've seen a lot of
games here, once in a while you get fooled, because there are some variances to our
boards, it's up and there's a little valley and it could hit off the corner of that. But
for the most part I know the ballpark pretty well.

Q. Jim, as well as Brown has pitched during this postseason can you ever be surprised
when a guy like him loses?

JIM LEYLAND: No, not at all. He wasn't in sync tonight, but Kevin Brown will never make
any excuses. Like I said, he couldn't find the arm slot and Ogea was good, and I guess in
the famous words of Lou Holtz, the other side gives scholarships, too.

Q. Jimmy, were you close at all with pulling Kevin with the score 4-1?

JIM LEYLAND: No, not really. He's been our best, and a guy like him can get on a roll
at any time. I thought we were okay, and the situation really didn't come up if I had to
pinch hit for him, if he came up in a situation where I had to hit 4-1, yes, I'd take him
out. I felt confident he'd keep it at 4-1 and it didn't work out that way.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT