MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 18, 1997
Jim Leyland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Jim, how have you adjusted to the climate here and how does it affect the
preparation of your team with the rain delays and the sometimes canceled batting practice?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: To be honest with you, I've been surprised the heat really didn't bother
us as much as I thought it would. We have had to adjust because of rain delays. When we
have to hit the cage, we have two cages this year which we didn't have before, we've hit
at the same time as the other team, rather than hitting early and sitting around and
waiting to play. We hit at the same time, that's the one adjustment, then we don't wait
too long before the game starts. 
 
Q. Who are you playing at first base this evening, and also was it a hard call to drop
Wehner from the roster?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: To be honest with you Conine has pretty good numbers against Hershiser.
I'm playing Daulton, with the right handers and DH possibly up there, I think he's going
to be good. He's done okay off of Hershiser. It wasn't a tough call. It's a -- we felt it
made sense, because if I'm playing some DH or Daulton at DH and Eisenreich, we wouldn't
have anybody on the bench, we want wanted to cover for that and that's why the adjustment
was made. 
 
Q. What do you feel with the World Series after the Studebaker years and finally
getting here now after as long as it took?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, I mean a lot of people have told me that this really won't hit you
until this winter. We're trying to zero in on what we're trying to accomplish here, so
that we put on a good show. Just as I'm sure the Cleveland Indians will do. I think this
is something that probably everybody has told me, you'll really enjoy more later than you
will right now. The one thing I think about, I've said it to a couple of people, this is
-- for all those Minor League managers that are in the Instructional League or winter ball
or all over Clinton, Iowa -- this is kind of for them. There is a chance for those guys. I
think you find a reason for something to be special. But I also want to remind everybody,
this is not about me, this is about the Florida Marlins and the Cleveland Indians, and in
my own way I think I'll enjoy this later.  
 
Q. What was the situation with Bobby Bonilla, and how was his health and how difficult
a decision was it to have him in the line-up tonight?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Bobby is fine, No. 1. There's a slight pull there, we know that. He's
fine, to be honest with you. I'm really not too concerned down here, at least I'm not
right now. What I am concerned about is when we go up to the cold weather, that could be a
factor. That was why it was a tough call with Wehner because that was the one thing. I
checked with Larry Starr our trainer yesterday, he said he's fine, he's ready to go. But
the cold weather could be a factor, and that's the one thing I'm concerned about. 
 
Q. Jim, how important has Charles Johnson been to this team this year?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: I just think everybody zeroed in on his defense, and I think that when we
got going, we were a little sluggish after the break, but when we got rolling, Charles
Johnson was hitting the ball out of the ballpark. His offense is one of the reasons we're
here. He took some pressure off some guys up top. And I think his offense for a stretch
was very, very important to this team. His defense speaks for itself. 
 
Q. Jim, how much was Sheffield pitched around this year, and how much were injuries a
factor in his reduced production?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: He's pitched around an awful lot early, pitched around all the time. It
slowed up a little bit, then it started up a little bit again. There's just certain teams
that you don't know. It all depends on who the manager is and who you're playing. There's
certain teams you can tell no matter what happened, no matter if they were hitting, they
were not going to let him beat them. Some people backed off, and got away from that a
little bit, during the period Gary was struggling. So he has been -- he's had the thumb --
has been a problem. But he's never made excuses about that. And I'm sure it's been a
nagging injury for him. He's been okay physically, I don't think that's been a big factor,
but an irritating injury. 
 
Q. Kevin Brown in Atlanta, obviously he was a little shaky at the beginning and he just
kind of buckled down, what are you expecting to see from him tomorrow and how are you
going to keep his adrenaline under control?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, I think this is the first time really that he's been back to normal.
I think he's had four days rest. I think he had two or three starts where he had a week's
rest. He's back to normal. That's why I saved him for the second game. I wanted to get him
back on his schedule. He's healthy and no longer ill. I think that will help him a lot, I
assume, we'll have to wait and see how that plays out. 
 
Q. I've heard players quoted as saying that Kevin Brown has the nastiest stuff in
baseball. What's your assessment on that? Does anyone in baseball that you've seen have
better stuff, and what is your general feeling as to why he's so good?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, I'd only go by what the hitters say, because that's hard for me to
say. When I look at John Smoltz and some of those guys, you see great stuff. We're going
to see great stuff in the series with Cleveland. I don't know if he has the best stuff. I
know he has good stuff, I can see that. He's a tenacious competitor. He has a lot going
for him. It's one thing to throw a sinker, but it's one thing to throw at 86 and another
to throw at 96, and I think that's one of the biggest factors. 
 
Q. Robb Nen was ineffective, he hasn't been used much in the last weeks, any concern
about keeping him sharp? 
 
 JIM LEYLAND: You've got to try to win the games the way you see fit. That's what we're
trying to do and why we're here. If he comes in and didn't do good one night, you can say
he hasn't done enough work lately. He's been throwing a lot. Robbie I think is ready to
go. I don't think that should have any effect on him. I think he might have saved the last
two games in the playoffs and done a great job tonight, if that was the situation or might
come in and walked a couple of guys, I don't know what that means, I'm not sure. 
 
Q. I wanted to ask a little bit about Jeff Conine -- he has been one of the consistent
hitters in baseball for quite a few years, and this year I'm not sure what happened. I
wanted to ask you why you think Jeff Conine wasn't quite the same hitter this year as he
had been previously?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, I think No. 1, I think he tried to do too much, like a lot of guys
particularly early, but he got a couple of big hits in his postseason, the one off Maddox
was huge. I think he put a little extra pressure on himself early in the season. And what
happens I think is even though he started out pretty good, he started out hot and then he
went into a spell where he struggled for a long time. I think what happens is a lot of
guys see that average down and they try to make it up overnight. And that usually
compounds the problem. But he's swinging pretty good right now and he will play tomorrow
with Kevin Brown on the mound tomorrow, even though they have a right-handed pitcher. 
 
Q. You said CJ's defense speaks for itself. Is it the best you've ever seen?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, it's as good as I've ever seen. I don't know if I've seen any
better. I was a Johnny Bench fan. I played against him in the Minor Leagues. I think he's
the greatest of all time because you had the offense and the defense. I have to say CJ was
as good defensively. So I guess that's as good as it gets. I had a great catcher in
Cleveland named Jim Eagen that was supposed to be a tremendous defensive player. He got
better defensively when he hit those 20 homeruns. 
 
Q. The game that people give him credit for, for calling, what is his nature behind the
plate?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: He's a shy young man basically, but I think he's getting more aggressive
with more success. I think he's still a relatively young player to really get on the guys
and take the kind of charge that maybe you would like to see, although I kind of like it
this way. I don't think you can be dictating to pitchers, I think he does a great job of
mixing that. I think he's become more aggressive. The more you play in the League and the
better you do, the more comfortable you get with yourself, the more comfortable you get
with the pitchers. I think that's what's happening with him. He did a great job in that
game, but he's done a great job in a lot of games. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT