MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 18, 1997
Jim Leyland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jim, can you talk about Livan's performance a little bit?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, I thought he did a great job. I thought he settled down. He
obviously was a little hyped up on the first inning, I thought he settled in and pitched
good. Not quite as sharp, but okay. And that's a real powerful line-up. Obviously I'm very
pleased with his performance.

Q. Can you take us through your thinking in the 6th inning with Hernandez, why you
stuck with him and after he struck out Branson, I know Roberts was coming up, he had two
doubles with him, was that the key element?

JIM LEYLAND: I just felt like maybe Mike was setting me up to make the move with
Branson and so I stuck with Livan, and then as you mentioned Bip had a couple of doubles,
he had another shot that Livan caught, I think. Livan only caught it with his foot. I
wasn't going to let him see him again. I thought it would be unfair to Livan. You never
know how it was going to work out. But when the guy swung the bat as well as he did
against him you can't let him in there in that situation.

Q. Could you talk about what Cook meant tonight and what he's meant in this postseason?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, it's not just the postseason, I think it's been all year. If you
look at our bullpen, Jay is still relatively young, Robbie is not exactly a senior member
of the bullpen. Heredia is 20 years old. We picked up Steve Cook for -- excuse me, we
picked up Cook for that reason, we wanted a veteran down in our bullpen, a left-hander
that had some experience. And we felt like he had a chance to get a right-handed hitter
out. He's done it all year. He's been very good all year.

Q. Hernandez seemed to be very upset when you took him out. Did you see that or know
what that was about?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, I like that. I have no problem with that, as long as it's for the
right reason. And I'm sure it was. But I have to do what I have to do as a manager to give
our ball club what I feel is the best chance to win. So that's fine, I don't have any
problem with that. This is the time of tension for everybody and there's going to be some
guys that get fired up and get upset, but my job is to do what I feel gives us the best
chance to win the game, that's what I'm going to do.

Q. Jim, can you talk about CJ's hitting in postseason? He doesn't have a lot against
him, but they all seem to be big ones.

JIM LEYLAND: I said that earlier today when I came in before the game, I thought it was
CJ that got us going the second half of the season, when we got some homeruns. And like I
said, CJ, his offense is one of the things that got this club going. And certainly helped
out again tonight.

Q. How about his defense behind the plate?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, that's almost history already. Everybody knows about that, they talk
about that all the time. And obviously that's pretty close to flawless, I would have to
say. But like I said, CJ is a threat to do just what he did tonight, hit the ball out of
the ballpark. When you get a catcher that can do what he does defensively, and also has
the potential to hit 20 homeruns, that's gold.

Q. Would you talk a little bit about Alou, a couple of times in the playoffs he's come
up not hitting a lot averagewise, but come up with a big hit with the Giants and then
tonight?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, four RBI's in the first game against Atlanta. I think what people
have to realize, you're going to face real good pitching pretty much every night during
the regular season and definitely you're going to face it postseason. He got a big one
tonight, hit it out of the ballpark, and he was our leading RBI guy this year. So he's a
threat at any time, obviously.

Q. Was it good to see Bobby do what he did after being questionable?

JIM LEYLAND: I always like when Bobby works real hard before the game. He slacked off
the first day of the workout because of the leg, but the next day he got a good workout.
He was out working hard today, and in my opinion Bobby is always better when he goes out
and gets all lathered up and does a lot of pregame work. When he does that, I think he's a
much better player. I think it gets him zeroed in better for the game, and like I say,
when he does that, there's no doubt in my mind when he does that he's a better player. But
the leg is bothering him some, but okay.

Q. Jim, did Livan say anything to you when you went to take the ball from him? We know
what happened when he went in the dugout. What happened when you went to the mound?

JIM LEYLAND: Fortunately we don't understand one another (laughter.) No, there was
nothing said. I usually don't have conversations on the mound because if you note the way
I usually do it, I don't know for sure if it's right or wrong, there's an exception once
in a while, but the way I usually do it is I signal before I ever get out there. Normally
that's -- I guess that's some of my Minor League experience. I found out when you go out
there once in a while the guy will talk you into letting him out there, and normally it
backfires. In making your decision before you get there, he might still be mad, but you
don't have much of a conversation.

Q. Jim, the Indians got here like a lot of fluky things, they got a lot of breaks, and
today you take the lead on a foul pole homerun. Is the World Series where those mean more
than the regular season breaks? Is that the way you have to have the ball bounce your way?

JIM LEYLAND: No, I don't really think so. I think you're talking about two clubs that
are here for an obvious reason. Both of us got on a little bit of a roll at the right
time. That's one thing that everybody kept reminding me is that Cleveland was on a roll, a
lot of things going right for them. They've earned that. They go right for a reason. And
they go right for our club for the same reason. You play 9 innings, you play hard, and
anything can happen. And I don't think it's -- I'm not such a big believer in destiny
stuff, you got the right bounce and you got the wrong bounce. It can happen. I think it's
more a big hit at the right time. Like Alou's tonight, that was a big hit, obviously. I
don't think there's a lot of luck involved. Every once in a while you can get a bad hop.
But for the most part you get what you earn.

Q. Jim, were you anxious to see Robb Nen work out tonight?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, just because a guy doesn't pitch in a game doesn't mean he throws a
lot. Robbie throws a lot. We had a simulator game, not for Robbie, but some of the other
pitchers. You have to remember, I'm not going to put guys in just to get some work. Larry
has done a tremendous job keeping them sharp, as sharp as possible. Our job is to win
games. And if you feel it best you don't have to give somebody work, and you have to use
certain people in certain situations, that's what you have to do. All of our guys are
throwing a lot, just like Cleveland's pitchers are. Some of them face hitters the other
day in a simulated game. But nothing is perfect. But Robbie was fine.

Q. What do you feel some of the keys were for your team in Game 1?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, I thought they had a couple chances early to maybe put a couple more
on the board and they didn't do it. We hung in there. Counsell had a great at bat to get
it started. We did a lot of right things. But obviously the combination of the pitching
that came in the game tonight, including Livan's start, one thing that happens is to me CJ
and Moises Alou there's no defense to the homerun. You can't ever predict when it's going
to happen and there's no defense for it. Obviously tonight at the right time we broke it
open a little bit, but I don't know if you ever break them open with a team like
Cleveland. We had a couple of balls that they couldn't catch it.

Q. Talk about the momentum, Jim. Tonight you beat a guy that has had great success in
the postseason, Orel Hershiser. Tomorrow you have your A's and you have the crowd going in
your favor. Talk about the momentum.

JIM LEYLAND: Whoever pitches best tomorrow is probably going to win the game. And I've
talked about our local writers about that all year. I don't believe in momentum in
baseball, it's only as good as your next day's pitcher. Whoever is going to pitch best
tomorrow is going to probably win the game.

Q. After the way that NLCS was, the tight, well pitched games, was it fun to break it
open a little tonight, get the 7 runs?

JIM LEYLAND: Well, I guess there's an inning or two where we tried to locate. But with
the Cleveland ballgame, Alomar comes up in the last inning with the chance to tie the game
up. You never feel comfortable until the last out. Particularly against a team like this.
I really don't know a lot about their ball club, and I'm not a great scout. I'm a manager.
But I can tell you after one night I can understand why they're here, they've got a lot of
weapons.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT