MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 17, 1997
Jim Leyland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How is Livan Hernandez's emotional makeup changed since he joined the team or since
you've known him?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, I didn't know him very well. Obviously I wasn't here last year when
he came over. So all I know is that I think it took him some time. I'm sure there's some
culture shock to all of that for him. And I think it took him some time to mature, which
he certainly has. He's gotten himself in great shape. He had a great look in his eye in
Spring Training, even though he obviously did not make the ball club out of Spring
Training. And I think he's a very great guy. I think he's a very intelligent person. And I
could see that adjustment, he showed no fear, he's an anxious competitor. He's a very
interesting young man. And of course we don't really talk a whole lot, because we don't
really understand one another. I kind of like it that way, the way things have gone. 
 
Q. Give us the status on Bobby Bonilla's hamstring?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: He's okay so far. Everything seems okay. Everything seems systems go. As
I've told you before, the one thing that I'm concerned about is, I assume, being a native
of Ohio I know it's probably going to be cold, that's the one concern I would have, once
we get up to the cold weather. I think it will be fine here. Once you get to the cold
weather I assume I'll be just a little more leery of it, or a little more protective of
it, possibly. 
 
Q. Jim, can you talk about who will DH, and will Bonilla be a candidate for DH?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: I can tell you one thing for sure, Bonilla, unless he can't play at all,
will not DH. I don't want to get that started. He will play third base. And we have some
candidates, Conine, Abbott, Eisenreich, depending on the way we go with the line-up. We
have about three candidates that should fit in that role and be fine. 
 
Q. Have you made any roster decisions yet?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: No, I'm supposed to talk with Dave Dombrowski before we leave. And I'm
going to make one last check, with the trainers, and I think we'll have that decision
today. I don't know if you'll still be here or not. I think we'll probably have that
decision today. 
 
Q. What certain player do you fear in the Cleveland Indians that could blow up anytime?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, fear is not a good choice of words, but I think we have a tremendous
amount of respect for the entire Cleveland ball club. Alomar has a great year, I could go
on and on, I would be boring you, obviously Ramirez, obviously Justice, and Vizquel,
they're here for one reason, there's a lot of threats on their club. Neither team is going
to fear one another. I'm certain we'll have much respect. 
 
Q. Jim, the fact that a third of their line-up comes from the National League, does
that make it easier for you to know how to play them, pitch them and so forth?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, we know a little bit more about David, I don't know if that's going
to help or not, but at least we've got a little feel for those fellows, we don't know much
about their ball club, being in a different division we didn't compete in inter League
play with them. We're strangers to one another, and we'll have to see what happens. 
 
Q. From what you were able to pick up and what your scouts told you about their post
season, they hit 222, they didn't really seem to be on all cylinders, yet they're able to
get to the World Series, is there any particular qualities of that team that allow them to
do that?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, I think the reason the two teams are here, is because they played
extremely hard. Cleveland plays 9 innings, we know that going in. We have a lot of respect
for that. We only hit 170 and got here, or something like that. I think the lowest batting
average in the history or since a certain date, but there's a reason they got here, they
make big plays. Mike Hargrove made a tremendous call on a wheel play. They got a great out
on that game. Even though they didn't get as well as they normally do, they got the big
ones. Alomar tied the one game with the homerun. Sometimes it's not how many you get, it's
when you get them. They got them at the right time. And everybody said they're on a roll
coming in, and we feel we are, too. Somebody hasn't been hustling, you wouldn't make it.
So like I said all along, there's a reason these two clubs are here, and those are just
some of them. 
 
Q. The other night you said you spoke with Tony, have you talked with him seriously
about playing this team?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: I talked to Tony shortly after we clinched a couple of times. And we were
going to talk again, but I haven't up to this point. But I talked to Gene Lamont, who also
played the Indians, but I'll see him tonight. 
 
Q. I read somewhere where the first game you ever went to was in Cleveland, what do you
remember about that, was that true, as a kid?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: First of all it's true. Second of all it was in 1954. I was born in '44, I
saw my first game in 1954, Municipal Stadium in Cleveland, and I was kind of a Tiger fan
growing up because I was a little closer, 90 miles west of Cleveland and 50 or 60 south of
Detroit. And I can tell you that they had Jim Eagen, Al Rosen, Larry Doby, Dale Mitchell. 
 
Q. Who were the rest, that's not 25. Who was on the mound then?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: I think Garcia and Winn pitched that, it was a double play, and Larry Doby
hit a homerun. 
 
Q. What was your reaction when Wayne said he would sell the team early this summer?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, my reaction was probably sad, like everybody else, but I think
everybody was looking for people to be upset. I think people were upset but they were
upset for the right reason. Wayne Huizenga for the players and myself is a great owner,
anybody that went out and did what he did for the ball club, so we didn't want to lose him
as an owner. I felt all along and I feel to this moment, that's Wayne Huizenga's business,
that's not my business. But I was saddened because he's such a great guy and a great
owner. And obviously players love Wayne Huizenga, why wouldn't they? He's done a lot for
South Florida and a lot for Major League Baseball in a short period of time. He's put a
couple of bucks in their pockets, obviously. It was a sad day. But there was no anger or
anybody mad at Mr. Huizenga, we were all disappointed, because he's a great owner. 
 
Q. You're talking to LaRussa, Hargrove said talking to LaRussa. Is he being straight
with you guys?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: In about seven days we'll know. 
 
Q. Contrasting your situation now and the one in Pittsburg, do you think you've reached
the era where unless you're with a big bucks owner like Wayne, a team can ever get to the
series again?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, I'm here for the very reason I told everybody I came here in the
first place. I felt like it was going to get to a point where I wasn't going to do a good
job in Pittsburg. After we won -- had we won the year before, then I wouldn't have left
Pittsburg, but that had been going on for a while. So it was getting to the point where I
felt like I was beating my head against the wall. And I felt also to be honest with you,
that I made a lot of money in Pittsburg. And I just felt like -- I like to compete, and
that's what I'm in it for. And I didn't want anybody to get the impression that I was
making a nice buck, I didn't have to win, there was no pressure on me. I don't know
whether I'm a good or bad manager, but I am a competitor, that's why I came here, I knew
we were going to have a chance to win, because this is no secret, the Florida Marlins when
they are talking to me about coming here, they told me they would spend money if I came. I
knew if they did that that we were going to have a chance. That's just the way it goes.
I'm not going to apologize for that. I wanted to get that feeling back, between 7:30 and
10:30, that you need to have. I felt like this was a great place for me to get that back. 
 
Q. Can you follow-up a little bit. The last three weeks we've seen a lot of emotion
from you, can you talk a little about your personality as a manager and what your stamp is
on the Marlins?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: I don't think I brought anything special here. I brought some experience.
I think that was the biggest thing. I think that for whatever reason, right or wrong, fair
or unfair, I don't know and I don't really care. But for whatever reason I was fortunate
enough, and really by way of mostly the players, but to be honest with you, you guys,
because a lot of things you guys wrote about me. I think I got a little bit of a leg
upcoming into this organization. I was very cautious when I came here about not trying to
put Jim Leyland's stamp on this ball club. This is not my ball club, it's the Florida
Marlins. I was very cautious about that. You guys helped me more than anything else,
getting quotes from players that gave me decent reviews for whatever reason. So it kind of
got my foot in the door with my club right off the bat. In other words, I wasn't probably
going to be really tested by these guys too much. They were probably going to give me the
benefit of the doubt until I screwed it up. And I have a lot of things going for me in
that way, and like I say -- a lot of it -- to be truthful, was because of the television
media and the writers that had written some nice things about me over the years, it helped
me, there's no question about that. But this is not my team. This is not Devon White's
team, or Sheffield's team, this is the Florida Marlins. One day Bobby Cox said, and it
stuck, and I kind of stole it and used that as a theme here, one heartbeat. And I think we
showed during the playoffs, during the course of the season, that we're all ticking the
same. And I think the guys bought into that. And it's been very rewarding. 
 
Q. Are you going to have guys --
 
 JIM LEYLAND: My wife rented eight beds today that were brought at noon to my house in
Florida. To be honest, I don't know who the hell is staying at my house (laughter.) But
it's going to be like a dormitory. And it is coeducation, I can tell you that. But that's
the fun part. And I like to get all that stuff out of the way, got a car for my mom on
Tuesday, going to pick my mom and all my brothers and sisters to Cleveland. And that's the
fun part of it. I'm working but they'll have a hell of a party. 
 
Q. Are you going to be sleeping at home?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: I'm going to be sleeping at home, but I'm going to be sleeping with my
wife and two children, we're all going to be in the same bed, I can promise you. 
 
Q. Obviously it's very special being your first world series. The fact that Cleveland
is there, going back to your native Hawaii, is that much sweeter?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Really. I'm saying I got mixed reviews, because like I said my graduating
class it was 125, and so far it's up to 625 that I graduated with asking for tickets. So
it's good in a lot of ways, and it's certainly more good than bad. But it can be a little
distracting if you're not careful. But it's amazing, I guess. I don't know how you figure
all this stuff out, I don't know if there's something to it or what. To think I saw my
first game in Cleveland and I'm going back as the manager of the World Series team. I
don't know how that works out, but I guess there is something to all that stuff up there. 
 
Q. Jim, would you mind going through the Cleveland line-up a little slower so we can
catch it?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Luke Easter at first, Bob Avilla at second, I think it was George
Strickland at third, Jim Hegan was the catcher, Mitchell was in left, Doby was in center
and I want to say either Minoso or Eric "Suitcase" Simpson in right. 
 
Q. And the staff? 
 
 JIM LEYLAND: The staff was Mike Garcia, Early Winn -- 
 
Q. Who did they play?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Chicago White Sox. 
 
Q. What was their line-up? (Laughter.) Jim, the other day when Hershiser struck out 15,
you appeared to take advantage of a wide strike zone, assuming he's not going to have a
liberal strike zone tomorrow, could that affect his style of pitching?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: I don't think so, at all. 
 
Q. Did you second guess Lopez that day?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: No, I've never second guessed him. Tony, I know, talked to him all the
time. I think I've only talked to him one time. 
 
Q. You mentioned that the media has helped you on your career, and you've had a good
reputation with the media, can you tell what happened the first two series, what happened
with the media?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: First of all, I don't really think we had any problem with the media. I
think the media was a little unhappy. I probably made a couple of mistakes, I didn't know
you had to let them in right after the game, I didn't know you had to allow the media on a
workout day, they gave me instructions on that and I think everything went smooth. I did
want to keep the media out of the dugout, I still would like to, even though the
Commissioner, Mr. -- The acting Commissioner, Bud Selig and Len Coleman (National League
President) told me I couldn't do that. I think what happens is, let's face it, it's only
normal, when the hitters come in to get their bats for the BP, I'm talking about during
our working hour, it's only natural for you ladies or gentlemen, whatever, to say, hey,
have you got one second, just one question. And the first thing you know we get distracted
on what we're trying to do and all I wanted to do was make sure that my team was zeroed in
on what we're trying to do and not for one time was I ever trying to shrug you people. I
respect that you have a job to do. But if you go in our clubhouse prior to and after some
of these workouts you will agree there's a lot of times you're just standing around
looking at each other. It gets pretty crowded. I did not mean it out of any disrespect. I
know Tony LaRussa gave me a pretty good comment, I guess one of the writers said Jim cut
the access down a bit and you had great access in St. Louis last year. And Tony said Jim
won and we lost. Not that that would have had anything to do with it, but during the
working time it's hard in the clubhouse, when you've got this mass of people for the guys
to even get dressed. There's camera crews, there's people, I said it at the series, you
know, the last series and I'll say it again, if I offended anybody, I apologize, but I
didn't mean to. But I do think that -- I think you all agree we can get carried away, but
I understand that's part of your job. 
 
Q. Have you been back to Cleveland a lot, in between early --
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Not too much. I shouldn't say that, I was back in Cleveland when I coached
with the White Sox for four years. I was there. That's when it was still Municipal
Stadium. I have been back there some, I have a nephew that lives there now. I have some
ties there. 
 
Q. Have you seen the ballpark?
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Yes, I've been at the ballpark. When I was a member of the Pittsburg
Pirates we played an exhibition game. I've got a great one for you guys. I was the first
person -- I was the first ^ uniformed person ever to be introduced at Jacob's Field. Now,
is that a big one? (Laughter.) We played an exhibition game there. 
 
Q. What year? 
 
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, the first year it was there. And we came up and played an exhibition
game and because of that they wanted to announce the teams and I was the first guy that
they announced at Jacob's Field. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT