AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: TIGERS v RANGERS
October 12, 2011
Jim Leyland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We are going to get started in the interview room for today. Jim Leyland is here. Questions for Jim.   
  
  Q. Jim, what is the status of Victor and of Delmon Young?   
 JIM LEYLAND: I don't know yet. I checked with the trainers late last night, and again this morning. But they were coming in for treatment.   
 So we'll just have to -- that's on hold right now. I don't really have any information for you.   
  
  Q. Question about your bullpen, Jim, specifically Valverde and Benoit, if they'll be available after the work they've gotten in the first couple of nights?   
 JIM LEYLAND: Postseason.   
  
  Q. Jim, you talked a lot this season about how you're comfortable going all 25 players on your roster. Is that paying dividends now with all the injuries?   
 JIM LEYLAND: Yeah, I think so. I'm not afraid to play anybody. I think we've shown that during the season. I don't think postseason is any different. Obviously you would like to have all your big guys in there.   
 But when it doesn't work and there's injuries involved, obviously the fact that some of those guys have had at-bats and everything I think helps. It doesn't mean they're going to do good necessarily, but at least they have had some action. I think it pays dividends.   
 That's why you use that whole roster. We talk about all the time. Some people have the tendency to think when you play your regulars every day you win every game. It doesn't work that way. We talk about that all the time with our local writers.   
 It just doesn't work that way. Just because you play your regulars doesn't mean you win the game. A lot of people have a tendency to -- when you take somebody out they get a little nervous about it.   
  
  Q. Gauging Justin Verlander's effectiveness recently not quite as effective as earlier on, do you have a sense he's tired?   
 JIM LEYLAND: I think he's tired. I think he's a little tired. That's why he's not pitching today. I think he wants to pitch. I admire that. He wants the ball. I admire that.     
But when I had a meeting with my coaches, we sat down and talked, we really truly believed that this is the best way to go because we think this is the best thing for Justin Verlander and in turn that means it's the best thing for the team. It would read good. It would be great for Fox and all the hype.   
 We really believe this is the best way to go. We think you can't help but be a little tired. Does that mean he's not going to be effective? No, I think he's going to pitch great. With all those injuries and all the stress -- and that Yankee game was really stressful. We just think this was a common sense thing.   
 Probably not always the most popular, but we sat down and talked about this, believe me, long and hard. We all believe that this is the best thing for our club and the best thing for Justin Verlander, and that's why we did it.   
 Plus we keep talking about it, you have to win four games. Somebody else has got to win games. Just because Justin is pitching doesn't guarantee you're going to win the game. They got a pretty good pitcher going against him.   
 So we thought that we should keep him on the rest and give him his regular rest and we thought that was a smart thing to do.   
  
  Q. Jim, regardless of whether or not the two guys go today, what does it say about the heart and character -- you had Martinez pretty much saying yesterday I would have to wake up dead to not play and Delmon playing in pain game two, what does that say?   
 JIM LEYLAND: Victor Martinez is one of the toughest guys I've ever been around. I'm talking about tough. I take my hat off, and Delmon Young the same. I don't mean to downplay that.   
 And Adrian Beltre, the same way. Players on both teams are tough, and I think they're showing that. And I think they're showing why they're who they are. Big-time players, they expect to be in a lineup. They know the fans want to see them in the lineup. They know it helps their team.   
 Actually, for a manager it's a little bit different, because you really have to sit down and think about if the guy wants to play. I appreciate that, but if his effectiveness is not good because of this, just to put him in there, maybe you're not always doing the right thing.   
 So that's a little bit of a tough situation.   
  
  Q. You know how psyches can vary within a playoff setting. When you came back from Texas down 2-0 with people hurt, what were the challenges that situation posed?   
 JIM LEYLAND: Well, obviously they asked me after Game 2 how I felt, I didn't feel as good as Texas obviously. Every day is a one day thing when you get into the playoffs. We were down 2-0, now 2-1.   
 People start to change a little bit, maybe they got a shot. You have to stay away from that and do what you do. You have to go out and win four baseball games. We have to win 3 and they have to win 2. It's that simple.   
 The old setting one game at a time. That's what you do when it comes to playoff time. Every day is a one-game season for me. If we're fortunate enough to win the game today, it's evened up. If we're not, we're down two. It's that simple. There's no tricks.   
  
  Q. Jim, just how banged up is Alex Avila?   
 JIM LEYLAND: Pretty well banged up. You know, we've had our share of all that stuff, obviously with Magglio and Boesch and you can go on and on. And Alex is banged up pretty good.   
 You talk about tough, what you're seeing earlier is what these guys are all about. It's hard for the average person to understand what these guys are going through. His knee was swelling up pretty good not too long ago. Trainers are doing the best they can to take care of that.   
 Everybody is banged up. You guys are probably banged up. You've been traveling all over the place. You're probably tired. I hope you're getting overtime. I'm serious. It's a strain on you.   
 If you're traveling and following the team and getting back and trying to get a plane back, I respect the hell out of that. I'm tired. I feel great, but I'm tired. I would be lying if I said I wasn't.   
 I got some spare energy. I get -- I go from decaf to regular about right now.   
 THE MODERATOR: Okay, thank you very much.   
 JIM LEYLAND: Thanks.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT