NL DIVISION SERIES: DODGERS v BRAVES
October 4, 2013
Fredi Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It seemed like you shifted maybe a little bit more than usual last night, would that be accurate?   Or was that maybe more of a product of Puig beating the shift twice?  
FREDI GONZALEZ:   You're talking about‑‑  
   
 Q.   Defensive shift, yes.   
FREDI GONZALEZ:   No, we normally shift.   Not over‑shift.   Or maybe we over‑shifted a couple of guys during the course of the year, but we thought that with Medlen pitching and the changeup that Puig was going to pull the ball a little bit more.   
   
 Q.   Could the fact that you guys during the season had several periods, several streaks where you lost three, four, five in a row and then came right back, you did it repeatedly, did that work in your favor or even against you in that there now is a sense of urgency?  
FREDI GONZALEZ:   We can't lose three or four in a row, that's not good.   But you know what, you feel okay.   It's going to be‑‑ we've been in this position before.   We've also rattled off 14 in a row in a couple different‑‑ double digits during the course of the year.   
But yeah, you don't want to get down two or three in a row.   Well, three in a row we're going home.   But you feel good that your team has been there, done that.   They're resilient, and come out today and‑‑ I thought for five innings yesterday we put some pretty good at‑bats on Kershaw.   We didn't get any runs, but we put some good at‑bats on him.   They put some good at‑bats on Medlen and got some runs.   
But other than that, we've got to go out today and play and get a good performance from Michael, get some runs and go out to LA.   
   
 Q.   I don't think we've seen the lineup.   Is it‑‑  
FREDI GONZALEZ:   Same one.   Yeah, same one.   
   
 Q.   The defense plays such a pivotal role for you guys in a negative way.   How disappointing was that?   Did you talk to your team about that?  
FREDI GONZALEZ:   You're just talking about those two plays or that play that got us or‑‑  
   
 Q.   Jason throwing home maybe when he shouldn't have and not throwing to third base maybe when he should have, those type of things.   
FREDI GONZALEZ:   No, I think guys are going to play the game‑‑ they're the ones playing the game.   I thought the throw home was a good‑‑ the right basic throw.   Maybe a little bit high.   I thought not throwing the ball to third base, you're talking about when Puig took it first to keep the double play in order, I thought that was the correct call on Jason's part.   
I thought that Gattis leaving his feet, he almost caught that ball.   And we talk about how bad his defense is or his experience in left field or whatever you guys want to say on that play, but if you remember the ball he caught off of Hanley later in the game, that ball was pretty well hit in left center field, and he made a nice drop step and went to his left and ran that ball down.  
You know, I wasn't disappointing at all on the defense at all.   I think when you guys go out there and lay it on the line, those things are going to happen.   But I thought that all the things were the right things, other than maybe the execution, maybe the throw was a little bit high.   But other than that, we threw to the right base all the time.   
   
 Q.   Speaking of Hanley, you've known him for a long time.   Is this the guy you remember from your Florida days or has he changed at all?   
FREDI GONZALEZ:   Yeah, this is the guy.   This is the guy‑‑ I haven't been with him for, what, four years now, I think, going on four years.   
But when I had him in Florida, he won a batting title.   And on any given day, he might have been the best player on the field, and I think he's still that same way guy.   He made a nice play, ball to his left, I think it was Gattis who hit that ball and it left his feet and made a nice play there.   He's scary when he comes to the plate because he can split a gap or he can run you out of the ballpark.   He can steal you a base.   He's a very talented player.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT