SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 3, 2019
Dylan Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Clearly you weren't nervous.  
DYLAN WU: I mean, of course I was nervous. I mean, the first tee, that was the probably the most nervous I was. Once I hit a good tee shot, just tried to have fun out there.   
All I can do is just play my game and just give it all I got and just learn from it.   
First time playing here. Hopefully there is more PGA TOUR events in the future. Just graduated from college year and a half ago, so just trying to learn and just really believe in myself and just hope that's good enough.   
 Q.  What did you learn out there today?  
DYLAN WU: I learned enough that I kind of surprised myself. I mean, that front nine, it's nice when you putt on really good greens coming from a Monday qualifier. (Laughter.) And when you see putts roll end over end and they find the center of the hole.   
No, just got on a good rhythm. I have my teammate on the bag this week. Just had good vibes out there. Yeah, the most pressure was on the 1st hole, but I had a game plan going in. Just tried to play well. Just treat it like any other tournament. Good golf translates no matter where you're playing, so that's what I've kind of learned this year.   
 Q.  Who os the guy on the bag?  
DYLAN WU: His name is Sam Triplett. He's Kirk Triplett's son. He was my teammate at Northwestern for four years. He lives in Scottsdale. I jokingly told him at dinner right before the Monday qualifier, I Monday in, do you want to carry for me? Called him right after I Monday in so he flew up here.   
 Q.  A lot of players say they have a bad taste in their mouth if they walk off the last hole with a bogey, double bogey. How did you feel about a three-putt?  
DYLAN WU: I mean, yeah, I mean, I thought my iron shot would be a little closer. If you told me I would be 5-under par after the first round of my first PGA TOUR event I would take it, let alone shooting 30.   
I know you're going to make mistakes, especially in your first PGA TOUR event, but to be able to make eight birdies to counteract the three bogeys today was kind of unbelievable in my first tournament out here.   
 Q.  Did you have to almost pinch yourself when you made turn? Like, Oh, this is easier than I thought?  
DYLAN WU: Yeah, I mean, couple friends, just talking to them they were like, Just don't bogey the first and you'll be fine. (Laughter.) No, it's pretty cool just seeing your name against all the guys here.   
It's hard when it's your first time out here not to be star struck when you see players like. Like Brooks Koepka. Luckily I got to play the back nine and Adam Scott and played the front nine with buddy of mine, Collin Morikawa.   
To see how many young guys have had success out here, just shows how much better trained we are and how well-prepared we are when we do get out here. It's just a testament to them. Just when any young guy plays well, it helps any guy that's playing college golf or amateur golf.   
 Q.  I asked you this the other day, but just run me through it again. You did an internship and you were at the TOUR at some point?  
DYLAN WU: Yeah, so I did an internship my junior year. It was part of like a grant I won at Northwestern, the Northwester Student Athlete Program, and it was basically a business internship learning the business side of golf. That entailed going to the Northern Trust tournament. Kind of just being a sponge and learning all about the golf tournament, but also the corporate and golf side.   
Then I got to take a two-day trip to PGA TOUR headquarters and meet a bunch PGA TOUR people. I got to see people this week, a couple days ago I haven't seen in two and a half years. It's cool to see. Like being on the outside of the ropes back then and seeing myself here, it's kind of pretty cool.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT