AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 2, 2019
Natalie Srinivasan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NATALIE SRINIVASAN: I'm just really excited to be here and making history in women's golf.
Q. Have you ever been to the Masters?
NATALIE SRINIVASAN: Yeah, I've been plenty of times.  I'm from Spartan Berg.  I've been a lot with my brother and I played Augusta once, so I'm very fortunate.
Q. When was that?
NATALIE SRINIVASAN: That was my junior year of high school, so December of 2015.  Yeah, I won like an AJGA event and that was one of our special gifts, I don't know how, but it was really exciting.
Q. Do you feel the fact that you have already played here, you have a leg up on the other women?
NATALIE SRINIVASAN: You would like to think so, but you never know what's going to happen out there.  Like everyone here is always like watching the Masters.  We've seen the course and it's a pretty well known place.
Q. Does it still feel special, the fact that you've already played there before, does it feel as special, or like you've done this before?
NATALIE SRINIVASAN: For sure, it's a tournament round.  It's totally different than being out there for practice, so it's really exciting.
Q. What does it mean to play in the first-ever Augusta National Women's Amateur Championship?
NATALIE SRINIVASAN: It means so much to play in such a prestigious event, and just on great golf courses, and spend so much time with just the people that I love, like my family, my boyfriend is on the bag and just friends who are here, so it's been a really great experience so far.
Q. What's the journey been like just to get to this point, physically, mentally, because it takes a big mental game.
NATALIE SRINIVASAN: Yes, so I graduated last May and I think just not having to work on school and just pursuing golf right now, it's really given me a lot of time to just reflect on things that I haven't done well in the past, like not working out or just not taking care of my body and eating well and all that, and I've done a lot of prep work in that aspect, as well as talking more positively towards myself and eliminating self-induced stress and all that.  It's been really good preparation.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT