APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 12, 2012
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BAGHDATIS/J. Del Potro
  7‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Great result.   Very happy with that one?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   Yeah.   Played some great tennis today.   Happy the way I'm playing.  
Yeah, it's a great victory for me.  
   
 Q.   How much confidence did you take out of the tiebreak in the first set when you saved two set points?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   I was a bit lucky on one of them hitting the backhand at the net and in.  
Yeah, it gave me confidence for sure.   You know, my arm was more relaxed.   But even towards the end of the first set I was feeling pretty confident.   After I broke him, I started getting into the rhythm.  
Yeah, it was good.   
   
 Q.   Your aggressive play today, is that kind of the most aggressive we've seen you at this tournament?   And how far back do you have to go...   
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   Yeah, for sure this tournament I just played today so aggressive.   Last two matches were a bit tight, like every first and second round of a tournament.   
Yesterday was very tough conditions against Matthew Ebden, but I'm happy also the way I fought yesterday.   If I didn't find a way to win yesterday, I didn't have a chance today to go out there and try to play the way I'm practicing with my coach.  
So you have to go through tough moments and you have to be very, very positive all the time and finding the ways to win.  
Then slowly, slowly, when get the rhythm, you start playing your tennis.  
   
 Q.   I think that's your highest ranked scalp since Andy Murray in Rotterdam last year.   Is that showing you you can play that high level of tennis?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   Yeah, I know I can beat anybody.   I've beaten the best before.   I think if I continue working on this aggressive play and the way I played today, I'm going to win more matches and bigger opponents.  
   
 Q.   What was the turning point for you?   Was it during the first set tiebreak?   Seemed you kind of stepped it up a notch during the tiebreaker; is that right?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   Yeah, I was feeling pretty confident after I broke him, like I said, at 5‑4 in the first set.   I was starting to feel the rhythm.   I wasn't like afraid or like feeling bad.   
I was feeling so good after that, and starting ‑‑ I just knew what I have to do.   Just had to go out there and do it; that's what I did.   
   
 Q.   Juan said before he sensed you were getting better and better as the match went on.   Did you feel that way?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   Yes, absolutely.   Especially after winning the first set.   You're more relaxed and the arm just flows, so yeah.  
   
 Q.   What did you make of the crowd?   Juan obviously talked to Fergus at one point.   What did you make of that whole situation?   Did you think they were fair, the crowd?   
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   I don't see any problem with that.   The only one time was at the set point when somebody was talking during the point, or shouting.   But, I mean, it disturbed me, too.   I was lucky to win the point.   That's all.   
But average crowd for me.   Was fine.   They were not doing anything bad.  
   
 Q.   Did you enjoy having the large percentage of them?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   Yeah.   For sure it's always nice.   I played against Andre Agassi in his last US Open tournament, and I was against 23,000 people.   I can tell you, I didn't feel very well in that court.   
But, you know, I never complained.   I accepted it, and I think that's the way it is.  
   
 Q.   There is some idea out there that the tournament is open pretty wide for you with seeds falling out in other sections of the draw.   Do you think that you've got a good chance to go all the way?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   I had a chance from the moment I came here.   Every match is tough.   We saw it yesterday against Matthew Ebden.   I could have lost that match if I wasn't lucky in the important points or if I didn't do the right things at the important points, if I didn't push well.  
So I'm happy to be in the semis.   Every match will be very, very tough, I think.   I'll see my match tomorrow, and then we'll see about the next one.  
   
 Q.   I think that's eight straight for you in Sydney going back to 2010.   Are you getting comfortable here?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   Yeah, I love it here.   It's nice coming back every year, and I feel very comfortable.   
Thanks guys.   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT