PILOT PEN TENNIS AT YALE
August 26, 2010
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. STAKHOVSKY/M. Baghdatis
  5-7, 6-1, 7-6

 

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Just feel like you couldn't get your first serve in today?
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Yeah, it was not only the first serve, I think it was everything. I wasn't playing really good, making a lot of unforced errors, giving him a lot of points. I just couldn't find a solution. 
 You know, first set we played an hour. That killed me a bit physically. Especially against him, you know, he was playing slice, a lot of dropshots, changing the rhythm all the time. It killed my legs a bit. I was a bit tired. I think that's all. 
 I don't think it was only the serve. 

 Q. Were you surprised by some of the shots he was able to get to?
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Yeah, also. But I think normally if I was a bit more fresh, a bit more quick, I would just go to the net, finish the point. 
 I wasn't able to do that today because of a bit of tiredness. I played a long match yesterday, a three-setter yesterday. It's been a good three weeks in the States for me. I'm a bit tired. 
 It was tough out there. Like I said, the first set took long. I had to make a lot of sprints, you know. I felt my legs a bit tired after. I couldn't be 100%. 
 But he played really good also. He served well in the important points. Like the tiebreak, he played really good. Yeah, I give credit to him also. 

 Q. Seemed like there was one point in the second set that typified how the match went. Looked like you had it won a couple times. He came back. You looked up in the air and kind of said, What do I need to do here? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Not really. I was just laughing because I knew I was going to lose the set. It was at 5-1. So it was just a game that I gave away basically so I can start good the third set and start the third set serving first. 
 Yeah, but like I said, guys, it just was a bad day. That's all.

 Q. Did it affect having the match pushed back to a 7:00 start?
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: I think it's both ways, the same frustration. So I don't think that's an excuse. No, it didn't affect anything. I mean, no. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT