WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 20, 2010
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BAGHDATIS/R. Nadal
  6-4, 4-6, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What was the big thing you changed from the other six times you played him and you had lost. What did you change tonight?  
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: I guess I served pretty big tonight. Much better. I didn't see the stats yet, but first set I think I have maybe over 60% first serve.  
  
  Q. 62.   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: 62, yeah, with lot of aces, around seven to ten. So, yeah, I was serving pretty big. Basically I took my chances, and other times I played him I had chances and I didn't take them. Maybe I'm more mature now, and I took the chances that I had to take and won the match.  
  
  Q. On your second serve return, what were you doing to be so effective to win those points?  
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: What was I doing?   
  
  Q. Yeah, what were you doing.   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: I was more aggressive. I know that Rafa will not give me the match, so I had to go and take it, you know. So I had to, you know, get in and hit the ball harder, and that's what I did.   
 Breakpoint at the end, he made a double fault because of that, because whole match I was putting so much pressure. So he felt the pressure.  
  
  Q. Was it difficult to close the match the last game?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Yeah. I served pretty good first three points, and after, you know, started thinking a bit. The crowd went a bit louder, and start thinking. The fireworks were up also. I don't know if you heard them.  
 So, yeah, a bit of less concentration there. Yeah. But I finished it off, so I'm pretty happy about that.  
  
  Q. Talk about the match tomorrow and Roger. Last time you played him you beat him. Is he more beatable this year?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Yeah. I think so, yeah. He is, but, you know, I'm gonna concentrate on my game. I'm not gonna start thinking if I beat him or if he's beatable or not.  
 I think I'll just go out there and try to find the solution to win like I did last time, just to play very aggressive, serve very well like today, and basically play my game.  
  
  Q. Couldn't get a better confidence boost before the US Open to beat the world No. 1.   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: For sure. Played really good in Washington; made the finals. You know, I'm playing good; I'm feeling happy on court. I'm out of injuries. It's nice when you wake up and you don't have pain somewhere.  
 I've been working hard the past year with my physical condition.  
  
  Q. How long have you been on that level with no aches and pains?  
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Two years, a year and a half. So, yeah, it's not easy.  
  
  Q. On your serve, you saved six of eight breakpoints. What did you do when you were facing a breakpoint against your serve that helped you save it? Did you slow it down? Put different spin?  
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: No, no, I just went for it. I just went for it.  
  
  Q. Did you watch how Murray played him in Toronto at all?  
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: No, no. You think I played the same way?   
  
  Q. Sort of. You went at his forehand a little bit more.   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Okay. No, I think against Rafa you have to mix up the speed of the balls, you know, you don't have to give him rhythm basically. You have to hit one and then play slow, you know.  
 You just have to make him think. When you play the same speed he likes it and he starts to feel the game and starts to get the rhythm. That's what I did today.  
 Like I said, I also served very big today and that was the key of the match.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT