BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 26, 2010
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/M. Baghdatis
  6-7, 6-3, 6-4

 Q. What a match? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: What can I say? I lost the match that I had it in my hands, you know. I'm really frustrated now. But it's not easy, you know. I was up a break in the second, you know, lost my serve like making some unforced errors. Then even then I had some breakpoints so to break again. I didn't take them, and it's a bit frustrating. 
 I'm a bit frustrated because, you know, I was feeling good on court, moving well. And I had the chance to to beat a guy who is Top 5, and I didn't take it, you know, and it's a bit frustrating. 

 Q. That is the third time for Djokovic to start from the middle of the second set and has been able to come up?
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: I don't know if he started. I think I made him start. I think that was the difference. I put him back in the game where I had him on the ground, and I didn't keep him on the ground. I put him back in myself. 
 You know, like I said, I lost the match that I think I should have won 100 times.

 Q. Did that sand bother you, the surface sand? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: No, they cleaned the court before, so, no. No problem with the sand.

 Q. What about the wind? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: It was a bit windy but not too much. 

 Q. What do you take from this week in Dubai? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: What should I take? I cannot tell you what I take now. Like I said, I'm a bit frustrated. I just lost a match that I had to win. But, you know, I won't take anything. If I want to go to the top, I have to think how to win these matches, you know. 
 I had some chances against great players, and I didn't take them. And another one goes by and it's a bit frustrating, you know. And, well, I'll just talk with my team and find a solution to try next time to win matches like that. 

 Q. But do you believe you can beat the top players? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Yeah, I believe I can do it. I've shown it enough times. I was up against Rafa a lot of times. Novak two times already. You know it's always -- I'm always coming off of the court a little bit frustrated. 
 But, like I said, I'm going to talk with my team and find a solution to see how to win these matches. Because I think if I do that, I mean, I'm not very far from a good tennis level. I'm not very far from the top level. 
 It's just the important points, you know, important matches that make a difference, you know. And I lost a lot of them in my career, and I have to find a solution. 

 Q. What does it mean you start thinking about all matches in this situation like it was today?
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: I don't know what's going on in my head. I lose a bit of concentration that's for sure. I give free points, and basically I don't keep the other guy on the ground, you know. That's all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT