AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2010
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. BAGHDATIS/P. Lorenzi
  6-2, 6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Is that a continuation of the Sydney form? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Yeah, it's a win, so I guess it is. Yeah, it was tough today. You know, I had few matches last week, and it's tough -- it's always tough coming late to the tournament. You know, you -- I couldn't prepare the tournament the way I wanted.
 But I won today. I am feeling quite good on court and I'm happy.

 Q. So there's plenty of improvement?
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Yes, there's a lot of improvement. That's for sure.

 Q. How are you finding your form compared to this time last year?
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Yeah, I can say better. Better out of injuries so I could -- last six months I didn't have any injuries so I could work in the right way. I could build up my body, and I feel much fitter than last year. I can say much, much better.

 Q. A judge about your opponent? It was his first match in a Grand Slam. 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: It was his first match in a Grand Slam? Yeah, I didn't see too much because I was concentrated on my game. I didn't know him before the match. I was very focused on my game. I just focused on my game and that's all. 
 I cannot say too much about him because it's the first match. I never saw him play before so I don't mean to judge him. It's not nice to judge people. 
 No, I was too concentrated on my game. I wanted to play good and that's what I wanted to do. Found a way to win.

 Q. Did you find the conditions tough with the wind?
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Yeah, the conditions has been two days windy and everything. Like I said, I came a bit late. Yesterday was raining and I couldn't hit too much on the courts. It was tough. 
 Today was a bit better, a bit more sunshine and not too much rain. Like I said before, I feel good. To play good, you need to play in every condition. I think I'm ready for that. So I don't mind.

 Q. Did you prefer to play on Margaret Court Arena or Hisense or maybe the center court? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Most important thing for me is winning matches. I don't mind where. That's my main goal. I don't mind where I play. 

 Q. You had a lot of supporters out there today. Does it make a difference when you have crowd support?
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: For sure it does. Feels like you're playing at home. When the support is there it feels good. Yeah, does make a difference. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT