MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 14, 2010
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BAGHDATIS/L. Hewitt
  4-6, 6-2, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What was the difference in the second set that helped you turn things around?  
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Yeah, I don't know. I was a bit more lucky. In the first set you some breakpoints and chances to break him, and I didn't. I got broken a bit. I was 40-15 up and I got broken.   
 I guess continued playing the same game, because I knew one moment I would break him and start playing better. That's what I did, and it paid off. So I'm really happy the way I played.   
 I'm feeling fit, no injuries, no pain nowhere, so I guess I will need some more matches like this to start feeling my game coming slowly, slowly back.  
  
  Q. How far away do you think your best tennis is? The second and third sets were pretty impressive.   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Not too far. I think, like I said, I need some wins and games like this, wins or losses anyway, playing at this high level, and then I think it'll come fast.   
 I just have to stay solid and keep on working the same way I'm working. And like I said, it's just a matter of time that it will come. It may take long time, and may take short time. I don't know. I'm pretty sure that one day, if I stay healthy and work the same way I am now, that it will pay off.  
  
  Q. What did you make of Lleyton's game today?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: I don't know. I was too focused on my game. Lleyton is a great player. He always plays pretty good, pretty solid, doesn't miss a lot. I was pretty focused on my game, and that's what I did.   
 I think that's what I did well. I didn't look at Lleyton. I looked at myself and tried to play my game. That's what I did.  
  
  Q. How did the conditions affect you today? Obviously reasonably cool. Did you go right quite well in the heat?  
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: I don't mind. I play against an opponent in tough conditions or not. I play against somebody and I try and find a way to win, even if it's hot or not. That's the way I look at it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT