DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 26, 2018
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. BAGHDATIS/V. Troicki   
7-5, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough first set for you, but easier in the second.  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Yeah, I think it was a great battle in the first set.  I mean, tough conditions.  First match of the tournament, it's always hard, especially when you play a player like Viktor that knows you so well, played so many times.  We played doubles together.  We are kind of friends.  Yeah, it's a bit tough.   
But, yeah, I think I played very well in important points of the match.  I came strong in the first game of the second set to make some great returns and break him there.  I think, yeah, then it went like a routine.  I started playing better and better, more confident.   
Yep, that's about it.   
 Q.  Always nice coming back to a court where you've played well before, isn't it?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Yes, it's an amazing place to be.  Best place to be at this time of the year.  Yeah, I'm having fun whenever I come here.  I love the conditions.  I love the club here.  I mean, the people, the crowd comes out here and shows you so much energy, gives you so much energy.  It's always a pleasure being back.   
 Q.  It was much easier after 5-5.  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS: I mean, that's harsh.  I think, like I said, I played pretty well in important points, key moments of the match.  Second set I think, yeah, I broke him first game.  If I don't break him in the first game, I think it could be a complicated second set.  Yeah, that's all.   
But I don't think it was easy at 5-5, from 5-5.  I don't think it was easy as it looked, in my feeling (smiling).   
 Q.  Most of the crowd was on your side today.  Does that help in tight situations, particularly in the first set?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS: I mean, yeah, when you play, of course it helps a bit.  You don't think about, Yeah, the crowd's my side, I'm going to win the set.  You just play your game.  You try to find a way to win the important moments.   
I think that's what I did.  I played a solid, solid match in important points, solid match throughout the match.  Yeah, that was the difference.   
 Q.  Might be another Serbian player next round.  What do you think about Krajinovic?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS: I never played him before, so I don't know.  Maybe watch a bit of his match tomorrow and see.  Now for me it's very important to go back to the hotel, recover, do all the recovery.  At my age, that's the most important thing right now.   
Just try to do what I've been doing the last few months with my team, continue this solid work and solid matches that I'm playing the last few months.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT