WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2008
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  F. LOPEZ/M. Baghdatis  
5-7, 6-2, 3-6, 7-6, 8-6  
   
  Q. How do you feel about how you played today?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: To tell you the truth, I cannot say I played my best tennis, but I'm a bit disappointed now so it's tough to say how I played. But I was close to winning, which is tough, you know, to accept.   
 I had three match points in the fifth, but the guy served unbelievable during the whole match. He just served very good; it was tough to break him. Even in the tiebreaker in the fourth, he just slammed five aces, which is unbelievable, too.   
 I don't know what to say. Important points he was playing better than me, and I wasn't serving very well. And also the courts are getting a bit used, and it's tough to play from the baseline. They're getting too used.   
  
  Q. You slide you mean?  
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: You slide, so many bad bounces. It's tough to move on the courts because sometimes grass, sometimes not. It's very weird. But that's the way it is.   
  
  Q. It seems like on those match points he didn't give you the opportunity to take advantage.   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Not really. He put first two serves in, the first two points, and then he just smacked a second serve, big second serve on match point in the third one. I don't know what to say. He just went for it with guts, and he took the game. Good for him.   
  
  Q. What are you focusing on now for your next --  
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: To tell you the truth, I don't really know. I'll speak to my coach and see. But yeah, I don't know.   
  
  Q. You had a lot of support today for sure. They were going crazy.   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS: Yeah. I had fun during the match. But when you're so close and it just hits you, you know, it's not like I played good and I lost because the guy played better and I had no chances. It's when you have chances like this, it's not easy to accept.   
 But that's life. Just need some more time to cool down.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT