AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2008
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  How tough is that to swallow? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  It is tough, but it's a positive thing.  I love the game.  It's another time that I went out there, I had -- I lost the match, but I came out with so many good emotions.  I had really so much fun, and the crowd was great. 
 I'm really happy.  I mean, the way I'm playing, the way I deal with things, and that's all I have to say.  It's tough losing a match.  I'm a bit disappointed, that's for sure.  But I worked hard with my coaches and it's nice to come out and, I mean, have so many good emotions like today. 
 I'm just really happy the way I'm playing, and I'm ready for the season.  That's a positive thing, for sure.  I'm disappointed.  I don't know what to say.  It's tough to swallow, but that's life.  Life is hard to have to accept it and try to follow. 

 Q.  What about that turn?  I mean, 5-1.  You were going for all the money.  What happened?  Did you just sort of go for broke? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No, I just, you know, I start smiling, I start to forget the result.  I was a bit stressed out even from the beginning of the match.  It was a bit tough, and I just tried to deal with things, and just tried to find a solution to win, even, by relaxing, by trying to change the rhythm of Lleyton, just playing drop shot.  I start changing everything.  And it worked. 
 The fifth set I got a bit tired.  I had my chances to break him first.  I didn't, and he did.  I mean, he deserves to win.  He was better than me today, and that's all I have to say.  He played better than me in the important points. 

 Q.  You must be exhausted.  Can he recover? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Oh, for sure.  We're exhausted at the match, but I think we work hard.  I mean, he works out, also.  And I was -- if I was in his place I would recover, so I think he would. 

 Q.  Your fans again tonight, it's 5:00 in the morning and they were still cheering as loud as ever. 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I want to thank them a lot for the support.  It's really great to have them around.  Not really just my fans, also my country.  They were really supportive the last couple of days.  And I want to thank them very much. 

 Q.  You leave Melbourne with some great memories again? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Of course.  I love Melbourne.  I love the tournament.  I'm very happy to be here.  Like I said before, that's why I live, for matches like this.  That's why I work hard.  That's why I dream:  For matches like this.  And it's a pleasure to -- even losing it.  That's not the most important thing, you know. 
 It's just a game, and I'm just very, very happy that I'm playing this way and having so many good emotions. 

 Q.  Congratulations. 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Thanks, mate. 

 Q.  Were you affected at all by the ankle injury? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No, just in the beginning, I had pain, but they gave me four painkillers, so I guess -- I guess that made the job.  No, I mean, at the end I was a bit tired, but not because of the ankle, because of all the stress I had, and that's all. 
 And I'm, like I said before, I'm happy the way I'm playing.  I'm ready for the year, and I guess I'll just go back, have some holidays, and just focus on the rest of the year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT