WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 16, 2007
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  How did you feel going into the match? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Quite good.  I felt quite good.  I don't know what to say. 

 Q.  I think in the beginning of the first set you were serving really well.  A lot of first serves in. 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah.  I was serving well.  Playing well.  I had all the chances in the first set to break him.  I felt that nothing can happen.  Maybe he was not playing so good, but I was feeling so good on the court and like you said serving well. 
 I don't know.  But broke at 6-5, for me, I mean, I played maybe three, four double faults I think in that game.  I'm a bit disappointed.  I was 40-15 up that game and I thought I was going to win the set. 
 It was quite hot and difficult weather out there, so he would have maybe went a bit down.  But he won the first and then I went down physically and mentally.  It was tough, but I don't know, I tried to fight back and just couldn't make it.  I broke him and just got broken back. 

 Q.  In that 6-5 game in the first set you had two aces to go up 30-Love and like you said you went up 40-15.  What changed for you at that point?  Did you feel different? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Nothing really.  I just played a double fault at 15-40 and then he played a good return and then I served good again and then I make a double fault again.  So basically I gave the first set away, and that's it. 

 Q.  So like that game when you got broken, did that carry over into the tiebreaker? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No.  Tried to stay cool, but like Roger got a bit of confidence and played well.  Roger is Roger.  Just give him a chance, he takes it.  That's what you have to do against him.  When he gives you a chance you have to take it too and I didn't today, so... 

 Q.  You've pressed him hard twice now the last two times you played.  Did you feel like going into today that this was the day you might nail him? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, yeah.  I was seeing the match, how it went.  I couldn't imagine losing the first set, but I did.  Because like I said, before, I didn't take my chances, and that's why -- maybe the reason is because I didn't like believe in it, I didn't -- basically he won the first set because of his name.  I can say because it's Federer and I just choked. 

 Q.  Do you feel like there's a bigger problem.  Against Pavel (sic) last night you had three set points in the first set took and you lost that, and second and third sets it took you a couple set points to win those as well.  Is there a bigger problem for you at the end of sets? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No.  Normally it's not a problem, it's just, I don't know.  Last week I beat Moya.  He had 6-2 in the first set on the tiebreak.  That's part of the game.  But that's what I said.  That's the difference between Roger and the big guys.  They take their chances when they have them and first chance they just take it.  They don't give you any. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT