AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2007
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  First question for Marcos, please.   
  
  Q.  You were a popular finalist last year.  Will there be added pressure on you this year?  Will we see a difference in your game at all?  Any marked improvement?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, improve myself a lot physically.  I feel tougher, more experienced now.  I'm playing good.  I'm ready.  Guess I'll just go on the court, fight for every match, try to do my best.   
  
  Q.  Bit of a scare in Sydney the other day.  How is the injury?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Fine, fine.  Very good.   
  
  Q.  Did you think you were in trouble there or did you know you just tweaked it?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I was scared a bit in the beginning.  Then seeing myself getting through, the pain was slowly, slowly disappearing, I felt better.   
  
  Q.  Have you had treatment on it since?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, I had treatment after the match against Carlos, coming here.  It's much better now.  Nothing to worry.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel you're a better player than you were 12 months ago?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah.  Like I said before, I'm much fitter, physically better, more experienced.  I'm just playing good tennis, so...   
  
  Q.  When you came through the gates here for the first time, what did it feel like 12 months on?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I don't understand the question.  Sorry.   
  
  Q.  When you came back here for the first time a few days ago, what did it feel like?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I was speaking with my coach on the way from the airport.  It was a bit weird, like getting close to the hotel.  Just was a bit weird sensation.   
 But, I mean, it's great to be back.  I'm really excited to go out there, play tennis.  I'm just really excited.   
  
  Q.  Did the memories come back from last year?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I watched my final yesterday against Roger, last year's final (smiling).  Some of them came back, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Was it in the hotel?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  In the hotel, yeah.   
  
  Q.  What do you take out of that?  Obviously a great run, but you lost the final.   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  It was a great run, that's for sure.  It was a good experience.  Was a bit disappointed then that I lost.  But, I mean, it's 12 months ago.  I mean, life continues.   
  
  Q.  What impact did making the final have on your life, on and off the court?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  It changed a lot.  More famous.  You go on the court, everybody wants to beat you.  It's tougher now.  That's for sure.  They know more your game.  It's a bit tougher.   
 I'm working on that slowly, slowly.  I'm building up on my rhythm.  I'm working hard.  I'm trying to have fun at the same time, not to overdo it.  I'm enjoying myself.  I think that's most important thing.   
  
  Q.  What about back at home?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, back at home, it was pretty crazy after the Open.  But it calmed down after.  Slowly, slowly people got the habits.  It was much better then.   
  
  Q.  A lot of talk about Lleyton Hewitt.  Do you still feel he's a danger in this tournament despite his injuries here?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Of course, he is.  He's a good player.  I played him in Wimbledon, in the quarters.  He's playing very good.  He's a very fit guy.  He's one of the most competitive players in the circuit.  He's really tough.   
 He's playing at home.  His dream is to win this tournament.  I mean, playing Hewitt here is a very tough round.   
  
  Q.  What about the heat?  39 degrees, 40 degrees forecast for Monday and Tuesday.  How do you handle that?  Do you do anything different?   
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No.  I do the same things I did last year:  practice, work harder and harder.  Like I said before, I feel ready for any match, any round.  Just to go out there and fight and try to find a solution to win.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT