MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 10, 2007
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Do you like a challenge like that? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I like a lot of challenges.  I like challenges.  It was a tough match, but I played good through again, and that's all I have to say. 

 Q.  You shaved off your beard. 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, I did it early for Melbourne. 

 Q.  It's not a luck thing, for good luck? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No, I just wanted to shave last night, and I did (laughter). 

 Q.  Does it help with wind resistance (laughter)? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I heard it was going to be hot, and when you have beard you get cramps -- I'm just joking (laughter). 
 Any questions? 

 Q.  How do you feel your game was today? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I played pretty good.  Feeling better and better.  It was not easy, it was hot, first time I'm playing in this heat since a long time, so it's good to have a tough match out there in the heat.  I think it's going to make me get ready for the Open and for the next few matches out here. 

 Q.  Are you happy with your fitness and your movement? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  It was okay.  Like I said, need some more habits, played several matches the last two months, so slowly and slowly I'm feeling better on the court, and that's all. 

 Q.  What allowed you to lift in the third set? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Serve good on important points, and I was just more solid than he was, and that's all.  It was just not a big difference, and that's all. 

 Q.  Obviously a lot of people expect a lot more of you than they did a year ago.  Are you happy to try and sort of live up to their expectations? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Ask me the question again, please. 

 Q.  Is there pressure in trying to live up to what you did last year? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, there is pressure, just trying to live with it.  That's the way it is, just try to accept it, just try to enjoy it and just try to play.  Every time I go on the court, just try to fight, just try to give my best, and that's the only thing you can do, I guess, and I cannot do anything more than that. 

 Q.  It was windy earlier in the week and it was hot today.  Would you have rather have conditions be consistent right through, or do you like experiencing the different ones? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  The conditions are for each player, and it's tough; wind, not wind, hot, not hot.  You are playing against somebody and you have to find a way to win, and that's the toughest thing.  Like I said, I don't prefer anything, I just try to focus on my tennis, just try to find a way to win. 

 Q.  There was a lot of withdrawals yesterday from injury.  Were you at all concerned that the injury voodoo might come down on you?  Does it make players nervous? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No. 

 Q.  Do you think you're a better player now than you were 12 months ago? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  More experience, tougher mentally, and on the footwork, I worked a bit on the footwork and feel faster.  I feel better physically, tougher mentally. 

 Q.  I guess this is a good opportunity to get your second title, considering Nadal and Hewitt and those guys have pulled out? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, everybody is tough, every match is tough, every day is different.  You wake up different, your mood is different, so I just try to, like I said, just go on the court, just try to fight, just try to find a solution and to win. 

 Q.  The Australian Open is always a little bit of a survival of the fittest.  When did you begin your preparations and what have you done over the break? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I had five weeks of preparation, physical, and like I said, I based my preparation more on footwork and just the physical. 

 Q.  Was that in Cyprus? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No, in Paris. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT