WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2006
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  What did you think of Andy Murray's form today? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I don't know.  Maybe he was not so much in the game today, in the match. 

 Q.  How well do you think you played?  Did you play as well as you hoped you would play? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I mean, most important thing is not to play well, is to win the match.  I'm pretty happy I won the match, first of all. 

 Q.  You seem to have come a long way since your first round match.  What are you doing so much better now? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Why? 

 Q.  Yeah. 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Like I said before, the most important thing is not to play good, is to win the match.  In the beginning of the tournament, the first round is so tough, you know.  You just go on the court, you don't know how you feel, you don't feel the court so well, you don't feel the balls, you don't feel a lot of things. 
 So winning against MacKin in the first round helped me a lot after, trying to find my tennis.  That's what I did, I tried to stay calm, focused.  I'm starting to find my tennis. 

 Q.  You said you've been playing over and over in your mind the missed opportunities in the match on Melbourne.  Are you playing in your mind a Sunday rematch against Federer? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I'm not thinking about that really.  I'm just thinking I have Hewitt in front of me, so I'm just thinking about Lleyton for now.  If I go through Sunday, then we'll see. 
 Federer, I think, has tough matches, and who knows what he will do or what I will do. 

 Q.  How do you rate Lleyton Hewitt as an opponent? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Everybody, I rate them ten to ten.  Everybody is a tough player.  Everybody is playing good tennis.  It's a matter of finding the solution to win. 

 Q.  Even though the crowd was obviously for Andy Murray, did you enjoy the Centre Court? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, it was fun.  First time on Centre Court at Wimbledon, I mean, it's always fun to have a first-time and nice experience.  So I'm pretty happy I won the match.  That makes it even funner - funnier. 

 Q.  A lot of people in Australia who don't follow tennis that closely but got to know you in January have asked about what happened to that guy that made the final.  How would you summarize the last four or five months? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  What happened to that guy?  Nothing.  He's the same guy.  Nothing changed in me.  I'm still the same guy.  That's all. 

 Q.  Results-wise, how would you explain what you've done? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  It was not easy, you know.  After Melbourne, I had a lot doubts in my head.  Was I there because I deserved it or because it was just one time?  A lot of things went through my mind.  And like how I played Indian Wells, I played quarters, it was quite good.  Then the doubt starts to come.  Some injuries, some health problem.  I got sick.  So I started losing confidence. 
 Since last week in Rosmalen, I played in s'Hertogenbosch, I played semis there, start to feel better on the court.  Here I am today in quarters in Wimbledon.  So I feel quite confident. 

 Q.  Believing that you can do it again, that you have more finals in you? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, now I start to believe it more and more. 

 Q.  Was it a much easier match today than you expected? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Not really.  Okay, Andy didn't play good, but I had to play really good to win, I mean.  I played a very, very good first set.  Second set, I didn't start very well.  Then I started playing good, then let him play.  That was objective, not to let him play because he likes playing with the ball and moving you around.  I didn't want to do that.  I was playing really aggressive, and it paid off today. 

 Q.  What do you think it is about the big tournaments and matches that seem to bring out the best tennis in you? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I don't know.  That's one of my maybe - how you say? - power or advantages.  I just love playing in front of a big crowd, and I just relax more when there is so many people watching than when there are not. 

 Q.  Tell us about the mood at home.  Great expectations? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Sorry? 

 Q.  Tell us about the mood at home.  Are there great expectations? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Today? 

 Q.  Generally.  
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, people are waiting a lot for me.  It's normal since Australia.  But, I mean, nobody's putting pressure on me. 

 Q.  You said you hadn't changed since Australia, but what has been the biggest change in your life since then? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  People around me.  I mean, I'm a famous guy now in my country and maybe world-wide.  So a lot of responsibilities to take.  I have -- it's not like you don't have a personal life, but you cannot do what you want to do sometimes because of people watching or speaking or anything. 

 Q.  So has that been difficult for you? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  It's not easy, sure. 

 Q.  What's an example?  What's the weirdest thing that's happened to you in terms of back home or whatever? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Nothing. 

 Q.  Just random acts of people coming up and doing strange things? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No, nothing strange.  But, I mean, if you have something on your finger, then, I don't know, "Why do you have that?"  The press, the journalists, everything. 

 Q.  What does it mean to you to have your mother here? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  My mother, yeah, it means a lot.  She didn't follow me since I was a kid, so it's fun for her to be here and see some matches and playing -- see me playing in front of a -- in Wimbledon in the Centre Court.  I mean, it's great for her.  She's proud of her son, and I feel proud of her also. 

 Q.  She prayed a lot during your match. 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  She does (smiling).  She does pray a lot. 

 Q.  Before you talked about how you feel you enjoy the big stage, you enjoy lots of people watching.  I don't think we've ever seen you get really upset or lose your cool on a tennis court.  Does it happen? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Of course, it does.  But, I mean, tennis match is nothing -- for me, there's so many things more important than a tennis match in life.  So there is nothing to worry about.  I mean, it's just a game.  For me, it's just a game.  I'm very happy to play this game because I love this game.  And if I lose this game, it doesn't matter for me.  There are things more important in life than this. 

 Q.  How come you understand that and there's about 10,000 other people in tennis who don't? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Ask them (smiling). 

 Q.  Name one more important thing for you. 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Sorry? 

 Q.  Name one more important thing to you. 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  What do you mean? 

 Q.  You say there's more important things in life.  What's one more important thing for you? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Health. 

 Q.  How do you feel your game matches up with Hewitt?  Do you feel you've got a game that could trouble him? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I don't think a lot about my game.  I just think to find the solution to win the match.  That's all.  So I think I'll go on the court and I'll start my game, just put the ball on the court and see how he plays and then find a solution. 

 Q.  Do you study an opponent's game at all? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Not really. 

 Q.  Have you seen any of his matches here? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Nope. 

 Q.  So it's all about solving problems? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yep, that's all about life.  That's life's all about, no? 

 Q.  You're a problem solver? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Exactly. 

 Q.  You just do it in tennis? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I do it in my life also (smiling). 

 Q.  Did you solve the problem with the Army?  Did that work itself out? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, I'll do the Army when I finish my career. 

 Q.  You will do it? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT