WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2006
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  You must be very relieved to have got that match finished tonight.  Were you worried about it? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I was relieved to win it, first of all.  Was not an easy match.  Seb is a great player on grass.  He's playing really good.  I'm really happy to get through. 

 Q.  Can you tell me about your injury.  You seemed to be struggling. 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, the first -- I don't remember if it was in the first three, four games, Seb hit the backhand on the net and I run for it.  And it come in, and I run for it and I felt a bit on the - how you say - butt.  Felt a bit of pain on the butt. 
 So that's all, I think.  I don't really know what's wrong with it.  Just maybe a strained muscle for the moment.  That's what was, so. 

 Q.  Was it similar to your first round injuries? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No, no, not at all. 

 Q.  So how are you looking forward to your match against Andy Murray? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I don't really know.  I cannot think about this now.  I'm very happy that I won today, and I'll just take time tomorrow and think about that. 

 Q.  Has it been difficult since Australia, trying to get your head round what happened? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, it's not easy, you know.  Lot of things happen from one day to another.  I have to -- I have a lot of responsibilities now, and it's not so easy. 
 But, I mean, I have great people around me.  My parents are helping me a lot.  My team around me is great.  So it's a bit of a struggle, but I'm getting through it. 

 Q.  And will you be fully fit, do you think, for Monday? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I think so.  I hope so. 

 Q.  You are a sport hero for two countries, Cyprus and Greece.  You have made too many people in two countries watch your tennis match.  How do you feel about this? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, I'm happy to have all my country, two countries behind me.  I mean, Cyprus and Greece, for me, it's the same thing.  It's not one country, but it's the same thing. 
 So I have Greek blood in me.  So it's great have having them around and giving me so much support and love.  So it's been fun since I'm playing good.  I mean, so many people behind me and giving me support. 

 Q.  How will you prepare for your match tomorrow?  You've got a day off tomorrow.  What are you gonna do in the day? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I don't really know.  Maybe go have a sleep tonight and then we'll see how it goes.  I will speak with my coach later on. 
 I don't know what time I'm playing on Monday, so it depends also what time I'm playing.  Depends of a lot of things. 

 Q.  Do you like playing on grass? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, yeah (smiling). 

 Q.  Some players really don't like it. 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  It's not that I like it, but this year -- last year I didn't like it, this year I do.  So, I mean, I'm starting to have experience on grass, and it's a matter of time to feel good on it.  So I'm starting to feel good on it.  So I guess I like it.  I start to like it. 

 Q.  Were you surprised when you heard that Murray had beaten Roddick? 
 MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Surprised, no.  Everybody can beat everybody today in tennis.  So I wasn't surprised.  He's a great player.  He's young.  I think he needs some time also to become a great player.  It's a matter of time that he will become a great player. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT