AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2006
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  When you were two sets to love down, at that stage what was going through your mind and did you really think you could get up and win it? 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I just knew that -- I broke him.  I start breaking him, I start feeling the game at 5-2 in the second.  I was feeling like start believing in myself, started to play more aggressive, started to play more my game.  And the first two sets, I was really, you know, stressed out.  I didn't know what to do.  He was playing really good.  He was playing really aggressive.  Then what I said, is just I have no choice and I just have to go in the court and play my game and play aggressive.  And that's what happened.  
 
Q.  Have you started thinking about the final yet? 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Sorry?  
 
Q.  Have you started thinking about the final yet? 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No, not yet.  
 
Q.  Did you ever experience such a crazy fifth set, like so many changes? 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I played only three in my career, so... (smiling).  I think no.  It's the first time.  
 
Q.  But it was pretty crazy?
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, it was crazy.  I mean, he broke me.  He was two breaks up.  No, he broke me once.  I broke him.  He broke me.  I broke him, then I broke him again.  It was amazing.  The atmosphere was just crazy.  Was big emotion for me.  It was just amazing.  
 
Q.  Can you talk briefly about the crowd and the impact they have on your momentum. 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Just also they're great.  I mean, they helped me a lot throughout these two weeks, especially the Greek Army like you call them.  I mean, it was great.  They're fantastic.  They are just amazing.  They are putting the atmosphere like amazing.  I don't know what to say.  I just don't know what to say. 
 
Q.  Do you think it's an advantage for you?
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, it's a bit of an advantage.  It helped me a lot, like I said, to pass through tough moments in the match.  Like when you have like people shouting your name all the time, it feels good.  
 
Q.  Talk about what went through your head at 5-4, 15-All, when the rain came. 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  A lot (smiling).  I don't know.  I just start thinking what will happen after the match and stuff.  I went in the changing room and I just saw my coach.  I told him, "What do I do?"  I just didn't know what to do.  He just told me, "I'm not scared for you, I'm scared for him."  It gave me -- it pumped me up.  I think it was good coaching, so was great.  
 
Q.  Did you think somebody didn't want you to finish the match, though you were right there?
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No, I think it was like a sign because -- I think it was like a sign because he wants me maybe to be tougher, he wants me to go through these moments, like tough moment, you know, start thinking.  And what my coach told me, it was a sign also.  It was like amazing.  I just went in the court and I just said, "I'm happy even if I lose."  I mean, I did everything I can, I came through, through two sets down, and I just said, "Just go play your game and whatever happen, happen."  I got out of the match and it was a great experience for me.  I learned a lot from this match also, to stay calm, to just go in the court and believe in myself.  And knowing that my coach believes in me just helps me.  
 
Q.  You had a lot of success at the Juniors, but it's a different story to beat three top 10, top 5 players to go to the final here.  Was there any moment in your career like last year, for example, where you thought, "Now I can really beat those guys," like Basel or Melbourne here?
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  It just came alone.  Beat Robredo here, Ljubicic here last year, played not bad against Federer.  I was unlucky after I got injured.  Took me a little bit of time to come back.  I mean, then I played great in Basel.  And I think then I started really working hard, believing in myself.  And, I mean, it just came along.  
 
Q.  It's not certain who you'll play in the final, but if it is Federer, how do you go about reversing your three defeats against him? 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I don't know.  I've played him second round, third round, quarters.  Now it's in the final.  So every day is different.  I just go in the match and play my game, play, just try not to make a lot of mistakes, just try to make him play.  I'll try to find a solution in the match. 
 
Q.  What have you learnt from those three losses? 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  A lot of lessons.  No, I mean, he's -- I don't know what to say.  But he has everything.  He can do whatever he wants with the ball.  So like I said, I didn't learn anything.  I just learned that I was close in Doha, like first set, it was 3-All, two breakpoints up, two breakpoints for me.  Just he's playing so good in important points.  I think that that will be the key, just play maybe better than him in the important points. 
 
Q.  Have you seen some of his matches here? 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No, no, no.  Don't like watching tennis. 
 
Q.  How will you prepare for the final in the next two days?  What will you do?
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Tomorrow I think I'll have a day off, and then I will just come back with the routine and just hit some balls on Saturday and that's all.  
 
Q.  How are you feeling physically? 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Now a bit tired, I think.  I mean, I work hard and I think that I will be ready for Sunday.  I'm not worried about that. 
 
Q.  Do you think Cyprus is ready for you in the final?  What will they be doing?
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I don't really know.  I heard that they closed -- no, they didn't close the schools, but nobody went to school today, so... It's just amazing.  I don't know.  I don't know what they will do.  I don't know.  It will be fun, I think.  
 
Q.  Players are just happy to make a Grand Slam final.  Will you be satisfied with that? 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Tell you the truth, yes and no.  No now because I want to win it.  But when the tournament will be finished, I think I'll be satisfied because I gave everything these two weeks and I have to give everything in the final.  If I give everything, I'll be very satisfied for myself. 
 
Q.  Do you think it's too much, waiting two days before the final?
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Too much?  No.  When you play a five-setter, is never too much.  
 
Q.  Do you think it makes you think too much?
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Think?  No, no, no, no, no.  I mean, I just go out from tennis for one day and then come back.  It won't make me think.  I have my coach around me, my girlfriend and all my people, the people that believe in me.  So I think they will keep me in the tournament. 
 
Q.  How will you shut out all the distractions?  Everybody's following you. 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I just don't answer the phone.  Like I said two days ago, I think.  I just try not to speak to a lot of journalists, try to keep it simple.  I know it's not finished.  It's maybe a dream come true for me.  So I'll do my best and stay focused.  
 
Q.  I know that you didn't have time to think about it, but do you plan to call Zagreb tournament organizers to tell them you're not coming?
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I don't really know.  I cannot answer that.  I mean, I'll see with my coach, I'll see with ATP what they can do.  We'll see. 
 
Q.  Were you nervous serving for the match?  You didn't look nervous.  Were you nervous?
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I was.  
 
Q.  What did it feel like?  Your heart just beating fast?
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Felt like the matches before.  Every time somebody serves for the match, it's semifinal of Grand Slam and everybody's nervous.  I just said again to myself, I'll do my best and go in the match.  I was really nervous before, when the rain started.  When I was in the court before the rain started, I wasn't nervous, I was just playing and I was pumped up.  But when the rain started, when I went back and I start getting a bit nervous.  I told you I start thinking a bit.  But then I said, Just go in the court, just play your game. 
 
Q.  In the final, how do you think you'll control the nerves?  You play really well when you seem to be enjoying the game and having fun.  How do you think you'll sort of keep everything together on the day? 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I don't know.  I mean, I'll take it like another match.  I'll take it like a first round, semifinal, like quarters.  It's a final, that's true, but I'll try to take it like a normal match and just try to stay calm and play my game.  
 
Q.  What lessons have you learned from the Basel final? 
 
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Lessons?  Nothing special.  I mean, it was a match I lost and that's life and that's all.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT