AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2005
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  How did that compare to when you played him at the US Open?  How was it different to when you played him at the US Open?  Was it very similar or different?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Well, US Open I was -- I went into the match quicker, I think.  In the second set US Open I just relaxed and played better.  It was the first time.  I think the first time is easier just to show what you have.  Here, I got in the match a bit stressed and wasn't serving so good.  I had to win all the points by playing with him from the baseline.  That's very difficult because he's great player, playing really good.  Third set I just start to serve very good and won the free points with my serve.  Well, I'm pretty happy with myself.  I did what I can.  It was great.  I have no regrets.  Just the regret was just not to play the first two sets.  That's all.  But it's normal.  I'm young and I have things to learn.  Very happy. 

Q.  Did you expect more because you'd had the win against Robredo and you were a bit more confident?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, I was fourth round.  I had confidence on me.  I wanted to play to show that I can do it.  I was a bit stressed out.  But it's life.  It happens to everybody.  Ready to go back and put my feet on the ground and go back to work.  I hope I'll do better next time.

Q.  Still an amazing two weeks for you, an amazing experience?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, it was great.  Great playing here.  I love this place.  I love Melbourne.  It's great.  I won the Juniors two years ago.  So I just love the atmosphere here.  It was great and I had a lot of fun with my coach here.  The crowd was crazy.  So I want to thank them also for coming.  It's been great, yeah.

Q.  Big step forward in terms of ranking points and all that stuff. 

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, it's big step.  I have to go change my goals now for the year so (smiling)...  Will be good. 

Q.  I'll ask you about the crowd support.  There was obviously a group of supporters up there for you who were shouting.  How did that make you feel?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I mean, it's not only today.  It was through the week, they were great.  I mean, it make me feel very, very comfortable out there and made me play my game, make me feel confident. 

Q.  You got them tickets for today?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah. 

Q.  When you say it's going to change your goals, is this going to mean getting in bigger tournaments?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, my objectives and -- because my objective this year was to go down to 100.  So maybe I passed 100 now.  So I have to go see what's going on, go back. 

Q.  Who is the next best ranked player from Cyprus?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Fotos Kallias.  He's 800, 900.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT