US OPEN
September 1, 2004
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You seemed to raise your game in the second set.  What inspired you?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  I got in the match a bit nervous in the beginning.  So I was playing against No. 1 in the world in the biggest stadium in the world.  So I was a bit nervous, and I just started to have fun in there.  I just played my game.  Federer just didn't play so good, and I took my chance.  I won the second set.  And then he put his level up.  He won the third.  In the fourth, I just got a bit tired, start cramping a bit.  He continued to play so...

Q.  How talented is Federer? 

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Very (laughter). 

Q.  Do you just look at a guy like that...? 

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  He's very talented.  He can make every shot.  It's amazing playing against him.  I mean, it's tough to play against him.  You don't read his shots.  He's very, very talented.

Q.  Does that then inspire you a little bit? 

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, a bit.  But, I mean, everybody has his game.  Everybody has his talent.  I mean, it's a matter of work and I'm ready to go back and work and try to be like him. 

Q.  When you're playing against him, does that make you find things that you didn't know you could do? 

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No, I mean, I don't know how to explain.  But he has his own game.  He knows how to do everything.  I mean, some players don't know to do everything.  I don't know how to do everything, but I'm working on it so I can do everything also in the court, every shot. 

Q.  In the second set, did you play the best tennis of your career? 

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Played pretty good.  I had some -- also I had some better matches in my career, but I played really good.  One of my best. 

Q.  Many aspects of your game are actually quite similar to Roger, looking at the way you both played.  Would it be fair to say you modeled parts of your game on him?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No, I didn't really model Federer.  I have my own style of playing.  I'm working on that. 

Q.  Do you always have this much fun on tennis courts or is it just the occasion tonight?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No, I mean, it was the occasion, but I like having fun in the court because, I mean, I love tennis and I love playing tennis.  So for me, it's fun. 

Q.  In what way do you have to improve to beat him?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  First of all, I think I have to improve my physical and improve a lot of things.  Like I said, I'm ready to go back and improve all those things.  I mean, he has a great experience to play in front of this crowd.  It was my first time.  So I just have to work and do my best. 

Q.  Could you just talk a bit about what it was like to be out there with all these people and the night session atmosphere?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  It was great.  It was one -- I arrive to everybody, I am 19 years old.  I mean, it was amazing feeling for me.  I had a lot of fun.  It was a great match and I try to have fun.  That was my objective before the match, and I did.  So I'm happy with that, I'm proud of myself, and life continues. 

Q.  Are you still working with Bob Brett?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  No, I never worked with Bob Brett.  I was in his academy, but I never worked with him.

Q.  What did you talk about with Roger after that game at the net?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  He just told me good luck in my career.  I told him it was great playing with him and good luck for the tournament.

Q.  Can you learn a lot playing against him? 

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Yeah, of course.  You get the rhythm of his -- the quality of his ball.  And, I mean, I think that's what I need, playing more with this kind of players, practicing with this kind of players, and getting in the rhythm of the quality of the ball. 

Q.  By the time the next Grand Slam comes at the start of next year, where do you see yourself, what's your ambition for the start of the year?

MARCOS BAGHDATIS:  Like I said, I'll go back, work hard, try to do my best, I'll go play some challengers, go fight a bit, and I hope I'll play good.  That's all I can say. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT