APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 13, 2012
Marcos Baghdatis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. BENNETEAU/M. Baghdatis
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Exhausting would probably be your overriding feeling, but you must be bitterly disappointed.   
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   Yeah, I was disappointed before I had a chat with my coach.   Benneteau played very well today.   He was really feeling the ball very well.   
I was a bit tight again.   I wasn't so aggressive.   I tried, but my shots were not heavy enough.  
Yeah, I mean, he played very, very smart, very aggressive, was serving very well.   I had my chances.   I didn't take them; he did.   Basically that's it.   
I lost 6‑4, 6‑4, but it was very close match.   Could have gone any way.   But, you know, it's a positive week for me here.   I had so much fun here and played four good matches.   I'm pretty happy.  
   
 Q.   What were you thinking in the last game, that tenth game?   Some of Julien's serves were going into the backhand court.   Did you think he was tiring?   What was going through your mind?   
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   Yeah, I tried to fight for it.   I tried to find a way to win.   I tried to make him win it.   Nothing was going through my mind.   I was continuing to push, but unfortunately I didn't get the win today.   
   
 Q.   Did you miss the big crowd support that you had last night versus today?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   No, I mean, it was nice today, too.   So, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What was the key to you playing aggressive like you did last night or not playing as aggressive as you would like to like you did today?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   Commitment.   I think it's part of commitment and to commit on what I have to do.   I have to work on it even more.   At least I have something to work on.   You know, I'm happy the way I'm practicing; I'm happy the way I'm feeling on court.  
It's just a matter of time to gain some confidence in this way of playing.   I think when I get that, it will be interesting.   
   
 Q.   It seems that a few times you've come out of the blocks a little slow.   Is it just because it's hard to back up so quickly after playing another game?   Is there any reason?  
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   For what?   
   
 Q.   The slow starts to matches.   
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   Today Benneteau was returning really well in the beginning of the match.   He came in very, very aggressive.   You know, I don't think he ‑‑ you know, first game I was serving pretty well, not too bad.   He was just returning very deep and very, very heavy.   
He pushed me into maybe being a bit in a hurry and not taking the right decision, and that's where everything started a bit slow.  
Yeah, that's it.   I don't think it's only‑‑ I mean, you have an opponent in front of you.   It's not only about yourself.  
   
 Q.   What kind of recovery will you do?   You played last night and today.   
MARCOS BAGHDATIS:   The normal recovery.   I'm feeling fine.   I could play another two hours.   I didn't mind the heat.   Yeah, I'm feeling pretty fit.   I mean, just a normal recovery.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT