UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 28, 2017
Shane Buechele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Texas - 38, Baylor - 7   
 Q.  You've been dying to show off that running ability, haven't you?  
SHANE BUECHELE: No.  I don't like pulling it out, but when you have to, you have to.   
 Q.  That's what everybody is wondering; that 28-yarder, you ran up the tunnel.  
SHANE BUECHELE: Yeah, shoot.  You know, it was just good to be back out there.  My body feels good, and it was just exciting to go out there with my guys and go get a win.   
 Q.  What have the last few weeks been like for you where you get hurt and then you're not out there as much as you want to be?  What's that emotional situation been like for you?  
SHANE BUECHELE: You know, it's been tough.  I'm not going to lie.  But you know, you just have to stay focused.  I think that's just the main thing, the players and the coaches around me, you know, I think helped a lot just keeping me focused.  Like I said, it was good to be back out on the field and being able to go compete with my guys.   
 Q.  What was your mindset coming into this week once you knew that you were the guy?  
SHANE BUECHELE: You know, just go 1-0, like Coach says.  Every practice is the most important one, and just getting back in the swing of things, just get timing down with the receivers and running backs and just stuff like that, just go back and just go try to get a win.   
 Q.  How much do you think that every person on this offense needed to see some positivity with the running game?  How much do you think that helps with confidence?  
SHANE BUECHELE: Yeah, I think it helps a lot.  I think it helps confidence, one, and just getting our team rolling.  You know, when we can go fast and call plays and throw it out there and they'll get five yards, it helps a lot with our offense, especially just keeping the defense off the field.  They played us tough today.  They played unbelievable.  But it was really good to see our running backs and O-line do what they did.   
 Q.  It seemed like you were really rushing to get to the line of scrimmage to keep it going.  How big was that?  
SHANE BUECHELE: Yeah, you know, it was a big thing going in practice, but we didn't think we'd use it this much.  But when it's working, you've got to keep going.  Once you get in that little roll, it's hard to stop.   
 Q.  You mentioned the defense; how big was it for them for you guys on offense for them to give you short fields and such great starting spots?  
SHANE BUECHELE: Yeah, they did a great job, just creating turnovers and just helping us with field position.  You know, I can't say it enough, they're pretty fun to watch from the sideline.   
 Q.  What was your impression of your freshmen running backs and how they performed today, Danny and Toneil?  
SHANE BUECHELE: You know, they were really good.  They run the ball hard, which is really good to see, and you know, they're fast.  They're quick guys, and they can hit it and bounce it off side, whatever they want to do.  But it was good to see Danny and Toneil do what they did.   
 Q.  Did they add any wrinkles to the offense this week?  
SHANE BUECHELE: No, you know, that's just part of our offense, part of that going fast mentality, either hand it off or get it up there quick.  It's just what the defense is giving you, and you take what they give you.   
 Q.  How long did it take before you knew you were going to be in a rhythm and that you were going to be on today?  
SHANE BUECHELE: You know, I'd say whatever we were going fast and we were completing balls, just going fast, it helped.  It always helps, it's always really good when you can get quick completions like that and just keep rolling, and like I said, get five yards here on the run game and then throw a stop.  It helps a lot, just with our tempo and getting in a rhythm.   
 Q.  Did Sam text you before the game and say good luck?  
SHANE BUECHELE: Yeah, he texted me last night, and he was just like, hey, just good luck, have a lot of fun out there, and I'll see you when you get back from getting that win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT