THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2013
Casey Wittenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk to me a little bit about how you feel about the position you're in heading into round 4? 
CASEY WITTENBERG:   Yeah, obviously, I'm in a good place.   I'm going to have to play some phenomenal golf this afternoon to win this golf tournament, and I realize that.   I'm sure these guys, especially Tiger and those guys, are probably going to progressively move forward in pretty difficult conditions.   So I'm just going to have to execute, put the ball on the fairway, and just do my best to make as many birdies as I can.

Q.   What about this week is different than maybe like a past month or so?   Why you're playing so well this week? 
CASEY WITTENBERG:   Well, I've driven the ball better this week than I have probably in a while.   I'm a little bit more familiar with this golf course, not really under these conditions, but I'm a little more familiar with this place than maybe some of the other venues I've been to. 
Hopefully, I can just continue to execute and hit the shots when they need to be hit and make a few putts.

Q.   Talk about that first tee shot? 
CASEY WITTENBERG:   Yeah, you're not kidding.   I did what was expected.   I put it four yards in the right rough, but I was far enough back to where I wasn't truly blocked out, and I could kind of chase something up on the green.

Q.   Did you use a 5 hybrid or 5 rescue? 
CASEY WITTENBERG:   Yeah, it's my 2‑iron.   It's just a little hybrid, and I just kind of chipped it there up to make sure it didn't turn over.

Q.   195? 
CASEY WITTENBERG:   Yeah, exactly.

Q.   Did you think about that last night? 
CASEY WITTENBERG:   No, it was just one of those things.   There are a lot of other hard shots out here that you have to execute first.   It's situational golf on this golf course.   You just try to get up there and hit the shot when it's required.

Q.   What are you going to do now? 
CASEY WITTENBERG:   Go home, maybe sleep for a little bit, and get packed up and get ready to go to Dallas.

Q.   Feeling good? 
CASEY WITTENBERG:   Yeah, for sure.   It's been a good week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT