FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 26, 2013
Casey Wittenberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How difficult is a day like today?   
    CASEY WITTENBERG:   Well, it kind of throws you out of your rhythm a little bit.   You're used to playing golf every day, so to kind of have a dead day here in the middle of your four tournament rounds is a little different.   
    But everybody's dealing with the same thing, so I'm sure we'll try to do our best out here tomorrow to play some good golf.  
   
 Q.   Which is harder to do:   Get mentally ready or physically ready and then to have to do it again, and again, and again?   
    CASEY WITTENBERG:   I would have to say physically.   The mental thing is all the same.   Once you step on the first tee, it should be the same deal.   So it's a little different, but, like I said, everybody's dealing with it.   Welcome to the job that is golf.   It's not the first delay I've ever had, and I'm sure it won't be the last this year.  
   
 Q.   Did you prepare to play today, or did you just come out and‑‑  
    CASEY WITTENBERG:   Yeah, I had all expectations to play today.  
   
 Q.   When you got here, did you go through the process of warming up?   
    CASEY WITTENBERG:   Oh, no, no, no.   By the time I got here, it was kind of a lost hope.   So I've hit a couple putts and hit some balls, and we'll get ready to roll tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Today was supposed to be moving day, but tomorrow will be moving day.   So what is the mindset for tomorrow?   
    CASEY WITTENBERG:   It will be interesting to see how many holes we get in.   I don't know really what the plan is.   If it's a 54‑hole tournament, then, yeah, you're going to have to go.   
    So the golf course will play soft.   It will play long, but it's going to play soft and be fairly receptive, so I'm sure some guys will shoot some low numbers.  
   
 Q.   If we go on Monday, do you readjust your thinking?   
    CASEY WITTENBERG:   Not really.   The guy that's winning the golf tournament has won a lot before, so in order to beat him, you're going to have to play some good golf and everybody knows that.   So we'll have to get out there and see what we can do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT