WNBA ALL-STAR GAME
July 28, 2018
Elena Delle Donne
Candace Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Team Parker - 119, Team Delle Donne - 112   
 Q.  I'm just curious how it all shook out, whether you felt like these were your own teams, if it felt different?  What was different in terms of the flow of the game?  
CANDACE PARKER: For me I think it's just being able to play with Eastern Conference players.  Like you play with players that you never -- like I never played with Tina [Charles] in an All-Star Game.  Angel [McCoughtry], the same thing.  So I think it's just being able to mix it up.  You talk about it like you're not going to make a bad pick.  Everybody is here for a reason.  So it was just about having fun and playing with players and being in the locker room with players you haven't been with.   
ELENA DELLE DONNE: Exactly what Candace said.  It's just fun changing it up, us doing the same thing for so long, change it up, get to be with different players, and it's all about having a good time.  It was cool at the end, I was getting a little worried that it was going to be a blowout, but the comeback was definitely interesting, too.  So that made it pretty fun to watch.   
 Q.  Given how you saw everything play out today, are you hoping that this format with the captains returns for next year for bigs?  
ELENA DELLE DONNE: Absolutely.   
CANDACE PARKER: I don't know if it'll matter.  Kidding, of course.  I think there will be a different method of picking if we know the All-Star Game is in Vegas.   
ELENA DELLE DONNE: Yeah, definitely a different method of picking.  Who's going to be hitting the streets is how we'll be picking.   
 Q.  Could each of you tell us your favorite moment from today's game?  
CANDACE PARKER: I mean, how do you follow the three-point contest?  I think that for me -- I know it wasn't during the game, but at halftime we had some of the best shooters in the world competing.  I mean, to have to make 21 to even get into the top two, to then have a shoot-off, to then have Allie [Quigley] hit 29 --   
ELENA DELLE DONNE: Is that a record?   
CANDACE PARKER: It has got to be a record.  Fact check.  But to me --   
ELENA DELLE DONNE: That was awesome.  And then for me, when Kristi Toliver went off at the end, that was pretty great, too, because I wanted her in that three-point finals.  She just missed it by one and then came out and hit fire.  So it was cool.   
 Q.  Just like your impression of Liz Cambage?  
CANDACE PARKER: I think both of us are for positionless basketball, but at some point, it's like, all right -- I told her in the fourth quarter, I was like, all right, Liz, you can shoot threes, I get it, but right now we need a layup, and she produced.   
ELENA DELLE DONNE: I was hoping she'd come out and played point the rest of the fourth, give us a little room to make a bigger run.  But I guess you kind of cut the positionless basketball for a second --   
CANDACE PARKER: Get out there and make a basket.   
 Q.  Are you both glad that Maya [Moore] finally gets to take a trophy home?  
ELENA DELLE DONNE: No comment.   
CANDACE PARKER: I know, right?  How do you answer that?  First of all, I want to make it home.  I'm in Minnesota, so I want to make it home.  Second of all, yeah, add it to the stash.   
ELENA DELLE DONNE: I'm sure the fans loved it.   
CANDACE PARKER: Yeah, for sure.   
 Q.  With the success of the three-point contest, are there other skills competitions that you guys would like to see next year or beyond, and what might those be?  
ELENA DELLE DONNE: I think we could do the -- is it called the NBA Skills Challenge?  That would be cool to see that because we're pretty good at doing all those things.  And then to make it like bigs versus smalls, I think that could also get pretty interesting.  I'm sure Liz would be thrilled to be in that.   
CANDACE PARKER: Liz would definitely enter that.   
ELENA DELLE DONNE: Yeah, no doubt.   
 Q.  You mentioned it a little bit, but I wanted to know for both of you, what's it been like playing in Minnesota where usually it's not the friendliest of atmospheres --  
CANDACE PARKER: No, I don't know anything about that.  No, I mean, a Minnesota fan high-fived me, and I was like, whoa, this is the All-Star Game.  Wow.  No, I mean, it's great.  You saw the crowd.  Their support for their team, and that's the main thing in the WNBA, when we have fans, even if they're against you, they rally behind their team, I respect it.  So it was fun.  It was a great All-Star Game.  They did a great job putting it on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT