WNBA FINALS: SHOCK v SILVER STARS
October 3, 2008
Sue Nokes
Donna Orender
Candace Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DONNA ORENDER: Thank you all. You know at the WNBA, we've said all season long, expect great. I'm thrilled to present today the HANNS-G 'GO BEYOND' ROOKIE-OF-THE-YEAR award to a person who has undoubtedly lived up to these expectations, and they were pretty heavy. 
 I don't know how your shoulders felt coming in, Candace, but they were significant. 
 Before we get started though let me personally thank HANS Spree North America for being our presenting partner of this WNBA's rookie program throughout the 2008 season. HANS Spree has been an Official WNBA partner since 2005, but they really went beyond this year with this brand-new rookie initiative. The HANNS-G 'GO BEYOND' ROOKIE PROGRAM highlighted the accomplishments and experiences of WNBA rookies with the series of HANNS-G 'GO BEYOND' rookie awards, a HANNS-G branded section on WNBA.com, and the HANNS-G 'GO BEYOND' Fan Challenge. We're really thrilled and very appreciative of this ongoing partnership. 
 This year, 36 rookies out of 42 drafted made a team's final roster. That's a pretty impressive number. I think it gives us all an indication of just how strong and impactful the young talent is that is driving the success of the WNBA, in this, our 12th season. These women now after so many years have had their sights set on the WNBA from a very early age. We've talked about this; their passion, dedication and talent are what the league is all about, and we're truly proud to have them on the 2008 WNBA All-Rookie Team, which includes the following players: From the Minnesota Lynx, the 2008 Wade Trophy winner and honor bestowed upon the best women's basketball player in women's NCAA Division I basketball Candice Wiggins. From the Chicago Sky, the second overall pick in the 2008 WNBA draft, Sylvia Fowles. Sylvia averaged more than ten points and seven rebounds per game during her rookie season in Chicago. 
 Our second rookie team member from the Minnesota Lynx, she won back-to-back National Championships. I think Candace knows her very well, a great teammate, Nicky Anosike.
 From the Houston Comets, playing in all 34 games this season, in her attempt help Houston revive its dynasty, Matee Ajavon from Rutgers. And from the Connecticut Sun, the leading scorer in women's Division I hoops in the 2007-2008 season, coming from a mid-major school, Amber Holt. 
 The rookie class has and continues to bring a lot of attention to the WNBA. There was one player in particular whose spectacular play and achievements created a very heralded entrance into the league. 
 I'm happy to announce today, and it should not come as a surprise to anyone, as it was a unanimous selection by all who voted that Candace Parker is the 2008 WNBA Rookie of the Year. She led the league -- you can clap if you'd like sure. 
 (Applause.)
 Candace led the league in rebounds and led all rookies in scoring with 18.5 points per game; 2.3 blocks per game, and minutes, 33.6; no wonder why you needed some sleep, right. 
 This award is hardly the first acknowledgement of Candace's outstanding rookie season. She also earned the inaugural HANNS-G 'GO BEYOND' ROOKIE OF THE MONTH Award in May, and followed that with another win in July. 
 Our fans have acknowledged Candace's superb talents and her popularity by making her jersey the best-selling jersey in the WNBA this season and of all time. Candace Parker, it is truly a pleasure and privilege to congratulate you on being the WNBA Rookie of the Year. 
 (Applause.)
 CANDACE PARKER: Thank you. Obviously coming into the league, you know, our rookie class have dreamed of playing in the WNBA since we were, you know, 11, 12 years old. I mean, we've looked up to players like, you know, Lisa Leslie, Tina Thompson and to come into the WNBA and make the kind of impact I think our rookie class made in its first year is just amazing. 
 And, you know, I think it's an impact that our rookie class will continue to make. And, you know, it's an honor to be standing up here to receive the Rookie of the Year award. I know that this 2008 class was a great class, and, you know, its truly an honor. 
 I just definitely want to thank my coaches and my teammates for pushing me every day in practice, and, you know, not taking it easy on me. And, you know, that's why I'm here today. Thank you. 
 (Applause.)
 DONNA ORENDER: Well, there's been more talk this year than ever before I think than any of us can recall about who would be this year's league's MVP. The fact that there were so many qualified candidates I think, again, speaks to the strength of the talent in the WNBA. T-Mobile partner who is dialed in to what is happening and has partnered with the WNBA to this year present the WNBA Most Valuable Player Award. 
 They've also partnered with the league's many fans, and for the first time in our history has given them a voice in the voting process, and ultimately the selection of this year's MVP. 
 You know, Sue Nokes, I'd like to personally thank you on behalf of myself, but of course the entire league, for your support of the WNBA and for partnering with the league on this award. And all of us know that with T-Mobile, we like to talk about our Fav Five, right? And there were a lot of MVP moments this year that we can put into our Fav Five. 
 So quickly we should go through them and say, one, absolutely the first-ever outdoor, regular season professional basketball game played between the New York Liberty and the Indiana Fever at the Billie Jean King Tennis Center. 
 Two, Candace, I have to say wining a gold medal in Beijing would definitely have to be one of all of our Fav Fives, and I'm sure it's one of yours, as well. 
 Three, presenting Good Morning America's Robin Roberts, and, of course, one of the pioneer sportscasters in sports and also for the WNBA the WNBA Inspiring Women Award in San Francisco earlier this season. 
 Four, would be achieving our attendance ratings, Internet traffic and merchandise sales growth goals this year. 
 And, five, certainly not the least is the incredibly high level of play from Diana Taurasi winning the scoring title, you will not find a player with greater passion; to Sue Bird's phenomenal performance both in the Olympics and upon her return; to Lindsey Whalen leading a very young and revamped Canadian team to the playoffs when people picked them to finish last; and, of course, to Candace Parker getting a triple-double in her first-ever WNBA game. 
 As I said, it was one of the tightest and deepest races for the MVP in our league's history. As I said before, we ask you to expect great. We ask our players to deliver great. And the player who earned the MVP certainly lived up to that. She recorded a lot of firsts this year, but perhaps her most significant first is for the first time in WNBA history the MVP award is going to a rookie. 
 It's my pleasure to announce that Candace Parker of the Los Angeles Sparks is the 2008 WNBA Most Valuable Player presented by T-Mobile. If you want to clap, you can do that again, too. (Applause.)
 Okay, I can't leave here without giving you some of the most amazing statistics. It will cap a season in which Candace earned All-WNBA First Team honors, a Player of the Week Award, and the Peak Performer Rebounding Award. She led the league in double-doubles at 17. She scored more than 30 points three times, including a 40-point performance against the Houston Comets on July 9th. She also led the league in rebounds, pulling down nearly ten a game; a half a rebound a game, and you would have averaged a double-double. Just want to give you things to shoot for more next year, okay. 
 Her unique combination of athleticism and basketball IQ resulted in some WNBA firsts. Among them, a performance against the Indiana Fever in which she posted the first five-by-five, putting up five or more in five separate statistical categories: 16 points, 16 rebounds, six blocked shots, five assists and five steals. Next year, your goal is to do at least that three times, okay. 
 Her athletic grace, her charisma, her fan appeal endeared her to audiences around the country. I know to all of her teammates, coaches, all of us hold her in such high esteem, and Candace, we do the have many, many expectations for you for the future, and we only wish you the best of luck. 
 Now let me welcome Chief Customer and Operations Operator, Sue Nokes, to the podium from T-Mobile to present the Most Valuable Player Award. 
 (Applause.)
 SUE NOKES: Thank you, Donna. And on behalf of T-Mobile we're excited to be part of this award. 
 As an Official Partner of the WNBA, we're thrilled to be associated with this league of tremendously talented athletes and supporting the league, and what they do the on and off the court and the example they are for young women across the country. 
 So on behalf of the entire T-Mobile family, I am honored to present the 2008 WNBA Most Valuable Player Award to Candace Parker of the Los Angeles Sparks. We're honored to be associated and to recognize her contributions on and off the court. (Applause.)
 CANDACE PARKER: You know, I was honored to get the Rookie of the Year Award. And when they told me I got MVP, I was definitely in amazement. You know, being in this league you realize how special it truly is. And the amount of players that are in it that are well deserving of this award, you know, the list can go on and on. 
 You know, there's been Fav Five moments in my career in my short career in the WNBA, and, you know, I look forward to playing in it for years to come because this season definitely was memorable. Ended a little earlier than I wanted it to end, but to receive this award, it's great honor. Obviously came with people motivating me every day. 
 You know, my family played a huge role. I called and told my mom and my dad and my brothers this morning and they were so excited. You know, because they've been there with me every step of the way, you know, helping me accomplish everything that I have. And, you know, obviously my teammates and my coaches and the City of Los Angeles who have supported me since day one. 
 You know, Coach Cooper set this goal for me early on, and I looked at him like he was crazy. He's like, "We're guy going to win Rookie of the Year; you're going to win a championship, and you're going to win MVP." 
 I just looked at him like, that's what you expect of me already? He pushed me every day at practice, he played me 30 something minutes a game and I really appreciate it. 
 My teammates, every day in practice they push me. You know, they're -- they push me to new things, things I didn't know I could do. And obviously Lisa Leslie and Delisha Milton was very instrumental in my development as a rookie. 
 I just thank the City of Los Angeles, as well. The fans supported us all the way and we're looking forward to bringing them a championship in 2009. Thank you. 
 (Applause.)

 Q. Could you please talk about the year that you've had. Obviously a national title, an Olympic gold medal and now this? 
 CANDACE PARKER: You know, 2008 I knew was going to be a huge year. I circled it on my calendar because it was going to be the year I came out from college hopefully wining a National Championship and ending that chapter on the right foot. 
 And to be drafted in the WNBA, you know, several hours after winning the National Championship and then to play in the Olympics, I mean, that's something that I remember sitting on my couch in the '96 Olympics watching Sheryl Swoopes, Lisa Leslie, Teresa Edwards capture the gold medal and just telling my parents that I wanted to be there. And to live that moment in Beijing where they did it amazing Olympics and just surrounded by greatness of people from all backgrounds, from, you know, every sport; and then to come into the WNBA and have the season that, you know, Los Angeles has had. And, you know, I just hope that I made an impact. That's my goal -- that was my goal for 2008 was just to make an impact. 

 Q. Could you talk about Hornbuckle? I mean, now she's in the WNBA Finals. Obviously she played with you. Have you talked to her and her thoughts of playing, you know, on the big stage? 
 CANDACE PARKER: You know, I congratulated her on making the Finals when she made it. And, you know, just told her that I'm proud of her. 
 You know, to have the opportunity to first win an NCAA Championship then go and win a WNBA Championship is amazing. And she's very crucial for their team. I think she plays the role where, you know, what she does for the team doesn't necessarily show up on the stat sheet, but she's very important to that team. And I think they're doing a good job. 

 Q. Candace, just where do you think your career goes from here? 
 CANDACE PARKER: My career goals coming in this year was to win a WNBA Championship. That's the only thing that I thought of and the only thing I dreamed about, and so, you know, to fall short of that definitely gives me motivation for next year. 
 And, you know, just makes me hungry to come back a better player and hopefully lead the team to the WNBA championship. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT