WNBA FINALS: SPARKS VS LYNX
September 26, 2017
Alana Beard
Candace Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Lynx - 70, Sparks - 68
Q. Alana, can you just take us through the five-second call, what did you see there and what was happening that didn't allow you to get the ball in?
ALANA BEARD: I didn't see anyone open, but with that being said, it's my responsibility to do whatever I can to get the ball inbounds, and that didn't happen.
Q. Candace, you were without any points there in the first half; is it something that they were guarding or is there something that attributed to the slow start?
CANDACE PARKER: I mean, they did a good job being physical, but you know, I didn't have any rebounds, didn't have any steals I don't think.  Like there's other things I can do besides score.  You know, I can't say it happens, because it shouldn't, whether -- to have zero rebounds going into the second half.
Q. A couple of your teammates told me that they're eager to get home, and then Magic Johnson, to have his presence inside Staples.  Does that mean more to have him in the building or do you draw inspiration from him?
CANDACE PARKER: I mean, I think when your owner is a five-time NBA champion, it does speak volumes to what he brings to the table, his wisdom, his experience.  We're obviously thinking about Game 3 already, and we know it's going to be a fight -- at this point in the series, it really doesn't matter where we play, I don't think.  It's going to be a fight for sure.
Q. Candace, as evenly matched as these two teams are, is this how it's going to be the whole way, no lead is safe, teams will respond back and forth just like the first two games here?
CANDACE PARKER: I mean, I know that these two games have been -- we've both gotten out to huge leads, and the other team has just fought back.  What that says to me is, yeah, no lead is safe, and you're never out of the game.  In the first half I feel like if we could take a couple of those possessions back and we could be told at the end of the game it'll be a two-point game, I know I would I do a lot of things differently, and in the Finals you can't have that.  You should play every possession because every possession is important.
Q. Is it mission accomplished to get out of here with a win and take home court back, or is it a missed opportunity tonight?
CANDACE PARKER: I don't know, I haven't really reflected yet.  Obviously now it's a three-game series.  We have home-court advantage, but at the same time, last year that meant nothing.  This year I think we've proven it doesn't really matter where we play.  It really doesn't.  I think it's going to be a difficult series, and that's our job is to make things as difficult as possible on them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT