U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1996
Brian Hainline
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DR. HAINLINE:  Pete is fine and I think in summary, one can say the following happened:  He perceived, after the first set or two, that he just didn't have the energy that he might normally have and his stomach became a little queasy.  He was drinking different things to try to overcome that and what happened with the stomach queasiness, he wasn't able to keep as well hydrated as he normally would and with that, he became dehydrated and what we saw at the end of the match was a combination of the stomach queasiness dehydration and then his body really let out, so we have him in the room now.  He is actually doing very well. Virtually completely recovered and he has required hydration to get back to where he was.  So that is the essence of things. There is nothing otherwise going on medically, and he is feeling a lot better. 
 

Q.  Did he have the dry heaves?  Is that what you are  saying?
 
DR. HAINLINE:  He actually did vomit on the court. 
 

Q.  Why do you think this happened?  Would it be unusual for this to happen that early?
 
DR. HAINLINE:  Well, I think it was -- I don't know -- we don't think there is anything going on acutely medically. He doesn't have gastroenteritis.  He is otherwise feeling well.  I think it was a combination of feeling a little queasy early on, possibly drinking some carbonated beverages which didn't help the situation; being in a match that was tougher than he anticipated and then not being able to keep hydrated, so it was really a whole combination of things.  Why it happened now, that is just how it is. 
 

Q.  You gave him intravenous when you say you hydrated him?
 
DR. HAINLINE:  He did require intravenous hydration, yes. 
 

Q.  A lot?  A little?
 
DR. HAINLINE:  Two liters. 
 

Q.  Was he feeling completely well at the start of the match?
 
DR. HAINLINE:  I didn't talk in detail with him about that.  I mean, he was feeling well medically, let us put it that way. 
 

Q.  Did Stefan Edberg at one point come in to see Pete? 
 
DR. HAINLINE:  Not to my knowledge, no. 
 

Q.  Do you think he will be well enough for the next match?
 
DR. HAINLINE:  I think so, yes. 
 

Q.  Is he receiving I.V. treatment?
 
DR. HAINLINE:  I am sorry? 
 

Q.  Is he receiving I.V.?
 
DR. HAINLINE:  He did receive I.V. treatment, yes. 
 

Q.  Is he the only player so far at the Open that has this year?
 
DR. HAINLINE:  No. 
 

Q.  What was the immediate thing that you did as he came off the court?  What was the immediate treatment that you --
 
DR. HAINLINE:  Immediate thing was to assess him.  Had his vital signs assessed.  We did a general medical examination and talked to him; tried to figure out which way we need to go. 
 

Q.  What was that way?
 
DR. HAINLINE:  At first we let him just relax because that is what he really needed to do and as he did relax, it became clear that he wasn't acutely ill, but that he was very dehydrated, so then we knew that the best course would be to intravenously hydrate him because he was probably not feeling well enough to take anything orally. 
 

Q.  Was he getting cramps?
 
DR. HAINLINE:  He didn't have classic muscle cramps,  but he was very tight, yes, his muscles were very tight. 
 

Q.  Were you on-court during the tiebreaker and if yes were you afraid that he would collapse?
 
DR. HAINLINE:  Yes, I was concerned, yes. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT