TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 14, 2006
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Kind of an exciting match, but a little too close for comfort, considering you came in having lost the first match? 
 MIKE BRYAN:  It would have been good to win in straights.  I think now if Erlich/Ram win, I think we have to win in straights. 
 It was a sticky second set.  We had a few chances.  A little upsetting to lose it, but made it more exciting.  It's going to be a fun match to look back on. 

 Q.  Your good buddy Andy is on court facing the world No. 1, Roger Federer.  His results in the past were not that desirable, 1 win with 11 losses.  What do you make of it? 
 BOB BRYAN:  It's really the only guy that Andy doesn't have a good record against.  We were talking about it at breakfast a couple days ago.  He's got an excellent record against everyone else in the tournament.  But, you know, no one really has a good record against Roger.  He's the best player in the world for the last three years.  Everyone really respects Roger, the way he's playing.  I don't think Andy's too discouraged.  I think he's going to go out there positive.  Winning a set is like a victory against this guy. 

 Q.  Tomorrow you guys will have a band concert.  Tell us about the history of this band.  How many times have you performed like this and when was the first time? 
 MIKE BRYAN:  We've been playing forever.  My dad was in a band and he taught us to play, you know, at age three, four, five.  We've been playing gigs around the world at player parties. 
 It's going to be fun.  This will be our third gig in Shanghai.  We have a tremendous support base here for our music.  It's pretty unbelievable (smiling).  No one really cares about our music, but the Shanghai people love it. 

 Q.  What songs will be listed in your program? 
 BOB BRYAN:  We have 18 songs on our list, 18 that we are thinking about doing.  We're going to see how the crowd responds, see if they want us to stay up there. 
 It mostly consists of Beatles and U2.  Those are the two big artists.  That's who the Shanghai people know.  We have our bands that we like to cover, but I don't think the people here know them.  Dave Matthews Band, John Mayer.  No one really cares about those guys.  But Beatles and U2, everyone knows those guys. 

 Q.  Chest bumping is your token of celebration.  However, during this whole match your opponents, Paes and his partner, did it.  You didn't do that until the very last minute.  What do you make of it? 
 MIKE BRYAN:  We didn't invent the chest bump.  I mean, it's free to use.  If anyone wants to use it, they can use it.  I mean, I think we might have beat them out 5-4 in chest bumps (smiling). 

 Q.  The scheduled concert band was today.  It has been postponed till tomorrow.  What is the reason for this change?  Also, off the court, what do you do?  Share any common interests? 
 BOB BRYAN:  I didn't know that it was postponed.  We scheduled it for Wednesday. 
 Off the court, we've been having nice dinners, been going shopping, getting a lot of clothes, DVDs (smiling), getting some great Chinese massages. 

 Q.  Under tremendous pressure in the decider, especially the tiebreak.  You could have lost the game.  You would have been totally out of this tournament.  What were you saying to each other?  Did you give each other some support?  If so, what did you say actually to each other? 
 MIKE BRYAN:  Yeah, I mean, we don't talk about, you know, losing, if we lose we're out of the tournament.  We just try to stay positive.  I pump him up, tell him that he's hitting good serves.  We usually come together between points, just talk about strategy if we're going to do a chest bump after the point (smiling). 
 Yeah, in those moments, you just tell your partner to go for it, take some risk. 

 Q.  What do you think of the reforms proposed by the ATP in terms of men's doubles?  Last year you were not too cool about it or opposed to this reform. 
 BOB BRYAN:  We're behind it.  I think all the players are behind it now.  We've accepted the changes.  We've just grown to kind of love the changes.  It's been exciting for the fans.  All the players really respect what the new CEO, Etienne de Villiers, has been doing.  Everyone's really positive about the new ideas for the sport. 

 Q.  You're like inseparable in life, on court and off court.  Aren't you kind of tired of this kind of pattern?  Would you consider looking for a new partner for your games? 
 MIKE BRYAN:  Not after a win, but after a loss (smiling).  We duke it out. 
 We're twin brothers.  We're going to stay together forever.  Not going to give up on each other.  We're going to finish out our careers together. 
 That's what makes playing doubles and winning with your brother, losing with your brother special.  I know he's not ever going to give up on me.  It's extra fun winning with your brother. 

 Q.  You mentioned your common interests.  You've been here for a few days.  Any shopping that you did?  If so, what kind of things did you buy?  Any bars that you checked out locally? 
 BOB BRYAN:  We went shopping three times.  We got two suits, three jackets, a pair of jeans, four scarves, three DVDs.  We got them for really cheap - really cheap (smiling). 

 Q.  How much? 
 BOB BRYAN:  My jeans were $10, which is unbelievable.  In the States, they're $300.  Pretty much every deal was like that.  No bars yet. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT