NASDAQ-100 OPEN
April 1, 2006
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  You guys were 4-1 against them coming into today. 
 BOB BRYAN:  Yeah, yeah. 
 Q.  You were in the last two finals.  What was different about today? 
 BOB BRYAN:  We could have been 5-1 if we would have won a couple of those 3-All points.  They played more clutch today.  You know, we had chances.  It's not like we got blown out, you know.  We broke twice and had maybe five other breakpoints. 
 So it just -- they played clutch on the big points, and we didn't have the magic today.  That was the bottom line.  They deserved to win.  They both returned well.  You know, this might be the first time Mike's never held serve in a match.  Maybe I wasn't helping him out as much as I could have.  We were losing some -- one of those intangible points, those kind of flukey points.  They were really lighting up on the returns. 
 But it's not like we feel like we got blown out in any way.  It wasn't really 4 and 4. 
 Q.  Any comments about next week, Davis Cup, how you're feeling? 
 MIKE BRYAN:  We're looking forward to Davis Cup.  You know, it's gonna be a good week.  We're leaving tonight with the team, all taking a private jet.  It's going to be a fun week. 
 You know, love hanging out with Andy and James.  Doubles is gonna be key over there 'cause those guys, Gonzalez can play on the grass.  So I think we're looking forward to it. 
 I don't think those two Chilean guys can play as good as these guys played today.  Hopefully, we can keep up our good play. 
 Q.  Andy said the other day that he's "jonesing" for the grass.  Do you guys feel the same way right now?  And how strange is it to go play on grass, you know, for a week, and then come back to clay? 
 BOB BRYAN:  We're looking forward to it.  It was our choice.  We think we have the best chance to win on that surface. 
 I know Andy is looking forward to it.  You know, he's had some -- a few rough weeks for his standards.  But, you know, I think his serve is really going to be going through.  He's going to be getting a lot of easy points on that grass. 
 We love the grass, too.  We like to play aerial ball and take volleys out of the air, where the Chileans like to stay back on the baseline a little more and hit ground strokes.  I don't think grass allows for that as much. 
 So, you know, we played pretty good this week, but we have a lot of stuff we want to improve on.  I want to hit my return a lot better.  It's going to be a good week of practice in Palm Springs. 
 You know, Dean Goldfine, Andy's ex-coach, is going to be out there working with us.  He's real excited.  He's been out here watching our matches all week.  I'm sure he has a lot of ideas.  He's been working hard, you know. 
 So we're looking forward to next week.  It's gonna be a fun week. 
 Q.  Any special feelings about revenge because of the Olympics? 
 BOB BRYAN:  Revenge? 
 MIKE BRYAN:  We already got -- 
 Q.  Sports revenge. 
 MIKE BRYAN:  I mean, I think we already got our revenge.  We beat them at the US Open, went on to win it.  You know, they're a good team.  They've beaten us, I think, maybe a few times, or once? 
 BOB BRYAN:  Once. 
 MIKE BRYAN:  Sorry.  Once. 
 I mean, I don't think there's any revenge involved.  It was a long time ago.  It was two years ago.  We're just looking to help out our country and win this match. 
 Q.  It's gonna be different this time, Davis Cup, quarterfinals.  What do you expect of them, especially on the team, the doubles match?  I'm Chilean.  That's why I ask. 
 MIKE BRYAN:  We expect them to play well.  You know, they're both big servers.  You know, if you serve well on grass, you're tough, and I think at the Olympics they served 91%.  So if they serve like that, it doesn't matter what surface they play us on. 
 You know, we hope to play well.  I mean, we've had good results on grass.  I think that's one of our favorite surfaces. 
 BOB BRYAN:  Yeah, I mean, those guys both play well when, you know, they're playing for their country, like they played in the Olympics.  They had the flag on their back and they both rose to the occasion.  I'm sure they'll play with more energy and they'll step up in Davis Cup. 
 But we have to match that, you know.  We have to match their energy and do what we do. 
 Q.  Strengths and weakness of them? 
 BOB BRYAN:  Strengths are they both have great first serves.  Gonzalez has a huge forehand.  Massu is really solid on both sides.  They both fight really hard. 
 Q.  Weaknesses? 
 BOB BRYAN:  Hopefully, we can expose some of their net play out on the doubles court.  I know they like to stay on the baseline, you know.  Maybe we can expose their volleys 'cause we feel like we're the better volleying team. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT