TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 17, 2005
Bob Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Compared with yesterday's performance in the concert, is today's match more interesting?

MIKE BRYAN:  I had more fun during the concert (smiling).  It felt good to go out there and play music.  I don't even think it was that good of music, but people loved it. You know, we felt like a real band.  We felt like the Rolling Stones.  I mean, we had people that had signs.  We had a little mosh pit. Today we're happy to make the semis because it was obviously a pretty tight match.


Q.  Today's matches, including singles and doubles, today was the most exciting match, and you turned it around.  What can we expect from you in the semis?

BOB BRYAN:  You know, today was a great match for the fans.  It was great tennis, great drama.  Hopefully we can do another one of those performances.  I think it was a great show.  Luckily we were part of it.  You know, can't expect anything like that in the semis.  Those come around once every couple times a year. If it happens again in the semis, it's another good match, then we'll be happy.  This is the entertainment business.  We're out here to put on a good show for the fans.  I think we're proud of ourselves to win the match and put on a good show.


Q.  Today you reached the world No. 1 again.  What do you think about it?

MIKE BRYAN:  It feels really good to be No. 1 again.  Coming into the year, that was our No. 1 goal.  To win the US Open also was great, but this shows that we had an unbelievable year.  We've had a consistent year.  When we go back to our house in December, it's going to feel really sweet to look back on the year and know that we finished on top of the heap.  It's pretty special.


Q.  You have made all the finals in Grand Slams, but only got one title.  Any comments on that?

BOB BRYAN:  Yeah, we had some bad luck.  We won the 2003 French Open, and then I think we lost five finals in a row in the Grand Slams.  We were devastated after losing the Wimbledon final because when you lose five in a row, you think something's wrong with you. But Mike and I just stayed positive and we just said, "Let's just keep trying to get in those situations."  You know, flip the coin as many times as we can, hopefully it goes our way. At The Open, we played our best match of the year.  I think it made it more special just being as low as it gets.  And then after winning a Grand Slam in your home country, it was pretty much the pinnacle of our career.


Q.  The third set tiebreak.  One point, Paes made a mistake.  Do you remember that?

MIKE BRYAN:  Yeah, it was 5-4, their advantage.  Paes missed an overhead at the net to go up 6-4.  We thank our lucky stars for that.  I mean, we were pretty fortunate.  That could have put us down two match points. But, you know, that was probably maybe the biggest point of the match looking back on it.

BOB BRYAN:  Leander played a great match.  At times he was the best player on the court.  He had bad luck with that overhead, but I think he's showing everyone why he's one of the best players of all time.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT