ATP MASTERS SERIES- MADRID
October 19, 2004
Bob Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  For the Davis Cup, how do you see the matches? 

BOB BRYAN:  I think everyone on the American team is definitely really excited for the Davis Cup.  You know, it's hard not to think about it every day.  Even this indoor season, the rest of the year, it's kind of just a lead-up to the big event at the end of the year for us.  We want to finish No. 1.  But that's our last big goal, is Davis Cup. 

Q.  The Spanish players will likely be Nadal and Robredo.  What do you think of that team? 

MIKE BRYAN:  I think they're a good team.  They've had some good results recently.  They're a different team because they stay back and they're going to, you know, hit big groundstrokes.  We're used to playing players that serve and volley.  So that will be a little different.  You know, obviously we've got to be pretty sharp.  I think the doubles is big for this tie because Spain is favored in the singles; it's on clay.  I think a big emphasis is going to be on the doubles.  I think we're a little favored right now, but it's going to be a tough match. 

Q.  [] in Seville, there's going to be around 20,000 fans.  How are you going to manage the pressure? 

BOB BRYAN:  Yeah, I think it's going to be, you know, a great atmosphere - maybe the greatest atmosphere we've ever played in.  I think it's going to make for a really fun match and really exciting.  You know, we love that it's 20,000 people.  Seville, I hear it's a very beautiful city.  I think it's only going to help.  It's going to help the Spanish players, for sure.  They're going to have the crowd on their side, the momentum.  But, you know, it's going to be fun for us to go in there and try to climb up the hill and beat a great team in front of a huge crowd.  I think if they win the match at home, it will be really special for them, they'll be able to celebrate with their fans.  But, you know, if we win, we know we've done something great going in there and beating 20,000 fans and a great team. 

Q.  Do you consider yourself favorites going into that Nadal match? 

MIKE BRYAN:  I'd like to think so.  You know, we've been playing together 26 years.  You know, they're a new team.  Obviously they've had some good results, and there's going to have the fans on their side.  But we just played way more matches than they have.  You know, we can play on clay, too.  We won the French Open last year.  But they're a different team.  They're a tough team.  They're going to be smashing groundstrokes at us.  Davis Cup matches, there's a lot of energy, so they're going to be fired up.  They're going to be playing their best tennis.  We're just going to have to be really sharp and we're going to take a week off after the Houston Masters Cup and get on that clay as soon as possible to get ready for them. 

Q.  Do you know anything about Seville?  What have you heard about the city? 

BOB BRYAN:  I mean, everyone that I've talked to says they love Seville and they say, "You're going to have a great time."  I've just heard that it's beautiful.  I haven't seen pictures of it.  But, you know, I might do some research and check it out before we go there.  Actually someone just pointed it out to me on a map.  I didn't really know where it was.  Now I know it's in the south of Spain.  But we're all really happy that it's in a beautiful city.  It's going to be a lot of fun.  I think we're going to stay downtown.  There's nice restaurants.  Just makes for a good time. 

Q.  It's been a while since the United States has been in a Davis Cup final.  What does it mean for you?  Where do you place that in your career as far as Grand Slams? 

MIKE BRYAN:  You know, I talked to Andy.  I know Mardy, they rank this right up there with winning Grand Slams.  You know, Davis Cup is really special to all of us.  Now that we haven't got a Grand Slam this year and Andy hasn't got one, I don't think any American got one, we're putting our focus on this tie.  You know, the US hasn't won a Davis Cup since '95.  It makes it a little bit more special.  We got a young team.  Hopefully this team can stick together and we can have glory days like Agassi and Sampras.  But, you know, this tie is going to be a challenge, and we're looking forward to it. 

Q.  How much more confident would you feel if Agassi was on the team?

BOB BRYAN:  You can look at it both ways.  You know, Agassi is one of the clutchest (sic) players of all time.  He's won so many matches in Grand Slams, that you want a player like that playing a big match like a Davis Cup match.  Also, he's been there, he's played 12 years of Davis Cup.  You know, maybe he's had his time.  This team has earned this chance to go into Spain and try to beat a great team like the Spanish team.  Maybe if Andre played, he'd be taking a spot away from a player who has earned it.  We've talked to him.  We don't expect Andre Agassi to play the match.  And I think he said yesterday he feels like he would be taking a spot from a Mardy Fish or Ginepri who has earned the spot.  It's nice of him to think of the other players.  But he's had 12 good years of Davis Cup, and it does take a lot out of your body emotionally and physically. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT