COUPE ROGERS
August 16, 2015
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRYAN‑BRYAN/Nestor‑Roger‑Vasselin
  7‑6, 3‑6, 10‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR: 109th career title, sixth of the season, third consecutive in as many weeks, and fifth title Rogers Cup, first of course coming in Montréal.   
Questions.   
   
 Q. You guys ever get tired of playing with each other?  
BOB BRYAN: Sometimes.  
MIKE BRYAN: We were having some choice words with each other in that second set. Just because we've been around each other so much, the losses are tougher, but the wins are sweeter. That's why we're still doing what we're doing, because we love playing together as a team.   
We do have our days where we're sick of each other, that's for sure.   
   
 Q. When you look at Daniel Nestor, 42. You guys are 36, I understand. Do you think you'll still be around playing when you're 42? How long do you think both you guys and Nestor can go playing doubles?  
BOB BRYAN: I mean, Danny has kind of set the bar for the rest of the guys. 10 years ago 35 was ancient, and now he's 42. He's really blazing the trail for the doubles guys, giving everyone kind of hope that they can do this as long as they're healthy.   
Danny has an incredible serve and a great kind of lanky, flexible body. He's stayed injury‑free for so many years. He could do this as long as he's having fun.   
But as he said, you know, two years from now he might not be coming back to Montréal. That's probably a realistic statement by him. At some point, family takes priority and you got to kind of reshuffle and rebalance your life.   
Right now I'm staring down the barrel of my third kid in the fall. Who knows, maybe in a couple years we won't want to travel as much. We'll want to stay home and really enjoy the family.   
But right now we're having a blast. I'm able to take my family on the road and do this together, which is a blast. They're coming to Cincy, they're going to the Open. As long as the travel is easy on them, then why not keep going?   
   
 Q. Is it tougher when kids are in school?  
BOB BRYAN: Yeah, yeah. I think once they get to about five years old, it's going to be brutal. This tour is a grind. I mean, the travel is insane. We always say there's no off‑season. December is the only time to relax. Even then you got to practice for the next year.   
Once they get to five, it's maybe sayonara. We'll see if we can pull it off.   
MIKE BRYAN: One is almost four, so does that mean...   
BOB BRYAN: You do the math (laughter).   
   
 Q. How happy are you with the turnout there was today?   
MIKE BRYAN: Yeah, we love to do what we do. But it's even more special when you look up and see a lot of people in the seats. It's a credit to the great Montréal fans.   
Maybe they're out there to see Nestor. Maybe some people were out to see us. It definitely makes for a more exciting atmosphere, more intense. Those are the moments you play for, big Masters Series finals, coming out to a packed stadium. That was cool.   
   
 Q. The doubles are starting slowly to be shown a little more on stream and TV. You have been working or talking about it quite some time already. How happy are you with the fact that it's starting to pick up a little bit?  
BOB BRYAN: Yeah, it's starting to pick up. As long as doubles isn't on TV, we can't really expect the public to get as involved. You know, they want to see people that are stars. Novak Djokovic plays every match on TV. People love him. He's a big star. They're going to come to see him.   
As long as doubles matches are on the outside courts, not streamed, it's going to be a tough row to hoe. I think all pro matches should at least be streamed live on the Internet. I don't think that's too much to ask.   
The challengers are now streamed live. You can see Court1 and Court2 of challengers, but not necessarily can you see a great doubles match between Tsonga‑Monfils on Court2 here in Montréal.   
We would like to see the ATP take steps to at least live stream on the Internet every pro match. It should be something to strive for, I think.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT