DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FIRST ROUND: BRAZIL v USA
February 2, 2013
Mike Bryan
Bob Bryan
Jim Courier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MELO‑SOARES/Bryan‑Bryan
  7‑6, 6‑7, 6‑4, 3‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   If you're looking back, is it the first set, three missed breakpoints in the fifth set?   Is there a point you're still thinking about now? 
MIKE BRYAN:   In the first set, we could have got on top of them a little bit.   We played a couple points in the fifth, I thought we were on top of them for about 45 minutes there in the match towards the end, didn't go our way there.   I didn't play my best service game in the fifth.   Got broken at love.   It can turn on a dime.   Small margins out there. 

Q.   Bob, your reaction to the match today? 
BOB BRYAN:   You know, hats off to the Brazilians.   I thought they served well pretty much of the four hours.   A lot of high‑percentage first serves.   They were half‑volleying well, keeping the pressure on for a long time. 
You know, we're obviously disappointed.   We would have loved to get the point for the U.S.   I feel like we're capable of playing at a higher level.   We'll get back to work and hopefully the guys will get it done on Sunday and we'll have another opportunity to make this right. 

Q.   What was the exchange about with the Brazilian bench late in the second set? 
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, Davis Cup is an emotional atmosphere.   They got passionate after they thought they won the set.   I got passionate to them.   There were some words said. 
You know, no hard feelings, no grudges.   It's Davis Cup.   This sort of stuff happens all the time.   It didn't affect the outcome of the match at all.   There's no hard feelings. 

Q.   Mike, were you trying to pump Bob up?   You were high stepping there, too, once you took the second. 
MIKE BRYAN:   The crowd was getting into it there.   It was a pivotal moment to win the second set, which felt good.   We were either going to chest bump or high step or do something. 
But, yeah, that felt good to win that set, you know.   Yeah, we were excited. 

Q.   Jim, the last couple days you told us, Don't overlook this doubles team.   Can you talk about it, was this the type of performance you expected from them? 
CAPTAIN COURIER:   Their backs are against the wall.   They're a good team.   They're a team that's experienced at Davis Cup and they've played Bob and Mike.   So you add that up.   You know you're going to get a good battle out from those guys.   They're not going to roll over just 'cause their team is down 2‑0. 
They came out with something to prove and played an extremely high level of doubles, made some great gets.   As Bob said, they served a high percentage particularly when they needed to.   They staved off three set points in the first set and some breakpoints in the fifth set. 
So, you know, I'm sure these guys can play at a higher level.   I'm not sure that those guys can.   To their credit, they played great today and they deserved to win. 

Q.   Looking at going into the match, what were your tactics?   How did it go?   If you had to do it again, do you feel you were aggressive enough in the match?   Can you share anything you discussed during breaks with the captain about tactics? 
BOB BRYAN:   No, you know, the coaching was great all week.   We worked on the right things.   We had a great game plan from Jim, from our coach at home.   It's on us to execute it.   Had we done that, we would be sitting here drinking champagne. 
We didn't get it done, and that's our fault.   We came here from Australia and gave it our best effort to get in shape and win this match, and we came up short. 
All the credit to those guys.   They've beaten us before.   They're a good team.   They're in the mix in the big tournaments around the world.   They knock on the door.   They beat some other big teams as well.   I'm sure we're going to see them again for many years. 
But, you know, I'm counting on John and Sam, those guys are looking good, and I have a lot of confidence in them to hopefully give us another shot in a couple months. 

Q.   Mike, can you add to that about what Bob said just coming over from Australia?   Huge high, becoming the all‑time leaders.   35 hours of travel to get here.   Was there any sense of jetlag, letdown, emotional high, the travel to get here? 
MIKE BRYAN:   We've done it before.   Pretty much every slam we've won we've gone right to Davis Cup.   We're experienced with the flying.   It took us a few days to get adjusted.   But we felt great today.   I don't think we were tired.   We weren't fatigued mentally.   We were up for the match.   Excited to play for our country. 
I don't think we executed our best.   We could have played a better match.   Could have probably played a little more aggressive.   But it wasn't a factor of just winning a Grand Slam and traveling so far. 

Q.   Bob, can you talk a little bit about the crowd, how they got behind you, tried to create enthusiasm and support for the team. 
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, I mean, obviously we were really appreciative about the energy those guys brought out there for us.   They've always given us great support in the States.   Today was no different.   They were trying to push us forward and carry us over the top. 
I thought they did a great job, the fans.   It just came down to a couple points here and there.   Our play wasn't quite where we wanted it to be. 

Q.   Jim, what is your confidence level like in the guys to be able to get it done tomorrow? 
CAPTAIN COURIER:   They're well‑prepared.   They come in with three sets under their belt from yesterday which is good for their confidence, not damaging to their physical fitness. 
We feel confident in our chances tomorrow.   We don't underestimate the opposition.   They gained a little bit of momentum.   It will be our job to quell that tomorrow and snuff it out first ball. 

Q.   How is John's knee?
CAPTAIN COURIER:   He practiced well today.

Q.   Do you feel he can play better tomorrow than he did yesterday? 
CAPTAIN COURIER:   I think he feels that way.   I would agree with him, yeah. 

Q.   Could you guys discuss, as a doubles team, you're playing for America here, looking ahead to the French, what are you looking ahead to in the clay season? 
BOB BRYAN:   A lot of tournaments before then.   We're just looking forward to tomorrow, getting out here, becoming cheerleaders for our teammates.   That's pretty much it.   It's hard to look past that.   We need to get three points.   That starts with John Isner tomorrow. 
We'll be on the bench cheering as loud as we can, get out of here, pack up the bags, go back home, exhale for a few days before going to San Jose. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT