LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
August 4, 2012
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BRYAN‑BRYAN/Llodra‑Tsonga
  6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I noticed when you were playing your doubles match, it seemed to be the chemistry was the thing that was helping you.   I want your thoughts on that.   Does that just come from being brothers or is it more than that? 
BOB BRYAN:   That's definitely something that I think is a big advantage in doubles.   I think doubles, a huge part of it is chemistry.   When that's clicking for us, sometimes we feel unbeatable. 
You know, we're brothers, too.   Sometimes it can work against us.   But today, that definitely was a big weapon that we had up our sleeve. 

Q.   What sense have a victory at Olympic Games comparing to a big tournament like Wimbledon? 
BOB BRYAN:   I mean, we've won the Grand Slams.   It's great.   But the Olympics is something special.   There's no feeling to describe what it's like when that flag is going up and the national anthem's playing at an Olympics.   It transcends any tennis event, you know.
Yeah, a gold medal.   I had a gold medal down there right outside on the walkway and people were running at me, I was like scared for my life, because people wanted to see it up close and hold it.   That's an attitude that I think a lot of sportsfans in the world have.   They want to see it, they want to get near a gold medal. 
So this is going to go in the front of the trophy case and I'm sure we'll be opening up that trophy case many times to try to show it to all our friends. 

Q.   Can you capture a little bit on just what it meant to play the Olympics at Wimbledon. 
MIKE BRYAN:   I mean, Wimbledon is pretty unique.   There's so much history here.   I think it just added to the Olympic excitement.   Just to have both things working for it, the Olympics as a whole, and Wimbledon coming together. 
I know the crowds have been great all week.   I think it's been really fun for the players to come back here after two weeks and just it has a different flavor to it.   All the backdrops have changed.   We're practicing on the members' courts. 
It's cool just being here in the middle of July.   We're usually over in the States.   Yeah, I mean, it could be anywhere and pretty special, but to have it at Wimbledon, you know, it just adds something cool about it. 

Q.   You talked about this being your last shot at Olympic glory.   How are you able to channel that urgency that you felt?
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, it had a different feel, this match, going into it.   I wasn't nervous.   I don't think Mike was either.   The semifinals, quarters, it was very nervy.   This one just felt calm.   Looked at each other and said, Let's just have fun out there.   We played our whole lives for this moment, let's enjoy it, not think about the gold medal, what it's going to mean to our career, record books or whatever.   We just went out there and had fun. 
We found a sort of zone that we hadn't had in a long time.   Last 12 months have been up and down.   But we've been looking at this date on the calendar as the one day of the year that we want to peak for.   I felt we did. 
I felt we played our best match in a very long time, and we did it in the biggest moment of our career. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT