AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 28, 2012
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 PAES‑STEPANEK/Bryan‑Bryan
  7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Assessment of the match?   
BOB BRYAN:   You know, it was tight early.   I thought we were, you know, we were playing okay.   We had a tough one with them in Sydney, so we knew it wasn't going to be easy.   We were just getting our holds.  
Then played a couple little bit sloppy points in the breaker, and they capitalized and got some momentum.   It kind of changed the tone of the match a little bit.   
But I've got to tip my hat to them.   They played pretty well.   They're going to be a tough team this year.   They will be a top four team, and we will probably be playing them a lot more in big matches.   
So it's nice to get a couple cracks against them early in the year, because, you know, that's a team that's gonna be around a lot in big stages.   
   
 Q.   How disappointing under the circumstances would today be and the record on the line and all that?  
BOB BRYAN:   Obviously it's disappointing.   You know, I have something to look forward to going home, so my mind is going to get off the match a lot quicker than it usually would after a final like this.   
But, you know, I thought we have had a great Australian swing, and we're playing, you know‑ at least I'm playing a lot better than I did last year already.   It bodes well for the rest of the year.   I'm looking forward to it?  
   
 Q.   Can you reassure us we're not keeping you from leaving?   
 BOB BRYAN:   11:30 a.m. Qantas, we're out.   
 Q.   Do you think about bailing on this tournament?   How did you reach that decision.  
BOB BRYAN:   Nah, just because she's due.   She's due tomorrow, Saturday, Florida time.   So, you know, I was hoping we could get it done and, you know, then go home and have a baby.   That's the way it worked out.   She's been in bed the last few days.   She's not doing anything.   She's been a trooper.   
She's done her job.   We almost did our job.   (Laughter.)   But, you know, it was a hell of a trip.   You know, to go 9‑1 in Australia and pull out some really tight matches, we will have fond memories of this trip down here.  
But, you know, I'm going in to the hospital Monday, and that's gonna be another battle.   (Smiling).  
MIKE BRYAN:   It's gonna be tougher.  
   
 Q.   Was Paes' serve a particular problem tonight?  
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah, he was taking speed off and kicking it out wide and making us move out there.   If you don't get a lot of, you know, stick on the return, he's got a tough volley, one of the best first volleys in the game of doubles.  
They were putting some of those volleys pretty deep.  
 BOB BRYAN:   He was making us kind of create our own pace.   It was coming a lot slower than usual.   I don't know if it was like a tactic, so, you know, next time we will probably just adjust and move forward a little bit more and try to take it earlier.   It was pulling us wide.  
 Q.   He didn't seem to be doing that in Sydney.   
BOB BRYAN:   No, not so much Sydney.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Is Stepanek like one of those guys you pegged as a singles guy that when he got a little older was going to come over to your side?  
MIKE BRYAN:   No, he's been playing doubles for a long time.   We probably playedhim ‑‑  
BOB BRYAN:   He started off as a doubles specialist.   In 2002, you know, he made the finals of the US Open with Novak.   It was Stepanek and Jiri Novak.   That was a big team there for a couple of years, and then he had like a little burst and became a good singles player.  
He's been around forever.   We played him numerous times, so we have always known he can play.   He wins big Davis Cup matches in doubles.   I mean, it's no surprise that he's very successful.   
When they said they were partnering up in London, when we heard that news we knew they were going to be a force.  
   
 Q.   Does it change your preparation, these sort of shotgun teams?   Would you rather play guys you know?   
MIKE BRYAN:   No, we just go‑‑ we know a lot about Paes; we know about Stepanek.   We don't know about what they do together so much, but we just play it.   We scout two guys individually, and go after it that way.  
BOB BRYAN:   Our coach saw them play three our four matches.   We played them last week.   We knew kind of what to expect, but as we go throughout the year we will definitely pick up more bits of info.  
   
 Q.   Bob, am I right that you did not enter mixed here because of the impending due date?   
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, because the mixed finals is on Sunday.   So just in case, we will get out of here.  
   
 Q.   A guy like Paes is 38.   His reflexes are still there.   Does that encourage you?   
BOB BRYAN:   We both feel young.   Compared to Paes and Nestor and a lot of guys, we are one of the youngest guys in the top 10.   Yeah, it's encouraging.   If we want to play this sport for another seven years, it's going to be there for us if we stay healthy.  
Doubles is like that.   I mean, the singles game, as you see, is just incredibly physical.   Guys, if they can get past 30, it's amazing.  
But doubles, 40, 40 seems to be the age now.   
   
 Q.   Did you guys watch any of the semifinals in the men's singles at all?  
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah, I watched both of them.   It was amazing tennis.   
   
 Q.   What were your impressions of that?  
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah, it was amazing tennis.   I stayed up‑‑ you fell asleep, but I was up until‑‑ I couldn't go to bed.   I was kind of jazzed, you know.   I went to bed at 2:00 last night.   I was stuck to the TV.   
It's pretty amazing to see.   The game of tennis is just going so far out there, you know.   It's like Ping‑Pong now.   
Yeah, to have four great champions like this at the top of the sport is pretty amazing.  
   
 Q.   What do you mean, Ping‑Pong?  
MIKE BRYAN:   It's like a video game.   Seems like guys don't miss much anymore.   They can go side to side like Pong.  
   
 Q.   Like Pong?   Okay.   
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, in five knife hours.   
MIKE BRYAN:   It's crazy.  
   
 Q.   Do you understand how it's possible or...   
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, I'm glad I'm not out there doing it.   It seems like we've got a great little niche.   Body feels good.   I could go play another one of those matches right now, but I'm sure when those guys walk off the singles matches they're just beat to hell, you know.   
   
 Q.   A scouting report on what we can expect from Mike Bryan as an uncle?  
MIKE BRYAN:   No diapers.   Hopefully I won't drop her.   
BOB BRYAN:   Thanks.   That would be great.   (Laughter.)  
MIKE BRYAN:   I'll keep my hands soft, soft hands.   I'm going over there to Miami with Bob.   
   
 Q.   Going back together?  
MIKE BRYAN:   I'll be in the trenches.  
   
 Q.   When are you going to Switzerland?  
MIKE BRYAN:   I'm taking off Saturday out of Miami.   Yep, get in Sunday, start it up.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any idea who you're going to play with yet?  
MIKE BRYAN:   No idea.   It could be all three guys.   I think the first day is going to be big.   Whoever has the longer match and who's dead, I'll probably play with the other guy.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT