BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 28, 2009
Mike Bryan
Bob Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRYAN-BRYAN/Bhupathi-Knowles
  6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What happened?   
 BOB BRYAN: Just precaution. Just icing down.   
  
  Q. Talk about the experience of playing in front of, consistently, day after day, these crowds?   
 BOB BRYAN: No, I mean, we have our moments throughout the year where we have big crowds. A lot of times we're on a side court, you know, playing for our friends and family.   
 So this is a huge showcase for the doubles. This is really helping our cause, exposing a lot of people in the UK and around the world to what doubles has to offer. I think it has a lot to offer.   
 It brings out the best tennis in us with the atmosphere, just kind of injects energy into our games. That's what makes us play well. We're just happy to be a part of the event.   
  
  Q. Is it a bigger deal because of that, that you're in the final, make it nicer for you?   
 MIKE BRYAN: Yeah, I mean, it's going to be so loud tomorrow, it's going to be a big final, packed house. No better place to play than out here. It's going to make for a huge occasion. It's going to be a special feeling walking out there, competing at our hardest.   
  
  Q. What about the match today?   
 BOB BRYAN: Match today? I mean, we were playing two guys we've played probably combined a hundred times. Everyone knows weaknesses, strengths. It's all about who executes on the day.   
 Got great respect for those two guys. I mean, they're going to go down in the history books as two legends of doubles. You know, when you have that much respect for guys, you know, when you're down a break, you just keep fighting hard.   
 When they broke us, they came up with the goods. It wasn't like we let down. I thought it was high-quality tennis all the way through. Yeah, we kind of just rose to the occasion. That's it.   
  
  Q. When you know them that well, do you literally know where they hit the shot where they're going to hit it?   
 MIKE BRYAN: Pretty much.   
  
  Q. Are you trying to second guess each other?   
 MIKE BRYAN: It's just about changing the little things. We know Knowles likes the inside-out backhand return into his body. We know that he likes the chip lob. Bhupathi loves the backhand cross-court. They know what we love. It's just about changing little things, trying to catch us off guard for the day. Just about winning the big points.   
 But, yeah, I mean, no surprises out there.   
 BOB BRYAN: And the margins are so small. You know, one point here and there, they win at the same score. It's just one point here and there. That's it.   
  
  Q. You must be pretty happy with the way you're playing. Seems like you're getting stronger and stronger match by match.   
 BOB BRYAN: We've been working hard. We got here nine days before the tournament and played on the surface. Just kept working hard. You know, we came in here on a two-match losing streak, then we lost our first one in the group. We just kept, yeah, like you said, got better and better. Today was our best match of the tournament.   
 Hopefully we got one even better tomorrow because we're going to need to play like that.   
  
  Q. What has to happen for you to play well? Do you have to get your first serve in, your returns? Is there some key you know you're playing well because of?   
 MIKE BRYAN: I think we play well obviously when we're coming out, playing with energy, when we're both feeling healthy, we're both getting along. We like to start off really well. We're a front-running team.   
 Today was an exception. We got broken and we stayed positive somehow.   
 BOB BRYAN: But, I mean, if you look at the stats, you know, service percentage is a big key in doubles. If you make your first serve, you're winning 80 to 90% of the points. If you miss your first serve, you're lucky to win over 50%, you know.   
 So we're playing well when we're making a lot of first serves. For us, it's mental. If we're playing with a lot of energy and competing well, usually our games come along.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT