BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 23, 2009
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MIRNYI-RAM/Bryan-Bryan
  6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. This year you have having some defeats that are not normal, or is it the other pairings are studying your game?   
 BOB BRYAN: I think a little bit of both. A little bit of a dip sometimes in our play recently. It's just a little bit of confidence probably. You know, it's not like we're playing bad. We're not hitting the ball poorly in practice. We're just coming out and making a few too many mistakes on key points.   
 We started the match well today. We got an early break. Then just kind of let it slip away. And the other team played well when they were ahead. They didn't take their foot off the gas. It was just a matter of, you know, maybe playing a little bit better early, it could have been a different story.   
  
  Q. How do you see the race for No. 1 with Zimonjic and Nestor?   
 BOB BRYAN: Yeah, I mean, it's tough. We could have maybe put a little pressure on them today. But, you know, I guess mathematically we still have a chance. If we play some good tennis down the road, who knows what's gonna happen.   
 But, you know, the biggest thing is we need to focus on playing better in the next match.   
  
  Q. How do you see Davis Cup with Serbia in Belgrade?   
 MIKE BRYAN: Bob is the spokesman.   
 It's a long way off. There's big tournaments coming up. You know, it's in the back of our mind. Obviously it's going to be a tough task, especially on the red clay. You know, Zimonjic and Djokovic, they have a whole range of players that can play. We'll definitely be the underdog, the U.S.   
 Yeah, I mean, we're excited to go to Serbia. It's going to be an unbelievable atmosphere, a big match for the U.S. So when it comes, we'll be really happy to go over there.   
  
  Q. What about the atmosphere in London?   
 MIKE BRYAN: It's great.   
 BOB BRYAN: It's great. It's a beautiful arena. You know, there couldn't be a better place to play in World Tour Finals. All the players are excited to play in this arena. Fans are great. Sold out. This is probably the biggest stage, especially for the doubles players.   
  
  Q. How tough is it to play good players in doubles and especially in the singles, like Djokovic and Zimonjic?   
 BOB BRYAN: It's different. When you play an experienced doubles team, there's less holes. Sometimes there's better movement, better volleys. But when you play an incredible player like Novak, then you get great returns, you get great tennis shots. You know, you're playing against a player that can hit anything at any time.   
 Yeah, it's definitely different. Both teams can be different, a doubles team or a tough singles team. For us, we've had success against singles teams in the past just because we can use our experience. But Novak is a little bit different. He can do it all.   
  
  Q. Seems you had some problems with your serves today. There were no aces. What happened?   
 MIKE BRYAN: I mean, we're going to work on that for the next match. I haven't seen the stats yet, but obviously they served a higher percentage of first serves, they had more aces. They were holding a little bit easier than we were.   
 I think that's just kind of getting behind the eight ball early in the match, kind of struggling from behind. Yeah, I mean, obviously we're a big-serving team, so when we make more first serves, we play and we win a little easier. So we'll try to work on that next time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT