MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 17, 2009
Mike Bryan
Bob Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BRYAN-BRYAN/Nestor-Zimonjic
  6-1, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you just talk about the start that you had in the match today. It was quite impressive. 
 MIKE BRYAN: Yeah, it felt good to be the underdogs for once. When we lost that match last year, it really gave us extra motivation to work hard in the off-season. We came here pretty excited, and we played every match this week with a lot of energy. 
 We worked on a few things and it paid off today. We're really happy and excited. It's a great preparation for the Aussie Open.

 Q. Does it feel good to avenge the loss? 
 BOB BRYAN: Yeah, it definitely feels good to always avenge any loss. But this is a really tough team, and we're looking forward to many final in the future. 
 They're going to be tough on any surface. And, yeah, you know, little changes here and there are going to make a difference. We all know each other so, well just little tweaks are going to make the difference every time.

 Q. Finally collecting your first Sydney title. Must be a bit satisfying. 
 MIKE BRYAN: Yeah, ten years playing down here and, you know, to get it when we're 30 years old, it feels good. When we're dead and gone we'll be up on that board and be remembered with some of the greats. 
 Yeah, I mean, it's good to be on the Sydney champions's board with some of our idols: Todd Woodbridge and Mark Woodforde. 
 There's one more to go, that's Indian Wells. So that's the title that eludes us, and we'll see. 

 Q. What's it like playing in front of such a big crowd in Sydney?
 BOB BRYAN: I think it just brings out the best in both teams. You know, it makes you more focused. The energy -- it makes every point more important. 
 We're all big match players, and a crowd like that brings us alive. 
 MIKE BRYAN: That's it. 
 BOB BRYAN: You know, it gets you ready for a big slam next week as well, because there's going to be big crowds over there.
 So it's nice to come down here in the first week of the year and have such a packed house. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT