TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 15, 2008
Mike Bryan
Bob Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BRYAN-BRYAN/Fyrstenberg-Matkowski
  6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Looking ahead to your final. Big match. You guys have had really close matches with them, third-set breakers. Talk a little bit about what the key is going to be in that match.
 BOB BRYAN: It's just going to come down to magic. I mean, you know, we know they're a good team. They've played us tough in the past. We played four times, and every one has been really tight. 
 It's going to be who has the magic on the day. You know, we're going to prepare well tomorrow and go out there and leave it on the line. There's one match left for the rest of the year, so you can really leave it out there and spill your blood and not have to worry about recovering. 
 You can celebrate after the match, hopefully, and get on a flight and enjoy the break and have a smile on your face if you get the win. 

 Q. You guys have always been so passionate about representing the U.S. for the Davis Cup. I was curious where you were when they election results came in and how you think that's going to affect your lives as you travel around representing the U.S. 
 MIKE BRYAN: Where were we? We were here and we watched it on CNN. Yeah, think it's going to be fun for the U.S. to move forward with Barack. I think internationally we're going to be looked upon in a better light. Yeah, I mean, that's pretty much the key for us. We travel around, and we're not going to take as much heat from the French crowd. 
 So it's, yeah, going to be positive moving forward the next four years. 

 Q. You both wear the U.S. Olympic Games tee shirts. Obviously a lot of people thought you definitely going to be the champions at the Olympic Games. Unfortunately didn't make it for the finals. What do you think about Olympic Games? 
 BOB BRYAN: Olympics was a great experience for us. I mean, obviously it was, yeah, on paper we were favored to win the gold. We play so many tournaments each year and have five titles, so obviously doubles is a lot of small margins. There's not really one team that can get in there and dominate a whole year. 
 Very happy to come away with the bronze. It was a great match for us in that match. We played a team, Clement-Llodra who we've had really tough matches with. To come back after a disappointing semifinals, 12 hours later suit back up and be down a set and win the bronze for our country was probably one of the happiest moments we've every had. 
 We're still talking about that. We had our bronze medals in our racquet back bag for like two months. Finally took them out and put them in the trophy case. But we were sleeping with those things.

 Q. Do you have plans to hold your concert if you're champions tomorrow?
 BOB BRYAN: We'll play some music if we win.
 MIKE BRYAN: Yeah, I mean, if we win we'll be in a good mood and play music if they want us to. If they have the music equipment set up, we're more than happy to play a few songs. I don't know where we're going to play. Probably back out in the tent. 
 I said out on stadium court that we'll set it up and play, but I think the singles is going to be starting pretty soon after. But, yeah, I mean, we have a blast doing that, so we'll do it again.

 Q. You play very good tennis on the court and also play very good music in this the concert. Which one do you like? A lot of fans, both on court and in the concert cheers for you. Which role you enjoy more, the rock star or the tennis star? 
 MIKE BRYAN: I don't know, I mean, they're both great. We're getting paid a little bit better playing tennis. But right now I think music we get more of a high. We don't do it as often, and when fans come out and watch us play something we're not that good at, you know, it feels really good. 
 Tennis players always dream of being rock stars, and actually rock stars dream of being tennis players. We know a couple of the Counting Crows and a couple from the Dave Matthews Band that really want to play tennis. 
 You always dream of doing something different. Hopefully one of those -- I don't know where it's going to take us, but that was a thrill playing the other night. Felt like we were rock stars. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT