ROGERS CUP
July 27, 2008
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  NESTOR-ZIMONJIC/Bryan-Bryan  
6-2, 4-6, 10-6  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What was the difference in the match?  
 MIKE BRYAN: A few points at the end. They started off really well doing everything great from the start. We started a little slow.   
 I think we turned it around when I said, What did you guys have for breakfast? They started thinking about it. Then we get an immediate break. In one of those super tiebreakers, it's pretty much anyone anyone's ballgame.   
 Usually when you have mini breaks early there you're going to win it. We were up 6-3, Bob serving, and I kind of liked our chances at that point.   
 But they played a few spectacular shots, and I don't think we won another point. The momentum just shifted.   
  
  Q. Any fatigue factor in from the late match last night?  
 BOB BRYAN: If I was the tournament director I would have scheduled myself a little different. No excuses. Those guys have been hot. They've played great tennis in the last couple months.   
 I thought they played well today and I thought, you know, we put our serves -- played well enough to put our serves in a position to win. You know, once you get out there it's all adrenaline. You kind of forget that you played 11 hours ago.   
 We were playing with good energy, and the crowd was awesome. This was just a great match and a great atmosphere. I don't think it had anything to do with the scheduling.  
  
  Q. What does that tandem bring to the table that maybe Daniel didn't have when he was playing with Mark?  
 MIKE BRYAN: Just two big servers. Mark had great returns and he had all the touch and the hands. He was just really solid.   
 Nenad brings more strength and power, I guess, from the serving standpoint. So he might be a little tougher to break.   
 They're both two great teams. You know, Mark and Danny, obviously one of the greatest teams to ever play. And then they're playing really well this year, so it's tough to say who's better. But I think Nenad, you know, can be a scary break.   
  
  Q. Any other comments on like wishing that it was like two out of three sets instead of the no-ad?   
 BOB BRYAN: Yeah, I mean, you know, this is the way it's been for three years. We're all used to it. The crowd is fine with it now. Usually when they announce the super breaker the first year you'd hear some boos. Now everyone's used to it.   
 Yeah, like you saw out there there's a lot of momentum involved. A couple points here and there can decide a match. You got to try to win in two sets. It's more of a sprint. A lot of these matches are going an hour. Our match last night was 58 minutes, and that's what we're used to. It's easier on the body, and I think we'll be able to play maybe a couple more years because of this format.  
  
  Q. Will the Olympics be set up like this, or will it be best-of-five or best-of-three?  
 MIKE BRYAN: Two out of three full match scoring just like the Grand Slams. They don't use this format. It's the ITF verse the ATP.   
  
  Q. How excited are you for the Olympics, and how would a medal compare to a Grand Slam?  
 MIKE BRYAN: Yeah, we're obviously really excited for the Olympics. This year one of our goals was to do well there, hopefully grab a medal.   
 You know, it would be almost the same for us if we brought home a gold -- it would be comparable to winning a Grand Slam, winning Wimbledon, just because we love playing for or country.   
 There's just something special about playing the Olympics that kind of transcends tennis. It has so much history, and it's one of the biggest sporting events ever.   
 Yeah, that would be pretty special if we could do well there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT