SONY ERICSSON OPEN
April 5, 2008
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Finally won a tournament. How does it feel to get the monkey off your back?
 MIKE BRYAN: Feels good. I think we got better every match. Today was one of the best matches we played in a long time. I think the last time we played like that was against Mark Knowles in Basel in the fall, and it was 6-1, 6-1. 
 Today was the same way. We were doing everything well. We came out just going for it. That's what you have to do against a good team like that in a big final, and, yeah, the chips fell. 
 It feels really good, you know, especially going to Davis Cup. I talked to Patrick McEnroe. He said, You're peaking at the right time. He's proud of us.

 Q. Was he threatening to yank you?
 MIKE BRYAN: No, well, but you want to earn your job.

 Q. Does this help? I mean what kind of momentum does this give you?
 BOB BRYAN: It just -- you know, makes practice a lot easier. You know, you're not as edgy. It was just a good feeling, you know. 
 Like I said earlier in the week, losing in the finals four times just makes you hungrier and hungrier. When we went out there today we didn't take anything for granted. 
 We were focused on every point. Didn't let anything bother us. I think last year winning 11 titles, you wake up on the Sundays and you're like, Oh, here's another one. 
 Sometimes that, you know, can bite you in the ass. You have to take each one of these opportunities because you never know how many you're going to get.

 Q. Was it fun playing on Stadium Court, or you doesn't usually get that opportunity?
 MIKE BRYAN: It's always fun playing on Stadium Court, especially with an enthusiastic crowd. I was happy that a lot of people stayed after that long Serena match, and, you know, a long ceremony where they, you know, blew up a lot of confetti on that court and they had to blow it off. So it was a good crowd. 
 All week there's been good crowds for doubles, which is encouraging. Yeah, I mean, we always play our best when, you know, you feel like the fans appreciate your doubles.

 Q. How about you think you'll play Clement and Llodra?
 MIKE BRYAN: Yeah.

 Q. What are your feelings about them, your history a little bit?
 BOB BRYAN: Yeah, I think we beat them a couple times. They beat us -- might have beat us more than we beat them. They play well against us. 
 Great return, good server. Just two guys that compliment each other well, so, you know, they're -- I think they'll be ready for the big match. 
 We played in the finals of Wimbledon and they stepped up. I don't expect an easy match at all.

 Q. If he decides to kind of match them up, Tsonga and Gasquet are the last team to beat you, not at Davis Cup. Why was that a hard matchup for you guys?
 MIKE BRYAN: I think it will be totally different conditions in that match. We thought when we got down to Australia it was playing extraordinarily slow with the big, heavy ball. They had a lot of time to work their magic off the baseline. 
 We still served 9-6 in the final set tiebreaker. It was a heartbreaker. They can throw a lot of teams out there. I think their best team on a fast indoor court is Clement/Llodra. That's their best shot. 
 These guys, Gasquet and Tsonga, aren't going to have a lot of time from the baseline. That's going to hurt them. We'd rather see Gasquet and Tsonga actually.

 Q. Andy spilled the beans last night. He said Clement is registered at the hotel.
 BOB BRYAN: Yeah, he's out there practicing today. He's with the whole team working out. It's not a bluff, because we know it, you know. We're not going to be surprised last minute if he's on the card, you know. 
 They're just keeping their options open, you know, seeing who's playing better, see how the court plays. That's the bottom line. They have a lot of guys they can use.

 Q. So what about the shoes?
 BOB BRYAN: The shoes, we did it last year, threw the shoes up there. Kids are asking for everything: Racquets, my necklace, my watch. Some kid asked me for a shoes. I'm like, I did it last year, let's do it again. We're walking out of here barefoot today. 
 And the socks. Little girl wanted a sock, and I gave one to her and her sister. I don't know why.

 Q. That's devotion. 
 BOB BRYAN: Hard core fans. 
 MIKE BRYAN: See you up in Winston. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT