NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
June 5, 2013
Kyle Clifford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   After the win, is there like a sigh of relief after what happened in Chicago?
KYLE CLIFFORD:   Yeah, definitely.   I think we knew it was going to be a big game tomorrow.   It was one of those must‑wins.   Kind of get the ball rolling for us.   We know we got a little bit better and getting ready for tomorrow night. 

Q.   Was last night a game where you maybe imposed your will on them?
KYLE CLIFFORD:   Yeah, I think we came out with a really good start.   That's what we wanted.   The first two games in Chicago, we didn't necessarily do that.   Kind of got the confidence going for us a little bit with a good start.   We played pretty physical. 
It was a good thing for us. 

Q.   How about Patrick Sharp saying he's willing to fight Justin Williams?
KYLE CLIFFORD:   Willie is pretty tough undercover.   I wouldn't mind seeing that (laughter). 

Q.   As the playoffs go on, you're getting more and more beat up, you've had resilience in the past.   How do you dig down and find some more?
KYLE CLIFFORD:   We went through it last year, so we know what to expect.   Being mentally tough throughout our lineup, our whole team is like that. 
We know we're going to have bumps and bruises.   We're battling through it and focusing on winning games. 

Q.   What about the plays in particular against Richards and Carter?   You haven't necessarily retaliated against that kind of stuff.   Are you making a concerted effort to stay away from that? 
KYLE CLIFFORD:   Yeah, well, I think within the rules, we got to take care of those guys.   We don't want to be running around looking for situations that are going to get us penalties.   Special teams are pretty big in the playoffs. 
Like I said, we have to be mentally tough and battle through it. 

Q.   From what you've seen, why is Chicago such a good team on the penalty kill?
KYLE CLIFFORD:   They don't give you a lot of time and space.   They get on you quick.   They got guys that make sure the pucks are cleared.   We got to get a little more traffic on Crawford, get pucks to the net. 

Q.   What about the fatigue factor for you right now? 
KYLE CLIFFORD:   I feel pretty good.   I mean, start of July here.   We've been playing for quite some time. 
Our team's conditioning is pretty good, too. 

Q.   What is your theory on why you guys are so good at home? 
KYLE CLIFFORD:   I think we just come out and we always have great starts.   That kind of gets us going early on.   Trickles throughout the game. 

Q.   Have you talked to Jeff Carter, and how is he doing?
KYLE CLIFFORD:   As far as I'm concerned, he's good. 

Q.   You guys win the series knowing that the neutral zone, slowing them down there is good.   It didn't happen up there.   I know you even have emphasized it again.   Why did it work so well last night?
KYLE CLIFFORD:   We have to frustrate their top players.   Last night we did a good job.   We can still do a better job at it. 
They like that rush‑type game.   Stay tight in the neutral zone, make sure they don't get too many chances, make sure we're getting pucks deep and make sure we're not having too many turnovers in the neutral zone. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT