ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2019
Adrian Otaegui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  8-under for the day, you must be thrilled, bogey-free, talk us through it?  
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, very pleased with the round, since the beginning, really. I gave myself lots of birdie chances. The irons, the iron play was in really good shape. Way better than the last few weeks I've been playing, so that made the biggest difference. I had lots of birdie chances, and then really putted very well. I holed many putts, very pleased with the 8-under.   
 Q.  Is that what you've been working on in practice, your iron play? Are you happy to see that coming through? Have you been changing up anything?  
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, I felt very committed to the impact today, and all the balls were very much in line, so that really helped. I was also good with the distance, but I mean, I could feel the impact was very solid and all the balls were very straight. I gave myself lots of birdie chances.   
 Q.  What do you think about the course, as well, being at Kingsbarns for today, did you enjoy it and what do you take from that into tomorrow's round at St. Andrews?  
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: I think we are very lucky the forecast was wrong, because I was expecting having the umbrella open and was going to be very windy, but at the end it was perfect. Perfect day to play golf. Just breezy, but I think we all really enjoyed. The course setup, it was brilliant.   
I think the more I play this course, I think the more I like it. I think it was a great setup, just different pin positions comparing to previous years. I think making the course a little bit easier with these pin positions, but the setup was great just.   
 Q.  What about, as well, with the Pro-Am element in this week's competition, how do you approach the week in general?  
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, the Pro-Am is a different format. The Pro-Ams today, my amateur and Paul's amateur were great fun and very relaxed and they played very good, as well. All that helps for a good day of golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT