HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 30, 2017
Adrian Otaegui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 68 yesterday, 1-over through five holes today and 6-under the last 13.  What did you do particularly well in that stretch?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Well, I just tried to play the same -- I made a bogey on the second and missed a 5-iron just on the right and couldn't make the up-and-down.  And after that, I played great from the tee and made good swings with the driver and the 3-wood from the tee.
Made a birdie on 6 with a good second shot and chipped on 9.  That helped, as well.  Then played really well on the second nine.  Had a lot of fairways and a lot of greens, and then I was lucky, as well, to hole two long putts, so happy with the round, yeah.
Q. Best finish of your year, 51st place, no obvious sign of this sort of form.  Have you felt it coming?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: I said yesterday, I made a few changes on my swing the week off just before Germany and looks like it's on the right way.  Looks like it's working well.  Just have to keep working on that.
Q. I know that José Maria Olazábal has been a mentor out and you live close to him.  Tell us how he's helped you.
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Obviously it helps a lot to have a double Masters winner playing with you.  Always been a great help.  Every time I could I was trying to play with him and learn from him.  Of course, it's wonderful.
Q. Ready to win on The European Tour?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, just play well again tomorrow.  Obviously very good players here playing.  Just have to focus on my game and that's all.
Q. Rough start early in your round today, but from then on it was fantastically solid golf.
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: I just dropped a shot on the second.  I couldn't make up-and-down from the right.  But I played good golf from the tee, good drives, good 3-woods from the tee, as well.  I made a birdie on 6, played a good second shot.  Chipped in on 9.  That helped, obviously.
After that, I played really good on the back nine.  Just hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens and lucky to hole two long putts on 15 and 16, and yeah, I'm happy with the round.
Q. When you saw the weather conditions today, did you see a 66 out there?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: To be honest, no.  When I was hitting balls on the range, and we were waiting because it was raining so much, I didn't know if people playing earlier than me had some rain.  But then the weather was good.  It was just a bit of showers, but with this wind, I'm obviously happy with 66.
Q. Two great rounds of golf, but this is a golf course that can catch you out and I'm sure you'll be mindful of that going into the weekend.
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, as I said yesterday, it's always good to play in red numbers on this course, and that's what I'm going to try to do on the weekend.
Q. In term of the future, a Rolex event and lots of points up for grabs, it would be a massive boost to obviously keeping the card for next year and helping you towards The Race to Dubai Top 60.
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Obviously these events are unbelievable.  They are amazing.  This Rolex Series is very, very big, and yeah, I'm happy to be in this position.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT