TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 4, 2016
Adrian Otaegui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Please tell me how special a round of 63 is?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, I'm very happy with today's round.  I felt very well from the beginning to the end.  I started with five consecutive birdies.  I just tried to not think on anything, just tried to keep the momentum and work.
Q. When you say, try not to think of anything, but what are you thinking when you've got five in a row and you're off to such a flying start?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Just thinking on shot after shot and trying to, I think it's possible not thinking on anything, and I did it today.
Q. It's kind of nice, you're probably chuckling to yourself that it looks a bit easy?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, it's good when golf is easy, yeah.  I really enjoyed it.  We had good weather and so, good.
Q. It's worth stressing that it's a very good round on what isn't actually an easy course by any means, is it.  Some of these pins are hard to get at and you're seeing quite a wealth of tricky scores, as well?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Actually, yeah, a few pins were a bit more difficult than yesterday I think.  But I actually putted well and I felt confident on the greens and I think that helped.
Q. How does it compare to some of your best rounds?  Clearly we've seen you in Denmark and Austria this year, you've had some exceptional rounds of golf but this is one of the best?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: I don't know, every round of golf is different and every day is different.  I just enjoyed today, and obviously there were some other good rounds, as well.  It's not comparable.
Q. Bearing in mind the success of the season, is it good just to be involved in The Final Series and presumably your attitude to the back end of this season is different to what it's been on other years?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, of course.  One of the first goals this year was playing in The Final Series, played this wonderful event, so now that we are here, let's enjoy it.
Q. Have you gained in confidence and self-belief as a result of those results?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, I just tried to work every day to keep getting better and keep having better and better confidence.  So as I said, I just enjoyed today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT