DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 15, 2018
Adrian Otaegui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Looked kind of easy out there.  What was it like?  
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Well, it's never easy but it's true I played really well.  I was solid from tee-to-green.  I left myself lots of birdie chances.  I thought I putted well.  Six birdies, no bogeys, it's always a very good start.   
 Q.  What kind of optimism does this give you for the rest of the tournament, coming out and putting that low number up?  
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: It's always very good to have a good start.  It's more important to have a good finish, as well.  But it's obviously a very good feeling to have a good start like this, especially the way I played today, so very good.   
 Q.  End of the season, maybe time to reflect on 2018, as you look back, what are your thoughts?  
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: I think it was a positive season for me.  I've been keep improving on The European Tour ranking, on the World Ranking.  It's been better than last year, so it was a positive season for me.   
 Q.  Fantastic opening round 66 from you today.  Was there anything in particular that pleased you most about the round?  
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Well, everything pleased me pretty much.  It was a good round, as you said.  Six birdies, no bogeys, always a very good start.  Especially the way I played, I was solid from tee-to-green and I putted well.  It was a good feeling for me.   
 Q.  You birdied all of the par 5s with some great approach play.  
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, I was accurate with the wedges today.  I think I didn't hit any par 5s -- I didn't go to any par 5s in two but I was accurate with the third shot, so I left myself lots of birdie chances and I was able to make birdies.   
 Q.  Two birdies at the start and one on 18.  Nice to start and finish things off?  
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, absolutely.  I played a really good first hole with a good drive in the fairway and then a good second shot.  Left myself a birdie chance, holed the putt.  Birdied the second, as well, with a good third shot, holed the putt as well and 18 was just strategically very good, as well with a lay up and then with a very good third shot.  It was good.   
 Q.  Couple of good weeks over the last two weeks, so the game is in great form coming into this final tournament?  
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, I feel good with the game.  The last two weeks were good.  I was playing solid.  Yeah, hopefully I will keep the momentum.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT