BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 20, 2018
Adrian Otaegui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Fantastic trophy.  I'm very happy, very relaxed now after the last nine holes against Ben though were very tight.  I think we both played very good golf, and I'm just very proud about my week.  I thank my caddie, Ian, as well.  Just very happy.
Q. You won a match-play event last year, I got this Knock out under your belt.  What is the trick of the trade?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: I don't know, it's not exactly the same format as last year, so actually I just tried to play against myself.  Obviously your opponent is just next to you, but I just tried to focus on my game, stroke play, and so that's what I tried to do.  I mean, I've been doing very well at the end.
Q. What's it like on this golf course, because it's a very demanding track and a very tight, hard, bouncy, small greens, very windy and it's obviously a whole new format, as well?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: The course changed quite a lot during those days.  It was more firm at the end.  Obviously the greens are not very big, so you have to make the ball bounce at the right spot.
But it's a lovely course.  I think it's just lovely with those flowers.  The crowds were beautiful, as well.  I really like the course since the first day.
Q. Ryder Cup, obviously this year, and you're a match-play guru, one-on-one guru.  What do you fancy, do you think Thomas Björn is looking at you?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Thomas, if you're looking at me, you know I like match play.  There's still a lot of season to go.  Obviously the good events coming now with the Rolex Series, Wentworth next week and Italy and lots of points to make there.  The season is still very long but yeah, looking for Ryder Cup.
Q. How would you assess that performance?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: It was a very good match again, 3-under, nine holes.  I'm very happy with the way I played.  Started with a bogey on first, but after that, after the first four holes, I start making birdies and I felt great.  Held some putts.  So yeah, very good, very happy with the match.
Q. What do you feel the turning point was?  You seemed to get a bit of a break on 13?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, he made a good birdie on No. 2, and then I was fairly lucky on 13, because I hit my driver a little bit to the right and it didn't go into the water.  It was in the hazard but it wasn't in the water for two feet.  I played a super shot there to just one feet with an 8-iron.  I think that was a very, very important shot.
And then after, the next holes, I played very well and gave myself a lot of birdie chances.
Q. The putt on the par 3?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, it was a good putt.  It was a bit right-to-left, downhill and yeah, at that point it was important to be leading by one.
Q. That chip on 7.
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: 7, yeah, from the rough.  The lie wasn't very good.  It was uphill where the ball was landing, so that was making it a little bit easier but it was a very good chip just to seven feet and the putt was very good.
Q. How were the crowds?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: The crowd were very, very nice.  It was quite special to have the crowds in the fairway behind you.  It was very cool.  Yeah, the crowds were perfect.  The course was also like small, so it looked -- the crowds were close to the players and they were great.
Q. How big a year do you think this could be for you?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Well, obviously started pretty well for the moment.  Just looking forward to focus on the Rolex Series next, some big events coming and just want to focus on that and there's still a lot of season ahead.
Q. Ryder Cup in September, is that in mind, as well?
ADRIAN OTAEGUI: Yeah, obviously and my mind and some other players, as well.  It's a beautiful target, but there's so many tournaments before that, I just want to go step by step.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT