BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2017
John Thompson III
Rodney Pryor
L.J. Peak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








St. John's - 74, Georgetown - 73
Q. From your perspective what happened out there in that melee, whatever you want to call it there.  And then when Coach Mullin came up to your bench and said some stuff, what kind of transpired there?
COACH THOMPSON: It's just competition.  It's the Big East Tournament.  It's just competition.  That's all.
Q. Did it catch you off guard when you saw Coach come up there and kind of engage your bench at that time?
COACH THOMPSON: No.  Kids were playing hard, and coaches were coaching hard.  I think it was L.J. goes in, takes a hard foul.  I think it's just the heat of the battle.  As kids -- they're not kids, people, tempers flare a little bit.  But I don't think that there was any, you know -- I don't think at the end of the day (indiscernible) -- it's just competition, man.
Q. Rodney, first time in the Big East Tournament game.  What was it like out there for you with everything that went on right down to the bottom, the last second, the scrum, the spirit, the atmosphere?
RODNEY PRYOR: It's just a blessing.  It's what I signed up for.  I knew the Big East was going to be like this.  It was just a blessing to be part of it.
Q. L.J., after the fracas, I think it was part of 14 straight points you had for Georgetown, and you helped bring them back in the second half.  Could you talk about what that inspired play came from and what you guys talked about as a team to come back in the second half to hold the game really close?
L.J. PEAK: Just wanting to win.  Just fighting hard, two teams fighting hard and just making plays.
Q. L.J., you sat the first half in foul trouble.  How much did you want to come back in the second half to make up for lost time?
L.J. PEAK: That's just how I play.  I don't think I come out aggressive.  I come out aggressive.  It's something I do, and I have to impact the game somehow.
Q. Second straight losing season.  Could you assess the state of the program, what do you see and where are you going forward?
COACH THOMPSON: After a loss like that right now I don't think it's the time to do that.
Q. When is?
COACH THOMPSON: I'm not sure.  Not tonight.  I'm worried about the group that's in there right now, the student-athletes that are in there right now, how they're feeling right now.  So not tonight.
Q. Rodney, strong first half, but maybe not as strong as the second half.  Any difference?  Did they play you differently; did you start missing shots or not getting shots?
RODNEY PRYOR: Just missing some looks that I normally knock down for my team.  L.J. did a great job of attacking the rim and we was playing through him.
Q. John, I know you're optimistic about this season.  What do you think went wrong with not being able to get into the NCAA Tournament?
COACH THOMPSON: I will give you the same answer that I just gave.  Right now at this time I'm concerned about the young men that are in there and later on tonight, tomorrow, I don't know when, I'll sit back and assess the season and all that but right now we have a group of kids that played hard.  They played hard.  They gave themselves for each other, for their institution and they're hurting right now and that's my concern at this second.
Q. Rodney, obviously your last NCAA game.  What do you tell your teammates in the locker room?
RODNEY PRYOR: Just thank them all for allowing me to come here and play basketball with them and just tell them to keep moving forward and play hard and representing Georgetown the right way.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT