UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN VOLLEYBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 7, 2015
Kelly Sheffield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH SHEFFIELD: This weekend, you know, opening weekend, a lot of people working on Labor Day.  A lot better weekend I think with how we played this past weekend compared to our opening weekend.  We're obviously pleased.  We're taking the necessary steps to be a better team.  We're a lot more physical.  I thought we were a lot grittier, something we talked a lot about through the course of the week leading up to the weekend.   
Played against a North Carolina team that was in the elite eight last year that returned most of their players and we got off to a slow start and just kind of grinded, kind of stayed with it.  Probably a little bit more of a defensive front battle early on in the first set.   
Offensively we started getting a little bit better as the match went on.  To sweep a team like that, I think at this point in the season, I think that was a big win for us.  And you know, Louisville team, that I think is going to be -- really has a chance of being a special team, to beat them in four the following night; I thought everybody kind of had their moment.   
I was especially pleased with how Romana looked that second night.  Her and Tionna, we were both trying to get them the ball an awful lot on Saturday and I thought those two carried a bigger weight than what they had done the first four matches.   
This coming weekend, we're excited.  We're excited about bringing -- I think we've got 56 alums that are coming back, alums and coaches that are coming back for this weekend.  Lizzie getting into the Hall of Fame, we are excited for her and to celebrate the 25-year reunion of our first Big Ten title and the 15-year reunion of the first title for our team.  Should have a lot of people back and we are looking forward to that.   
 Q.  You mentioned the importance of that victory, the way you guys won it.  What about it do you think will help in the long run and did you communicate that to your players after that night, the North Carolina one?  
COACH SHEFFIELD: You know, opening weekend, I didn't think that we were -- a lot of new pieces that we were trying to fit in and that played out with a lot of communication and a lot of effort, miscommunication or just not being clear with how we were communicating about bouncing back after an opponent gets on a three- or four-point run, of being physical and having a presence.   
That was the main focus this last week, in a lot of different ways.  These guys, they want to be great.  We're having a tough time getting them to see clearly on some things that we are wanting.  But this group in the off-season has worked harder than any other group I've ever had in over 20 years coaching and it's not even close.   
You know, building on the connections that are necessary is taking some time.  You know, three captains called me up at the beginning of this week a little before nine o'clock at night and they were in my office until about 11.  They want to be great.   
After our match against North Carolina, Carlini is not real happy with how the ball was coming out of her hands.  So we talked to the team right afterwards and she walks out to the court, I'm on my way to a radio interview and she's walking with me and I said, "What are you doing?"  Because usually she's showering by then.   
She said, "I just have to set some balls.  Just let me do my thing."   
You know, they are trying to figure it out.  But we are trying to build that connection between her and new hitters and it's just taking some time.  I felt like we were -- like we made some progress.  Now, are we able to do that going into week three.   
 Q.  What were the logistics like putting together this entire weekend with a reunion and Georgia and Georgetown and Kent State all have former Badgers as coaches, I'm sure a lot of work went into that.  
COACH SHEFFIELD: A lot.  Good question, it's a lot of people that have really done this.  The tough thing is I think everybody has known that Lizzie needs to be in this Hall of Fame.  But the problem is that logistically, they want those people here during the Hall of Fame.  And it's during a football game; it's on a Saturday.  Well, we don't play home games on a Saturday.   
So you're either talking about a Friday, Sunday tournament, which means teams are here for four or five days, or you go to Thursday, Friday, which we've done, and you know, a lot of people behind the scenes have helped kind of move things around that needs to be moved.   
And then you're talking to schools and trying to get former Badgers involved, and not just Lizzie.  You know, Colleen Bayer was a former player and assistant coach here, so we're bringing her back.  Or Lisa Hagen (ph) was part of the first Big 10 Championship team in '90 and then Kim Kuzma, one of the best players that's ever worn a Badger jersey was an assistant for Kent State.   
We wanted this to be an all-Badger affair.  We thought it would be great for the fans and thought it would be great for those guys to come back and celebrate with each other.  Would have liked to get a couple other teams here, you know, that Thursday, try day kind of threw a wrench in it.  There's a lot of former Badgers that are coaching.  A lot of logistics, a lot of people.   
 Q.  What type of team does Lizzie have in Georgia?  
COACH SHEFFIELD: You know, I think she will say and I would agree after watching, if you watch them, athletically, they can be pretty nasty.  They can give you some issues.  I think she's got a lot of young pieces in that she's trying to fit out.  I'm sure she would be the first one to say is they are not as consistent as what they need to be.  Their high end and really, really high end.   
They kind of -- watching them right now, kind of looks like some of the stuff that I was watching film on our team a week and a half ago.  Just giving up some points that you shouldn't be giving up.  But they are a team that I think she probably feels really, really good going forward, but they are a little bit young.  Kent State has had some good wins.  It's a gritty team.  Georgetown, who we don't play this weekend, is another team that's got a lot of talent.  So should be a lot of talent on the court.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT