UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN VOLLEYBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 13, 2014
Kelly Sheffield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  COACH SHEFFIELD:   First of all, I'd like to extend congratulations to Coach Kiraly and the U. S. National Team for winning the world championship yesterday.   A lot of people are real proud of the fact that they were able to pull that off.
We've got Minnesota coming up this week, and it's kind of an unusual setup here, something I'm not familiar with with playing them twice in one week.   We hit the road, we play them, and then turn our attention back to them at our place. 
And so you know, sometimes‑‑ usually you got two different opponents that you're focusing on throughout the week and this week it's all about the Gophers. 
So we're excited about that.   They're a really talented team.   It's a place that we've had a difficult time going and winning and playing well at their place, so we're excited about that challenge. 

Q.   What about the schedule making process that set this up and how do you feel about playing anybody twice within a few days?
COACH SHEFFIELD:   I don't know.   It's unusual.   I've never done it.   I'll have a better feel‑‑ ask me after the week how I like that. 
You know, it's 14 teams.   You know, it's 14 teams in the conference, and you have travel partners, and so when you have travel partners, that breaks down to seven groups, and you have PODS of four.   So there's going to be two teams that are just kind of hanging out there and so what the conference has decided to do is those two teams that are hanging out there will play against each other.   My guess is that maybe next year down the road we do away with travel partners like some of the other sports are doing.
You know, we're not‑‑ Indiana, Purdue we're travel partners, but it's not like we're playing one of them and then going right to the other place.   We're coming back here.   So it almost doesn't even make sense to have travel partners anymore.
I don't know.   I guess what it does allow is that you're focusing on one team.   You get to go back, watch video.   You get to train and prepare again and fix some of the things that didn't go your way the first time and try and make it better.
I don't know.   From a coaching standpoint I kind of like it.   You know, from a motivational standpoint, you know, with our kids, I don't know.   It's a good question.

Q.   So the conference in general, is it always on a competitive, it's going to be a close battle for the top.   What's your take on what's happened so far, and any surprises in the way things are shaping up about a third of the way through the conference?
COACH SHEFFIELD:   I think it's awesome.   You know, I think one thing for certain is you can't predict what's going to happen.   And those are really fun years, and whatever conference, whatever sport, when you have one of those put together.
I mean teams are just beating up on each other.   I think it's gotta be exciting for the players as well.   You know, you sit here and my goodness, I think there's 10 teams that are 500 or better right now.   You know, and there are, I don't know, about a half dozen that are within a game, game and a half of the lead. 
And so who the heck knows, you know, and I think it makes it exciting for the players, I think it makes it exciting for the fans.   And so there are no gimmes this year.

Q.   What kind of strides do you think the team has made since the two losses and how the five wins in a row that you guys have rattled off?
COACH SHEFFIELD:   I think we're communicating a lot better.   I think we're working better as a team.   I think those have been the things we've really tried to do.
I think we've got some players that they've bought into the idea that they've gotta expand their games, and you know, offensively I think we're making some strides of being able to hit some different shots. 
But I would say that they would probably feel that we're tied in‑‑ we're connected a little bit better with our communication than what we were.   You know, at times we felt there were kind of some individuals out there, and I think when you kind of take it on the chin a couple of times, there becomes a little bit more of an urgency of working together, and I think that's something they bought into. 

Q.   With Minnesota in specific, what is your observation of them and what do you have to do to beat them twice in a few days?   What's their strength?
COACH SHEFFIELD:   You know, they've changed their lineup quite a few times.   I think they've got some young kids that they try to figure out how to incorporate them.   They seem to be a little bit more‑‑ they have some things figured out. 
(Indiscernible) on the outside is she's one of the great six‑rotation players in our league.   And Wilhite is the other outside.   She's had some matches where she's just absolutely blown up and done some great things. 
Their middles, they've got, you know, two twins that are really coming into their own, right side that have just absolutely gave us fits both times that we've played them and a really good libero, who's jumped in in that spot probably about 8 or 10 matches ago and has really given them a lift. 
They're young.   They're getting better is the team that I'm seeing.   You know, their serving is getting better.   Their passing is getting better, their system play is really, really good.   It's a team that's a lot better than what their record is, and obviously very well coached. 
So we're going to have‑‑ it should be two unbelievable matches is what I would guess. 

Q.   About a month ago you joked that this team had some anger management issues about how last year had ended.   A month later where is the team's psyche in terms of that motivation or that fire or whatever you want to call it?
COACH SHEFFIELD:   You know, I think we're starting to develop our own identity on this season.   You know, I think there was some‑‑ there was some‑‑ I think their understanding is this is a work in progress.   And so you know, I think they've done a really good job the past few weeks of coming in ready to work.   Last week we had a really hard week of practice.   They came in tuned in with that, and you know, the things we worked on in practice I think they tried to execute those in the matches. 
You know, there's really no talk about last year.   You know, you haven't heard that at all.   I think what they're excited about is I think they're excited about what is going on in this conference.   I mean they're paying attention.   They know what's going on with some other matches, and I think‑‑ they're not looking at it‑‑ I think they're looking at it as, man, this is cool that we get to be a part of something where people are just beating up on each other, you know.   They're players that like the challenges.
And I think there's excitement.   And I think that excitement has grown as we've gone through the season. 

Q.   In college football the SEC has the reputation for being the top conference in terms of multi‑league talents.   They beat up on each other, just like you said about the BIG TEN.   Do you feel like the BIG TEN in volleyball is like the SEC in college football?
COACH SHEFFIELD:   I think it's comparable.   You know, you look at the number of Top‑25 teams last year that we had in our conference, it was more than what the SEC had in football.   It's a bear. 
You know, and we've got, what, almost twice as many Division I teams, and you know, in college volleyball than there are there. 
You know, not saying that that's a weak conference in football because it's obviously not, but it just goes to show how strong the BIG TEN is in volleyball.   It's just‑‑ every night is unbelievable, and you have, what, seven teams in the Sweet 16 a year ago and you can duplicate that again this season.   It's a bear, and it's exciting if you're a competitive junky, you absolutely love it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT