WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2002
Chanda Rubin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Chanda. 


Q.  Well, I know you're disappointed, but I thought you played great. 

CHANDA RUBIN:  Yeah...

Q.  You hit a lot of forcing shots.  You won a lot of points on them  - your forehand, backhand combination.

CHANDA RUBIN:  Yeah, you know, it was a decent match.  Definitely I've been playing well.  So it's, you know, I definitely felt that I could go out and I was going to go out and play a good match.  But I just had a few instances where I just didn't execute.  And, you know, you can't do that, I mean, to win a match like that.  So definitely she played better today, I mean, to win. 

Q.  How far away do you think your game is from sort of reaching the level with those girls? 

CHANDA RUBIN:  I don't think it's far.  It's just, you know, executing, and a few times where I really needed to keep, you know, keep the pressure in the match.  She actually, I thought, played better today and, you know, didn't make quite as many errors.  So she forced me a little bit more.  But just it's going to be a question of executing at, you know, those few opportunities that you have.  And I don't think I'm far off.  But, I mean, a match like today, you know, it's 3 and 3.  It's not that close, you know, in terms of the score.  So I just have to keep working.

Q.  You had several deuces in addition to the 3 and 3.

CHANDA RUBIN:  Right.  I mean, it was a little bit closer than that score.  But still, when you walk off, it's still 6-3, 6-3.  And, you know, that's just gonna be where I have to clean up and get better and, you know, continue to do what I'm doing, continue to attack.  And I think I've gotten definitely a lot more consistent, and that's been my goal as well.  I can serve a little bit better, you know, in a match like that.  But, you know, there's still a lot of work for me to do and that shows me that. 

Q.  If you look back to when you were in Charleston and you hadn't even started playing matches yet, would you have dreamed that you could have come so quickly, so fast?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I didn't think of it then.  You know, I didn't have a set place in mind where I thought I would be, you know, come Wimbledon.  But I certainly felt that I was hitting the ball well.  You never know how you're going to start off playing.  I just wanted to allow myself the chance to, you know, get  -- to get there, wherever that was going to be.  And, you know, I started off trying to concentrate from Berlin and Rome, you know, which kind of just got my feet into playing tournaments.  But from those tournaments on, I really concentrated on trying to really work my way into matches and be consistent and really let my game evolve.  And I think that's why I've been playing as well as I have.  And at the moment, I still was expecting more.  So it's a little bit tough for me. 

Q.  Do you still leave positive and happy with how you've done here? 

CHANDA RUBIN:  You know, I'm fairly positive right now.  It's just, you know  -- just very disappointed, you know, in the result today.  But there's a lot that I can build on, and I'm definitely going to have to, you know, move forward.  I'm in the next tournaments.  I come back tomorrow, I'll play doubles and go through the tournament and see how far I can go in that.  Then, you know, set my sites on the next tournaments which are the hardcourts.  I'm definitely looking forward, but it's tough at the moment  - a tough loss.

Q.  She had to bring her A game to beat you, though. 

CHANDA RUBIN:  Yeah, that's what you want.  You want a player to have to do that - definitely.   It's just I feel  -- and I know that I had chances.  And, you know, I'm kind of focused on that right now.  But, you know, as I said, there's a lot for me to build on.  You definitely have to take the positives.  I mean, I'm not going to start being negative now after everything I've been through.  I'm back playing and healthy and playing well, so I'm just going to keep trying to let that come out and get better.  I mean, that's the name of the game, is getting better.

Q.  There were chances that had to be grabbed because the ball was coming so quickly.  They weren't gaping, wide-open chances, were they?

CHANDA RUBIN:  No, no.  I mean, nothing was just clear-cut  - maybe the last game, you know.  I think that one was probably the easiest shot that I had that I missed.  You can't afford that.  But, you know, even just the smallest opportunities, you got to grab them.  You got to grab them.  That's the difference in the match, in a match like this where a player's playing well.  If she wasn't playing quite as well, I might have had a few more.  But you have to take those chances, and she was better at it.

Q.  How well do you think she is playing? 

CHANDA RUBIN:  I think she's hitting the ball really, really solidly.  I mean, against me, I thought she was more consistent.  And, you know, she served pretty well.  I mean, I feel like I could have done a bit better on her serve, but I think she served pretty well.  And she was pretty tough.  She didn't really give me a whole lot in this match.  So it's a good sign for her.

Q.  Was it your game plan today to have your serves in the 80s at first, to try to give her more trouble with them?  You were using a lot of spin.

CHANDA RUBIN:  Yeah.  I mean, I'm definitely trying to, you know, use more spin and get her out of the court right off the bat.  Especially once I realized I needed to keep attacking, and that included serving and volleying.  So definitely, it was a question  -- trying to concentrate more on making good serves, solid serves, not trying to go for too much.  And, you know, that's something I'm going to have to do still a lot better.  Because the couple games that I lost were, you know, dropoffs, and it's clear what happens when that dropped off for me.

Q.  Her big criticism of herself was the ones you were hitting out wide to the forehand. 

CHANDA RUBIN:  Yes, I'm sure.  She missed quite a few of those.  She didn't get on it quite as well.  The grass, it's a little bit tougher of course.  And for me, I just felt that, you know, I was still trying to attack and move forward.  Once you get a player out, you just have to get to the next shot because it's an open court.  So it's just the maneuvering.

Q.  Do you think she's going to win the whole thing?

CHANDA RUBIN:  It's tough to say.  I mean, I think she definitely can.  She's proven that  - that she can win a Grand Slam.  I think the grass, the way she's playing on it now, is definitely  -- I think she can.  But we'll see.

Q.  You must have been really pleased with your movement, having had two knee surgeries.  You were covering the court awfully well. 

CHANDA RUBIN:  My movement has been good.  I've been pretty quick off the ball.  It's mainly been a question of seeing it, so you're really working more with my eyes now.  But physically, my knee feels really good out there, and I'm not favoring or anything like that.  So I'm pleased with that part of it.  It will be nice, once this is over, for me to go and get some nice training and really build my fitness and get quicker and, you know, really try to take advantage of that on the hardcourts, the footing. 

Q.  In terms of your game, do you feel that you have the game to one day win a Slam? 

CHANDA RUBIN:  I definitely feel that.  I've been close once or twice.  Now, it's definitely a little bit of a different game, but I think I'm a better player from then.  So definitely, I've set my sites on that.   The main thing is to go out in a given week and win tournaments.  I did that last week, which was really a nice, nice win for me to end up, you know, after the week was over, be the one without having lost a match.  So definitely I feel like it's just another step further to win a Grand Slam.  But it's going to take, you know, a big effort on my part, and I'm going to have to keep working and just get over that hump.  I don't know when that will be, but that's what it's going to take, I think.

Q.  Martina Hingis said she felt middle-aged on the tour now.  How do you feel?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I probably feel a little bit younger than her, which is good (laughing).  I feel pretty good.  I mean, it's  -- you never know; things change so quickly.  So, knock on wood...  But I feel fit and I feel healthy and I think, you know, when I have that, mentally I'm looking forward and I'm eager to go out and play.  So in terms of how I feel, I don't feel quite as old yet, as maybe I did six months ago (laughing).  So I take it month by month.

Q.  During those injuries, did you ever feel that you were cursed? 

CHANDA RUBIN:  I tried not to think about that, actually.  Because if I did, I probably might have thought that because it's just the timing of the injuries.  But, you know, I definitely try not to lament too much on it.  There's a whole lot worse things that could be happening to a person.  So I was injured, I wasn't able to play this game, you know, that I've played most of my life.  There's still a bright, bright sky out there the next morning.  So I tried to kind of focus on that instead of the negative parts of it. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT