CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF SANEX WTA TOUR
November 14, 2000
Chanda Rubin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How much did your knee come into play?  
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   I didn't really feel it so much out there, as bad as it has been, but definitely my movement wasn't there.  It was just really frustrating, because I have to have that part of my game in order for me to be as aggressive as I need to be.  I have to be moving better, and I just wasn't nearly as good as I needed to be. 
 
Q.  Did the knee injury throw into your game plan or do you feel you executed your game plan? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   Well, I definitely didn't execute my game plan as well as I can, because, as I mentioned, movement is a big part of that, and being able to be a little bit more explosive from the ground and also, going into the net, because she hits a lot of balls back and I just wasn't where I needed to be in that area.  
 
Q.  Did it bother you especially on the serve? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   Well, I've probably been favoring it a little more on that.  You know, it was tough coming into here, because I didn't have quite the training that I would have liked to have had.  But I felt good in terms of just the discomfort and trying to minimize the pain, and that was okay going into this match.  
 
Q.  Do you still plan to play doubles tomorrow? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   Yes.  Yes.  I mean, everything  -- I felt pretty good physically, in terms of, as I said, just the discomfort and kind of the pain that was there before, from last week.  That was much better.  The toughest thing in singles was the movement, and just playing the points and being able to do those things that I need to do in the point.  Doubles, hopefully, that will be a little bit easier.  And it's only half court, and it is mainly volleys and things like that.  So, definitely, you know, I'm looking forward to the doubles.  
 
Q.  Is that psychological as far as the movement goes or physical?  Is it that you are afraid to test it too much or that it is inhibiting from movement?
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   It is not as strong as it could be, or the other leg, for sure.  But, also, I just haven't been able to do as much on it and I haven't played  -- my first points were today.  I haven't really been able to do any movements or the normal type of play that you would have on it during the course of a match.  And as I mentioned, for my game, you know, I needed to do that even more against Amanda, and it just wasn't quite there.  Rusty a little bit. 
 
Q.  When did you hurt your knee?
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   It was last week.  I pulled out of Philadelphia after the second round. 
 
Q.  What exactly is wrong with it? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   It's just a bit of tendonitis I think. 
 
Q.  When you say minimized pain, do you mean you are hitting first, second serve, not going for full power serves? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   Not consciously.  It is just basically trying to, you know, go after the serve normally.  You know, it is in the back of your head, but that wasn't the main thing that was in my mind when I went up to hit the serve.  I was playing, you know, hitting the serve normally at full speed pretty much.  
 
Q.  Did playing early in the morning affect you at all? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   It's not my favorite time to play, but I expect it here, certainly.  But it's hard to schedule it.  
 
Q.  Do you have possibilities of playing next week at the Federation Cup? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   I don't know yet.  I'm not sure what I'll be able to do.  
 
Q.  In general, the year 2000 has been good for you, apart from this match today? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   It has been good.  It's disappointing to end singles with this kind of match, especially, you know, a match that I feel like I have an opportunity to get into it at any given day.  Amanda played a good match today.  Very solid.  I wasn't quite up to par.  So the combination, you know, ended up being the result that you saw out there.  Overall, I've had a very good year, and, you know, it was my goal to make it here, and to be able to play and be 100%.  
 
Q.  Do you feel that you can go farther?  You are still 24; more tournaments, more victories, do you feel that? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   Definitely.  Definitely.  I don't feel that I've played the best tennis that I can play yet.  So, hopefully that will happen.  
 
Q.  What do you think you need to work on in order for you to play your best tennis?
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   I think consistently, week-in, week-out, I have been more consistent.  I think that is a big thing.  But also, just in the bigger matches, so to speak, against top players, Top-5 players in the world, just getting over that hump.  And I've had some opportunities.  You know, I'm getting there most of the tournaments, and that's really where I want to be, having a shot at those kind of matches pushing my game up to the next level, because those matches become a lot more mental.  You know, you have to execute your game plan, and for me, that means being more aggressive, using the whole court, and really using kind of my movement in being able to be more aggressive, because these are bigger, stronger players, Venus and Serena in particular.  But it is just getting those opportunities and capitalizing them, to pick my game up to the next level. 
 
Q.  Speaking of Venus and Serena, did you happen to see the story today about their father talking about revenue sharing on the Tour? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   I glanced at it this morning. 
 
Q.  Do you have any reaction to that? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   Not really.  Not yet.  I think Mr.  Williams always has his opinions, and, you know, that's basically what they are at this point.  So I really couldn't comment on any specifics, because I really don't have a good enough idea.  
 
Q.  How about the ranking system?  Do you think that's fair? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   Well, I think it's fair, because everyone is under the same system.  I mean, it is constantly being looked at to make it better for all the players, and you know, beneficial to all of the players, because that  -- it's beneficial to the Tour and to the fans and to everyone who comes out to see us week-in and week-out.  I think it is constantly being looked at, to see what the best scenario is; that it's fair and everyone has the opportunity to play under the same system. 
 
Q.  But with the rash of injuries that we're seeing in this particular season, and this particular tournament, do you think that that is at all related to how much tennis you all are playing? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   Well, definitely I think players are playing a lot.  We're playing a lot more, and that can contribute to it, among other things.  I think just looking at even different tournaments, using different balls week-in and week-out, that's something that could easily be, you know, more of a standard in regards to that, because you see a lot of wrist injuries.  Of course, the game is more powerful, the equipment, the whole line.  That contributes to it, as well.  You just can't say it is one thing.  You just try to do the things necessary to minimize those types of injuries.  And playing less, certainly that would probably help. But I think just in regards to the ranking system, you look at the best of 18, but a lot of the players who are getting injured are playing 25, 26 tournaments in a year, and that's way above even 18.  So it's really a personal choice, as well, and every player has to make that choice and decide what is best for them and how they can, you know, have longevity, but still play enough to where they are comfortable. 
 
Q.  What's your thoughts on this tournament leaving New York?
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   I think it's a bit sad, for us American players, especially, because it's nice to be here in New York, and it's now going to be even fewer tournaments in the States, nothing after the US Open.  It will be all in Europe.  It is a bit sad.  But I think that tennis is really on a high right now, especially women's tennis.  We get a lot of support week-in and week-out.  People really enjoy watching it, and I think it is really tough in this city, because of this time of year and there's so much going on and having it here at the Garden and the facilities and the whole nine, I think that will be a little bit better. 
 
Q.  What about the other players?  How do they feel about this tournament?
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   I'm sure Europeans don't mind.  They are staying in Europe.  You know there are a lot of tournaments already there.  I think it is a lot easier traveling and if you live in Europe and you're going week-in and week-out to these tournaments, you can drive, it's not too far from home.  I'm sure they don't mind.  But I'm sure the American players feel it is a bit sad. 
 
Q.  How popular is tennis in Lafayette, Louisiana? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   People don't get to see a lot of tennis, and certainly not the world-class tennis that a tournament would bring to any area, and it's kind of unfortunate.  But definitely, I mean, people really enjoy it.  And when it is available, it's gotten a really good turnout.  I had an event there last year at the end of the year and brought in some players, Venus, Mary Pierce, a couple of the guys, the Jensen brothers, Mary Joe Fernandez, and we had a great turnout.   It was like 5,000 plus people.  And Lafayette, Louisiana, it is not a huge town, but the people had a great time, and it would have been even more if they had even believed that the players would come.  A lot of people didn't even think that I would be able to have players come and play, of that caliber.  It was really a nice thing, and I would love to do something like that again.  But to answer your question, it is very popular.  
 
Q.  When will you decide about Fed Cup? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   Well, after the next few days.  I'm going to speak to Billie Jean and go from there.  I'm taking it one day at a time, basically. 
 
Q.  You mentioned something about playing with different balls.  For the average tennis player who gets out on the court maybe once a week or something, hey, any ball that you can get that still bounces is good enough.  So what does this changing balls do? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:   Well, I mean, you know, we play week-in and week-out, practice twice a day.  We notice little things, whether it is the tension on your racquet, a stiffer racquet versus a more flexible racquet.  Definitely at this level you notice those little things, and they make a difference.  You know, different balls are heavier versus lighter balls.  Different company  -- the balls from different companies are different.  Some balls have less pressure, depending on whether you are playing in Europe.  It is just their variations.  When you're playing one week with a lighter ball and the next week you go and it is a heavier ball; you also have different court surfaces.  The ball is really the main thing that you could make more uniform, and it would at least, you know, allow players to get the same  -- closer to the same feel.  And you're not making adjustments or allowances for so many different factors week-in and week-out.  And, you know, I think it is something that really should be looked at, because wrist injuries are a bit prevalent for players, and they will be, but it's just trying to minimize them.  And that's the first thing that hits your racquet is the ball.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT