THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 19, 1999
Chanda Rubin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How did it go today?

CHANDA RUBIN:  It was okay.  I played  -- started off all right, but at bit shaky towards the end of the first set.  I got better, much better, in the second set, and closed it out well.  I'm happy with it.  I get to play another day, keep working. 


Q.  Do you feel any ill effects whatsoever from the wrist, from your surgery?

CHANDA RUBIN:  No.  I'm healthy, feeling good.


Q.  Do you do anything to even take care of it?  Is it just exactly as it was before?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I do smaller things, make sure I get massaged, keep the strength up, kind of basic things that you would do for any other part of your body.  You know, nothing major.


Q.  How long did that linger for?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I mean, in the year after, there were occasional times where it would kind of feel a little bit bad.  But overall, the surgery was successful.  Once you go through the rehabbing, that's just a continuous process.  Some days were better than others.  But overall, I mean, the surgery went well.  I didn't feel any lasting effects, I guess, besides some stiffness.


Q.  Could you talk about beating Martina Hingis, the Evert Cup, what that did for your confidence?

CHANDA RUBIN:  Well, it was really a good win for me, one of the best if not the best win, with her being No.  1.  I played a really good match.  I played well all week.  It's nice to play well, feel like you're playing well, and actually get the wins and beat the top players.  That's definitely where I want to be.  Those are the players that I have to beat week-in and week-out.  I feel good.  It definitely boosted my confidence.


Q.  You're one of the few players that has a head-to-head edge over Martina.  I'm wondering what you do or what it is about your play or her play that makes that so?   

CHANDA RUBIN:  I think the last time we played was last year here.  She beat me pretty easily.  Before that, I think we hadn't played in quite awhile, around when she first turned pro.  I was supposed to win.  I mean, I was better at the time.  I just played a really good match.  Since then, we hadn't really played in a while till last year.  I felt like this past week I was just really playing well, played well enough to win. 


Q.  Does coming off an injury like that sort of undermine your confidence?  Did it take a while to get it back after even physically you got the wrist feeling good again?  Does a win over Martina like that tell you, "I can get back to where I was before"? 

CHANDA RUBIN:  I don't think about it before the injury, after the injury.  It happened; it's over; I'm playing.  I'm happy to be playing again, just trying to stay healthy.  There are other little things that creep up health-wise.  The wrist is not my main concern.  I don't even really think about it.  Right now, I feel like I'm a better player.  I feel like I'm improving, learning a bit more about the game, understanding it better.  That's what it's all about.  Injury just kind of puts a  -- dampens it a little bit, your growth.  Everybody has to kind of rebound from it at some point.


Q.  Do you feel you were a better player than when you were sixth?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I feel like I am.


Q.  What about your game makes you feel that way?

CHANDA RUBIN:  Like I said, I have a better understanding of it, smarter out there.  I'm still working on the shots, being able to hit the ball wherever I want to, hit it.  Being smarter at times when you need to.  Just a better understanding overall of the game.  I'm working more on being aggressive.  I feel better about that.  I feel like I'm doing that a lot better.  It feels more natural.  The more I do it, the better I think I get at it.  I think it's a combination of those things.


Q.  How hard do you think it will be to get back up as high as you were?  How long might that take?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I'm not thinking about time frame.  I think the game is better now.  I think players are better, stronger.  There are more players who can come up with a win week-in and week-out.  There's more depth.  I think it's a bit tougher than it was two or three years ago.  You know, I feel good, just setting goals, looking to win events, just keep improving week-in and week-out. 


Q.  Who is your coach now?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I'm working with Benny Simms.


Q.  At the Evert Cup, you played Graf. 

CHANDA RUBIN:  Right.


Q.  You were leading that one pretty well.  What happened there?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I think she raised her game a bit.  I dropped mine a little bit.  I started forcing it a little too much.  Kind of got off of my game plan a little bit.  I mean, she's a top player, a great competitor, champion.  She's going to raise her game a little bit.  I think I got into just forcing a little too much, had some tight games in there.  You know, she kind of went on a run towards the end.  You just can't let that happen. 


Q.  Who did you play in the (inaudible)final?

CHANDA RUBIN:  Graf.


Q.  Any difference between her now and after she came back from all the injuries?  Do you see any difference in her game?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I think she's pretty much right now playing the same game.  Like I said, I think players are better now.  I think maybe her confidence is not quite what it used to be.  That makes a difference.  She's pretty much playing the same game. 


Q.  What would you like to work on more as far as your game goes?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I'm continuing to work on my serve, being aggressive, being patient off the ground, a little bit more consistent when I need to be.  I'm just trying to take more play at the net.


Q.  What do you feel is working really well for you now?

CHANDA RUBIN:  Those things (laughter). 


Q.  The same things you want to work on?

CHANDA RUBIN:  Yes. 


Q.  What about tomorrow's match?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I don't know when I play.  I don't know who.


Q.  If it's Testud. 

CHANDA RUBIN:  I'm not sure who she plays.  I haven't looked that far ahead.


Q.  If you do play her, any comments?  Have you played her recently?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I haven't played her recently, no.   We played last year, maybe a year ago, something like that.  Just take it like any other match.  I'm going to go out and do the same things, play my game.  If it's her, she's very consistent.  She plays smart.  I'm just going to have to go out and match her in that area, try to be aggressive when I can and win the points. 


Q.  I interviewed Steve Campbell earlier this week.  We were talking about the number of African Americans on the men's Tour.  He said sometimes he feels a little lonely to have people to relate to.  Do you ever feel that way among the women?

CHANDA RUBIN:  No. 


Q.  The superstition thing I read about.  That still holds true?

CHANDA RUBIN:  No.  It was quite a few years ago.  I haven't really  -- it wasn't really major.  It was kind of a little thing that I get into at times.  Right now, I haven't done that in a year or two.  It kind of is a little bit old.  I'm going to have to erase it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT