THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 28, 1996
Chanda Rubin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P>
Q.  Chanda, a one-on-one interview with me.  How did you feel about tonight's match? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I thought I made a few too many errors, especially at the beginning, you know, she hits the ball well, you know, a lot of times when she was on the run when I thought I had control of the point, she put me on the defense.  I think I was trying to force play because of that a little too much.  I think I played a little more solid in the second and third sets and, you know, I was just happy to come out with a win.  
 

Q.  Am I right in thinking your quality of play, like your shots and error number or total was lower in Australia, you were playing a higher level, but you are still getting through these matches so you have learned how to win as well, is that how you are looking at it? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN: Yes, I mean, I think, you know, I had -- I think, in a lot of matches my errors are pretty high, you know, I have quite a few winners, just because of the way that I play.  Hopefully at the end of a match, I can look back and say I hit more winners than errors and, you know, that carried me through the match.  I still think to win and be successful, I still have to be aggressive and keep going for it and keep working to cut down the errors.  
 

Q.  Did you come out of the match satisfied or did you want to get it over in two? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN: I wish I had played a little better in the first and closeout the second a little bit easier, you know, I guess tomorrow is another day and Saturday is another day and hopefully, you know, I can pick up my level a little bit and cut down on the errors.  I think also, I mean, this was kind of the first match where I played somebody who really hit the ball, you know, continuously, so I think, you know, towards the last couple of sets, you know, I started getting a little more used to the pace.  I think I am probably going to need that for Saturday.  
 

Q.  You have Steffi for Saturday.  What are your feelings on just going into it?  Does it suddenly become a big match for you, obviously? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN: You know, I think it is a big match, but, you know, it is also another match, I just want to go out and play well, play some solid tennis, you know, I definitely think I am the underdog in the match.  I think anything is possible, if I play aggressive and play good, solid tennis, I can win the match, but I definitely think I am going to have to be aggressive, you know, and hopefully cut down on my errors a little bit, you know, from today, and, you know, keep trying to closeout points at the net because, I mean, she hits the ball well, so--  
 

Q.  In the past two or three months or so, seemed to be not intimidated by anybody you go up against, is Steffi included in that or is there still an aura of she's Steffi Graff or do you feel like you are just facing her like just another player at this point? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN: I think she is a great player.  She's been at the top of the game for a long time and, you know, certainly it's going to be tough to beat, but, you know, I definitely think I've been playing better over the past, you know, months and year and, you know, I definitely think if I play solid tennis.  I can play with anybody, including her, you know, definitely it is not going to be easy.  I am going to have to go in mentally sound and, you know, with a game plan. I am going to have to stick to it regardless of what the score is and what's going on in the match, but, you know, I am just trying to look at it as another match and just go out and play solid.  
 

Q.  Do you prefer not to play doubles tomorrow and have a day off or is it okay maybe to have to play two double matches tomorrow? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN: I think it is okay, you know, get a good solid day, I'll hit a little bit in the morning and go out and try to, you know, win our doubles match tomorrow and see how that goes.  It is -- I think it is great to play doubles, it helps my singles game and volleys quite a bit and, you know, it's something that I've enjoyed doing, you know, in the last, I guess in the last year I think I've played quite a bit more and, you know, it's nice to be in the singles and doubles and, you know, I think Friday will be hopefully a good day.  
 

Q.  Chanda, do you know how have you done against Graff in the past? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN: I've lost to her every time.  I don't remember how many times I played her.  
 

Q.  Was there ever a feeling, I don't know, what was the most recent time you played her? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN: The U.S. Open.  
 

Q.  How close was that? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN: It wasn't close, no.  
 

Q.  So you don't really take -- you really can't take much from those matches, you have to really go on basically how you've been playing? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN: Yes, I'm going to try to take a little bit from those matches, I think, you know, especially the last time I played her, you know, I mean I guess it was close at one all and then start to do a little too much because she moves well and hits the ball well.  I am just going to try to go and play solid, come in a little more, I don't think I did that enough last time I played her, certainly learned that, even though it was a pretty quick match.  I am going to try and do that a little bit better on Saturday and see how it goes. Hopefully, you know beings just feel it out as the match goes along.  
 

Q.  This is going to be your biggest final that you've ever been in, your feelings on that? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I think it's great, you know, it would be even nicer to win that, I'm kind of setting my cites on that.  I felt really good going into the week, you know, I feel like I'm playing, you know, solid ball and, you know, it's great to see the results and you know have a shot at the title, so go for it.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT