STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 13, 1996
Chanda Rubin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Would I be correct in saying this was not one of your
better performances?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  That would be true.  I mean, I made it tough on
myself from the start and I wasn't able to win my serve early
on and I was just on the defensive pretty much the whole time.


 Q.  Can you look at anything that might have caused it, rain
delays, or waiting around or --

 CHANDA RUBIN:  No, I mean, I don't think so.  I felt like when
I walked out that I was ready to play and, you know, tried to
go out pretty warm even though we have been waiting around for
a while. You know, just from the start I was just on the defensive
and she hits a heavy ball and she played a good match and I wasn't
able to match that.

 Q.  When you started saving all those matchpoints, did you
think, here we go again, Paris, Wimbledon, Australian Open?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  No.  I mean, I was just a little bit frustrated
because I was never able to get on top of anything. And I mean,
at that point I was just kind of battling and, you  know, just
kind of reacting to everything and just trying to stay in the
match.  I mean, you know, at that point I was just a little bit
frustrated, but I just thought I'd stay in the match and see if
I can work it out.  A little too late, though.

 Q.  She was saying that you are someone who can play very,
very well or not so good.  Are you conscious of that fact, that
opponents are sort of trying to assess you out in the first few
games and that you need to get greater consistency?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Yes, I mean, I felt like I have improved on that
quite a bit.  I feel like I can play a very good match and then
here and there, I don't play so well and, you know, I just feel
like nothing is going right.  It is just something -- I mean,
I don't feel I can play perfectly every day, but, you know, it
is still disappointing to feel like I went out and I was in the
match and had my chances and didn't capitalize, it is just frustrating
to come off the court feeling that way and hopefully just cut
that down and be able to play more consistently and, you know,
every time I walk on the court and give myself a chance to win.


 Q.  Chanda, did you have a different feeling playing?  I know
you have played her a number of times, but this time were you
feeling differently in terms of "this is a big match,"
an important match; a semifinal coming up?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  No, I mean, I didn't feel like it was  any bigger
than any other match; any bigger than playing her in a Grand Slam
or any bigger than playing letter in an eight hundred thousand
dollar tournament.  I felt like it was another match; that I had
a shot at going out and winning the match. That I knew I had to
play aggressively, and, you know, get her on the run, and I didn't
do that.  I didn't attack enough, and I didn't put myself in a
position to attack enough the whole match, but I didn't feel like
it was any bigger an occasion.

 Q.  Do you think it is possible there was a let-down after
last night being a fairly emotional match?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Well, I mean, I really don't think so. I mean,
obviously, I didn't play well tonight and, you know, waited around
quite a bit in the day, and you just didn't go out there like
I wanted to, but I didn't feel like I it had anything to do with
last night's match.  Last night, I guess, it was a big match.
 Beforehand I wasn't thinking of it as big a match as I guess
everyone else did, but, you know, I just tried to take this today
as another match and go out and play, and regardless, and I mean,
Lindsay is, you know, higher ranked than Jennifer right now; has
been playing a lot more, you know, to me, I mean, you know, I
saw that as, you know, this as being a match on par with that
one, so I can't say that you know, it was a huge let-down because
last night was so big.

 Q.  Notice any difference in Lindsay's game?  Is she  moving
better or anything?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  It is hard to say.  I didn't really do enough.
 I think she played a good match.  I think she moved pretty well,
but I mean, it is hard to say because I don't feel like I did
enough.  I did as much as I could, so.....

 End of FastScripts........            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT