STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 12, 1996
Chanda Rubin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jennifer how did it feel playing at night?  Was it cold
or anything?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  A little chilly.  Definitely bright out there.
 Those are some lights.

 Q.  What did you think the difference was between where her
game is at and where yours is at right now?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  First of all, I mean, she has been playing
and I haven't and I mean, I came into this tournament, I was playing
well.  And I don't think I played as well as I would have liked
to.  I think I forced the error a lot more this match.  So I could
have done a little better, but still it was a good tournament.


 Q.  How much are you enjoying being out there?  I mean, do
you feel that pressure has been taken off your shoulders with
all the questions -- "when is Jennifer coming back, when
is she going to come back" and the fact that you are now
back out there playing?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I haven't been thinking about what
everyone has been saying, and what people, like you  said, when
am I going to come back; when am I going to come back.  I have
come back when I am ready to come back.  I am ready to come back
so...

 Q.  But you are enjoying it?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Oh, yeah, geez, I wouldn't be here if I wasn't
enjoying it.

 Q.  What do you want from your tennis now, Jennifer, what
are you looking for?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I mean, it is what I do and I can't
give it up, so, you know, I know that I can play well and I want
to play and so, you know, just a good part of my life, I want
it to be.

 Q.  Jennifer, was that match any different than any one you
played so far in your comeback in terms of she is sort of the
same age as you and you're long time rivals, did you feel a more
of a need to compete tonight?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I mean, maybe there is a little more tension,
but I mean, I just knew she was a good player and, you know, she
has been the highest ranked that I played so far.  And so that
is really just all I was thinking about.

 Q.  Are you going to set -- are you setting yourself targets
or any goals for this year, now that the comeback has gone into
full swing?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I just want to get into the groove of playing
right now.  And so just, you know, taking things  step at a time.


 Q.  And if you had to look ahead to anyone part of 1996, that
you really are keen for, really eager for, what would that be?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, obviously, I'd like to get back up
to the ranks and, you know, maybe even to the, you know, top 10
or whatever, but I am just going to take one thing at a time and
just try to win.

 Q.  What did you miss about the tennis then and now that you
are back, what are you glad that you are back for?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, it is just what I love to do, so, you
know, I am glad to be back doing what I love to do and right now
that is tennis, and, you know, I am still an athlete and I love
the competitiveness and I just had a real determination to come
back and start doing my thing again.

 Q.  What did you miss about it?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I just, you know, said I have -- I
had that, so, you know, that is what I am back for.

 Q.  In this match, Jennifer, you appeared to be coming on
a little bit after you got that atrocious line call.  Did that
kind of spur you on a little bit?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I think what it did was just, you know,
I made a few good shots and, you know, the crowd really went wild,
and that just got me pumped up.

 Q.  Been about three years since you played Chanda.  Is  she
a lot different player now or --

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, I don't remember. (laughter) I mean,
she is always, I think, you know, she has always been an attacking
style player and she hits the ball very hard and very solid and,
you know, I mean, she played well.

 Q.  Do you feel different each time you step on court or is
it now just starting to, you know, flow as it should?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  It is not quite to that point yet, so, you
know, there is just other things that come into play besides just
me playing on the court and, you know, of course, it is -- emotions
come into play.

 Q.  You seem very fitter.  Are you doing anything for your
conditioning?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  I have just been working out really hard
and I guess that is what it is.  I mean, of course I do off-court
training and on-court training, so it has just got me fit.

 Q.  Jennifer, is your father your coach now?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Yes.

 Q.  Any chance that that could change; that you can get somebody
else to coach you or have you not taken it that far yet?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  No, I am happy with the way things are right
now. 

 Q.  Jennifer, what was the problem with your serve tonight?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, you know, I didn't hit it as quite
as well as I'd like to hit it.  So it really wasn't a weapon.
 I just got to work more on my serve and just, you know, it is
hard to get the same power like I used to have, you know, take
a lot of work on your shoulder.

 Q.  The gold medal was the biggest thing that you won. What
would be going through your mind come July the Olympics being
in Atlanta?

 JENNIFER CAPRIATI:  Well, if I am up there and to be good enough
to play, then that is great, but if not, you know, it is okay
that I am not there.

 End of FastScripts........            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT