WTA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 14, 1995
Chanda Rubin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Congratulations on your award?

CHANDA RUBIN:  Thank you.


Q.  Well deserving.  How do you feel about your improvement this far?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I think I've improved a lot this year, and had some really great weeks, some great wins.  And it's all been going up for me.  And I can't say I'm too disappointed with the way the year has gone.  So there's a lot to be thankful for.


Q.  Chanda, do you look at this more of a match that got away from you or did Mary Joe do some things in the third set and take it?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I think it definitely got away from me a little bit.  I had chances.  A few points here and there.  I think especially on her service game, I had some break opportunities that I didn't take advantage of.  But I think she played better the second and third set also.  I have to give her a little bit of credit.  But it's still disappointing that I didn't take advantage of a few of the opportunities when I  had a chance.  And she came out on top.


Q.  Is playing Mary Joe a mental challenge, because you played with her on the Fed team, do you put that aside when you get on the court with her?

CHANDA RUBIN:  It didn't enter my mind when I was playing with her.  Basically that was it, once I was out there, I was there to compete and, you know, just go out and play tennis. And that's how I treated the match.  I could have done a few things a little bit better.  But I think she played pretty well, and she deserved it.  So I just have to go back and work hard for the next match, next year, and maybe Fed Cup I'll get the chance to play, but if not, just work towards next year.


Q.  You seemed to hit it off with the New York fans.

CHANDA RUBIN:  Definitely.  They were behind me all the way.  Especially my first time here.  It was a great experience to be here at the Garden in New York.  I'm looking forward to coming back.  So I have to work twice as hard.  So I'll be back next year.


Q.  Chanda, there hasn't been an African American No. 1 player for a while, is that something you think about, in your own goals?

CHANDA RUBIN:  Not really.  My goal was just to be the best player that I can be.  And if that's No. 1, great.  But I just want to go out every time I'm on the court and give 110 percent and try to compete well.  And basically, that's all I  think about.  And as far as being the No. 1 black player, I mean it's great.  I wish there were more black players out there.  But there's been some great ones who have been before me and kind of paved the way.  And hopefully, I can do that for other players.  But I'm mainly concentrating on my game and on doing things the right way and trying to be the best I can be.  So hopefully that will be enough.


Q.  Chanda, how do you place this match against Mary Joe in your overall career?

CHANDA RUBIN:  Well, I mean I don't see it as, you know, the match to end all.  There's always another tournament.  I think that's the great part about this sport.  It's disappointing because it was a big match, because it's here at the championships.  It would have been great to come out on top in that match.  But it's still a match that I have to look at as an experience and learn from and try to come back and use that next time I play her or any other player.  I'm sure I'll get plenty of opportunities.  Hopefully I'll take this opportunity to my advantage and do well the next one.


Q.  What are you going to play the rest of the year?

CHANDA RUBIN:  Just Fed Cup.  I'm going to Spain, and after it that I'll be home until Australia.  I'll be playing in Sidney and then Melbourne.


Q.  Do you think Steffi Graf made a fashion statement with  the dress she wore on the court today?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I thought it's a nice look.  I like the dresses.  I think it brings back a little tradition to the sport.  And there's been a few other players who have been wearing them with Nike.  But I thought it was a nice look. Maybe it could have been a little shorter.  I thought it's a nice look.  And I've never personally tried it, but I wouldn't be reluctant to.  So I think it's definitely a fashion statement.


Q.  Chanda, have you given any thought to what the WTA, for example, might be able to do to get more African American girls interested in the sport?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I haven't really given it a whole lot of thought.  I think it's really a question of exposure.  And you really have to put it out there for kids to pick up and try and just have fun with.  I mean you can't really -- I don't think you can say for sure if this is going to work or that's going to work.  But I think a lot of the under city areas could use exposure to the game.  And just having it there.  Have clinics here, clinics there.  I think we do some of those at tournaments.  I remember specific tournaments we have kids come and just kind of introduce them to the sport.  If they've been playing, play a little bit with them.  And talk with them and things like that.  So I think those really help a lot and hopefully we can do more of that. 


Q.  You're someone that gives back to the game constantly, is that something that came from your family or from tennis mentors?

CHANDA RUBIN:  Well, I definitely think from my family early on.  Because when I was a little bit younger I was reluctant to spend the extra time, my free time going to schools and talking.  And it was a bit nerve racking to have to get up and talk.  And they definitely encouraged me to do it. And now it's just something that I feel a responsibility to do and that I like doing, especially when the kids are really involved.  And they get such a kick out of it.  It's nice to see them interested in it.  And if I can do that and try to influence a few kids positively, I think it's great.  So it's definitely something that I try to incorporate when I get some free time.


Q.  Chanda, your dad is a judge.  And your mom is an educator.  At some point do you intend to merge another career with your tennis profession?

CHANDA RUBIN:  At some point, I think.  I haven't given it much thought.  I don't know if I would go into either one of those professions.  But it would definitely be an option.  And I don't know if I would just like -- decide to go back to school afterwards or what.  Hopefully I'll have a long career and I'll be setup so I can do pretty much anything I want. That's basically the goal.  It's definitely an option, I feel. 


Q.  What are you going to be doing with your unfortunate free time in New York for the next couple of days?

CHANDA RUBIN:  Well, I haven't decided if I'm going to stay or go home.  Maybe I'll stay a few days.  I enjoy New York.  Maybe go to a play or something.  I've been wanting to go down to the Apollo, amateur night.  I don't know if they're filming or what.  I'm not sure.  But there's definitely a lot to do here.  And if I stay for a few days, I'm sure I'll be able to fill it up with just about anything.


Q.  I hear Eddie Murphy is your favorite actor.  Who is your favorite actress?

CHANDA RUBIN:  Well, I like Hallie Berry, of course, and Angela Basset.  She's a really great actress.  There's a few others, besides Eddie Murphy that I like.  I like Wesley Snipes and Val Kilmer, there's a few.  But I just like movies.  When I get free time, especially during tournaments it's easy to go and relax.


Q.  Have you met any of these people at all?

CHANDA RUBIN:  I haven't.  I met Angela Basset.  But that's it.


Q.  About your defeat of Novotna in the French Open, is that something that sticks in your mind for the year?  Is that something --

CHANDA RUBIN:  I think it's definitely a win.  That gave me a lot of confidence early on in the year, especially making  a comeback during the course of the match.  It was a great experience for me and I think a few players go through something that extreme and turn the match around.  So I think it was really a learning experience and it definitely gave me a lot of confidence going into the later part of the year.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT