U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1995
Chanda Rubin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Chanda, is the problem that your power just sort of plays right into Steffi's hands
a little bit?

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I kind of feel right now like I just played it wrong, you know,
tried to overpower her. But I think also I mean, I made a few too many errors, and she
made way less errors trying to do basically the same thing. And so I feel like that is why
I really came out short.

Q. Were you nervous at all coming out? You think that might have counted for some of
the errors?

CHANDA RUBIN: No. I felt pretty good coming out. Served a pretty good first game and
started off well, you know, both sets. When we were on serve at 2-1, you know, I kind of
folded little bit and I think made me -- maybe missed a few many returns. For the most
part, I didn't feel like I started out nervous.

Q. You said your approach was wrong. What would you do differently if you had to do it
all over again? 

CHANDA RUBIN: It is kind of hard to say. Kind of thinking about it right now, but I
mean, I just think I need to cut down on the errors for the most part. Maybe if I get in a
little bit more, but it is pretty tough. Her shots are pretty penetrating and, you know, I
was kind of on the defensive just about most of the match. So it is kind of tough to try
to get in more, but, you know, I need to change that up, just a little bit.

Q. Chanda, what was your coach's advice before you got on the court? What was he
recommending you do?

CHANDA RUBIN: You know, just try to be aggressive. I need a lot of first serves and
pretty much try to be aggressive, you know, hitting it to her backhand trying to get in a
little bit.

Q. How do you feel about your progress in this tournament?

CHANDA RUBIN: I feel like I had a pretty good week. I played some pretty good matches,
but it is a little bit disappointing, you know. I mean, these are the matches that I
really want to win, and I just have to go back home, get back to it.

Q. Chanda, what point did you say to yourself"I am playing this all wrong?"
You came in and you kind of knew what you did wrong. Was it out on the court or in the
walk from the court to here?

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, no, I mean, I had to realize that -- realize it on the court losing
the first set 6-2 and being down, you know. I kind of realized that I needed to do
something a little bit differently, but it was tough, you know, with her shots being so
deep and, you know, I just felt like I had to just work the points and try to move well
and just try to look for any kind of opening I can get. But, you know, it was pretty hard
just to change up and try to do something drastically different. I just felt maybe I had
to move a little bit better in order to get some control of some of these points.

Q. The way she plays, the pace, it looks like it almost creates a full-court press,
that she is always ready, and she is always coming. Does it seem that way when you are out
there, that things are just happening really fast and hard to get in control of things?

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I mean, it is definitely a pretty fast pace, and I was trying to
kind of match that pace and, you know, it was all moving pretty fast, and it was
definitely, you know, under a little bit of pressure. But I mean, that is something that,
you know, I knew walking out there, and I just have to try to work on improving my game. 

Q. Do you think that is the thing to do against her is to play at her pace or do you
try and slow her down or...

CHANDA RUBIN: I try to slow it down just a little bit, some of the points, working,
getting in the backhand rallies until I could get a slot that I could hit out on. Even
some of those, I was still being put on the defensive on quite a few of those points. I
feel like you definitely have to slow her down a little bit, but it is something I need to
work on.

Q. How big or small do you think the gap is between yourself and, say, the top four
players right now? Do you think it is a gap you can close in the next year or two?

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I definitely think that. I think it is possible. I have had some
really good matches over the past summer and past few weeks, and I think I have made a lot
of improvements, and this is just kind of one more step, you know, to improve a little bit
more in certain things to kind of close the gap. And definitely, I think that is possible
in the next year or whatever, but, you know, hopefully I just feel like I can improve
regardless of the results, just keep getting better at it.

Q. Did you think coming in that she might be a little bit vulnerable this week?

CHANDA RUBIN: You mean this match?

Q. Yes.

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I definitely thought that I had a shot at it and, you know, the
opportunity was there, but I still knew that I had to come out and play some really good
tennis and, you know, I had to play two good sets of it in order to win and I just came up
a little bit short today.

Q. Could you sense the hype that was starting to surround about this match, a lot of
people were talking about you versus Steffi, when the draw first came out and do you think
that she played inspired tennis as a result of it?

CHANDA RUBIN: I don't know. I didn't really -- I wasn't really into all the hype around
the match, you know, I heard a few comments from maybe a couple of people that I talked
to, but for the most part, I wasn't really into all the hype. I just wanted to come out
and play a good solid match and keep doing what I had been doing the whole week and a
little disappointed that I didn't feel like I didn't play as well as I needed to do and as
I felt that I could, but, you know, it is just something that I have to go back to the
drawing board and, you know, hopefully keep getting shots at matches like this, these kind
of opportunities and sometimes it will happen. But I just really wasn't into the hype and
I didn't feel like, you know, I had to do anything or that, you know, it was a lot of
pressure for me, but I mean, she came out and played well.

Q. How powerful is she despite the back problems, despite the emotional problems and is
she your pick now to win this tournament?

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I think she definitely hasn't lost any power. I don't know about
how bad her back is or whatever, but I definitely think she is playing some good tennis
and she is one of the favorites for it.

Q. First in terms of American stars recently Jennifer made her big splash a number of
years ago and then Lindsay came on the season and had a good run. Within yourself, do you
have any feeling that now is your turn to really make a strong move?

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I don't think of it in terms of making a big splash, you know,
about anything. I am just looking at it from my perspective and things that I want to
improve upon and whenever I do something well and I accomplish something, it makes me feel
good and it makes me feel like, you know, I keep getting better. And I really don't think
about other peoples' expectations or what, you know, the whole thing might be, like a huge
splash, or I am finally coming into my own or whatever. I just think that right now I am
playing some really good tennis. I am improving and I want to keep that going and I am
feeling good. I am feeling confident about my game and I just want to run with that.

Q. Does this kind of spoil what has been a very good tournament for you? I mean, will
it be easy to get over this and say, I am playing good tennis?

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I mean, I still feel like I am playing good tennis and I don't
think one match will just totally demolish that feeling. You know, I mean, it is
disappointing. It is a Grand Slam. I felt like I was playing well and I don't think I
played as well as I did today, you know, I still think that I also think that I was under
quite a bit of pressure. I think she played well, and, you know, something I just have to
get back to the basics and to everything that I have been doing that has been working for
me and I definitely feel that I can keep the confidence level up and keep that going into
the end of the year. 

Q. What does Althea Gibson mean to you?

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I think she was a great woman tennis player. The first black woman
to win Wimbledon. I thought that was a great accomplishment. Just kind of paved the way
and I think that will last forever. I mean, that was something unbelievable and I would
love to be able to go out and do the same and just working towards being the best that I
can be and take it from there.

Q. Does a match like this make you feel like you'd like to go right back out and play
her now and fix whatever is fixed or does it make you want to regroup and --

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I mean, I wish I had another shot at it, obviously. You know, it is
over. But I just think I need to take a breather and just think about it a little bit and,
you know, come out with, I guess, kind of a different game plan next time I play her; do
something a little bit differently, but I definitely wish I had another shot at it.

End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT