U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1995
Chanda Rubin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Have you had time to think about playing Steffi?

CHANDA RUBIN: I haven't really thought too much about it. I was just thinking about
this round.

Q. If you had to throw out some thoughts on Steffi, what would work?

CHANDA RUBIN: I am just going to go out -- try to play aggressively and do all the
things I have been doing; trying to keep a lot of balls in play, but still looking to get
in whenever I can.

Q. Other players have said this is a time to get her, that she is struggling with her
serve and her mind is distracted. Do you buy into any of that; is there ever a good time
to get Steffi?

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I just think I have to go out in the match when we play on Sunday -
whatever, I think I have to go out, start out tough and try to just play aggressively,
play my game. I am not going to really think about what she is not doing well right now or
whatever. But I am just going to go out there and do whatever I do well and try to go out
and take it.

Q. You talked the other day about what this summer did for you. But I didn't ask you
about having a new coach. Has that had any impact on your development?

CHANDA RUBIN: I definitely think it has helped and it has been a good relationship
since the beginning of the year. I think I have learned a lot and I have improved quite a
bit and definitely have made some improvements in my game so I think it has been good
all-around and I am definitely enjoying the game and it has been a real good relationship.

Q. Do you know how many people followed you from Lafayette?

CHANDA RUBIN: Not yet. I mean, there has to be quite a few, just that -- probably
looked like there was 20 or 30 out there, but I am not sure exactly. I am sure -- there is
some that I don't even know who they are, so I think that is great.

Q. How big of a match is it in your mind to play somebody like Graf here at the Open
compared to another tournament? 

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I mean, it is a Grand Slam. These are the tournaments that you want
to get up for and that you always want to play well at and, you know, peak for and so I
think it is going to be a big match for me, but it is also just going to still be another
tennis match regardless of the occasion. I am still going to have to go out and play like
I have been playing the last few months and, you know, just go out and try to play some
good competitive tennis, but it is still going to be a nice thing to do and to be a part
of just because it is at the U.S. Open, it is one of the biggest Grand Slams of the year.
The biggest, I think, and, you know, just it will be a big occasion.

Q. Were you surprised that Mary lost and do you have any thoughts on your draw clearing
out a little?

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I mean, when I first saw the match start, I mean I hadn't thought
about who had won before -- I think it was a good matchup because Amy likes to hit the
ball and Mary does the same thing and so I knew it would be kind of a battle. Watching it
on television, I wasn't surprised, but, you know, it is kind of nice to see somebody take
advantage of a situation like that and just go out and play well, you know, who people
maybe don't expect to win, so I think that is always nice. But that was definitely a good
match.

Q. Will you go out there when you play Graf in your mind thinking that you can win or
that you expect to win?

CHANDA RUBIN: Well, I definitely think I can win. I mean, it is-- I think it is going
to be a battle. I am going to have to go out and play well, but, you know, I definitely
think it is possible.

Q. Definitely think it is possible?

CHANDA RUBIN: Yes.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT