U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1993
Chanda Rubin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. She got a pretty quick jump on you.  I mean, it was 3 nothing in 9 minutes.  That makes it awfully difficult for you?
 
CHANDA RUBIN:  Yeah.  I mean, I knew I had to start out the first game.  I had to start attacking her and you know, just didn't happen that way.  I mean I started missing a few and in the first game went to deuce and after that, it was basically lost almost 10 straight points.  I mean, just was missing a little bit too much and she took advantage of that. 
 

Q. Chanda, can you talk about your progress from the Open last year where you had a breakthrough to this year and how you feel about in between? 
 
CHANDA RUBIN:  You know, I thought I had a pretty good tournament, just -- I didn't -- I was just disappointed in this last match.  I didn't think I played as well as I could have, and you -- other than that as a comparison, I mean it is a little different last year.  I had a big break there, but I was coming back in year just try to thinking of it as a new year and just trying to play some good tennis.  I almost did as well, but I just was disappointed with this match, so. 
 

Q. She is No. 2, No. 3 in the world, and can you take something from a match like this being put in a situation like that against, a very highly ranked player?
 
CHANDA RUBIN:  Well, I mean, I think that times that I did get close, like the close games and the one game I won, I started serving and volleying a little bit; trying to get in a little bit before. That is what I need to do, I think.  I also need to kind of make her work for every point she gets; not just give away free points.  I did a little bit too much of that, I think.  I have been playing the bigger matches and the top players, you know, you have to stay tough the whole time.  That is just something I have to keep working on and just kind of set it as my goal. 
 

Q. Do you Lindsay has much of a chance against Gabriela tonight?
 
CHANDA RUBIN:  Oh, definitely.  I mean, definitely. She beat her earlier this year in Delray Beach.  I mean, I know Gaby is going to remember that.  I mean, I definitely think that she has a great chance. 
 

Q. Did you view yourself as having a good chance against Arantxa?
 
CHANDA RUBIN:  I mean, I thought I had a good chance if I went out and played, you know, how I was supposed to play, but I definitely thought I had a good chance, but I didn't do enough of what I needed to and didn't work out that way. 
 

Q. What causes that when you say you didn't do enough of what you needed to do, I mean you mentally know what you need to do, but you couldn't do it.
 
CHANDA RUBIN:  I mean, I think concentration is a little bit it.  I didn't really feel like I wasn't concentrating, but just -- I mean a little bit of not concentrating but I just didn't -- some points I played well.  Some points I played good points and she won.  But you know, I just needed to do more and make her work for every point and I think sometimes I got a little rattled, you know, the further down I got.  She started taking some of my better shots and getting it back.  I think that rattled me a little bit.  I just needed to stay in there and fight out every point.  Just -- I need to just learn from that and take it into the next match I try to work towards doing that. 
 

Q. Thank you, Chanda.     


End of FastScripts....
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT