U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1992
Chanda Rubin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   Chanda, how disappointing was that call? The "out"
call on the deep shot she hit that would have been double breakpoint
for you?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  It was very disappointing because I really wanted
to go up 5-2, but you know, it can go either way. It could have
been good.  It could have hit the line.  I had to just go back
and you know, keep concentrating.  I made an error the next point.
 I was probably still thinking about it.  I should have just forgotten
about it, and --

 Q.   Chanda, is this the biggest victory of your career?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Definitely.

 Q.   Chanda, would you share your thoughts with us on having
beaten a seeded player?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Well, when I went out, I didn't -- I don't think
I really thought about her being seeded.  I just went out.  I
had a game plan in mind.  I knew what I wanted to do.  I wanted
to keep the ball crosscourt, stay in the points, then go for my
shot.  I mean, I didn't really think about beating a seeded player.
 After I won, I kind of think about it.  It feels pretty good.


 Q.   Who were the best players you have beaten?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Good question.

 Q.   Any match that you remember--

 CHANDA RUBIN:  No.

 Q.  -- that meant so much to you?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  No.

 Q.   Do you think that winning Wimbledon Juniors helps you
know that you could win?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Oh, it was a great boost, I think.  I mean, I
went there, you know, -- I won the tournament.  It is always a
boost of confidence to win the tournament, whatever it is.  And
winning Wimbledon, it was great.  It is sort of-- I don't know,
it is sort of, you know, like an obstacle, and you know, that
was just great.  I think that helped a lot with my concentration
and my confidence, and you know, just going out, each match, playing
each match, and you know, having a bit of fun, too, so --

 Q.   Have you ever played any of the Maleevas before?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  No.

 Q.   Because you are about to play three in a row, if they
keep winning and you keep winning.

 CHANDA RUBIN:  I never played any of them.

 Q.   Why didn't you use any drop shots today when she kept
staying back.  Usually-- that is not usually your game.  Today
you didn't use any?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Well, usually, I don't know, when I drop shot,
it is not very good.  You know, and she keeps the ball pretty
deep, and we were both hitting the ball.  I mean, if I can do
that the whole match, I will do it.  That is fine with me.  If
she had given me, you know, a ball that, you know, I could have
-- she is pretty close to the baseline too, so I didn't really
see that it would work.  I think I tried it once, but you probably
could tell, because it was so bad.

 Q.   Chanda, what do you consider the strong points of your
game and what do you think you have to work on?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Definitely the baseline is the strong point. 
I have been working on coming in a lot more and I have been doing
that, you know, in the past matches, but you know, I like to be
able to do a little more, with a little bit more confidence. 
You know, more first serves, and concentration can always be improved.


 Q.   When you were up 5-4 in the third set, how nervous were
you?  Were you feeling confident or were you feeling that you
were going to finish it off?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  I was a little bit relieved, because I won the
last game at 4-All and I was down that game.  When I got up 5-4,
you know, then it was kind of like, you know, I can do this. 
The match is right here.  Just play every point.  Don't think
about match point.  Just think about one point at a time, and
try to get four straight.  That is what I was thinking about.
 40-30, I got a little nervous, but I am glad I was able to hit
the ball.

 Q.   Talk about the crowd a little bit; how that might have
helped you or -- they seemed to have been pretty much on your
side.

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Definitely, it helps.  It is nice to have the
crowd on your side.  It is better than going for another person
all the time.  It is nice.  I am here in the U.S., and you know,
that is a plus.

 Q.   You are playing with the big girls now.  Is the difference
between what you do in the juniors like the difference between
Triple A baseball and the Major Leagues?  It is a big jump?  

 CHANDA RUBIN:  It is a pretty big jump.  You know, I have been
playing for a year now, and I think, you know, the last few tournaments
I have really gotten better at staying in the match and staying--
you know, tough throughout the whole match, which is what you
have to do in the pros.  The juniors, you could have a little
lapse and still win and stay in.  In the pros, that wouldn't work.
 I definitely think I'm better at that.  But it is a pretty big
difference.

 Q.   What impact has the USTA's National Program had on your
career?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  A lot. A whole lot.  I have been, you know, part
of the development program for-- you know, for a year.  Then I
was on the National Team for two years, and you know, I had national
coaches with me at every tournament.  I have one here with me
now.

 Q.   Who?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Lynn Rolley.  They have been a tremendous help.


 Q.   Do you think this is the sort of match they have been
waiting for, this could have been a real breakthrough for you?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Yes.  -- Can you say that again.

 Q.   Do you think this is sort of the match that the USTA
was waiting for you, sort of the performance that they wanted
from you, that it was a real breakthrough for you to win a match
like that today?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  It was a match I was waiting for.  I hope the
USTA was waiting for it.  I think they were.  But I am trying
to do my best, I am grateful for all the help they have given
me.  I am trying to do my best for me, for me, for them, for everybody.
 This was a really big breakthrough,.

 Q.   Could you talk about how you got started playing tennis?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  I was about six and my parents played and I would
play with them.  Try to hit on the fence, or try to hit with them.
 So they got me into it.

 Q.   How old were you when you started beating them?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  I never really played them.  They hit with me
all the time.  They were kind of a coach, but not really.  When
I was that young I just kind of did it for fun, I guess, because
I looked it.  It was kind of a challenge.  They set me up in a
program when I was old enough, but I never really played against
them.

 Q.   Are you going back to school full-time this fall?  Are
you going to be playing tournaments?  

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Yes, I am at school right now.

 Q.   Are you missing classes because of the Open?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Yes.

 Q.   Tell us where that is and what grade you are in?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Episcopal school of Acadiama, in Cade, Louisiana,
in 12th.

 Q.   I realize you are 16.  What are the pitfalls for a 16
year old playing big time tennis?  I mean that personally, as
well as playing the game?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  I think getting a little tired sometimes. You
kind of have to take breaks every now and then and; not play too
much for long periods of time.  But I am real good at that and
I am still enjoying it.  Whenever I get a little tired, I take
some days off, take a week off. Basically, I think you know, I
think that is it.  I mean, that is all that could go wrong, you
know, if you really enjoy playing.

 Q.   The player development program of the USTA at times it
has been criticized for all of money that goes into it.  Could
you speak about where you would be now if there were no player
development program and specifically how does it help you, stroke
direction or just support in general, can you talk about that?
 

 CHANDA RUBIN:  I am not really sure where I would be now. I guess
specifically they have helped me with coaching, and you know,
I mean, there is really good coaching with the USTA. , Lynn has
traveled with me a lot and she really knows me as a player and
gotten to know her.  I guess we kind of have a real good relationship
and that has helped me a lot.  And a lot of the tournaments that
I have been traveling to, and you know, I am just starting out,
so she is kind of teaching me the ropes and stuff, so that is
nice, and you know, they have helped me financially, because tennis
is very expensive, and you know, it would be hard -- it is hard
now for a junior to travel, you know, without getting help from
someone, and you know, trying to go overseas, and play all those
tournaments, so I mean, that has also been a big help.

 Q.   Did you set a specific goal when you came into this tournament?
 What were your expectations?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Well, I wanted to get to the third round; that
was -- because I got to the second round last year, so I think
that was the farthest I thought before the tournament, but you
know, gradually I have just been you know, saying, okay, one match
at a time.  I want to get to the quarters now.  So-- I said that
yesterday, actually, so that was kind -- I was kind of ahead,
but I am really thinking about my next match and I want to go
out and play well, play my game, and hopefully win that.

 Q.   Have you ever felt any pressure given the pace that Jennifer
-- the level that she reached at a young age, 14, 15, have you
ever felt that pressure, that people are measuring success by
what she is doing?

 CHANDA RUBIN:  Definitely not.  I mean, I have always thought
that she was -- she got really good at a young age.  I mean, that
is her, I guess.  I don't know how often she played.  I guess
she was real dedicated to it, so you know, that is her, but I
am a totally different person, and I am moving at my own pace.
 I am happy with my game.  I am improving.  I still want to improve.
 I am just kind of thinking about me.  I don't try to compare
myself to anybody else.

 Q.   Before you go, would you give us the pronunciation of
your first name, is it "Sh" or "Ch?".

 A.  "CH" Chanda.

 Q.   Thank you. 


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT