MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
June 11, 2017
Brittany Marchand
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us about today a little bit.
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Well, it wasn't what I wanted obviously, but it was a way tougher day.  I knew going into it that it was going to be kind of a grind with how windy it started out the day.
Started out just trying to make pars; just wasn't happening for me.  A lot of bad calculations today I felt, because I actually hit some good shots.  Few tough pins, too, which I hit good shots to and I felt like I maybe could have been rewarded a little bit more for them.
In general, yeah.  Some bad club choices.  Way more like missed fairways.  So stuff like that just wasn't really...
Q. Bad club choices in trying to land the ball too close to the pin and having it run?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: No.  Just not calculating the wind enough like thinking it was going to be more into and then it was a little bit, you know, too long.  Things like that.
Like 17 I feel like I hit a really good shot, where I wanted to hit it, and it must have pushed it a little bit further than I expected and then it was in a bad spot.
You know, things like that.  So I kind of was in a lot of tough spots in order to make up and downs and at least salvage pars out there.
So, yeah, I mean, wasn't what I wanted, but a learning experience.
Q. Back nine was kind of tough.  What happened on 12?  You had the double there.  Couple bogeys as well.
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah.  I hit a bad drive and then -- but it was okay.  I felt like I had -- like it wasn't in the rough.  It was in the second cut.  I thought I could get my 3-wood on it, and I don't know what happened there.
And then I left it in the rough again and then the rough was like really thick.  And then I tried to take -- I mean, the problem is you don't want to take too much club, but if you're going to like land it on it's just going to rocket over the back.
So I thought I was taking the right club and ended up short and had an awkward bunker shot and so forth and so forth.
Things like that.  Just kind of -- I mean, I'm sure a lot of it had to do -- like I'm sure mentally there were times where I wasn't -- like either I rushed it or I wasn't thinking it through certain things.
But in general, a lot of like misjudgments and miscalculations.
Q. Overall how would you grade this week for you?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Oh, honestly I take the experience as a win.  Today was what it was kind of thing, but up until now, I mean, it shows my game is there.
So minus things here and there, I think like -- I think I played -- I'm happy with how I played in general and how I feel like I compared to the field.  It makes me feel like I belong out here.
Obviously moving forward when I do play out here more often, now I have the experience of final day and tougher conditions and how to handle, you know, super firm greens and wind and all that kind of stuff.
So it's a good experience for sure.
Q. What do think that will do for you going forward onto the Symetra Tour for the rest of the year?  What are your plans?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I mean, obviously this experience is going to help on Symetra because usually the courses out there don't play as tough as here.
I know if I can put a good score together out here then I know I can do it on Symetra, too.  Confidence-wise it's great.  I'm going straight back out, like Decatur on Monday -- or tomorrow, I guess -- and play the rest of the Symetra out.
Like hopefully get an exemption into the Canadian Open, but other than that play full Symetra.
Q. Is there a range of emotions involved coming into the day where you were on the leaderboard?  How does that feel?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I mean, obviously kind of sucks, but it wasn't really like -- I wasn't really trying to like play to anything today.  Just kind of trying to put -- like I said, I expected it to be a tough day just when I saw the wind and stuff that.
I was really just trying to string a half-decent round together.  I didn't have high expectations for myself.
Obviously like as it went on it kind of -- I was getting frustrated and I felt like I hit good shots and I wasn't getting the result.  So just things like that kind of started to build, which obviously led to probably a worse score than I could have shot, I would say.
Q. Will you play another LPGA event soon-ish?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Hopefully the Canadian Open, and that's in August.  So, no, I pretty much will be on full time Symetra for the most part.
Q. What would it mean to you -- this tournament might not exist next year.  Only be the Canadian Open for women.
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, it's kind of sad obviously.  It was nice to have two -- at least two events in Canada, especially one so close to home.  Obviously a little disappointed that it's not going to be here again.
But Canadian Open is a great event as well.  I know a lot of the players feel the same way about Canadian Open.  They really like this event, too.
It's unfortunate, but I guess that's the way it is.
Q. Do you think it's important for young girl in Canada to grow up knowing there are some events in their own country they can play at or more recognizable faces attracting them to the game?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I think it is awesome, especially for like girls to come out and be able to watch us play, seeing other fellow Canadians, watching them play out here, and so close to home and they're able to get there.
It's tough to have to go to the States to always go see an LPGA event, so it is really cool for younger girls and juniors to be able to come out and see this level of golf in Canada.
It definitely inspires the younger generation.  It's good.
Q. Do you get this kind of media attention on the Symetra Tour by any chance?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: No.
Q. You like it?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah.  I mean, like I said, I think the experience is something to take away from.  It is nice to actually have fans out here being close to home.  I don't -- on Symetra you have the one, two, three people whoa re cheering for you.  But, yeah, it is kind of nice to have that support behind me.
Q. Only like an hour a half away from Orangeville.  Di you have a lot of friends and family here supporting you this week?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah.  I had like a lot of my family.  I think my best friend was here today.  You know, other like -- yeah.  A lot of people.  Friends and family.  A lot of people who haven't seen me play golf forever, so, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT