MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
June 8, 2017
Brittany Marchand
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Brittany Marchand, seven birdies, two bogeys today, 5-under par, 67.  How do you feel about your round today?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Pretty good.  I mean, I played really solid other than a couple mistakes here and there - bunker shot on 7.   
I'm pretty happy with how I played.  I can't complain.   
 Q.  Yeah, you had the bogey on 7, just two holes to go.  Followed up with birdie on 8.  Did you kind of bear down sort of thing?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah.  I mean, I know I've been hitting it well all day.  I just thought to myself, Just put a good swing on it.   
Then same as my putting.  I had a lot of like downhill putts today, and if I could just get it started where I wanted to, I felt like I had the chance to make them.   
So that was kind of cool.  I'm glad I made it, so.   
 Q.  Eagle putt on 9 left you a little bit short, but a little knee-knocker coming back.  What happened on the first putt?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: I just thought it was going to be a lot quicker.  My goal there was to cozy it up to the hole, but it was not as fast as I expected.   
But I'm glad I made the comeback.   
 Q.  Have you had a round like this in a tournament of this size before?  You probably shot dome decent rounds in your life.  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, like I've shot 5-under before but never in an LPGA event.  So it's pretty cool.   
 Q.  What was the support like?  I know it's early in the morning and there weren't as many people around, but people seated Canadian star and say, Hey, wow, she's under par.  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I had quite a bit of family and friends that came to watch for even the 7:30 tee time, so that was kind of cool.   
And, yeah, just like people walking around, they'd congratulate me, good birdie here and there, so kind of cool.   
 Q.  Then 5-under.  You don't tee up until late.  What do you do with such a good round under your belt and keep the nerves under control?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, just pretty much keep my mind away from all of this.  I'm going to do a little practice and go see the trainer and maybe a little workout.  Just little things.   
I'm staying with a cousin, so just kind of keep my mind off of golf really until...   
 Q.  Is there a beer in there anywhere?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Maybe a celebratory drink.  No, I stick to alcohol after the tournament.   
 Q.  What's it like playing here with the hometown crowd?  Does it energize you or a little bit more nervous because you don't want to hit bad shots?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: You know, I think it's a little bit of both.  Obviously I want to play well for my family.  This is probably the first time a lot of family and friends have really been able to watch me play, especially on this level.   
So it's a little bit of both of.  I think it's energizing because it's nice.  I play Symetra Tour for the most part and we don't really have crowds at Symetra Tour.  It's kind of nice to have people supporting.   
My parents try to come out when they can, but usually I'm on my own.  It's nice to have that support.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT