CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 1, 2018
Brittany Marchand
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did it go for you?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: It went good.  I mean, I had one bad hole, but actually hit a really good shot.  I'm still a little dumbfounded how it went that far over the green.  I mean, you can't really get too mad.  Otherwise I hit a few not great shots coming down the stretch but had some good saves, so that was good, and played the front nine really well.  So overall I'm pretty happy.
Q. Four birdies on the front nine; what was working well for you there?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: You know, I've been hitting the ball well all week, and just kind of kept that going this morning and had some putts drop, which was nice.  Felt pretty relaxed.  And the back nine I felt pretty similar.  Just a few more errant shots on the back that I kind of had to make saves for pars and didn't give myself as many birdie opportunities.  But like I said, even the double, I was in a tough spot, and I hit a really good shot off the tee, went too far, in a tough spot, and then it is what it is.  Stuff happens.
Q. You're on track to doing one of your best performances this season --
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah.
Q. How important was it to you to make the cut and do well this week with the major coming up?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, exactly.  I mean, obviously I knew that this meant a lot being like right on the cusp of keeping full status, but I tried my hardest not to think about it.  I think the last week of the Canadian Open, I kind of put -- it was there too much in my head.  Put a little pressure on myself, obviously, being Canadian, and had a little bit too much technical stuff going on, so I'm happy with myself this week, just tried to play as free as possible, eliminate all kind of technical thoughts, and I just wanted to have fun.  I feel like I've been playing really well all year, and I had a little bit of a slip the last couple weeks, but I'm happy to feel comfortable again.
Q. Was there anything that -- any part of your game that was clicking well that maybe hadn't the last couple weeks?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Definitely putting.  I mean, I definitely felt uncomfortable putting the last couple weeks.  Even British Open, too.  I was happy to have Mondayed into it, and then I felt like I played the golf course well, just didn't putt well, and that kind of was the last two weeks, as well.  So this week I've been way more comfortable over my putting, which has been great because it's obviously showing, and made some birdies.
Q. Was that a result of just practice or did you change anything?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Mostly, I think, what happened was I wasn't really making as many at the British, and then kind of fell into Indiana, and then I started to like think -- like try to find something in my stroke that I needed to fix, and so then last week it was just like so technical, I was trying to be like, oh, okay, I want to make sure I get my stroke here and my shoulders are here, and that's even worse.  So this week I just tried to go back to exactly how I felt maybe a month ago and just had one little thought, just keep my head down a little longer through the putt.  Otherwise I feel like once you start to feel comfortable, all of a sudden everything feels so much easier.
Q. It seemed to be working for you to clear your thoughts a little bit.
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, that's my biggest nemesis, too many thoughts.  The chemical engineering degree doesn't do well for me in that aspect.  For me, it's like I have to shut the engineer off and just be more feel, so I've been doing a good job of it so far this week.
Q. How do you feel going into the final round, just a few strokes back from the lead, depending on how they finish?  Pretty good spot.
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, it's a good spot.  You know, I mean, I didn't really have too high an expectations of myself this week.  It's not like I was like, oh, I want to come -- I wasn't thinking I'm going to win this tournament, but now that I'm in this position, obviously that's my goal.  But I don't feel pressure.  I mean, it would be amazing, so if everything clicks tomorrow, that's great.  I just want to have fun tomorrow and see what happens, and I'm already a step ahead of where I wanted to be at the beginning of the week.  The goal was the cut line, and now I'm like, oh, okay, this is cool, too.  So I'm just riding with that.
Q. Being a rookie this year, have you seen yourself change over the year?  What aspects of just playing out on Tour have you become more comfortable with?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I'd say that I think I've done a good job of kind of -- as a rookie, I think one of the biggest things is everything is new.  Every week is a new thing, every course.  You kind of have to adjust really quick, and maybe girls that have played these courses over and over, they know what to expect and kind of already know how to play the course well.  So one, it can be kind of demanding because we have to -- you feel like you have to use every day.  Monday you have to see the course, Tuesday you have to see the course.  I feel like I've done a good job of not thinking I have to change much just because, oh, now I'm on the LPGA and now this means more and whatever.  Like I just feel like I've tried to stick to a game plan and do it every week no matter what week it is, and I think that's really helped me because I've found some consistency with my preparation and not allowed myself to get stressed about stuff I can't control.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT