CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2018
Brittany Marchand
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're happy to be here with Brittany Marchand.  Brittany is in her rookie year on the LPGA Tour after spending 2016 and 2017 on the Symetra Tour.
So far in 2018 she's competed in 14 events; best finish was tied for 7th at the Thornberry Creek LPGA Classic.
Welcome kind of home, Brittany.  This isn't exactly your home, but what's it like to every year you get to come back and play in Canada and play in front of the home fans?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, it's great.  I always look forward to this event.  I always say it's my favorite one, but I'm obviously a little biased.
Yeah, it's really great.  I love the support.  You know, this isn't exactly home-home, but the same kind of feel.  Everybody here is rooting for the Canadians, so it's a great feeling.
THE MODERATOR: You have a great history of coming up through Golf Canada, through the national team, and have had the opportunity to play this event a lot.  Talk about the support you've long gotten.  Those of us in the States often look to Golf Canada as one of the great opportunities coming up for young golfers.
Tell us about that program and what it's meant to you now that you've made it to the LPGA.
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I really believe that I wouldn't be here today without the Golf Canada Program.  Just I was one year on the development team, I think five years on the amateur team, and now on the young pro team, just going through all the levels and steps.  It's been great getting coaching support and nutritionists, sports psychologists, things that I feel like kind of gave us, the Canadians, a little step up; especially even going into college golf, having that team feel before having to play for a team in college.
I've gotten to play all the over the world, which was a great experience, something I wouldn't have been able to do on my own.  My parents probably wouldn't have been able to afford to send me to Japan to play the World Am.
So little things like that were really great.  It's so awesome to have the support of Golf Canada and have the same coaches and familiar faces too going into professional and being able to prepare to be on the LPGA and be here now.
So it's great.
THE MODERATOR: Now you're most of the way through, getting through to the end of your rookie LPGA year.  What's it been like?   Has it been what you expected?  What has this first year for you been like on the tour?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: I guess it's been similar to what I've expected.  I've been lucky to play some LPGA events before getting my status.  So that's kind of nice, kind of knowing what to expect a little bit.
I've actually really enjoyed it.  I have some friends out here, and I'm lucky to have people like Alena Sharp, for example, you know, older, more experiences players that can kind of show me a little bit of the ropes, too.
But I've been really enjoying it.  It's been great.  I think playing two years Symetra really did prepare me to play out here.  It's on the same -- very, very similar.  Just a little bit smaller level.
So that helped a lot, too.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. There are 16 Canadians competing this week at the CP Women's Open.  Can you maybe comment on the camaraderie amongst your Canadian teammates?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, it's great to have your teammates and your fellow Canadians out here with you.  As much as we're competing against each other individually, it still feels kind of like a team - and especially the girls obviously that I know that I'm on the team with, on Team Canada.
But it's just a great feeling because we're all wishing each other well and we want to help each other prepare for the event and play well.
So it's a great feeling.
Q. You've made a lot of cuts this year so far.  It's been a pretty very steady season.  How would you describe how you've been able to approach each golf course, which arguably is a lot of new golf courses, and still string together four good rounds?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I feel like this year I tried to do a really good job in preparing for each week in the same way, as similar as I can.  Obviously the courses are different each week, but sticking to the same routines and the same practice schedules I have Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.  Seeing the course, I always -- you know, I don't get to be in pro-ams much, but I always go out for like an E-9 on Wednesday morning and see the course the day before.
I think my structure and my routines have been very consistent, and I think that's helped me play consistently.  I don't really hold any week over another.  Just kind of do the same thing every week and hope that I can have a good result.
Like I said, I feel like my past experience playing a couple LPGA events and knowing I could play well out here from those events really helped me this year.  I didn't feel like I was, Oh, this is such a big level.  I feel like I know I belong.  If I just do my thing, hopefully the results will come.
They have, so it's been great.
Q. Maybe not the results you would've wanted the last two weeks.  Does this tournament come at a good time in the schedule to re-motivate and re-inspire you to be back sort of in Canada?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Definitely.  It's been nice to see Tristan, my coach, national team coach, and get a little tune-up.  And even last week actually a coach of mine that I've had for a long time, Ann Carroll.  She came to watch me play, but then I missed the cut so I got to work with her a little bit.  So that was great, too.
I think I'm coming into this week with a little fresher start.  I think it's just exciting.  I really like playing at home, and having everybody support you is pretty awesome.
THE MODERATOR: I know we're not right around the corner from home, but are you able to have any family and friends come out and support you this week?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, so my step dad is actually from Rosetown, Saskatchewan.  There are not even street names out there.  It's a very big farm in the middle of nowhere.
So coming back is kind of nice.  He really likes to come back.  His parents are going to come for the tournament, so I have my parents and kind of like grandparents here, too.  So that's kind of nice, to have family.
THE MODERATOR: Good luck this week.  Thank you so much for coming in.  Hope to chat with you later.
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Thank you so much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT