CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 27, 2017
Brittany Marchand
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So how was your fourth day in this tournament?  How did it go, what do you take out of it?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: It was a rough start, but overall I played well.  Like after the first few holes.  It was a good day.  I think it was what I kind of wanted to finish the tournament.   
 Q.  You talked the other day about what you might draw out of this event, and one of the things was money.  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, yeah.   
 Q.  Which is always good.  But can you talk about the experience of playing four rounds?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I think the experience is more valuable than the money.  I mean, obviously the money is huge, but for me moving forward, wanting to play out here, knowing that I can put four solid rounds together and even with having a few mistakes here and there and still finish okay and be able to compete against players out here, it's big for me moving forward on Symetra and into next year hopefully.   
 Q.  So what's next for you?  Where do you go next?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Sioux Falls, South Dakota tomorrow.   
 Q.  Are you driving there?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: No, I left my car out there, so I'm flying back in tomorrow.   
 Q.  Obviously there is a lot of fan support here.  It's kind of been one of the stories of the day.  How is it playing in front of larger crowds?  You touched on that before.  And definitely bigger crowds than Symetra.  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: I don't mind it, actually.  I'm a little more used to it now, and it's kind of nice, I think, just to have people behind you and really supporting you.  Like I said the other day, I mean, they're usually always cheering you on no matter how it goes.  But it's nice to have that support backing you, especially playing at home.  Now that I've played two at home, I'm getting more support than I probably would if I was just playing in the States somewhere.  But it's really nice that I've gotten that experience here.   
 Q.  Now that you've had more of a taste of the LPGA, does it just make you want to get your card and be on the TOUR even more?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, definitely.  The I felt that way at Manulife.  It's a grind on Symetra TOUR, and it's just a whole 'nother level, and it can be rough at times when you're not playing well and you're not making any money.  It's just like why am I doing this kind of thing.  But then you have the moment I had at Manulife and this week, this is the reason why I'm doing what I'm doing.  I'm excited to make the step forward to the LPGA eventually.   
 Q.  Have you been looking forward even more then to go to France?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I am looking forward to going to France.  Because I think obviously it being a mainly, that will be really awesome.  And just the experience on its own will be really great.   
 Q.  There is a lot more that goes into being a high-performance athlete than just how you play and how you train.  Did you learn any lessons from some of the women at this event or at the Manulife in terms of how to conduct yourself in the clubhouse or how to be organized?  How to relate to your caddie or anything like that?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: There are a lot of different things here that are so different from Symetra Tour.  Just even like signing your ball and giving it to the guy at the end.  You don't do that on the Symetra Tour because it's just not -- it's just a different level.   
So those little things, just knowing your ins and outs of the clubhouse and where to be, and knowing to remember to bring your credential because there is security.  Just those little things that you have to kind of get used to, and they feel very intimidating at first, but I've been lucky enough to have experience at these tournaments that now I feel comfortable walking around and I don't feel as much of an outsider.  But, yeah, there's a few people I know.  Like Alena is one and I have a friend who plays on the LPGA a little more and she can kind of guide me, so that's awesome.   
 Q.  Is it fair to say this was a confidence builder?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, definitely.  Especially being able to finish strong today with how in Manulife it was different because I was much higher and I dropped.  But having that last day, all those nerves and all that stuff today I felt like I handled it way better.  It's just another step forward for me.   
 Q.  I know obviously you're fresh off the course.  It was like a minute and a half ago.  But what did you think the biggest lesson was from this tournament for you?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: I think a lot of it is just being able to handle my expectations.  Knowing that coming off of two really hot weeks, I felt like I was worried -- not worried, everyone was like, obviously, she's going to do well, and blah, blah, blah, and I didn't want to expect that of myself.  I think I handled that really well.  Just saying if I go out and play my golf game, I'm going to be fine.  But not expecting it and pushing it too much that I needed to do it, because really I didn't need to do anything this week since it doesn't really affect me.   
So just being able to come out and knowing that I played well and just hold that expectation off, that was huge.   
 Q.  I spoke with Lori Kane I guess this Friday.  We were talking about Dawn Coe-Jones and the yellow ribbons.  And I mentioned to her that you were wearing the yellow ribbon and you spoke so highly of Dawn Coe-Jones.  And Lori just praised your character and said that she really expects big things of you through your career.  What does that mean to you to have someone like Lori Kane who is so prominent in Canadian golf to speak so well of you?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: It means a lot to me.  I think for somebody to say that they respect my character, I think that's huge.  I think that means more to me than what I look like or how I play on the golf course.  That's the one thing.  I want to be a good role model for younger girls and be somebody that people can look up to.  I want to also show people that I do have the character.  I guess I am a good person too outside of just playing golf.  So that means a lot to me.  Especially coming from somebody who is so decorated and such an icon in Canadian golf, that's huge.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT