CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 26, 2017
Brittany Marchand
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Was it the round that you expected?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Well, not today.  I wasn't expecting anything, but it was not the round that I wanted.  I actually hit the ball really well today, and I putted very not well today.  Pretty much the opposite of my first round.  But it is what it is.   
 Q.  Was it a problem with the speed or the pace or?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Both.  I think I just was not reading them well and not matching my speed and my pace.  My speed with my line, and getting them both was a little bit of overreading and a little underreading and a little bit too firm and a little bit too soft.  I was just all over.   
 Q.  With the sun, are they a little bit firmer?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: I would say they were a little firmer, but I would say that there was some pins that were kind of in holes that if you were above them they were faster, so it almost felt like everything was faster, but it was more like where the pins were.   
 Q.  When you start your day with a bogey like you did, do you automatically feel like you've got to press a little bit more to make up for that, or does your approach change at all?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: It didn't really change.  I mean, I'd say that my biggest mistake on the first hole was the drive.  Then it was a really tough lie.  Then I put myself in the rough again, and then that was a really hard, like my lie wasn't very good.  It was really just one drive, so I thought it is what it is.  I know I had been playing well.  That's why I liked the rest of the round.  I just kind of stuck to my guns of how I was hitting it yesterday.  I thought I still hit it really well.  The putting was frustrating.   
I three-putted on 16, and that was just frustration because I was mad that I missed my birdie putt again.  Then I go and three-putt from ten feet.  Just little things like that, I think those are the frustration parts a few times.  But then I'm glad I bounced back with a birdie and little things.   
 Q.  This is another made cut on the LPGA Tour.  Obviously after the two wins in a row, what does this do for your confidence for the latter portion of the Symetra Tour season and maybe try to earn your LPGA Tour card that way?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, it does a lot for my confidence no matter how the weekend goes.  Maybe today a few mistakes here and there.  But overall I'm happy I'm playing the weekend.  To know that I can play out here gives me confidence when I go back to Symetra.  Obviously, the competition there is tough as well, but it gives you that little boost.   
 Q.  How do you compare one Tour from the other?  Is there a comparison?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yes, definitely.  I guess you would say in how far the golf courses are played.   
 Q.  Yeah, in competition.  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Competition I'd say it's a lot harder now than maybe it's ever been.  It feels like you can't just go -- I've missed cuts shooting even over two rounds.  So it's definitely getting more and more competitive out there.  And because it's more, I would say it's more accessible.  Like the pins are not as tough and the greens are not as fast.  It's like you can kind of throw darts sometimes, and you've got to go low.  You've got to putt well out there because people are winning with 13, 14-under for three days.   
So it's still competitive, but it just plays a lot, I guess you'd say it's more accessible to get to pins and make birdies.   
 Q.  Do you feel a Canadian sport out here?  I don't know, but you know there is another Canadian playing today?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I saw.  She's okay ( laughing).   
I didn't expect anything less.  You know, honestly, the fact that with the pressure she had the first two days, I knew once that was kind of like, okay, I made the cut, go and play.  I'm not surprised.  I'm really happy for her for that.  Yeah, she did good.   
 Q.  Do you feel it that people are aware you're a Canadian out here playing?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, definitely.  It's obviously not the same, but we're right in her back door.  But I have my family here and I have other people cheering me on, so it's nice to have that.   
 Q.  You mentioned on many occasions that your goal is to make the LPGA Tour.  A nice run (inaudible), what do you have to do to get there this year?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: I think because getting into the Evian through winning the Symetra Tour event was a blessing and a curse.  I'm going to miss a couple Symetras because of it.  I have to push in four events to try to get my card.  But next week in Sioux Falls is the biggest purse, and the last TOUR Championship is a big purse.   
So I just want to go out and I don't really want to put an expectation on it, I just want to go play the way I've been playing.  Three weeks ago I was expecting to go back to school, you know, so it is what it is.  If I go back, that's fine.  But I know I have the game to be able to push to the top 10.   
 Q.  Your coach Tristan said a couple days ago that he's noticed a big difference in your confidence.  What do you attribute to that?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I just think that even after the Manulife it's been a little up-and-down since then.  And I just think like I've said before, I've been playing well, it's just been come out in little bits.  These last few weeks I've just been able to hone in on it and just not put an expectation on it.  Just go out and it's more a lot of kind of taking the expectation out of it.  Even this week, obviously, I want to play well at home, but I just kind of let everything go and just said, you know what, it is what it is.  Whatever happens, happens.   
It obviously worked today.  I think that's one of those things.  I had expectation hitting it so well.  I wanted to make putts and I love it.  But that was me forcing something I didn't need to force.  So I hope I can correct that tomorrow and finish strong.   
 Q.  It's kind of a big question.  How do you see the future of women's golf in Canada?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: I think it's huge.  Personally I've played in the Charity Skins game last week.  We had a junior clinic tied to that, and I played with some girls 12 to 13 and it was unbelievable to me.  When I was 12 I was barely breaking 120.  So it's amazing to see these girls telling me where to hit the ball on the green.  They're like don't short side yourself.  And I'm like, what?  You know what that is?   
It's really cool because I think it's becoming bigger in Canada and for girls.  Obviously, there are more names out there, and I think it's going to be very good for upcoming future girls.   
 Q.  I saw some fans wearing team Marchand shirts following you around?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, family.   
 Q.  In blue, not even in red, but in blue.  So they were different.  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah.   
 Q.  I was going to ask if you knew who they were?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, that's my aunts and my uncles and my nana.  Yeah, they had a sign too that said we love you Brittany Marchand.  So that's nice, yeah.   
 Q.  You asked for a ruling on 18.  What was the situation?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: So my ball was right in front of (indiscernible), I moved it, she hit.  But her divot essentially changed my lie.  So we didn't know if you had to place it to the nearest point to where it was just like what lie you had or if you drop it.  So we were just waiting to see.  We didn't know if it was a place or a drop.   
 Q.  And you followed that up with what might have been the shot of the tournament.  You sunk it so close.  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I wasn't trying to hole it, but once it was going, I was like -- I actually needed it to hit the hole.  It was a little hot.  But that would have been a nice finish.  But I'll take a par from where I was.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT