CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 25, 2017
Brittany Marchand
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was quite a performance out there.  What turned around for you or what was working for you today?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: I just decided today -- like yesterday I felt like I had some swing problems out there and I was overthinking things and that's why I wasn't hitting the ball so well.  Today I just decided to not think about anything and it worked.
Q. I heard some of your family talking about you were just going to go and make this your club championship or something instead of a National Championship?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I just wanted to -- I've been playing well up until now, and I just wanted to do what I've been doing which has been working, obviously.  So I decided when I was playing my best I had almost no thoughts.  So that really helped today.
Q. Are you going to keep that going into the weekend?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, yeah.  I mean, kind of like my biggest goal was to make the cut.  Now that I'm kind of in a position where I can go for it, I think I've got -- for me, playing out here it really doesn't get me anywhere further on Symetra or anything like that.  But obviously.  I'd like to make some good money, so all I want to do is do the same thing as I've been doing, play well, and we'll see what happens.
Q. How important is it to you to make some money?  You were telling us at Manulife about some of the things like going around and traveling in your car, perhaps using a pull cart instead of a caddie and things like that.  Is it that important to make a big check here?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I mean, I'm not like hurting (laughing).  I'm going to live and eat tomorrow.  But it would be huge, obviously.  Especially my goal is to get my card next year and to be able to have -- it's more expensive, realistically getting out and playing out on the LPGA.  So for me to have a good cushion going into next year and be able to save money like a normal 25-year-old girl does, things like that, that would be huge to have that.
Q. Lot of players have difficulty playing at home in front of a home crowd.  You could go through the long list.  This year you've played exceptionally well on both of the Canadian stops on the LPGA Tour.  Why do you think that is?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: I kind of like playing for the Canadians and playing at home.  Having my family and people turn out.  I've said before at Manulife it's kind of nice when people cheer for you.  On Symetra tour we don't often have anybody.  Maybe your host family, maybe your mom comes.  So it's actually kind of nice.  It feels like it really boosts your mood and gives you confidence.  Because no matter how well you do, they're probably going to cheer for you because you're Canadian.
Q. I know Brooke had the majority of the crowd, but did you feel some good vibes from the gallery?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Definitely.  We still had people watching.  I was playing with two great players too that people wanted to watch them too.  Yeah, it was definitely good vibes out there for sure.
Q. Were you thinking about the cut when you were out there?  I know you talked about having a blank slate.
BRITTANY MARCHAND: I was trying not to think about the cut.  But then once I made a few birdies, like I knew -- obviously I basically said to myself, go out and make pars, and if the birdies fall, the birdies fall.  A few of them started falling, and then I felt like I was going to make the cut, and I thought about it, and played my own game.
Q. Were the birdies on short putts or close?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: I made a couple longer ones or maybe one or two longer ones and a couple shorter, like 10, 12 feet.
Q. (Inaudible)?
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Actually, I just stopped thinking about it.  It obviously didn't work very well yesterday, so I decided no, it's whatever.  And it started to work, so I was like, okay.  I'll keep with this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT