CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2017
Brittany Marchand
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did it feel to come out and play in front of the home crowd this week?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: It feels good.  It feels good to be home, obviously, and to play with familiar faces watching and everybody cheering you on, it's always fun doing that.   
 Q.  How was your round today?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: It wasn't the greatest I've ever played.  I hit the ball pretty awful, honestly, but I saved a lot.  I made a lot of up-and-downs, which was really good.  It could have been a lot worse, so I'm pretty happy with the way I kind of held in there.  I know it probably wasn't the easiest conditions today with the wind and the greens are pretty quick.  So I was happy with kind of pulling it together with what I was working with.   
 Q.  Did you feel that way on the range?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: No, I mean, yesterday I actually struggled a little bit ball-striking-wise, but once went to the range, fixed one little thing, and started hitting it well again.  Thought I was doing the same thing out there today, but just couldn't find it.  It's one of those things that once it starts like that it's kind of hard to pull it back.   
 Q.  What was the one little thing?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Just my posture, honestly.  I thought I kept good posture today, but didn't seem to pull me straight today.   
 Q.  After Brooke, how much traffic was there ahead of you?  Was it bothering you at all?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Not too bad because we were like two back.  So it wasn't too bad.  But my caddie said to me, "Is Tiger Woods here?"  I guess, the one hole it was all over, but we were just laughing.  It's pretty good.  It's kind of nice because I was in three groups with a lot of people watching.  So it's nice to have people cheering you on.   
 Q.  Does the pace of play disturb your focus?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: The pace of play with like waiting?   
 Q.  Yeah, the waiting and slow play?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: I guess you get used to it a little bit.  But if you kind of keep your mind off of everything, then it's not too bad.  Today wasn't horrible.  A few holes where we had to wait a bit.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Sorry, I couldn't understand.   
 Q.  Is it unnerving at all to play with Morgan?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Honestly, I know Morgan.  I've done some clinics with her before and obviously I know Alena and stuff.  So it was actually really comfortable today.  It was a good pairing.   
 Q.  I noticed you're wearing a yellow ribbon for Dawn Coe-Jones.  What did she mean to you as a golfer, a Canadian golfer?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: I never got to personally meet her.  But her along with all the others were just really inspirational, especially being from Canada and not having that many people to look up to.  The few that have paved the way, it's pretty awesome.  The it's been great to be able to remember her this week and kind of keep her in everyone's hearts.   
 Q.  You said today's play wasn't necessarily what you wanted, but you're still in prime position at least to make the cut.  What do you do overnight tonight into tomorrow to regroup for a good round tomorrow?  
BRITTANY MARCHAND: Yeah, I think definitely after today's round I'll go over to the range and try to work out a few things.  It can't be too much.  I've been playing really well and I've been hitting it well other weeks, so I know it can't be far off.  Point just do that after the round and then have some fun.   
I'm staying downtown Ottawa, so maybe see a little bit.  I've never been to Parliament, so maybe do that.  Yeah, just kind of keep my mind off it, honestly, because I don't really want to overthink it.  I know I almost felt like today with how I -- I have so much more in me if I hit a few more greens this week, so I think tomorrow, if I hit a few more greens and give myself some more opportunities, I'll be able to score well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT