BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2008
Simon Wakefield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Some more progress today?  
 SIMON WAKEFIELD: Yeah, you know got off to a good start again. I think good birdie on 6 and 7, and that just kept me going. Hit into the trap on 13, which is probably one of the worst drives of the week so far. Just disappointed at the last really.   
 Obviously it would have been nice to hit the green in two, and these two new greens that were redone on the second and 18 were so much quicker than the other greens. Just try to roll it down there and it lipped out and went and missed it on the way back. So, you know, disappointing but happy with the last two days play.  
  
  Q. Now where does your focus go?   
 SIMON WAKEFIELD: Never been in this situation before. Played the last two years, but yeah, just want to keep swinging it well and hitting well so just going to stick with the same plan for these two days.  
  
  Q. Playing different today, as well?  
 SIMON WAKEFIELD: Yeah, left the sprinkler on by mistake all night and that was considerably softer and nobody decided to tell us. Yeah, the course has been a lot softer today. Couple of shots and certainly the third shot into 17 proved that, and bounced it up and actually spring back off the green.   
 You know, it's obviously been difficult, but the sun has come out unfortunately for the afternoon guys because I think that is going to trigger some thunderstorms. See what happens when they get finished tonight.  
  
  Q. Four shots off the lead at the moment --  
 SIMON WAKEFIELD: Long way to go.   
  
  Q. Are you happy with that?  
 SIMON WAKEFIELD: Yeah, of course I am. It would be better if it was three but could have been worse. You know, I'm happy and I've made the cut this week.   
  
  Q. Will you change your routine this weekend?  
 SIMON WAKEFIELD: No, probably just a bit more focused on my practice, not as long but a bit more sort of productive, and a good few sessions with my coach and my psychologist and showing the benefits.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT