IRISH OPEN
May 20, 2007
Simon Wakefield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  1-under for the tournament, currently tied for the third spot, pushed hard didn't you? 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  Yeah, I pushed really hard, got off to a great start.  Was 3-under in great shape after nine holes and then good save on 10 and -- my par save putts up to that point.  And then unfortunately 3-putted on 12 and 13 really, that sort of knocked the wind out of my sails.  A good save on 14 and then a stupid 3-putt on 15. 
 You know, at that point, I sort of stood on the bridge and obviously looking over into the river and obviously got to wait for the guys to finish on the green and thought, this is not what I need now is a delay. 
 But sort of gathered my thoughts.  You know, it's a round, and thought, well, last group of the day, playing in the Irish Open, the sun is shining and get your finger out of your backside and try to do something about it.  I hit a great shot into 16, nearly went in and then good save at 17 and then obviously a fantastic putt at 18 for birdie.  So really, really pleased. 

 Q.  Will you be back next year? 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  Without a shadow of a doubt, absolutely.  Obviously got my family over with me this week and I won't do anything different next year.  May come over a few days early and do a bit of fishing.  I've not had a chance to do a bit of fishing on the river this week.  I'm sure I'll make up for that at The K Club later in the year. 

 Q.  What did you hit into 18? 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  8-iron. 

 Q.  How far was the putt? 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  Probably 40 foot -- I don't know, 45 feet maybe.  But probably a couple of two or three-foot past for the miss but obviously you're standing there and you're trying to hole it.  But I was actually trying to just 2-putt and that was it basically and obviously hit it in the water off the tee.  I thought if I can make par here, I saw Louis had made par.  I thought, well, obviously Richard is going to more than likely drop a shot.  So that's going to be tied third after obviously 12, 13 and 15, I'd have taken that.  But to drain that, and then I said to Marcus, Richard was putting out, this was a huge putt for me and unfortunately for him he missed it.  So left me third on my home which I'm sitting all right with. 

 Q.  Kept your card; takes off a lot of pressure. 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  Massive amount, massive amount.  I can enjoy now the rest of the year.  I've been playing well.  All credit to John Pilkington, my coach, we've been working hard over the last two or three weeks, and all credit to him and see what happens the rest of the year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT