IRISH OPEN
May 18, 2007
Simon Wakefield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SIMON WAKEFIELD:  It was all right actually, going off at 6:30 this morning, I would have taken it that.  I got it to 4-under after the back there and was really pleased.  Sort of 3-putted the first.  7:20 start, greens were sort of dewy and left it short. 

 Q.  How far was the first putt? 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  50, 60 feet, left it 5-foot short and missed it. 
 Overall, very pleased.  Only disappointing aspect of it was on the 7th, the par 5, reachable in two and had a go for it and perfect line, just leaked it fresh right and caught the bank and went in the water.  So dropped to the side and didn't get up-and-down which is disappointing.  In reflection I should have aimed it further left and put it in the trap and made sure I didn't make any stupid mistakes. 
 3-wood, second shot, it was even straight at it and just bobbled and just bounced and went in the water.  So it was a bit disappointing, a reachable par 5 today, and that position I should have really taken it on. 
 But it's all part of it and level par is a good score. 

 Q.  Good run on 12, 16, 18, birdies. 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  12 was par 5, tried to not go for the green but get as close to the green as possible and pitched up to about 5-foot and made that. 
 16, hit a good 8-iron just right on the back edge up against the collar and hit 5-wood and chipped that in which was nice, was a bonus.  It was right against the collar. 

 Q.  How far was that? 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  25, 20 feet maybe. 

 Q.  Practice that shot? 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  Yeah, quite a bit, once every two, three weeks. 
 And then 7-iron to 8-footer at 18th and I made that.  7 after 3-wood off the tee.  No point in hitting driver, I didn't think we could get up, anyway. 
 2, I missed the fairway.  Missed it by sort of a couple of yards and I had to lob out and hit wedge just on the back edge and missed it.  Not too disappointed. 

 Q.  How was it today compared to yesterday? 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  I don't mind -- I don't particularly like the wind, but we've got a few gusts, a few sort of 40-mile-an-hour gusts out there or a bit less than that.  But the wind today was more across the fairways than down. 
 You know, when it's in and down, it's actually a bit easier because you can play different shots.  But here there's more across and obviously you're going to start aiming sometimes over the water, sometimes down off the fairways to try and keep it off the fairway. 

 Q.  Any example of aiming way left or way right? 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  Yeah, I did it on 17 and aimed it sort of down the right and the wind moved it just in the left. 

 Q.  How far down the right do you think you would be aiming? 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  Well, on 15, for example, you've got to be aiming halfway down the river and I didn't.  I aimed left edge of the river and put it in the left rough because I didn't dare to go any further right. 
 It's tricky.  It's not going to get any easier.  I feel I've had sort of the rough side of the draw for the last three or four weeks really.  And today it got better obviously.  We knew the winds were picking up, and it's the same for everyone and it's obviously fair, isn't it. 

 Q.  You're not going to be far off for the last two rounds, are you. 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  I think Padraig is making a bit of a move and obviously Peter hasn't gone out yet.  But I would have taken level par before I went out this morning.  I don't know what the forecast is for the weekend, I think it's my second time I've made the cut at the Irish Open -- 

 Q.  Third time. 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  Third time, is it?  You know better than me. 

 Q.  Checked this morning.  You have your sponsor here with you? 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  Yeah, Lucy, she woke up at two o'clock this morning, so wasn't very happy with that but, yeah, it's nice obviously to have my sponsor here, my mom and dad couldn't make it. 

 Q.  Are you going to practice this afternoon? 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  No.  I'm going to try and go fishing.  We have a bit of fishing.  I think Denise is going to go to the French market. 

 Q.  Where are you going to go fishing? 
 SIMON WAKEFIELD:  Just on the river I think, use the gillies.  Every time we come to K Club or Loch Lomond, we have bit of a dink, and we enjoy it.  We'll see what happens. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT