PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 28, 2009
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. VESNINA/A. Mauresmo
  5-7, 6-1, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Before the match started, you looked at your opponent, shrugged your shoulders. Have you ever played in that kind of atmosphere before?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: No. Actually, no. We were actually confused about the time when we were supposed to start. It was quite a mess. But we ended up finally walking on that court and playing. 

 Q. How different was it playing indoors?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: It's definitely very different conditions. Goes a little bit faster. Yeah, for the eyes also it was not so easy actually to get in. So, yeah, it took both of us probably a little bit of time to adjust and get used to the different conditions. It's not easy.

 Q. Was it distracting hearing the calls from the other game?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Not that much. I thought it would be more actually. I was a little bit worried about this. Not only the calls, but the applauses and everything. But it was okay. It was okay, yeah. 

 Q. Did you run out of gas at the end there or was she playing really well?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Both. I thought she played a really good third set, coming up at the end of each rally with a big winner on the line or in the corner. 
 So, yeah, probably I was maybe a little bit less precise on the placement, not as fast. But I thought I did okay. I really felt tired this morning. It was better and better as the day was going. I felt, I don't know, how long we played again, I think probably more than two hours, and I was feeling that I recovered pretty well from yesterday. 

 Q. Were the players consulted at all as to what you wanted to do? The storm, the US Open coming up. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Honestly, for our semifinal, was quite easy finally because we were supposed to play at 7. I was thinking maybe we will play tomorrow, but then they could not move the final later than 1:00 for TV reasons, which is absurd, because tomorrow is going to rain anyway. But, anyway, that's how it is. 
 So quite early during the day we knew -- well, I knew that we will probably end up playing indoors actually. But I think for the other girls was a little bit more difficult because they were here early this morning and then had to wait and wait, pushed back hour after hour, and end up playing at 7 or 7:30 indoors. I guess they probably thought we should have done this earlier or something. 

 Q. Has that ever happened at any other tournament that you played in?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: You know what, it's been long time that I'm on the tour, but I don't recall any circumstances like this, that we had to play indoors like this, not being able to at least have a little window, being rushed with the time also, not being able to play on the Sunday. Yeah, first time (smiling). 

 Q. You beat her two years ago. How much has her game progressed?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: She's more consistent throughout the match and even during the points. I guess that explains. I was telling you guys that she improved a lot lately in the last few months. It shows. It definitely shows the way she plays, the way she moves and covers the court. She serves also better. 
 So the whole game has improved, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT