TELECOM MASTERS ITALIA
May 14, 2005
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Another final here.  This must be your favorite tournament.

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, I guess so (smiling). Yeah, it's amazing to see how I do well here in Rome every year.  Fifth final in six years it may be, or something like that.  So pretty impressive record, I have to say. Yeah, one of the tournament I'm doing the best.  I enjoy being here.  I enjoy playing in front of this crowd.  The court is good for me as well.  You know, I'm excited to go through this one again and have an opportunity to maybe lift another time this trophy.


Q.  Mentally you look to be at the top now - mentally.  What about the physic and the technic?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, it seems to be, you know, getting better and better as the tournament is going.  As I said, against Silvia, I was really a little bit up and down, not very satisfied about the way I played.  You were asking me, I think, how far I was from my best level.  I think yesterday I played a much better match, and today again a very solid game, you know.  Didn't give, except this beginning of second set, I didn't give too many free points. So, you know, I'm getting there.  I'm getting there.  Everything is going fine, so that's pretty good.


Q.  If this has been asked, I apologize.  You win seven straight games, 2-Love in the second.  Where did you go?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I had...  I don't know.  I was, I don't know, on holidays (smiling). No, I got down suddenly a little bit physically for three games.  Then, you know, maybe the focus also.  I haven't played this many matches in a row for quite a long time now.  So probably it's still this down, this was a little down part of that second set. But I have to say I'm very satisfied about the way I came back - very strongly, very, you know, focused again on the footwork, on what I had to do on the court.  Because, again, tactically I wasn't -- I started to play in the wrong way also, so she was feeling much more comfortable with my balls. So, yeah, I don't know.


Q.  Worthwhile holiday.

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, yeah (laughing).  Yeah, yeah.  But it could be dangerous, you know, this kind of thing.


Q.  What is it about Rome?  You do so well here.

AMELIE MAURESMO:  The pasta (smiling).


Q.  The pasta.  What kind?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  All of them (smiling).


Q.  All of them.  Like your game.

AMELIE MAURESMO:  And the mozzarella (smiling).


Q.  But you obviously like it here?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah.  As I said, it's great atmosphere.  I like to play on this court; it's suiting my game pretty well.  You know, the crowd is very nice with me also, they get to know me now here in Rome so it's pretty nice, yeah. Also I have, you know, no pressure.  I need some matches and I feel like, you know, I'm playing better and better.


Q.  When you start your career like junior, you was an attacking player.

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Hmm...


Q.  Then you forget about it, change style.  Two years ago I think you was more playing...

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, three.


Q.  Now what about your play?  Which one do you think is your best?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  My surface?


Q.  No, no, your play.

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Oh, my play.  Little bit the way I played today:  Mix it up, maybe long rallies - especially on clay from the baseline - but also being able to come in to shorten a little bit the rallies and make sure every time I got the opportunity I come in. You know, it's also depending on the surface.  On grass you will always see me at the net, you know, after the serve or even after the return.


Q.  We like to see you more come in.

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I know, I know.  But on clay, you know, it's pretty tough (smiling).  I think maybe today I missed like a few opportunities to come in, maybe four or five times. But, you know, I think on all the match -- even, you know, last match I played, I think I came in pretty often - I think.  I feel like it, I don't know (smiling).


Q.  What about the Russian girls?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Too many (laughing).


Q.  Yesterday Schiavone was not so happy about the way they are on the court.  Sometimes they cries too much.  They do things, strange things, to stop the opponent.  What do you think about that?  They do like that because they are like that?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I think that's the way they behave, you know, that's the way they are.  Honestly, I don't really pay attention to, you know, if she's crying or insulting somebody or whatever.  I just, you know, I just do what I have to do.  I know also that, for example, Vera is very dangerous when she starts to do these things, because then (snapping) she can come back pretty quick. But, yeah, I mean, I don't really know.  They all have different personalties.  And, no, I think -- I mean, I don't know.  Maybe she was upset also with the loss yesterday so she was down maybe a little bit. But I don't really pay attention to that.


Q.  What do you think about Sharapova, No. 1 in the world, if she becomes No. 1 in the world?  How much you could be happy to stop her during that?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Oh, to me, it's not a matter of being happy to stop her or anybody else; I want to get that ranking back, that's it. But, you know, if she gets to that No. 1 ranking, I think she would have deserved it.  I think she's been playing unbelievably well since one year now, since she won actually Wimbledon last year.  And she deserves it.  I mean, I don't know how many matches she lost this year, but not so many, I think, huh? But of course in the same time, you know, I want that No. 1 back again.  Yeah, I would love it.  What can I say (smiling)?


Q.  You've been on the court with Zvonareva when she cried and then she got better?  I thought you said that when she cries, when she gets so upset...

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, sometimes that's what happens.  You know, she just doesn't care anymore and let it go and everything is in.


Q.  You've been on the court with her when that's happened?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, but it's like on two or three points.  It doesn't last forever, but...


Q.  So it's good not to make her cry (smiling)?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  (Laughing).  Sometimes it's better...


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT