TELECOM MASTERS ITALIA
May 12, 2005
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Was it easier than last year because you played better or she played worse?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I think we both didn't play such a great tennis today.  I just think on the important points in the important games I was a little bit better today. But, again, that's not the highest level of tennis we've ever seen in Rome, you know, but it happens.  These matches, you have to win.  You cannot, like, be always 100% on the court.  It's when you have these not-so-good moments that you have to go through.  That's what I did, focusing on the important points today.


Q.  If you could give a suggestion to Silvia as a coach, what would you tell her to do?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I don't have the - how do you say...


Q.  How would she develop better at tennis?  Maybe she stays too much on the baseline.

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, she's 33.  I hope she, you know, she knows what to do and I hope she has enough experience to, you know, choose the right moments to come in and the right moments to stay back. You know, it's always tough when the nerves also get in it.  I think she was pretty tight today.  So it's very difficult when you have these nerves coming in.  I think you have to maybe stay focused on each point, forget about the score maybe sometimes.


Q.  Do you think maybe she feels she's playing in Italy and it's tough for her?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Maybe.  I mean, I've never really talked to her about that.  But probably it's -- we all know what it's like, you know, to have this little extra pressure that you feel at home.  That might be a reason for her not to play her best tennis here in Rome.


Q.  (Question not translated into English).

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, sometimes even when you play tough, you know, like average match, it can come pretty quickly, like one or two matches after that and, you know, you play your best tennis.  Actually, last year when I played against Silvia, I remember was in the quarters and was, you know, also up and downs in that match.  Then I come up the next day in the semis very strong against I think it was Zvonareva, then strong again against Capriati. So you just have to, you know, know why you're playing that way and try to react the day after.  You know, when you watch this match, you think, "Yeah, she's still far from the level she had in the final last year," but can come -- I'm sure it can come very quickly.


Q.  If you were to be in the finals, who wouldn't you like to meet?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Don't like to meet?


Q.  You wouldn't like.

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Nobody in particular.  I think, you know, once you reach the final, it's pretty different match that is going on.  I think doesn't really matter who you have in front, it's supposed to be a great player that has beaten some great player as well on the way to the finals. So I don't know.  Honestly, I haven't really looked at the draw yet, so we'll see if I get there.


Q.  You won some key points at the net today.  Should you be doing more of that?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah.  When I have the opportunities, actually, I think -- especially in the beginning of the match I missed some opportunities to come in and make sure I would win these points.  Then I got a little tight after that, and I just found the way back to the net at the end of that match - which was not too late, but a little bit still.


Q.  Are you striving to make those opportunities?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Am I...?


Q.  Are you working on making those opportunities?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah.  But I think I'm making some pretty, you know -- a lot of opportunities, but sometimes I don't take those, which yesterday I was taking the opportunities that I had, which wasn't the case today.  I have to make sure this doesn't happen like tomorrow, for example.


Q.  Do you have any views or thoughts on the seeming decline of Serena Williams?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, she's, I think, throughout her career she's had some ups and downs.  So everybody says she's declining; she suddenly comes up and wins the Australian Open.  So if that's declining, I'd like, you know, I'd like to be there (laughing).


Q.  It's been a week now since you decided to come here by yourself.  There's a chance you may play the same player at the same stage of this tournament as you did last week.  Do you feel any different?  Are you doing anything different?  Has the experiment worked?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I don't really ask myself that question.  I'm just doing what I have to do in my own way.  You know, hopefully I'll be playing against Nadia tomorrow.  I mean, I'm going to watch a little bit of the match after. But, you know, it's good opportunity to take a revenge anyway, whatever the conditions are.  I'm really looking forward to get that opportunity.


Q.  So are you enjoying the process?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, I think it's good.  It's a good experience.  That's why, actually, we did it.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT