NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 31, 2005
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English for Amelie, please.  
 
 
Q.  What do you think -- first of all, what happened?  Also, what do you think about Kim Clijsters being able to come back this way after so much time off?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, what happened is very simple:  She played a great game tonight, I think a great match, and making not many errors.  I think, you know, I had few occasions in the, let's say, first five games, and then that was it.  I think I didn't really have any other occasions later on in that match, even in the second set.  I felt like she's hitting the ball better than when she stopped, and harder, hitting harder.  You know, there's nothing much to say about the match.  She just played unbelievable tennis.  She's in huge confidence.  So everything that she goes for is in.  You know, I tried to come in sometimes a little bit.  She just made unbelievable passing shots.  All the credit to her, you know.  
 
Q.  Is it surprising that someone could miss that much time?  You said she's hitting harder than when she left, you think. 
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  I think so.  Maybe also but she has a lot of confidence, she has nothing to lose, she's been out for one year.  And she said it, everything is like a bonus for her, you know?  Every match, every time she walks on the court.  And I think she explains it pretty well, and the way she feels.  You know, the way she goes for the shots is showing you that, you know, she has huge confidence, you know, especially after last week in Indian Wells.  
 
Q.  Did you have a game plan?  How did you think you could stop her?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, first, I didn't think she was going to play that well.  I mean, obviously, she's been playing well since the beginning of the tournament.  But, you know, I thought I have -- my slice backhand could really hurt her, which it almost didn't.  When the ball was pretty low, she was just still hitting it pretty hard.  No, I think in all the areas of the game, she was just better than me today.  That's it.  
 
Q.  So you see great chances for her also to win the tournament, right? 
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, you know, she has one more match to go.  I think I don't know.  I mean, Maria has been playing well as well throughout this tournament.  So, you know, it's going to be interesting match.  
 
Q.  What is your next schedule from here?  Where do you go?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  I'm gonna go back to Europe and then get ready for the clay.  
 
Q.  You coming to Berlin, do you know?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yep (smiling).  
 
Q.  Rome? 
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yes.  
 
Q.  Paris?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Maybe, maybe (smiling).  
 
Q.  With Kim coming back, her play like this, with the Russians so well, do you ever remember a time when the tour was as competitive at the top?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Not since I'm on this tour.  I think it's been the toughest draw, you know, like in the Top 10 player, everybody is playing some great tennis I think.  Since I'm playing, I don't think I've ever seen this kind of field.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT