NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 26, 2005
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  It looked like it took you a little while to get comfortable out there.

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, yeah, a set and a half to really...


Q.  Was that you or her?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Was a little bit of both, I think.  You know, she played really well, that first set especially.  You know, I was -- I thought I was giving her too many free points and I wasn't really into my rhythm.  You know, it took me a little time today, and I finally got my game together, put that ball back in, you know, a lot of variation as well.  Was able to, you know, come back pretty strong in that second set, and then I think she got probably tired a little bit in the third set. Tough one.


Q.  How much was the heat a factor?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Maybe at the end of the match, you know, I was physically a little stronger so that, you know, I was capable of coming back on court after the break and really being able to give 100%.  Maybe it wasn't really the case for her.  And especially when you lose a second set, then, yeah, I guess it's tougher also mentally to come back and play strong.


Q.  What does a match like that do for the rest of the week?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I think it's pretty good, actually, to come out of a match like that the beginning of a tournament.  You know, it gives you, I think, a little confidence back after the disappointment of last week. So, yeah, hopefully, you know, if I'm capable of really having a good recuperation, I guess I'm going to play tomorrow again, so I hope that it's going to be good.


Q.  I had one question about Miss Golovin, a countrywoman.  What do you think of her potential?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, you know, she's proved already a lot of things I think on the court.  She's been playing pretty well last season, you know.  She's hitting the ball hard.  You know, she's a tough player.  I think mentally she's pretty strong also.  Still may be sometimes, you know, like when we say "junior," is like maybe she has to be on the right points more focused, focus on these points.  But, you know, she's only like 17, I think.  She's going to improve a lot.  I think she has a lot of potential.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT