PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 13, 2005
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Amelie.  
 
 
Q.  How much disappointment are you feeling right now? 
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, a big disappointment.  You know, especially having played the way I did today.  Not satisfying at all.  I mean, you can lose some matches, but as long as I felt that I played some good tennis and that the opponent won it, then it's okay.  I don't really feel it was the case today.  
 
Q.  What were the conditions like, the weather?  How difficult did it make play?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, it's difficult conditions.  Obviously, you know, a lot of wind.  But it's the same for both.  And she probably adapted a little bit better than I did today.  Even though I won that first set, after that I didn't really feel comfortable on the court today.  
 
Q.  Was it slippery? 
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  A little bit.  
 
Q.  You could see the sand when the ball hit. 
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, a little bit slippery.  But it's more the wind that is really tough to handle.  The sand is okay.  
 
Q.  With all that said, you make that forehand volley, match is over. 
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, I know.  I mean, what more can I say?  I should have made that volley and go through this one without playing my best tennis.  Didn't happen like this today.  
 
Q.  Were you still thinking about that the next game when you were broken?  A couple sloppy points there. 
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  No, not really.  But, again, I didn't feel comfortable on the court today, and I think at the key moments you could feel that and you could see that.  I wasn't making my shots.  You know, she took her chances when she had the opportunities.  
 
Q.  When you say you weren't feeling comfortable out there, can you be more specific?  Why was that? 
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  I guess it's probably the conditions that gave me a lot of trouble.  I think the wind is not great for me.  And, again, she played good, she covered a lot of ground and made me play a lot, so...  
 
Q.  Did you know anything about her before this?  Have you played her?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, I played her in Australia a couple months ago. 
 
Q.  So you did know about her?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Good groundstrokes?  She moves really well?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, she moves well.  On both sides she hits the ball pretty well.  Serve, she can improve.  I was really supposed to take advantage of that, but I wasn't capable to find the right placement, the right adjustment on my feet to be -- with the wind, to be effective.  
 
Q.  Disappointing if you would have come in here and gotten further, I don't mean winning the title, but maybe semifinals, maybe the final?  You had a better chance to get back close to No. 1. 
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, but it's not why I'm disappointed today.  Really is the match that gives me a lot of disappointment.  
 
Q.  You hit awfully great second serves, but sometimes your double-fault percentage goes up a little bit.  Was today a unique day for the number of double-faults or was it kind of typical?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  No, I think it's -- again, you know, when you have a lot of wind, you have to serve in different conditions every time, every game you serve.  You know, I just didn't adjust the way I should have today to these conditions.  That's my fault.  That's no excuses for this.  So it's not only double-faults, but also some miss-hits on the groundstrokes and a few things like that.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT