AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2005
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Amelie, please.  
 
 
Q.  You looked a little more comfortable in that match than you did the last one. 
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, yeah.  I started much better this time.  Yeah, I was focused on the start of this match.  I didn't want anything like the second round to happen today.  So I was, yeah, pretty focused on a good start. 
 
Q.  What were you pleased about with your game today?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  I think I played a solid match, pretty consistent.  I went a little bit more to the net, which I should do even more.  No, you know, I think she probably, at the beginning, she was a little bit tense also so she probably didn't find her rhythm, or she found it after only one set.  So, you know, pretty satisfied.  
 
Q.  You won 14 out of 15 points at the net.  Does that surprise you?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  No.  That's why I say I should go more often.  The percentage is great.  Maybe it's not going to be this percentage every day, but it's always a positive one at least.  So, yeah, make sure I go more often.  
 
Q.  Did you just play well enough to beat her, or she gave you bit of hard time?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, that second set I think was a little bit more tight.  In the key moments I think I made the difference by, you know, focusing and really regroup myself because sometimes I think I probably shouldn't have lost my service games.  Went down a little bit in this area in the second set.  But, you know, she's hitting the ball pretty hard.  She's not afraid to come in and come to the net.  She served pretty well sometimes.  
 
Q.  What do you think her future will be? 
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Her future?  Well, as I say on the court, we're probably going to see a lot more of her in the next few years.  Apparently she's -- I mean, I didn't know her before today, but apparently she's been improving a lot in these last few months and this last year.  So, yeah, probably she needs to move around a little bit better.  But, yeah, if she can improve that, she hits the ball pretty hard.  
 
Q.  You made it through three rounds.  The momentum is going more, do you feel?
 
AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, it's coming.  It's coming.  It's much better than the last game.  I felt like it's a little bit like the first round I played:  consistent, very solid game.  I'm pretty happy about that.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT