US OPEN
September 5, 2004
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You seemed so happy after you won? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, well, especially on that matchpoint, you know. Was very good, I think, to finish on this kind of point. But overall, very satisfied about the way I played tonight. Felt very comfortable on the court. And, yeah, I'm happy to be out there and happy to win some good matches.  
 
Q. What would it mean to you to be No. 1 in the world? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It would be great, you know. It would be a great achievement. But as I've said from the beginning, you know, I would love it to happen because I made a good thing - a great thing here. So we'll see how it goes on the court.  
 
Q. You said you've been getting closer and closer and closer and closer. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah.  
 
Q. What have you done to get that close? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Just worked pretty hard. You know, on every area of the game, got also a lot of confidence going year after year. Yeah, you know, learned a lot about myself, about the game and, you know, again, the confidence is very important.  
 
Q. Do you worry you're running out of time to win a Grand Slam? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Not yet (smiling). No, not yet. No, that doesn't worry me at all. I think I'm feeling confident that it's going to come, you know. That's my feeling.  
 
Q. What did you learn about yourself and the way that you have to play? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, tactically, you know, I think my game is a little different from what we're used to see on the women's tour, like big hitters. You know, I'm capable of varying a little bit more and come in sometimes, serve and volley. So mix it up a little bit. So I had, I think I needed a little time to know exactly what I had to do at the right times and use it the right way. So I think, I feel that now, you know, I'm using it pretty well in every area of the game. So probably that's what I learned tactically.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT