US OPEN
September 1, 2004
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Nice turnaround. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Sorry?  
 
Q. I said it was a nice turnaround? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, pretty bad first set. A lot of unforced errors. Obviously wasn't really into the rhythm. You know, my feet were not working really well around the ball. So got into a little bit of trouble being down 4-Love in that first set. She had nothing to do but just to put that ball in and I was making all the errors. Then I tried to think a little bit more and make sure I put that ball in.  
 
Q. Sometimes the danger can be a teacher, too. Did you learn something out there about yourself? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Just -- really just try to stay focus and really think a little bit more on the court, you know. It's been a long summer. So I have to really be careful and make sure that, again, that I'm moving much better than I did today.  
 
Q. Serena was making a comment a little while ago that she feels she is more of an entertainer, even more than an athlete. Is that surprising for someone at this level of sport? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, it doesn't surprise me from Serena (smiling).  
 
Q. Why? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, because she loves these kind of comments. You know, she comes up with a new outfit. So, yeah, sure, she entertains people.  
 
Q. What do you think of this? Did you see the outfit she just wore? Did you see it? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Actually, no, I didn't. I heard about it because people talk about that, but I haven't seen it yet so...  
 
Q. Does she cut the edge a little bit, do you think? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, sometimes, probably. But really, well, I don't know what to say about it. What do you want me to...?  
 
Q. I guess what I'm asking, when you're trying to be the best tennis player in the world, do you find it a little bit surprising that anybody would sacrifice comfort on the court? She said it doesn't matter if the outfit is comfortable as long as is it looks good. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Is that what she said?  
 
Q. Yeah. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Okay, well, I personally wouldn't agree on that. But, again, if that's the way she wants to be, if that's the way she wants to look, you know, then she does what she wants anyway. But I would prefer to feel comfortable. Or if you can get both, actually it's pretty good (smiling). But if I have to choose, yeah, comfortable.  
 
Q. Are you satisfied with the way that you concluded with the final two sets? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, the win is the satisfying thing. Then the way I did it, you know, it's just... Was the way I had to do it today anyway. But, again, you know, a lot of things to work on.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT