WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2004
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What happened with the change of pace in the game? You raced through the first set, then obviously... 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think I went down a little bit physically I think in that second set and I wasn't moving as well, so then I wasn't taking the opportunities. And also she played much better in that second set than she was at the beginning of the match. But I think maybe, yeah, physically I went down a little bit. I don't know why, but that's what happened to me.  
 
Q. Do you mean when you say "physically down a bit," do you mean a little bit tired or your energy level? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Energy. I think it's more energy. Yeah, that's what I feel like.  
 
Q. Through all the injuries and the disappointment in France, what does it feel like to be back at a semifinal in a Grand Slam after two years? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's a very good feeling, you know. Again, coming out of the French wasn't very easy moment for me. And then I went back to work pretty quickly after that. You know, I just feel that I'm taking the opportunities I have. I'm playing some good tennis, very aggressive, going to the net, going forward. And it pays off. So, you know, hopefully I'll keep going. It's another tough match tomorrow against Serena. She seemed to play very well today.  
 
Q. Did you see any of her match? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, I didn't have the time. You know, I was on the court, so... But, you know, I'll take my chances.  
 
Q. Is this a more enjoyable experience? Obviously playing at home and playing in French must be an amazing feeling, but in a way is this a more enjoyable experience? You can take it in more? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I would love to have that experience at home, as well. But I'm really enjoying playing here. Again, I've said that for the last few days. But that's really the case. Yeah, I'm more relaxed here probably, so that's maybe why my tennis -- or I can express myself a little bit more tennistically (sic) on the court.  
 
Q. Do you kind of have sympathy with Tim Henman or can you identify? He got to the semis in Paris, you're in the semis in London. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it's hard. And probably I can understand a little bit what he's going through, even though seems to me like here is a little bit more than for me in Paris. But those things are tough to handle, and I think you have to get used to it a little bit, which he is. I think he's handling it pretty well so far, I think. Even though he has some tough moments on the court right now, I think he plays some good tennis. If he's beaten, you know, I don't think that's the nerves that he can blame, it's just he played some great tennis and maybe the other guy plays a little bit better today. I don't know. But it's not done yet.  
 
Q. You seem to be playing a lot like him, always coming forward. Was there a particular player who you admired who served and volleyed and who you're sort of basing that on? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, not really. To me the game on grass is made to go forward, and sometimes serve and volley. He serves and volleys all the time, first and second serve, which I don't do. But that's how I see the game on that surface. I wouldn't like to play another game, except, you know, if I have to, if it doesn't work, I need to change something. But so far that's what I like.  
 
Q. And it feels very natural to you to do that? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah.  
 
Q. To keep coming forward? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. I had some troubles few years ago to really find what my game was on this surface. And I think a couple years ago when I reached that semifinal, I really thought to myself, okay, that's the way I need to play, and that's how I feel comfortable on that court (snapping fingers).  
 
Q. What do you remember of your last match against Serena at Wimbledon? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, you know, she played some unbelievable tennis, and couldn't do much better because, again, yeah, she played almost a perfect match.  
 
Q. So how will you approach your next match against her? Will you do anything differently? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I think she -- maybe she's not going to play as well as she did last time, even though she seemed to be, again, playing pretty well. But, you know, again, take my chances, put my game together as I did in the last couple matches, and we'll see how it goes.  
 
Q. You'll play an aggressive game again, then? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Oh, yeah.  
 
Q. She said in her press conference she likes playing you. Do you like playing her? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's pretty tough to play against Serena because you're like, in one or two shots, it's done, especially on that surface (snapping fingers). You have to be very focused and ready from the first shot to handle her game. But I think I will have some fun tomorrow (smiling).  
 
Q. Serena said earlier she has absolutely no self-doubt on the court. Can you say the same thing? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: She has no doubt?  
 
Q. No self-doubt, she doesn't doubt her own ability. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Of her game or whatever?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, can I say the same? Is that what you say?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I think even though she says that, sometimes some things go through your mind. Today, for example, I was thinking to myself that I should go a little bit more forward, which I didn't at some point. Is that what you call some doubts sometimes in the game?  
 
Q. Do you believe that you can be Wimbledon Champion when you walk out onto the court for each game? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think so, yeah. I think so.  
 
Q. Do you think Serena's just better at hiding those doubts than other players are? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Maybe, yeah, she doesn't -- well, I don't know actually. I don't know what's going through her mind, so...  
 
Q. She likes to project a kind of aura and the way she carries herself. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, but maybe that's the way she is. I don't know.  
 
Q. When you raced into that 6-Love lead today, did you really feel as though the match -- that you were going to win, it was going to be a very comfortable victory with you? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, going out onto the court, I felt I had some good chances, that if I play that aggressive game that I know how to play, I will obviously make sure that she doesn't play her game. She likes to hit like long rallies like a little bit on clay. But, you know, didn't go that way in that second set. So I just stayed patient. Wasn't too worried, though.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT