WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2004
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Can you just talk us through that first set. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Perfect first set. Then I got into a little bit of trouble in that second set where my serve went down a little bit and I wasn't so effective as I was in the first set. But, you know, happy to play today and go through this one. That's the most important thing.  
 
Q. There wasn't a full... 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Crowd?  
 
Q. Crowd. How was the atmosphere for you? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it's strange. But I guess, you know, people maybe were not ready to come today and were not expecting that day to be a tennis day here at Wimbledon. So pretty strange. But, you know, we waited all day yesterday. So, again, I'm just happy to play 'cause, you know, go through that third round. And tomorrow will be a little bit more crowd.  
 
Q. How have the delays affected you psychologically? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Oh, it's fine. I mean, you just have to deal with it. That's it. No, I'm okay with that.  
 
Q. In the second set she got into it more and you started making a few more errors. Is that just something you accept at this stage of the tournament, or does it worry you a little bit? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, it doesn't worry me. I just have to pay attention for the next time it happens to don't get into frustration, you know, just stay focused on what I have to do, and maybe pay a little bit more attention on my serve.  
 
Q. Did you get frustrated? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, little bit, you know. I didn't serve quite as well as I would love to and not as well as I did for the last match. So, yeah, I got a little bit frustrated with that, which I shouldn't. But I don't get worried, no (smiling).  
 
Q. I mean, I watched you in Eastbourne last week. You were doing a lot of serving and volleying. Do you feel comfortable doing that, or is it something that you're doing because you know it's the classic grass court technique? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, I feel pretty good doing that, actually. I enjoy it and I like doing it and it's effective most of the time, which is the main thing. So, yeah, I keep doing it.  
 
Q. The reason I ask is that I see a lot of players who, over the years, have tried to play a grass court game. But those who play their own game are sometimes more effective - not always, but sometimes. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. But, I mean, if you don't feel comfortable doing, I mean, serve-and-volleying, then you shouldn't do it, you know. Of course. I mean, I like it. I think it's good for my game not only here on grass at Wimbledon, but also for the rest of the year. So I think it's a pretty good thing for me.  
 
Q. And you're slicing more and hitting the topspin? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, a little bit more. Yeah, of course. It's more effective on this surface. It stays low and goes a little bit faster sometimes.  
 
Q. Is there a risk that when you need the topspin that it's less practiced because you're using it less? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, because I really pay attention to don't use it too much and mix it up still. Maybe not as much as I would -- I don't put as much spin as I would put on clay or whatever, but I still go for the lift a little bit sometimes, yeah.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT