TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 14, 2004
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. It must have been an extremely frustrating day for you, but well worth it in the end? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, yeah, it's never easy to handle these kind of days. It was a good beginning for me, and actually maybe the rain came at the right time for me because I wasn't feeling so well, even though I didn't start again that third set in a very good way. I still managed to, yeah, to get out of this one in a good way, and I was close to go out of this tournament. But I am still alive, so that's a good one, that's a good test actually. Hopefully, it will help me for the rest of the week and for the French also.  
 
Q. What happened in the second set? You said you didn't feel well. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I felt physically I went down a little bit. I came out very strong in the first set and then, you know, I felt I went down a little bit in that second set and lost a little bit of realism - can you say that? - And made too many errors in that second set. That was the case in a big part of the third set. So, yeah, I don't know, maybe a little physically and mentally not enough focus so, whatever...  
 
Q. Just a case of you played so well at the beginning, there's nowhere to go but maybe down a little bit? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, no, I think I'm capable of keeping that level up for two sets or even more. But just wasn't the case today (smiling).  
 
Q. Could I just ask you, because of the back problems that you've had in the past, the fact that you've had such a long day and have had to come out and play in the cold and heavy conditions, does that play any part in this? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, actually, was pretty good with the back. I didn't feel anything wrong. So, hopefully, I'm gonna be in good shape tomorrow.  
 
Q. Is that another good test as well? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah.  
 
Q. For the rest of this tournament and for French? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, also last week in Berlin was very cold and a lot of rain also, so... It was okay last week, so I wasn't too worried about this tonight.  
 
Q. Can you talk about your next opponent, Zvonareva? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I played her - the last time I think was in Fed Cup six months ago in totally different surface, different conditions. It was indoor on hard courts - on carpets. So I thought she played a good match today. I watched a little bit on TV of her match against Schiavone. She really played some good tennis, and I'm expecting, you know, a tough match. I'm sure she's gonna take her chances. She finished her day a little earlier also, so we'll see...  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT