TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 12, 2004
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. There are a lot of top players with injuries at the moment - Clijsters, Venus has problems, Serena and yourself. Is it just a coincidence, or is the demand of the tour so much and it's just taken its toll on the players? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think the game, the game is getting, again, tougher and tougher. The level has improved a lot for the last few years. We ask our bodies a lot - to practice, to play in competition, and we are trying to adjust the schedule to have some time off and make sure that we recover well, but sometimes it's not so easy. I think the game, it's the game that make us ask more and more.  
 
Q. Would you like to see something change to help the players, to make it easier for you? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: The only thing that I think that Larry and the WTA are working on is shorten the season, you know. Obviously, it finishes a little bit late. That's what he's been talking about a lot lately, and he's there, actually, trying to see how they can arrange that.  
 
Q. Psychologically, you've had the misfortune of having to pull out of a major tournament with injury. How do you cope with that psychologically? How do you repair the damage when you go back out on court? Is it something that always sticks in the back of your mind? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, not really. You just keep going, you forget about it. It's frustrating when it happens. It's a lot of disappointment. But, you know, once you go back on the court, you just want to play and forget about it and you go forward, because that's how it is and that's how it works in our world.  
 
Q. Okay. And what precautions do you take now? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I have a physio traveling with me.  
 
Q. Is that something that you didn't used to do before? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I used to sometimes have somebody, but I think I pay more attention now than before.  
 
Q. Do you wear anything for support or anything like that? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, no.  
 
Q. Today's match, it seemed like you really picked up your game. There was a break to then serve out the first set. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, just before the end of the first set, 5-all, I think was the time really I adjusted myself to the conditions and to this match. I think after that, I was really more effective on what I was doing and really going forward a little bit more, because I was staying back a little bit too much at the beginning. And she was playing well, and she took control of the game in the first couple games, so... Yeah, 5-all, I wanted to make the difference there.  
 
Q. Does she really know your game? You said you've played for so many years. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I mean, we've grown up together. We know each other since we were probably 9 or 10. So, yeah, we practice a lot together. We are in the Fed Cup team, we are playing always together. So, you know, we know each other pretty well. It's never easy to play another French, you know, (inaudible). But that's how it is.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT