AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2004
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








AMELIE MAURESMO: No. I was expecting her to play some good tennis, and to serve well also. And I think that's what she did today. It was a tough match, but, again, I'm just happy to go through this one. It wasn't easy, but it's always good to have these kind of matches also. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. I mean, 7-5, 7-5 is not an easy match, it's not an easy score. So, yeah, I felt like sometimes she was playing some good tennis and was really aggressive and was really, you know, controlling a few things very well. But I just didn't want to let her do that. So, you know, myself, I tried also to be aggressive and don't let her control the game. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: She already improved a lot, I think. You know, obviously, she's been working very hard. She just has, I think, to keep going like this. And probably a few points where she made some errors, she has to, you know, avoid these things on some key points. But to me, yeah, she improved a lot. And, you know, if she keeps working like this, she's going to get tougher and tougher. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I think so. I think I have a little bit more experience now than when I played the final a few years ago. Of course, you know, I've played a few years on the circuit, so you get used to a few things. I just think, yeah, I handled that situation pretty well today. I didn't feel like I was bothering by this situation. So yeah, was pretty good for me. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: It's never too soon, you know, to play a final of a Grand Slam. In terms of tennis, I was probably not ready to do that, like not every Grand Slam, but more often. So, yeah, I'm still waiting for another one. We'll see (smiling). 

AMELIE MAURESMO: I played her a couple -- a few times last year. I think last time was in Toronto in the summer, last US summer. Yeah, she's been playing some good tennis if she's at this stage of the tournament. But, again, I have a pretty good record against her. I really want to do my best once again to go through this one. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: Was okay. I think -- yeah, I think I could handle some tough situations with my serve pretty well today. So I'm pretty happy about that. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. At some point I just wanted to make sure, yeah, these key points were going to go my way. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT