AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2004
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You're the No. 4 seed here. You seem to get a lot less attention than some of the other women. Why do you think that is? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I've been asked this question last week already in Sydney. You know, compared to probably the Belgians or Venus, the first three seeds, they've won a Grand Slam or been No. 1 in the world. I guess that's what makes the difference at this stage. I haven't done that. I guess that's the reason why. It doesn't obsess (sic) me or whatever. I just feel comfortable the way it is. That's it.  
 
Q. Have you played Alicia Molik before? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I don't think we've ever played against each other, no. I don't remember that. But, you know, obviously she's playing well. She's had some great matches so far. You know, it's going to be an interesting match. I'm looking forward for this. We'll see how it goes.  
 
Q. Do you know much about her playing style or anything like that? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: We've practiced with each other a couple times already. You know, we know a little bit of each other's game. But I guess we're going to discover a little bit more on the court in a couple days.  
 
Q. Can you talk to us a little bit about your match today? How was it? How do you feel? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It was good. I felt I really took control of the game. I was really feeling comfortable on the court. Yeah, again, controlling what was going on. You know, it's another good match for a third round. Yeah, I'm pretty happy about the way I played, about the different parts of my game. So it's good.  
 
Q. Do you feel you have a better chance this year with so many women missing? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I feel I always have a chance. I think also my game is coming together a little bit. I feel maybe a little bit more confident in what I'm doing. So, you know, we'll see. It's a long way till the final and to hold the trophy. I'm just going to take it match after match.  
 
Q. Alicia's never been past the third round before. Do you think that's likely to make a difference? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I don't know really what's going to go through her head and how she's going to deal with this fourth round. But to me, I mean, I feel like I want to concentrate on what I have to do and on my game, and that's it.  
 
Q. Do you feel you're closer now to challenging the very top players than you have been ever? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Probably. Probably, yeah. Again, I feel good in my game. I think a few things are coming together, you know, be aggressive and everything. Yeah, that's my best ranking, obviously. I hope it's going to keep going higher.  
 
Q. Alicia Molik might have an injury with her ankle. Will you use that to your advantage in going into the next round? What are your thoughts on that? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I think she's played a pretty long match today, and she still got through it. So I guess, you know, she feels comfortable on the court with her ankle. So I'm not going to count on anything like that in two days.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT