AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2004
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Was that as easy as it looked out there? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It was good, yeah. It was a very good match. I really felt comfortable out there. You know, I thought I put a lot of pressure from the beginning on her. You know, she probably, yeah, didn't know really what to do. Yeah, I'm happy about this one. I just keep going like this and we'll see.  
 
Q. Would you rather have had a slightly more challenging match than that? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No. I just, you know, take it as it comes. I'm happy to have kind of easy matches. I played some tough matches last week in Sydney. You know, I'm not like if I was coming from just practice. I had some matches. So I just want to keep my level up as I did today. That's the most important. Doesn't matter if it lasts one hour or two. Just I want to make sure I have the job done.  
 
Q. How well do you think you're playing? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think I'm playing pretty well, especially today I played a good match. Of course, I have still few things to improve on. But overall, I think it's looking good.  
 
Q. With Serena and Jennifer not here, do you think this is your best chance for a Grand Slam? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think, you know, first it's always been a good place for me to be, in Australia. I've always played some good matches here. Yeah, I feel like probably there is an opportunity to take in this tournament - not only because some players are not here, but also because I feel good, because I feel my game is getting better and better. And that's the most important.  
 
Q. Where has the big improvement been since the final in '99? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think in all the areas of the game I've improved. I've improved my game going forward. I've improved physically. Of course, I have more experience, so mentally I'm a little stronger and I feel much better. Yeah, all the areas are a little bit better.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT