adidas International
January 17, 2004
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








AMELIE MAURESMO: You're asking the questions (smiling)? 

AMELIE MAURESMO: No, I think it's just, you know, a point here and there and maybe a matter of she served very well throughout the match. I had few opportunities in that first set which I didn't take. And then it's, yeah, it's hard to come back when she breaks you when she serves so well. So, yeah, as I said on the court, I think she played a good match. She played a tough match, very solid game. On my side, I think, yeah, the serve couple times maybe in a few shots here and there made the difference. But I don't feel like it was a huge difference on the court today. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. I mean, maybe, but you cannot tell. I mean, maybe it could have been different, maybe it would have been the same or worse or better; I don't know. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, of course it's hard to spend some time on the court when it's so hot and you have the sun burning you. But that's the way it is. I didn't feel like I was really, really tired, like I couldn't move for the final. And I was surprised, actually, because at the end of this morning's match, I wasn't feeling so good. So I guess I recovered a little bit. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: No, I worked on my back a little bit with massage and stuff because it was very tight - which it was still in the final. And then I ate a little pasta. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: No sleep, no. No, I don't like to sleep, siesta (smiling). 

AMELIE MAURESMO: I'm not sure it gives her more chances to win in two weeks because she won today. I just think she is one of the favorites, obviously, of the Australian Open - as I consider myself as well. So, you know, I think it's good to have, of course, to win a tournament before you go into a Grand Slam. It's good to have some matches under your belt. It's good to have played some good players, because you know where you are, you know what you still have to work on, and you know what you did well. So, you know, we'll see... 

AMELIE MAURESMO: Of course, yeah. They win Grand Slams. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, but I haven't won a Grand Slam and I haven't been No. 1 in the world. Of course I guess these things are -- and it's normal, that these things are - how can I say - give more exposure. Can you say that? I'm not frustrated about it at all. I want, you know, I want to win Grand Slams, I want to get higher in the ranking; that's what I want. And then the exposure will come with that, I guess - probably. It's okay, I'll leave it very well (smiling). It's all right. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT