adidas International
January 15, 2004
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How did you feel out there today? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I felt okay. I had a pretty good start. I felt I was in control in the first four or five games. You know, was pretty difficult again today with the wind. I guess on the Court No. 1, it's even more windy 'cause, you know, you don't have as many seats. So, no, I'm just happy to go through. I'm happy to have the opportunity to play better tennis tomorrow.  
 
Q. Does it take some time to get used to the Rebound Ace surface? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: For me? Does it take time for me?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Usually, it's okay. I adjust to this surface pretty quickly normally. I guess that's what I did in Perth last week, and also here this week. So, hopefully, I'm gonna -- Melbourne is not gonna be a lot different, I guess.  
 
Q. Is there a difference, though, between indoor and outdoor, with the surface being indoor and also being out door? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it takes a little time. But in Perth, even if I played my matches indoor, I practiced outside, yeah.  
 
Q. I just want to ask about your semifinal. How do you see that matchup for you? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: With Schiavone?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: She has the type of game that she stays in the back, she's trying to put a lot of spin also on her shots. She's playing a little different from what we're used to see in the women's tour. You know, I don't think I've played her already, I think. I think it's our first meeting. So, you know, I'm gonna talk about it with my coach tonight or tomorrow morning. And, you know, I just have to focus on what I have to do, I guess, and don't think too much about who is in front of me.  
 
Q. Mark Philippoussis has made a lot about playing the Davis Cup final, winning the Davis Cup final, what an edge that's given the Australian players. Do you feel the same way about Fed Cup, winning Fed Cup? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I think in my head I didn't really have a break after Fed Cup. So I kind of kept my focus up and kept practicing well. So I think I'm still on that roll a little bit.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT