adidas International
January 14, 2004
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Not easy conditions out there, was it? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, very windy. Yeah, it's something you have to adjust to and try to do your best with that. I guess that's what I did today.  
 
Q. Did it make you concentrate hard, or is it a distraction? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You just have to pay attention to all the different spin that you put on the ball, and of course the footwork never stops, you know. You can't just stay there and wait for the ball. You just always have to work hard with the feet.  
 
Q. You've still got this week to deal with, but do you see yourself as one of the top contenders for the Open this year? You've played well there before. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, that's how I see myself, actually. I want to take the chances that I'm gonna have there, you know, and we'll see how it goes.  
 
Q. When you were serving at 5-1 for the match, what happened in that game? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I had a matchpoint. She played really well that point. She was more aggressive and didn't make any errors. No, just I wasn't worried or whatever with the finish of the match. But, yeah, I would have preferred, of course, to finish at 5-1, but that's okay.  
 
Q. Do you see the absence of so many of the top players from the Australian Open as an opportunity for someone else to come through and win a Grand Slam, or do you see it as a weakened draw and disappointing? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, not at all. I don't think it's a weak draw or it's disappointing to play these kind of tournaments. I would never think that. I just think, you know, it's gonna be a tough tournament still, you know. Only Serena is not going to play in Australia. I mean, that's what I know. I'm sure Kim is gonna get better during this week so she can play next week. So, yeah, I think it's a pretty good draw still.  
 
Q. Justine had mentioned that she has done gym workouts the last few months. It's pretty obvious already, but do you think that's the way the game has to be going in terms of the women's side, women have to bulk up, get stronger, fitter, weight train? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, you have to practice the right way. For some, it means getting bigger and stronger. I'm doing some gym, of course. I'm doing weights and running and stuff. But, yeah, I think the game is more physical. We ask so much from our bodies, you know, not only in one tournament, but all year long. So you need to be, yeah, you need to be strong - of course.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT