FED CUP - FRANCE vs USA
November 23, 2003
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Did I see you weeping out there for joy? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, yeah. It was, you know, a very emotional moment. I think we were not very lucky in the past few years with this competition. We always made the effort, but something was not good. I think this year, everything was perfect. So it was a great emotion to be out there and to bring that third point.  
 
Q. Have you ever been on a court where you were serenaded with the Marseillaise? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: In the past few matches that we had in France, it happened.  
 
Q. In France? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. Not here.  
 
Q. Are you going to celebrate your victory here in Moscow, will you postpone the big celebration until France? Did you speak with Mr. Christian Bimes? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: For the celebration, we were not going to wait. Tonight we're going to have to celebrate this the right way. The president, I saw him two seconds after the match. He seemed to be happy. He congratulated me.  
 
Q. Do you think the match against Myskina was the most important probably here? Do you think the tie against Russia was the hidden finals or you can single out another match which was the most important? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: The matches were probably a little tighter against Russia. But, you know, every point was important, not only in the semis but also in the final. I think we played some great matches, Mary and I. It was very important. Of course, after winning against Russia, to finish it off with the United States, we wouldn't have been very happy, you know, to go through that semi and then lose to the USA. I think we came here to win. That's what we did. So we're very proud.  
 
Q. Yesterday you said you maybe wanted it a little more than Lisa Raymond, played more aggressively. Was that the difference today? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think maybe was the same today. You know, I really wanted, again, to bring that third point to the team, and that's what I did. I knew I was capable of doing that. I just didn't want it to go. I wanted to take that opportunity. So, of course, from the beginning, I was really aggressive, trying to take advantage of every point.  
 
Q. You won all your rubbers here in the Fed Cup. You also went to the finals in Kremlin Cup. Can we say that Moscow is one of the luckiest cities for you? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, for the moment it's good. Yeah, so far, so good. I have some good feelings in this stadium, with this surface. I hope it keeps going.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT