US OPEN
August 27, 2003
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. In general, how do you feel about the way you played today? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Very good, yeah. I thought I really played a good match, you know, from the beginning, very serious, from the first point to the end. Yeah, I think every part of my game was working very well today.  
 
Q. Looked like you moved very well. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah.  
 
Q. How is your health? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's much better. You know, I'm feeling like more and more competitive out there. So that's the most important, yeah. No more problems with the back or whatever. So far so good (smiling).  
 
Q. Is it possible for you to play your way into this tournament and be a real contender or have you not played enough this summer to make that a real possibility? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You don't have like the secret, you know, the magic key. But sometimes you play well before a Grand Slam, and then not too good during that Grand Slam. Some other times, you know, you don't play too much before, then you have energy, you have motivation, so you're out there and really wanting to do well. So, you know, I just feel like I want to give it a try, give my best, try to be hundred percent on the court. You know, we'll see how it goes. But hopefully I can try to do that.  
 
Q. Practicing, when you're striking the ball, are you hitting the ball as well as you were before the injury? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I'm starting to hit the ball very well, yeah. But I think in today's match, was very good also. You know, I had some very good points. We'll see. And also a Grand Slam is very long, so you have some time to maybe adjust a few things. So that's good.  
 
Q. A question about popularity, you being in the United States. In the States, I guess we kind of tend to look down certain tunnels, we have difficulty latching onto players from other countries. Do the people in the United States know about you? Are you a popular player? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think I am not as popular as in France. I think people maybe know me a little bit more because of the last year's semifinal. They learn a little bit about me. Of course, they know much more about the Americans - Capriati, the Williams, and the men like Roddick. They are superstar here.  
 
Q. After all the injuries you've had over the last few years, even when you played your best, you've gone into tournaments, all of a sudden you get the big injury, you have to go back and rest again, how do you avoid thinking about that mentally when you're going into matches? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I mean, I just do it naturally. I just want to go out there. If I start thinking like when I'm going onto the court that I might get injured or whatever, you can't play like this. So I just do my best out of the court to stay healthy. When I'm out there, I'm hundred percent, yeah. You don't think about it.  
 
Q. Do you think maybe you've had some of the worst luck of any women's player over the last five years with injuries? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No. No, I wouldn't say that. I think I'm very lucky to do what I'm doing, be able to continue even though it's true I had some problems. You know, I think, yeah, I'm very lucky to be able to keep going.  
 
Q. Last year when you came here, you were playing well. People expected you to go deep in the tournament. This year, because of the injury, you're a bit below the radar. Do you like that more? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Doesn't really matter to me. Just I think the most important thing is to be me with myself, you know, to be able to think I can do well, to have some confidence, even though I didn't play a lot of matches before going into this Grand Slam. Yeah, so, I feel it's a point that I have some confidence. The rest doesn't matter.  
 
Q. Do you have the confidence that the level of you showed here last year? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I feel like it's coming. I think I still have few things in my game to adjust. I can do better. But I honestly think, yeah, it's coming - much better than last week or the week before, much better.  
 
Q. Other than winning matches, what are the types of things, do you have a conscientious effort to elevate your profile on a worldwide basis, how much people are aware of you as a player on the circuit? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You mean here?  
 
Q. Anyplace in the world. Do you have a plan for becoming higher profile? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: A plan for this, no (laughter). My only plan is to win matches. My only plan is to practice, you know, hard, and even harder as I do, try to win more matches to, yeah, be more known. But that's not the main thing for me.  
 
Q. It seems like you had some tremendous volleys today. Do you have a preference for coming to the net or staying back, combination of the two? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think combination of the two. I like going in. I like hitting some volleys. I feel comfortable at the net. Even though I didn't do it too much today, I'm really trying to go forward, try to finish off those points at the net. It's working pretty well when I do it, yeah. I like that.  
 
Q. If you play Kirilenko? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Who?  
 
Q. Russian junior champion. You have no idea? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No.  
 
Q. Send your coach out. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, he's there watching, actually.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT