US OPEN
August 25, 2003
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. "Goddess of Victory"? What does it all mean? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Just a Nike shirt (laughter).  
 
Q. Have you hired a taster to check your food? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, not yet. I'm looking for one, so if you maybe know someone that could do that for me.  
 
Q. More seriously, are you doing anything more carefully about the food? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No. I just try to eat things that are good for the stomach, you know, not too aggressive, not too acid. Actually, it's much better than a few days ago. I'm still not a hundred percent. I mean, I need some energy back a little bit more. But it's very satisfying, yeah.  
 
Q. How satisfying is it to have such a decisive opening round? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Oh, it's good. I really wanted to make sure my game is here, you know, get some confidence, don't spend too much time on the court, you know, to don't try to burn the energy. Everything was good today.  
 
Q. How do you feel about coming into the final Slam of the year without the presence of either of the Williams sisters? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I'm very happy to be here, first. I'm very happy to play another Grand Slam this year. I always enter these kind of tournaments with something in my head trying to win it. Of course, it makes a difference because two of the best players in the world are not here, so it might make it easier, even though a lot of good players are there. To be honest, I don't think too much about it. I just concentrate on what I have to do on each match. We'll see.  
 
Q. Are you where you want to be in terms of your strength? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I think I need a few good more matches like this one I had today to, you know, build the confidence a little bit more.  
 
Q. We all know how difficult it is for you sometimes to play in Paris. You come here to this crazy atmosphere where the planes are flying overhead, a million distractions going on. You always do well here. How do you explain that? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's far from France (laughter). I mean, I'm doing better and better in Paris every year. But, yeah, it's a little bit more difficult for us French to play at the French. I don't know if there is an explanation. It's just in the body, in the emotion. I cannot really find some words to put onto that. It's difficult.  
 
Q. So this ambience suits you fine? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Here, yeah. Yeah, actually it's good for me. Surface is good. I'm getting used to all these distraction that are happening. So far it's okay.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT