PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 21, 2003
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Straight-sets win, but you didn't seem particularly confident out there today. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I think I was a little bit tired from yesterday's match. I really wanted to make the points as short as I could. But also I think I played a good match, a little down at the beginning of the second set, but very aggressive, you know, going forward, having a lot of shots to go to the net, a lot of opportunities to go to the net. No, I think it was a good game.  
 
Q. Down 4-1 in the second set, you just didn't lose after that. What were the biggest reasons? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: She started to dictate the game a little bit more in that second set. Probably also because I was a little bit going back on my shots. So after that, I really tried to turn it around and go forward, go to the net, make sure I hit every shot, you know, to be aggressive.  
 
Q. Could you give us a preview of your semifinal opponent, Capriati. What do you have to do against her? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, we both played against each other a few times already in the past few years. It's going to be tough match, you know. She had also a tough match today against Pistolesi. She might be a little bit tired for tomorrow. It's very tough conditions. No, I'm expecting, you know, a big match. She's a big hitter from the baseline. We'll see.  
 
Q. Are you surprised she's gone this long without winning a tournament, 17 months? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I didn't really think about it, to be honest. Yeah, probably. She's one of the player that is supposed to win tournaments probably.  
 
Q. You had such a long list of injuries this year. How are you feeling physically? Is there a portion of your game that's limited by any of those injuries? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No. Really, the thing I had last week on my back that was giving me some trouble for the serve is okay now.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT