TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 17, 2003
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Congratulations. Thirteen minutes you play, and you're behind 5-love. How were things looking at that point? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, not so good (laughing). She was playing good tennis, she wasn't missing. She was playing very long, very deep. Couldn't really do something with the ball, so I just, you know, had to stay in there and wait till, you know, she maybe come down a little bit and then I can eventually, you know, play my game.  
 
Q. Why do you think that you are in the final? What happened? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, you know, again, I try to really play my game, do my best, you know, stay in there. Mentally and physically, it was very tough match also. I was a little bit tired in the third set. Then I, you know, went through that pain. And I don't know, I think it's a little bit of everything - physically, mentally, the game, I don't know. I just take it. Little bit of luck sometimes also. It's everything.  
 
Q. Do you think it was just a match, one match she lost, or does it mean something? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, she doesn't lose so many matches (smiling).  
 
Q. That's the second one. Does it mean something, going to Paris, that she lost? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I don't think it's just something specific, you know, going to Paris. To me, it's just very important for the rest of the season and the career also, you know, just knowing that you can do it - not only going to the French but, you know, in general.  
 
Q. Of course you're very happy, maybe a little startled? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: A little?  
 
Q. Surprised. You had never beaten her before. You were down a break and you win the last four games. I know that lifts you up. You realize you can play with her for the first time? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, in that third set I really realized that, and I realized that but just probably the last two games only (smiling).  
 
Q. That's where she's usually at her best, is in the stretch. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, but at that point I really felt I could do it today so I just went for it and, you know, I took it.  
 
Q. You lose your serve to go 2-3, an eight-minute game, deuces, deuces, deuces, yet you weren't discouraged at that point? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Sorry?  
 
Q. Were you discouraged? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, I was getting very tired at that point, especially in that game. I made a lot of effort to come back from 2-love, you know, break her back at 2-1 to go up to 2-2. And then, you know, a lot of effort. Then I lost that game. But I just, you know -- again, mentally I just stayed in there. And I broke her a few times in that match before, so I knew I could do that again.  
 
Q. You've beaten Serena, who is No. 1 and playing very well. Do you think that maybe you can become No. 1? Do you feel that is a possibility for you? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. But, you know, I felt that before beating her today. I said that was my goal one year and a half ago at the beginning of 2002 season. I said that was my goal, and it's still the same today. You know, bit by bit I improve in so many areas and, you know, maybe it comes one day.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT