TMS MONTE CARLO
April 18, 2003
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Amelie, please. 


Q.  Do you think you lost when you were leading 2-love in the second, or after 6-5? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, I lost when I lost that second set probably. 

Q.  But 2-love or 6-5?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  7-6. 

Q.  Which was the most important?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  7-6 was the most important.  Still, when I had to play the tiebreak, I thought, "I could win this one."  Beginning of the third set, it was getting very difficult for me physically.  With yesterday's match, I guess I would have needed some extra energy I think. 

Q.  Did you have some problems with your left leg?  I saw you had it strapped up. 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, was a little bit tight this morning when I woke up, but it has nothing to do with the loss.  It's just being tired in like all the body. 

Q.  Was it devastating to be two points away from victory and have it change so suddenly? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, I'm very disappointed, of course.  You know, I could feel I could win this match and...  So, yeah, what can I say?  Just I'm disappointed. 

Q.  Has that happened to you before, such a quick shift? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  But I was really pushing, pushing, pushing, so it doesn't surprise me that suddenly I didn't have enough energy. 

Q.  When did you start to feel tired? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  This morning (laughing).  No, but, you know, I knew it was gonna be tough, but probably the second set was getting very tough.  But, you know, that's just the way it is.  She had an easier match than me yesterday and it's good for her, you know.  You've got to give her credit to stay in that match and finally win it.  So that's the way it is.  You know, hopefully next time it's gonna go my way. 

Q.  Is that the reason you started very fast, because already you know you have not so much energy?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  No, I just really wanted to start like this and take control of the game.  That's what I did very well, actually, from the beginning.  You know, I just was very relaxed and not too much tension and so I could play my game and do it the way I wanted to do it.  You know, just she stayed in there and this is the way it is. 

Q.  Do you think the reason for your defeat is just that you were tired, or were there any tactical mistakes you made? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  No, I don't think so.  I took every  -- I think in the game I took every opportunity that I had, and I don't have to regret anything.  Just, yeah, I think, you know, again, it's probably a little bit down physically. 

Q.  Was it the first time you had a 10-minute break in the match because of the heat?  If yes, did it help you or was it a disadvantage? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  No, it's a rule that is in effect sometimes in the year when it's very hot.  It wasn't the first time.  So I took it, you know, to try to get the energy back, but didn't work (smiling). 

Q.  Do you feel as prepared for Roland Garros as you can be?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, I think so.  I think I've played a lot of matches.  I think I have my rhythm in the game.  Now I think I need to recover for a few days and, you know, start practice again at Roland Garros. 

Q.  Is there any way to prepare mentally for playing a Grand Slam at home?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Just try to get the experience from the past years and try to also realize that you have to take it as a normal, like, all year tournament.  You know, try to do your best for this.  Of course there's gonna be some pressure, but you also have to handle that, and I'll try to do that. 

Q.  Were you aware that ex-President Bush was watching? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Who?  (Laughter).

Q.  President George Bush.

AMELIE MAURESMO:  "Ex President," is that what you said? 

Q.  Yes, the former one. 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  The former one, no.  I wasn't aware.  I didn't see him. 

Q.  With all the attention when you get to the French Open, can you allow yourself to enjoy the experience?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Of playing at the French?

Q.  Yes.

AMELIE MAURESMO:  That's what I'm gonna try to do, of course. 

Q.  Is it possible, do you think?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I think it's possible, but you just have to take it as it comes and really don't try to think too much and handle, again, the pressure, you know.  We'll see... 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT