PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 10, 2003
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, you know, I'm very happy tactically how I played that match. I didn't let her play and control the game as she loves to do. I didn't give her too many rhythm, so then, you know, she cannot really put the pressure and hit the ball as hard as she would like to. So I think tactically it was a very good match. Physically, I felt much better than two days ago, so that's positive, too. No, I'm very happy. It wasn't very easy match, but I think playing the way I played today, I made it pretty easy. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: It's coming. You know, I felt good in my first round. The second round wasn't so good. It's much better today. I just think everything's coming together. I need some time. I didn't play too many tournaments this year yet. I just try to work on few things and make it better match after match. You know, I'm going to be ready. I guess it's Wednesday for the next round, yeah. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: Obviously, it's not the same game. They're big hitters. They're taller, so they serve a little bit better. Yeah, completely different game. So I have to adjust to that. I think I have the possibilities in my game to, you know, really put the power back in the ball and vary a lot also. You know, I'll see. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: It's okay. The knee's all right. The adductor was a little bit sore after Saturday's match, so I just preferred to, you know, put a bandage and make sure that it was tight, that it doesn't get worse. So that's why I had this prevention stuff. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. It's more prevention. You know, I could feel a little bit it was tight. I could feel it in practice, so I just wanted to make sure it doesn't get to my mind, and it doesn't get worse in the match. I preferred, yeah, to put that. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: No, no. I had that in Paris when I came back after the injury. Just want to be careful with that. 

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, even if I served better than last time, I think wasn't yet the best serve I can do. You know, I'm trying to find a few things on my serve, try to make it better. Sometimes you lose a little bit of the rhythm. You know, today was okay. I think also what was good today is I was going forward, I wasn't hesitating to, you know, take control of the game and go to the net. So that was very positive also. You know, I really want my game to be like this more often. I'm looking forward for the next round for this. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT