US OPEN
September 6, 2002
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Could you talk about the last game, you had triple breakpoint. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, she just -- that point, you know, she served very well. Four big first serve, nothing I can do.  
 
Q. Were you starting to think that when you had her Love-40 that you were going to break her and this would go to a third-set tiebreaker for the match? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, I wasn't, you know, thinking of tiebreaker or whatever. I just thought I had pretty good chances to break her on this one. You know, I broke her a few times in that match, so I thought it was makeable. But as I said, I mean, she served unbelievably at that time and that's it.  
 
Q. There was a similarity to the Capriati match the other day when you also started a little slow, then you came back. This time you had a chance to win and you didn't. Did you think of the experience you had? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I mean, losing that first set, I knew I just had to stay in that match, hang in there and maybe try to be more aggressive, come to the net a little bit more. That's what I did. I took the chances, I got on her serve also. So, you know, it was good match and very close, you know? Not much could have change a lot of things.  
 
Q. Did it seem like an uphill fight all the way? She kept getting a lead, then you'd scrape your way back up, she'd get ahead again. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it's tough to be really consistent and win every game you play. So sometimes, you know, you lose your serve and then you break her back. I just wanted to go out there and really play the game I wanted to play, which I did, you know? In the middle of that second set, I really found my rhythm and really got into the match. So, you know, it was unfortunate it went her way.  
 
Q. Last time you said that it gets boring, that the Williams sisters are always in the finals. Do you think you have a blueprint now on how to beat Venus the next time? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, when you come out of a match like this one where you had chances, where I feel I'm not far; you know, it's just couple points sometimes. So, yeah, I feel I have some chances - of course.  
 
Q. If the linesmen give you the call, right (laughter)? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: That's another story.  
 
Q. How frustrating was that? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Oh, it's great, you know, you feel the ball is in and the guy says out. So it feels great, you know? It's not a big point at all. You know, perfect (smiling).  
 
Q. Were you able to have that roll off of you and just keep playing? Does it bother you after that? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, I just try to keep playing, you know. That's -- what can you do? You keep playing. Stays a little bit into your mind. But, you know, I just stay in there and I had in the last games some opportunities still.  
 
Q. Do you feel like she beat you today, or do you feel like you had some chances that maybe you should have capitalized on and you should have come out on top? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Maybe, you know, in the first set I have few break points also.  
 
Q. She comes back and breaks you. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, so... But nothing to regret. I just come out of the match . Of course I would have loved to win and be in the final. But in the same time, you know, that's the way it is. As I say, it's just this much, and next time I'm sure it's gonna go my way.  
 
Q. Each year you've come a little bit closer. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. Well, next year...  
 
Q. Next year, would stand to reason... 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, we'll see.  
 
Q. What do you need to do better to get that little bit? What aren't you doing well enough in the matches? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Just play these matches maybe more often, you know. I just got to that level, it's very new for me. She's played tons of matches like this. I just think I need, you know, to be in that position more often.  
 
Q. So you need the experience of being in these big matches? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think so, yeah. I think so. But in the same time, she's Love-40 down and she comes up with four big serves. So, you know, there's nothing I can do about it.  
 
Q. Were there points in the match where you felt like you were nervous, you got tight? First game of the third set, you lost serve. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, no. Not really. I didn't feel tight today or whatever. I just thought I went out there, play my game, do the best I could for today, and that's what, you know, was my best today.  
 
Q. You had a lot of crowd support. Did you feel that? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, yeah, I felt actually the crowd was getting behind me and maybe appreciate my game and the way I was, you know, handling things. So, yeah, I could feel that. It felt great, actually, to play an American and feel the crowd is, you know, behind you. That's a pretty good effort.  
 
Q. The last point, you finally got to see a second serve. Did you just try to do a little too much with that return? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I was aggressive on her second serve all match ,and I did some good things, some bad ones. But, no, I just wanted to take my chance, as I did all the match. Didn't work that time.  
 
Q. There hasn't been a lot of time for hindsight, reflection, but, I mean, can you look back on the tournament and say, "Okay, it was a good tournament for me"? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, of course. I mean, yeah, of course I'm a little bit disappointed with the match, I mean with the result of today. But I still can, you know, say to myself, "This was a great tournament, great two weeks. I came back from tough situations, especially last time against Jennifer. And also against Clijsters in the last 16. Wasn't easy matches." So, you know, just proves to myself that mentally, you know, I'm getting stronger and stronger and I'm getting there, you know? Maybe slower than other players like the Williams, you know, they're younger than me. But the important thing is getting there, so it's coming.  
 
Q. Everyone kind of thought going into today there was no question it was going to be Venus and Serena in the final tomorrow night. Do you feel like you proved something tonight? It's a couple points here and there and you're right there? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I think, you know, it's -- as I say, they're not going to be in the finals forever. I just try to take the chance that I had to today, you know. In Wimbledon against Serena, I got little bit frustrated, not really feeling I could do something. I wanted this not to happen today. So I just give my best and, you know, close.  
 
Q. I apologize if this has been asked, but do you think Venus is at the stage right now where she can beat Serena, the way she's playing? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I don't know. You know, it's always tough to say. Probably when you see Serena with the two weeks she's made and I think she's leading against Davenport now, she's playing very well and some great tennis. So I think today she might be there (indicating an inch) better than Venus. But the final of a Grand Slam, they're sisters, I think anything can happen.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT