US OPEN
August 31, 2002
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Must be pretty happy. She's a tough player. Windy conditions. Do you feel like you played well? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I think, you know, I played a very solid game today, very strong physically and mentally. I really wanted to take every opportunity that I had today. I knew the beginning of the match was going to be very important against this player. You know, it was. I saved two breakpoints on the third game, on my service game. You know, that gave me a little bit of confidence. Everything went right.  
 
Q. Do you have the same confidence you did, say, in Montreal? Has it continued for you, the same level? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You know, I hope so. It's coming. Winning these kind of matches gives you confidence, that's for sure. You know, I really hope I'm going to again keep playing like this, be as consistent as I was today, and we'll see.  
 
Q. Clijsters says she feels like she has to step up to another level to play you. Do you feel that way for her also? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I didn't really see her play much this year, but I saw a little bit of her match because she was just playing before me. You know, today was very tough conditions obviously with a lot of wind. But, you know, it's a difficult match for both of us. Two Top 10 players. We'll see.  
 
Q. She also said that she feels you're one of the best athletes on the tour. Do you also feel that way about her? She runs very well, moves well. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: She's very strong, you know, and she covers the court pretty well. But I think in the Top 10, when you look at every player, we all have probably different qualities physically, but we're all very strong I think.  
 
Q. Which one of her qualities concerns you the most in the next match? Which one of yours do you think might concern her? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You know, it's hard to say. I haven't played against her. I think it's going to be our first meeting since three or four years. It's going to be tough. We'll both see when we get on court. As I said, she has a lot of power, she can hit the ball very hard. We'll see.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT