PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 22, 2002
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You hung in pretty well with her there but it wasn't enough? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I guess not so much was missing today, but, you know, she took the advantage in the first set and broke me just beginning of the second set. So then it is tough to come back. I couldn't break her back in the second, but I think it's just that much (indicating an inch).  
 
Q. How fatigued are you right now from playing so many matches in the last two weeks? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I am getting a little bit tired. I think we are Thursday and the Open starts in four days, so that's good. I am going to have time to rest and then get ready for next week.  
 
Q. You are going to play doubles tonight? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I will see. My legs are getting very tight and I haven't made my decision yet.  
 
Q. What are those wraps you have on your legs? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: That's where it's getting tight on the left leg, it's inside, I think, abductor, especially the other side it's the quad, it's very tight, so I just prefer to make sure it's holding.  
 
Q. Is Lindsay playing as well as she has in the past? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think she has a very good level considering she has been out for a few months, so I think she is coming back very well. She's moving well. Maybe she's moving even better than before, I think. That's what I think.  
 
Q. Lindsay in this match, this situation, you had short balls and you did very well with those. Lindsay did a good job of keeping you back throughout the match... 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Of course, yes, she was playing very deep and it was very hard for me to come back into the court, and she did that very well. Whatever the position she was in she was always keeping the ball very deep. It was tough to come back and to come in. That's -- I could do it sometimes at some point, and could -- it was working well, actually, when I was able to do it. But obviously not as often as I would have liked to.  
 
Q. You plan to play doubles at the US Open? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, I am not playing doubles there.  
 
Q. How do you feel about your chances at the Open? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's hard to say. There's a lot of very good players and you have to take advantage of the opportunities you get, and it is very long. As I said a Grand Slam is very long and, you know, you have to keep it up for day in and day out. We'll see. I just take it as it comes, match after match. That's what is the most important, I think.  
 
Q. How have you enjoyed your time away from the court in New Haven and what have you done besides trying to catch up on sleep the last few days? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I got here on Monday. I had to play doubles Monday night, and then I played singles everyday, so I didn't really have time to do something else except massage and sleeping. I just went to some restaurants Downtown, but very quickly and just eat and go back, so couldn't really enjoy the city this week.  
 
Q. What are among your favorite cities to visit during the course of the schedule? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I like to go to Melbourne. I like New York. I like big cities usually.  
 
Q. Talk about Lindsay and how you think she looks just now her fourth tournament this season and she's already headed to the semifinals for like the fourth time? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, as I said, she looks pretty good and I think she's moving very well. She's coming back strong, you know, after her injury. And she looks in tough moments to handle it very well. I think that's what the most difficult when you come back when you haven't played matches for a few months to handle these situations, so, you know, she plays good tennis, I think.  
 
Q. Do you think she's playing at the same level she played at when she played you before, that high of a level? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I think so.  
 
Q. Other than winning the rest of this tournament, anything else you can do right now to prepare for the Open or it is just about perhaps winning this tournament and then the Open? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No. To me, I think it is just -- it doesn't matter the loss today. It is just -- I just have to have good recuperation now, just rest a little bit for two days and, you know, easy practice and then get back into the rhythm at the end of the week for the Open.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT