WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2002
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What was the difference in your game? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: What's the difference?  
 
Q. The way you played Capriati and Serena. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's not the same person on the other side of the net. That's it. You know, there's just nothing to do about it.  
 
Q. Was she just too good today? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah.  
 
Q. Describe how she was hurting you. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, she was just playing very well, too good, and I -- you know, I couldn't do nothing. I tried a few things, but I just couldn't do nothing.  
 
Q. How different is the level of play of Serena and Venus from everybody else, do you think, right now? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: What's the difference, you mean?  
 
Q. If you take Serena and Venus, then everybody else, all the other players, yourself included, how different is their level of play from everybody else on the tour right now? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, at the moment, you know, they're No. 1 and No. 2, and that means everything. They're the two top players. They were in the final of the French Open. They are in the final here again. So it means they're better than everybody else. That's it.  
 
Q. By a lot? A little bit? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, you look at the scores, you can tell by yourself.  
 
Q. Do you think it's good for the sport when they meet each other in Grand Slam finals? What do you think the effect is on tennis and the fans and everybody else? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, to me I think it's a little bit sad for women's tennis. But maybe it's not the point of view for everybody.  
 
Q. Why is it sad in your mind? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Because, first, I think people are going to get bored about it. It was already final at the French Open. You know, I'm not counting how many people since yesterday told me, "We don't want Williams final," whatever. You know, some people think like this. Some people think it's good. You know, everyone has a different opinion.  
 
Q. Yours? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I just said it.  
 
Q. Are you going to watch it? Are you going to be around to watch it? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, I don't think so, no.  
 
Q. What's your prediction? Do you have any? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, you have to ask them for that.  
 
Q. What pleased you most about your match today? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Nothing really. I didn't feel very comfortable, especially on my serve today. You know, I didn't serve well enough, you know, to try to hold my serve and then see what's going on on the return. So it was difficult. You know, I tried a few things, to come in a few times. It didn't work. Yeah, but no regret. I mean, that's just the way it is.  
 
Q. You were right there with her early on. Was your confidence level pretty high at that point? Might have been 2-1. It was pretty close in the first set. What happened from that point? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think then she just cruised on. You know, again, my serve was a big point in this match, I think. I was serving well at the beginning, then was going down a little bit. So against these player, if something goes wrong, then it's difficult to come back.  
 
Q. What about that everlasting game that you had, about eight deuces? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: 3-1.  
 
Q. Talk about that. Was that fun? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it was, you know, advantage for her, advantage for me. You know, a little bit up and down on each side. Maybe in the second set it was an important game. But she already had the game, so that was second break, and then it's tough to come back.  
 
Q. Is something like that anything you can take with you, "Maybe I lost this one, but I can hang with them a little bit"? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You mean this match?  
 
Q. Instances like that in the match. Can you pick out different points in the match? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think the beginning, it's 2-All, 3-2, even when she breaks me, you know, the first time in that first set, I still think, you know, I can hang in there and do my best. You know, it's getting tougher and tougher as the score is going on.  
 
Q. Do you know what you need to do next time in your game to be able to win? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Not yet. I don't know.  
 
Q. Have you ever seen her play better? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, no, maybe not. Maybe she's playing her best tennis, yeah.  
 
Q. You said you couldn't count how many people said they didn't want to see an all-Williams final. Was this among players or people outside of the game? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, no, just people.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT