SANEX CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 30, 2001
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. The impression was that you were too cautious, too tentative. You hesitated a lot. At the end of the second set, it became clear to us that you didn't take any risk. The question is why? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's the same game I played from the beginning. I couldn't make it, even though I had some occasions in that second set.  
 
Q. In the first set, you made her play, you had her moving, you had a lot of topspin. What is the reason you couldn't carry on in the second set? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, let's talk about the important things. My preparation wasn't sufficient. Physically it was hard for me to play in the second set because this is hard to play on this surface. You have to be physically fit in order to make your game. If your game is like mine, there's a lot of topspin. I had a match point, but I couldn't make it. I can't blame her. She saved it. I'm disappointed because I had my opportunities in the second set, then I lost my serve at very crucial moments in the match. That's it. After all, I think in the third set, I couldn't play my game anymore. I couldn't force my game upon her. I had played in Luxembourg last week, had I had a better preparation, I suppose it might have turned out differently. But that's it. Now I have to get in shape for the Fed Cup. That's the way the cookie crumbles.  
 
Q. There was a slight injury. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yes, I had a thigh injury, a slight elongation. I had a pulled muscle. Well, I hoped I would be able to play Munich, preparation for Munich, then Fed Cup. I didn't have any limitations today physically.  
 
Q. What about your shape? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yes, in the beginning. After, I was exhausted. I was down and out, I have to say.  
 
Q. After all, what do you think this end to the season? You didn't play that much. Did you need any different schedule? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No. Mentally, frankly, I thought I had to take some time off. I did too many things this season. I think I've understood a lot of things about myself, about the level I'm playing at, the work I did. It paid. Many things that went through my head, I had to digest all this, to cope with this. The end of this year has been a bit difficult for me, that's for sure. But I would rather be positive about the whole of the season. After all, it wasn't all that bad.  
 
Q. Do you believe or do you think after this sort of slowing down you can get back to what you did in the beginning of this year? You played at an extremely high level. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yes, I think, because my preparation is going to be extremely solid and serious, maybe more intense than last year. We'll see how next year takes off. My coach Jean-Claude, we're talking about this. If I do my work solidly, I don't see why I couldn't get to where I was at the beginning of this year, the first months of this year, and then why not go even further.  
 
Q. The season isn't over. You could still win the Fed Cup. Are you motivated for that? Is this a major incentive or do you think, "Another week I have to do, but it's going to be difficult"? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, no. I think they are all going to be tired in this competition - medically and mentally. But I think being on a team, playing for your country, there will be no reason for any lack of motivation.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT