US OPEN
September 3, 2001
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You beat Jennifer in Germany, I guess in May. Can you talk about what you did in that match? Will that have any bearing on this match-up? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I'm not going to tell you what I did there (smiling). You know, it was very intense match for both of us, I think. You know, she improved probably since then. I hope I improve, too. You know, we'll see how it goes. I think I give it a shot.  
 
Q. Are you satisfied with your play today? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yes, I'm satisfied. Nathalie is a tough player to play. You know, she doesn't have the usual game on the circuit. I think I handled it pretty well, especially in the third set where, you know, I had to keep my serve, and I did that very well, wait for the occasion to break her. Yeah, satisfied.  
 
Q. You weren't able to play last year. You haven't advanced anywhere near this far this far. You're about to go into the quarterfinals of the US Open. I think that would be somewhat exciting. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. You know, as I say, maybe I'm too much taking it match by match, so I don't really realize that this year in the Grand Slam I haven't been so far. I was in the fourth round at the Australian Open, but... You know, it's good. I'm happy about it. I don't want it to end, that's it (smiling).  
 
Q. What does it mean for your career and your confidence? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's coming back. Obviously, it's very good for my confidence. Winning four matches in a row, today against a player that did a good match. You know, hopefully I'm ready to play against a player in the Top 5.  
 
Q. You don't want to tell us what you're going to do to beat Jennifer. The fact that you have beaten her before, I know it was a different surface. Can you take that victory as sort of a boost in self-confidence going into the match? Is it different surface, different time, not really in your mind? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I guess it's going to be in my mind, but I think it's going to be a different match. You know, different surface. It's her home country. It's going to be different match, that's for sure. We'll see.  
 
Q. In terms of your own confidence, does it help to have beaten her? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Of course, it always helps when you know you can beat someone and you've beaten her. You know, I will just try to have in mind what I did last time and try to do the same.  
 
Q. In the tiebreak, did you have pressure because Nathalie has a very good tiebreak record? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I didn't know that (laughter).  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT