WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2001
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How happy are you with your form right now? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I'm happy. No, I'm pretty happy about the way I played, the way I handled this match. You know, I didn't know her. I didn't know how she was playing. Obviously, she's hitting the ball very well. So happy about this one.  
 
Q. You seem to be hitting the ball a lot better than your first match. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it's coming. It's coming. You know, first match on grass wasn't easy. Got better today. I was really, you know, focused on what I had to do, especially my service games. Everything went well.  
 
Q. How confident are you right now? What are your expectations here? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You know, still the same, taking match by match. I don't even know who I play next match. Just taking it as it comes.  
 
Q. How far away are you, do you think, from reaching the form or producing the form that you did back in Australia when you got to the final? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I think I'm in a different position now. I maybe control my game a little bit better. But I think my form is coming anyway. Hopefully with the matches, you know, it's going to get better and better.  
 
Q. What changed for you the most after you made the final in Australia? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You know, I got known a little bit more. I had to work still a lot on my game and on every part of my game, and even mentally, you know, I wasn't maybe strong enough, at least wasn't feeling as good as I feel now. I still had a lot of work to do. Everything change, I think.  
 
Q. Did it put a lot of pressure on you to perform week in, week out? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It was okay. I mean, I had a little pressure after the Australian Open, then I didn't do so well, so I don't have the pressure anymore. This year, it's all coming together. Hopefully it's going to last.  
 
Q. You've had a rollercoaster ride since then. Can you explain why? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think mentally I wasn't consistent enough in my game to just hope to perform always at the best level. As I say, it's coming together this year, so it's good.  
 
Q. Do you look back at that time when you made the final in Australia with fondness, despite --? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: With?  
 
Q. Do you look back at it as a good time, despite all the comments you had to deal with at the time? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yes. It was some good times and some bad times I had to go through. Anyway, it gave me a lot of strength, I think, to go forward, to pass this.  
 
Q. How hard was it to suddenly be thrust into the spotlight? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It was okay. I mean, you just don't -- I think I didn't really realise that I was in the spotlight or whatever. I just took it as it came. Maybe six months later I realised, and I got through a little -- I mean, I was struggling a little bit. But you get used to it, I think.  
 
Q. You're confident with all the attention now? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's okay.  
 
Q. Back home when you returned from Australia, did you notice a big difference in terms of recognition down the street? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, of course.  
 
Q. Is it still like that? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it's more or less, yeah.  
 
Q. Your next opponent is Tanasugarn from Thailand. Have you played her before? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I don't think I've played her. I don't think so. I know she's playing very well on grass courts. You know, she's done very well these last couple seasons. I will see.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT