OPEN GDF SUEZ
February 15, 2009
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. Amelie, you can't hide anymore. You've defeated three top 10 players this week. So can we say that you're back to the top? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yes, I was probably kind of waiting for those kind of wins in a row to say that, yeah, I'm back in being, pretending to be able to win those kind of tournaments.
 Because when you look at the field arriving here in Paris and all the great players that were here, I'm very happy and very proud about this week. So I guess we can say that.

 Q. Amelie, it's been thrilling to watch you play all week. Have you been surprised at all by how quite well you've played? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's during these last few months in practice I could see that there were some really great moments, great sessions hitting the ball very good. 
 But it was showing in the matches only now and then. I'm talking Australia, so some ups and downs still. And definitely I didn't know and I was not sure if the consistency at this level and playing this kind of game was going to happen. And if when. 
 So, yeah, I'm just very happy that it finally showed after a couple of years of struggling.

 Q. How much do you enjoy playing in front of this crowd?
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, it's unbelievable. It looks like I could do anything on the court. It would still be there and cheer for me and really be behind me supporting me like crazy. So I'm just enjoying.

 Q. I'm wondering, get some reaction from you on the UAA's refusal to grant a visa to Shapira to go to the Dubai Open, do you have any thoughts on that, not been given any visa allowing her to come into the country, any reaction to that at all?
 AMELIE MAURESMO: That's not acceptable. I think sports should be above those kind of issues and those kind of concerns or whatever. I'm surprised. And my first reaction is it's not acceptable.

 Q. You played a three-set match yesterday against Jankovic; did you feel any fatigue during the match today against Dementieva?
 AMELIE MAURESMO: At some point, yes, after that first set it was really intense and quite demanding physically. So you could see it was really tough during the second set to really keep going and her coming out of the court, and, yeah, it was hard for me to find the rhythm again, which I fortunately I did in the third.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT