TMS - ROME
May 20, 2001
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Was there anything wrong with your back? You were serving in a strange way. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, no.  
 
Q. Where did your forehand go? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I don't know. Back home probably. (Smiling.) No, you know, I think today she just played a good match, that's for sure. And, you know, I wasn't really 100 percent. I was a little bit tired, but, you know, I tried. And losing that first set was very tough because physically I'm feeling tired now and, you know, she just took the opportunity.  
 
Q. Did it demoralize you then, the loss of that first set, maybe made you think you had enough practice now for the French Open? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, you know, it's tough to mentally make the effort and everything, and I had to make a big effort yesterday and also last week and all this week. You know, I just wasn't feeling like coming back.  
 
Q. But you wouldn't regard defeat this afternoon as too damaging in terms of preparations? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, I don't think so. I don't think it, you know, all I've done is here and, you know, it's not that this loss today is gonna change it I think.  
 
Q. Do you think that Jelena is a genuine contender now at Roland Garros? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Is a...?  
 
Q. A genuine contender now for the title at Roland Garros. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I mean, you never know. She's playing very well. I haven't seen her play for a couple of months, so obviously she's improved. Apparently clay court is okay for her game and, you know, you never know I think.  
 
Q. When you analyze the tournament, would you regard your success over Hingis as being more important than a defeat today by Dokic? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I hope so. No, I was very satisfied with the match I played yesterday. That's for sure. You know, I feel like, as you said, I've done enough practice but, you know, of course I would have liked to win today. That's obvious.  
 
Q. The tiredness, is it more mental or physical? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think it's a little bit of both, you know, it's going together. So I need a little bit of rest and, you know, to start again and have some more energy.  
 
Q. Was the rain a distraction, the feeling you may have to quit? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, no. I didn't really pay attention to that.  
 
Q. Where to next? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Back home and --.  
 
Q. Practice? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I mean resting and then practicing and then go to Paris.  
 
Q. How much time can you afford to take off without losing your momentum? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You know, probably like two, three days, you know, just letting, you know, it go and resting and start practicing very easy again.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT