TMS - ROME
May 17, 2001
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Will you say something about today's match. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well...  
 
Q. Did you have any difficulties just in the moment of the match? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No. I think she has a very special game, you know, sometimes she just hits the ball very well and with a lot of pace, and then sometimes she just, you know, give three points like this. So it's very -- not really consistent, you know, so you have to adjust to that. And I think in the second set I just wasn't focused enough on the game to be sure I was gonna win in two sets, so... And that's what I did in the third set really, putting my game together to win it.  
 
Q. Martina Navratilova said that she's really confident in you just for results in Rome and for the French Open. Do you agree with her? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I hope she's right. (Laughing.) You know. Yeah, I mean, what can I say?  
 
Q. Was there a change in your life that made you have such good results in all the tournaments? Did something change that affected your results, because you're playing so good. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it's just the spirit, I mean, the way of thinking that I have now in my mind. Whatever the changes that have been in my life, professionally or private or whatever, today I'm really focused on the tennis and do the best in practice so it gives very good results.  
 
Q. Can you say something about your opponent today. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yes. She serves very well sometimes, but not consistent enough. But she has a very good serve actually. I was surprised in the first game, she put just four first serves in. Very good forehand. I think she has, you know, to move a little bit better maybe.  
 
Q. In the last interview you did here, you said that probably your success is related to your happiness you're having now. Is it something related to your player's life or is it something off the court? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's a little bit of everything. I think it's coming together any way.  
 
Q. What about your next match? What are your thoughts about your opponent? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I don't know who I'm playing.  
 
Q. Suarez, I think. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Paola Suarez, I played her last year in Berlin, I lost in three sets. You know, I know a little bit how she plays, and she's playing very consistently also these last couple weeks especially on clay. So, you know, not an easy one.  
 
Q. We saw you with a little dog. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yes.  
 
Q. Can you tell us something about it? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. (Laughing.) Well a name I still have to choose, but I got it last night so it's my dog, yeah.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.) Your dog was a present? You met her on the road? (Laughter.) 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's a present.  
 
Q. May we ask who gave you the present? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No. (Laughter.) But it's a good try.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT