TMS - ROME
May 16, 2001
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. It was a difficult first set for you, two set points against you. Did you find it difficult to click into some kind of groove today? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, was such a different rhythm and everything from last week, so I had to adjust to that and, you know, just try to get into her rhythm. And, yeah, it's tough because she doesn't give pace, you know, you have to make all the game. And, you know, for a first round, it's not easy to come into a tournament. But, yeah, I'm happy to go through this one. It's these kind of match you can go for three hours out there and it's very strange. So I'm happy to get through this one.  
 
Q. When you were 3-love up in the second set, did you mentally switch off temporarily at that stage? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I think I tried to do a little bit more, and that's where I made too many mistakes I think. So after, at 3-all, I really focus back and to really put that ball in and be aggressive and finish it off.  
 
Q. You are arriving from good tournament results, so you're going to face Rome now, face Paris, the French Open too. Are you sure you will be able to maintain the same level of your game and matches, the same physical conditions? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I hope so. After this one I have a week off, so, you know, to relax and get -- try to be as fresh as possible coming up to the French Open. So, you know, I hope to be, to keep the same rhythm and the same confidence.  
 
Q. You're playing more your backhand, passing through the lines. It seems to enter more on the court and be more aggressive. What about that changing of game? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it's true, especially today against a player, you know, that doesn't make the game really, you have to be aggressive, you have to get into the court. That's what I tried to do today, and that's what I did last week also. It's coming into my game, and that's what I'm looking for.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT