AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2001
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. When you hit that big backhand into the corner toward the end, did you think, "I have a chance here"? Were you surprised she came up with the aces? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, of course I thought it's the time for me to come back in that third set. But then, you know, she did three very good first serves - couldn't really do much on these ones.  
 
Q. I found that you make too many fault, but I think it was because Williams (inaudible) and it was difficult to answer this. What do you think? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yes, of course at the beginning I was a bit surprised with the pace, you know, she put on the ball. But then I got used to it. I found my rhythm with her game. Of course, I mean, I made too many mistakes. That's obvious. Next time I need to really, you know, make not so many mistakes. That's for sure.  
 
Q. It seemed the crowd were really behind you. Whenever you hit a winner, they wanted to see more of that. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, they probably wanted to see more of this match, more of this game. I like playing here. I like the crowd here. I think they like me. You know, I was enjoying really this end of the third set.  
 
Q. How disappointed are you versus how encouraged are you by not playing your best tennis, still taking the third seed to three sets? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: That's the encouraging part of the match today. I mean, I wasn't at my best. I didn't start well. I mean, the first set was not good at all. I still, you know, took that second set and fought my way back into the match. I mean, maybe one year ago or two years ago, I would have, you know, let it go. That's the main thing today, the positive thing about the match today.  
 
Q. How hard is her serve to read? It seemed like as the match wore on, you were getting a better look at it. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It was okay. I mean, you know, except these last three big serves that she hit, I think it was okay for me to read it. You know, at the beginning, it took me a little time, then I got used to it, I think.  
 
Q. Did the pace of the serves at the end in the last game surprise you, those last three points? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, you know, maybe she was a little bit pissed with the backhand I made (laughter). She was a little bit angry, and she hit those three big serves. I didn't look at the speed or nothing, but they were very well-placed and very hard, yeah.  
 
Q. Were you aware of the roar that went out, the cheer that went out when you hit that backhand? Did you feel that at all from the crowd? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, the noise. It surprised me because it cooled down very quickly when she was ready to serve. It was good.  
 
FastScripts by ASAP Sports…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT