adidas International
January 11, 2001
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Well done on the victory, but obviously a bit of attention needed on you there. How bad is it? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I'm going to get treatment after the press conference. The thing is that I don't feel it in the game. I just feel it on the serve. So that's a good point. Hopefully it's just a muscle, you know, really tight and it's gonna get better I hope.  
 
Q. Is it in the same area as last year? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, yeah.  
 
Q. How frustrating is it for something like that to happen again so soon? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Last year it happened twice, once in March and then again in summer, August. And so, you know, I hope it -- I really hope it's not the same thing exactly and that, you know, I hope it's gonna get better. I just don't know right now exactly what it is.  
 
Q. Apart from that, it was a satisfying win presumably. I mean, she played pretty well, you stuck with it. How did you think you played? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I'm very satisfied with my game. Of course I think I played a good match. I lost twice against her before, so I really wanted to make it this time. No, I think it wasn't an easy match, but I handled it very well and, yeah, I'm happy about this one.  
 
Q. When you first felt the pain or continued to play with the pain, had you considered retiring to save yourself further injury before the Open next week? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I felt the pain when I was serving at 3-1 in the second set. There are a lot of things going on in your mind when you feel -- when you don't feel good, when you have pain, when you don't know if you can keep serving or whatever. But, you know, the main thing is that I stayed on court, I played my match and I won it. So it's also good mentally that, you know, I went through this one.  
 
Q. Just further on the back, is it going to inhibit your performance here in Sydney and at the Australian? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I don't know really. I just don't know how bad it is. I really hope it's just, you know, a little stretch or contract. Very, very stiff. But I can't -- I mean, I can't help you. I'm not sure. I don't know myself.  
 
Q. We saw you perform so magnificently here last year, then obviously things didn't go too well for you at the Australian Open. Perhaps the year wasn't up to your own expectations. What went wrong? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: When?  
 
Q. With you last year after you started so beautifully here. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Last year? Well, I think the main thing was I was injured too much. Four months all together I was out of the Tour. So it's pretty tough when you are out, you know, to come back and perform well every time. That's why this year I was really hoping to have a good season, a complete season. You know, I hope it's gonna be better than last year, at least for my health.  
 
Q. There seems to be a bit of a debate going on between the difference of glamour players on the circuit and players who are out there merely for results. Where do you see yourself fitting in between the two ends of the spectrum? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I'm just myself. You know, people take it as they want to take it. If they like my game, they come see and watch me for my game. If they like the way I am or the way I behave, they come see me for this. I mean, I'm just trying to be myself and then people take what they want to take from it.  
 
Q. Do you have any objections to the glamour issue of tennis? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Any?  
 
Q. Objections. Has it gone too far? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No. No, not at all. I don't think so. I'm okay with that.  
 
Q. I know you've moved your house and changed some things in your life. Has it been for the better, these changes? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, you know about my private life and everything, I don't want to talk about it any more. So, you know I move my house.  
 
Q. Sorry? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You know I moved my house. And, yeah, it's good.  
 
Q. Has it been a refreshing change for you? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I'm sorry. What did I just say? I can't remember.  
 
Q. I'm not asking you about your private life. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I moved because of my private life and you knew it.  
 
Q. No, actually I didn't. I'm sorry. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. All right.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT