adidas International
January 9, 2001
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First English question. 


Q.  How are you going to stay fit this year?

AMELIE MAURESMO: I hope that's the main  -- my main concern.  I mean, I hope I'm going to be very healthy for all the year.  You know, I've tried to prevent injuries this winter in practice, and we did well.  So hopefully it's going to last twelve months now. 


Q.  Are you disappointed?  You look so strong, but you've had more injuries than most other players.  Do you have any idea why this is happening?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I think I had very good preparation this winter.  I really want to play. 


Q.  I mean in the past, why have you had so many injuries?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Because I think - well, first, I have a big problem  -- well, I had a big problem with my back with two bones touching each other, so it hurts.  Now it's much better.  And I think my fibers are very fragile.  And, I mean, that's how I explain the injuries I have.  You know, I have to be very careful. 


Q.  Is this a confident start to your defense today?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah.  I mean, it's good to have one match under your belt and give you confidence I guess.  I just play match by match.  It's a very strong draw this year.  I'll do my best and try to put my game in place. 


Q.  Were you a little bit disappointed last year after your big performance in Sydney to go down to Melbourne and not quite have reproduced what you had the previous year?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, of course it was disappointing.  But, you know, it was the first time I had to handle a win in a tournament and then go into a Grand Slam.  So it was an experience I hopefully - when it happens to me again, and I hope it will - I will know better how to handle the situation.  It was new for me, so I guess I had to learn. 


Q.  What did you have to learn? That you have to stay focused?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, you just want to be happy about the victory, and you're not as focused maybe on the next event as you should be.  But I think against  -- you're happy because you have to get there.  It was the first time for me.  So next time will be better I hope. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT