TMS - FORO ITALICO
May 21, 2000
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Q. You were tired, or what happened in the first set?
AMELIE MAURESMO: I think in the first set she just played very well. She didn't make too many mistakes. She just came right into the match from the beginning. So, you know, I don't think I have to regret something today. I just did my best, and I mean you got to give her all the credit.
Q. I think you played very well, but the balls of Seles were so deep and heavy, were they difficult to play?
AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, maybe it's not the heaviness of her ball. It's just she plays -- she plays her shots very - how do you say - with a lot of speed in between, you know. She doesn't like to breathe or let you come back into the court. So it's probably what bothered me today, at least in the first set.
Q. Monica seemed to be a little bit tired at the end of the second set. Do you think you could have won in the third set?
AMELIE MAURESMO: I mean you're never going to know this, but I guess she was getting a little bit tired. It was a very tough second set, you know, with a little bit up and down from both sides. But, you know, you never know. Hopefully, I would have won, but it's too late.
Q. I mean you were not tired at all?
AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I was tired from the week, but I think I could have played a third set, yes.
Q. So what did you do in the second set or what did she change in the second set to make more of a fight?
AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I think I got used to her rhythm a little bit. I never played against her before so I really didn't know what I was going to have -- who I was going to have to play today. So, you know, by the time I found my rhythm, I think I played better in the second set.
Q. You made some mistakes at 5-all and then 6-5. Do you think it was for you a more crucial point at 5-all or 6-5?
AMELIE MAURESMO: You know, it's tough when you are a break down. You really want to win the game and break her, so you really focus on this and then maybe when you do it you have a little doubt on your service game. But I mean, as I said, I don't have too many regrets today because that's the way it is and I did my best.
Q. What are your plans now, between now and the French Open?
AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, there's not a lot of time so I think I'm going to rest a little bit for a couple of days, two or three days, then start to practice again and go to Paris.
Q. What are your thoughts about Paris after this week? Do you feel confident about your chances there?
AMELIE MAURESMO: I feel good about my game, I just hope it's going to last, and I'm going to try my best to make it last.
End of FastScripts….


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT