CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE WTA TOUR
November 17, 1999
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Q. Do you see that as a good opportunity missed? You started off so well?
AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, of course, I'm a little bit disappointed, and I think I could have won this one. But, you know, before coming here, I knew I needed to get some matches. You have to play the championship; you don't have time to get into it really slowly. So I didn't keep it up the whole -- the whole match. Yeah, a little bit disappointed. 
Q. If you could go straight back and replay that match, what would you do differently, bearing in mind that Lindsay wasn't moving as well as she usually does?
AMELIE MAURESMO: You know, I would have tried maybe to stay more into the court than, point after point, starting to back a little bit too much. In the beginning, I was really, you know, trying to keep the rhythm up, and it was working. So I guess I would have tried to be maybe more consistent on important points. 
Q. Do you have any goals for the 2000 season?
AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, of course. I'm now No. 10; so, you know, I really want to try to stay in the Top 10 next year, try to get my game more consistent for all the year, all the tournaments, all the matches I'm going to play. Really try to keep up more often than I did this year but, you know, I'm very proud of what I've done this year.
Q. Were you nervous at all out there? You doublefaulted a couple of times?
AMELIE MAURESMO: I didn't play those points really well, you know, I came up with -- bad timing. I think I got into the match on the court very relaxed and maybe that's why I started so well.
Q. How much of a break are you going to take now? How much work are you going to do before Australia?
AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I think I'm going to take a break of 10 to 15 days and then start to work again, beginning of December. 
Q. How well did you think Lindsay played?
AMELIE MAURESMO: I think that this match was a little bit of up and down on both sides. Sometimes she had good shots. Sometimes she had bad ones. It was the same for me. Not a very nice match for both of us, but I think it's very hard to play, because she's hitting the ball very hard, and on this surface, you know, you miss you make a winner. So it's up and down all the time. 
Q. Did you notice her injury; did she seem to be injured?
AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, in the game I didn't see that. I saw that she had something in her -- on her leg. I don't know exactly what it is. But during the game, no, I didn't see. I didn't feel it, at least. 
Q. How would you assess your serve tonight?
AMELIE MAURESMO: Judge it, you mean? 
Q. With the number of second serves?
AMELIE MAURESMO: Maybe I -- you know, it's difficult, again, but I think on some games in the first set I served very well. I hold my serve pretty easily, except at the end of the first set. And then trying to -- she started to make it -- make me doubt a little bit on my serve, you know, by returning well sometimes. So up and down, like my whole game today, I think. 
Q. Did you think you had a chance the third set? It seemed like it turned around so quickly on you.
AMELIE MAURESMO: No, I think I didn't take my time enough. It's tough when you're at 4-Love in the third set to try to take your time and get back into the match. But, you know, that's the way it is. 
End of FastScripts…. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT