US OPEN
September 5, 1999
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You played pretty well today, actually? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it was kind of a little bit up-and-down. I had some very good moments. I had some maybe less better ones. You know, I think she played a good match today also. Very tough, the conditions and everything. But it was for both, of course. Yeah, a bit disappointing. But I'm going to -- surely I'm going to learn lessons from this match.  
 
Q. Was it tough to have to wait so long to play your match? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it's kind of tough, of course. You don't know if you're going to get on or not, if it's going to rain again or not. But it's for both players, so I guess it's the same.  
 
Q. You both have a similar style, a lot of topspin. Is that hard to get used to or adjust to during the match? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You think we have the same kind of game?  
 
Q. Not necessarily the same kind of game, but you both hit a lot of topspin. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah.  
 
Q. Is that hard to adjust to? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No. She's not the only girl to play with a lot of topspin. You have to get used to every kind of game that you have to face. You have to adapt.  
 
Q. Have you ever been involved in a match where you were facing match points like that and it was halted? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, never. It was the first time.  
 
Q. How difficult was it with the break and everything, coming back? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You know, you don't have anything to lose anyway, so you come back on court, you're okay. That's the way it is.  
 
Q. What was it about her game that gave you so much trouble in those first three games? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I think I made a very good first game. I don't know, I had the feeling the umpire and everything, I was thinking a little bit too much of what happened in the first game in my head. I guess it took me a few games to come back in the match, I think. During this match, I didn't have really, you know, confidence in the people.  
 
Q. What did the woman in the chair tell you when you questioned that overrule that she made? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: In the first game?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I don't even remember. I don't know. I asked her, "So the machine doesn't work, so we switch it off." She said, "No, we're going to try again," something like that. I don't remember.  
 
Q. The French women are doing very well on the Tour. You have five in the Top 20, eight in the Top 40 or something like that. From your perspective, it appears that maybe the French program right now is the best in the world, girls' program. What do you think is good and what's different about it from your perspective? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, you know, as I said last time, I don't really know why it happens that there is so many French players, women, in the Top 20 or Top 40. What I know is it's not a bad thing. It's good because we all trying to be better and better every tournament, do better than the others. I can't really explain it, but I think it's good.  
 
Q. As you grew up in the Junior program, did you do anything differently in France than they do in other countries? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I don't know what they do in other countries, but I don't think so. I don't feel like I did.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT