US OPEN
September 1, 1999
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  WTA: Questions for Amelie.
 Q. You seemed to get off to a good start and then had a string of a little tough times there. What happened after that first set? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I don't know. I think, you know, I haven't played a lot of matches this last couple of months. Sometimes you're on court and you don't focus as much as you should. I think from 4-2 to 6-4, 1-Love, it's what happened. 
 Q. You're playing in your second US Open. Last year you were unseeded. This year you come in as a seeded player after an impressive year. Describe the differences, if there are any, coming in as a seeded player, playing in a larger stadium. 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, you know, I think it's a little bit different, of course. But the conditions for me coming here this year are not the best, I would say, after an injury and everything. You know, I don't think I have this much pressure that you say. It's just, you know, I'm seeded. I have a pretty good draw. You know, I can play matches, get in the tournament maybe in a better way than other player. You know, I don't feel too much pressure. 
 Q. Are you still feeling the effects of the injury? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No. The ankle is good. It's perfect. 
 Q. So you're saying you might be a little bit rusty not having played much the last few months? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah. Also I think last week in New Haven, I had a little injury with my leg. You know, it wasn't so good. Still a little bit so-so these last few days. For the moment, it's going well, so I take it. 
 Q. What's wrong with your leg? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Just, you know, a little stretch, something. Not very important. You can't really give a hundred percent. Not very important, I think. 
 Q. With Rafter injured and Sampras injured, Anna Kournikova not able to play because of injury, you're describing your own, do you think the tennis schedule right now is too grueling and it's contributing to these injuries? Do you think there's a problem with the conditioning of the athletes, their ability to hold up to such a grueling schedule? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, you know, it's a very difficult question. You do your schedule. I play only I think -- I've played only 16 tournaments this year. You know, some players play like 30 or more. You do your own schedule. If you want to play every week, you play every week. If you don't want to -- if you just want to play once a month, then you play once a month. But it's true that the schedule is very busy and that we have to play more and more matches and more tournaments. But, you know, I think you have to keep periods to just get some rest, to prepare yourself physically and everything. I think when you do your choices, then you don't have to say bad things about the circuit or anything.  
 Q. Coming off of today's victory, coming back after a first set loss, winning the next two, are you feeling good about yourself right now? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You know, it's always good to win. I think, even if you don't play well, it's good to have another win under your belt. I'm feeling good. It's true I haven't played a great match. But the most important thing for me today was to win. That's what I did. After we'll see with doubles and all the singles. I think it's going to be better and better. 
 Q. People that talk about the crowds in New York, what a place it is to play here. I would imagine playing at the French Open, for you in particular, the crowds would be interesting. Can you talk about the difference? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You know, the difference is a French player playing in France and an American player playing in the States. 
 Q. But for you to play in the States.  
 AMELIE MAURESMO: For me, you know, I think people are behind me. They're supporting me. They're nice. I mean, I didn't have any problem. I think they're good.  
 Q. Is the atmosphere here as crazy as it is for you in Paris? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, no. It's not as much crazy.  
 Q. What do you think the French women are doing so well lately?  
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's true, we are a lot in Top 100. We are five I think in Top 20. It's true, it's very good. I don't really know why, but we take it.  
 End of FastScripts….  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT