PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 27, 1998
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Why the slow start? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I got a little bit impatient. I wanted to -- I thought I could finish the point earlier. Yeah, that is it. I thought I could do better than I should. Then I got into it, finally found my rhythm and did better the second set.  
 
Q. What is the difference between playing her on clay and playing her on hard court? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Should be no difference. I mean, I tried to play same game as I played last time I played against her. As I told you in the beginning, it didn't work because I wasn't doing the right thing. But then when I got into this game, it worked. She was staying right at the baseline. She was not coming in. Me, I was coming in even more than her sometimes. So no big difference. Maybe on grass it would be different.  
 
Q. Do you feel if you won the second set that you could you would have won the match? You would -- 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I don't know if I would have won the match. But I could have won it.  
 
Q. Do you feel like you were starting to play -- seemed like the momentum had changed. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah.  
 
Q. If you at least had gotten a chance in the third set, you like your chances? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I think she was also getting tired a little bit. So, yeah, I mean, third set was anybody's match.  
 
Q. How frustrating is that? The first game of the second set goes through seven deuce points. You were right there and kind of slipped away. Was that kind of frustrating? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it was a little bit frustrating, that is true. But I think I handled it well afterwards. I was winning my service game pretty easily, I would say. No, it didn't affect me so much.  
 
Q. What about the tiebreak? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think she played two, three good points. She made two passing shots on important points. I made a doublefault. That makes the difference.  
 
Q. Since the French Open, Novotna is like -- has like a 20 and 1 record. Do you notice if she was playing with more confidence than when you last played her, perhaps? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, I think she was already playing well when -- I played her just before the French Open, she was already playing well. Of course, winning Wimbledon and getting this confidence makes probably the difference on the important points.  
 
Q. How about your game and your confidence now? Do you feel just getting better -- 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it is coming. It is getting better and mentally I am getting stronger. I know that my game is here so I just have to keep playing like this.  
 
Q. How soon or what will it take to get into that next echelon? You hear about all the teenagers, the Hingis's, the Williams, Kournikovas. It seems like you are right there. What is it going to take? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think it is going to take a few more matches at this level. Getting into the match quicker, sooner and, yeah, I mean, matches at this level, this rhythm, then I should be all right.  
 
Q. Have you had a chance to study the Open draw when your first -- I think you get Hingis the second round. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it would be third round so, --  
 
Q. Any thoughts about playing her. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it would be a good thing, but, you know, I take match by match and first I play qualifier, then we will see.  
 
Q. That would be the kind of match, though, if you got past -- got to her and got past her that could be the one that could really put you on the top? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, you never know....  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT