AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2009
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MAURESMO/E. Baltacha
  4-6, 6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How difficult were the conditions out there?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Well, it was again very difficult and quite windy. It was not so hot today, but definitely very windy. 
 Again, was some ups and downs really in the level of play today. But overall, again, on my side, satisfied that I'm going through this one. Expecting better conditions and to play some better tennis for the next match. 

 Q. Did you think early on it was going to be a tough game when she came out playing well at the start?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, she was playing pretty good, serving good. Me giving away a lot of free points until 5-2 in that first set, and then things started to change a little bit throughout the rest of the match. 
 But definitely some good shots. You could see that also she had lot of confidence after the quallies and then the first round. Yeah, as I told you last time, I really had to be careful and take things pretty seriously. 

 Q. What do you think the turning point was?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Well, at 5-2 in the first set I really started to put a little bit more in the ball and move a little bit better. I was kind of a little slow at the beginning, not having good intentions in my game. I started to serve much better and with much more power after that. 
 So for me, on my side, that was really the moment when I started to do much better. Even though she won the first set at 5-4, she won that game, but then it was much better. 

 Q. How much improvement do you think you'll need to progress through these next few rounds?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: A lot (smiling). But it depends also of the conditions, I would say. Yeah, sometimes a lot, sometimes not so much. You cannot really tell. And things can come pretty quickly. 
 I've been playing a lot of Grand Slams now, and I know that you cannot really define your game from what you can see in the first couple rounds. 
 Yeah, I'm expecting to play better and better as the tournament will go on. I'm definitely expecting a tougher match, tougher opponent next round. So I will have to step up and play some better tennis. 

 Q. You're satisfied with where you are at this point?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I'm satisfied to win. The beginning of a Grand Slam is always tricky. Sometimes you play good, sometimes it's not so great. But then it gets better. So I'm definitely hoping to get better as the tournament is going.

 Q. What are your thoughts about Azarenka?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: She's having a great beginning of the season. She beat me very easily at the end of last season indoors. I know it's going to be a tough one. She's also very confident right now. 
 But, yeah, I will definitely try to show some things out there and we'll see how it goes. 

 Q. From what you saw of Elena today, do you think she's a player with potential?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Well, she's already improved a lot I guess since a few years. How old is she? 

 Q. 25. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Well, then she, yeah, definitely needs to -- she can rely on the serve. She serves pretty well. But percentage can be a little bit better, I guess, because sometimes it's really up and down. So this she can I guess improve. Forehand also seemed to be sometimes a little bit shaky. 
 But she has a kind of a slow development, I guess. It's always good to see that it's also possible in women's tennis, because usually you see players at their best very early in their career, at around sometimes 18, 19, 20. So it's good to see these kind of possibilities. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT