U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2008
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. MAURESMO/J. Coin
6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. In the first set you were down Love-40, I think the ninth or tenth game, and you seemed to ramp up your serve a little bit. What was going on in that game?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I started pretty bad with -- no, it was in the second set. 

 Q. This was a game in the first set. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, you know, but I had a few bad points, and I guess it's -- I was struggling a little bit in the beginning of the service game, and then I really focused for Love-40. I really thought, okay, point after point I can really come back in that service game and finally take the set. 
 So I -- yeah, as I said, first serve I thought, okay, I'm going put it there and then maybe... I did two good serves that she didn't return, and then a point that she finally missed the ball. 
 So I was, yeah, a little bit more tight at this moment, but I really tried to focus point after point. 

 Q. Do you think you can get back to where you were? What are your goals? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: My goals, as I was saying yesterday, are not so much in terms of ranking. It's more in terms of being able to be in the second week or final spots in the Grand Slams. 
 That's really what I'm looking for and that's what I'm hoping I can still achieve. Because rankings -- yeah, it's better to have a better ranking than I have now, but I know I'm not going to -- probably not going to be able physically to compete for the No. 1 spot, so it's not really a big thing for me. But the main thing is definitely the big events. 

 Q. Do you think the women's field right now is as deep as it was when you were No. 1?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: As deep, like... 

 Q. Quality players. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I think it's -- more players are playing some good tennis, but we don't see a dominant player like it used to be for the last three years. I guess there's always been a player that was really dominating the game at some point, whether it was for three months or for three years or more than this. 
 Yeah, some better players right now because of physical injuries for some players, because some others are not that confidence. It's a little bit of a period that everyone is looking to each other to see what's going to happen. 
 But I definitely think that it's a matter of another few months and then another player or couple of players are going to raise to the No. 1 ranking and really stay there for a while. 

 Q. Is it true that and you Julie were coached by the same coach at different times in your career?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. 

 Q. Did it seem at all strange to be playing against someone who was so much your junior? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it's always a little bit special. Don't really know how things are going to be on the court. 
 But strange thing was I don't know her, basically. Yeah, she's younger and we grew up in the same area and everything. But our roads never crossed really except when maybe she was 12 or 14 or whatever. 
 So since then, yeah. So it was strange to have some similarities but not knowing each other. And on the game, I didn't really know what to expect because never -- just I saw a couple of games on TV against Ivanovic and that was it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT