U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2008
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. MAURESMO/K. Kanepi  
2-6, 6-4, 6-0  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Congratulations on a nice win. Particularly strong in the third set. You have been playing so well in the tournaments leading up to the US Open on hard courts. Do you feel right now the way you're playing that you're getting back into top form? Are you happy with the way you're playing?  
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: It's on the way. It's not quite there yet. Taking the example of the first set that I played today. But I'm enjoying myself more on the court. I'm having a little bit more adrenaline out there. So it's a good start for something better. As it showed in the second and third set today.   
 So I had pretty good tournament last week in New Haven the way I played. And really again, really enjoying myself. So it's some positive things. But yeah, the level is better, but it's not quite where I would love it for now. But I would say it's on the way I hope.  
  
  Q. While you were on court there was a major upset.   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I was out already.  
  
  Q. So you did see it?  
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I saw the last couple games. You're talking about center court, right?   
  
  Q. Julie grew up at your club and yet you didn't quite know each other.   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Not my club, but yeah, my region.   
  
  Q. She says she played at the same club. Where was she in relation to you and you...  
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I never really know her because I left and went to the Federation when I was 11. So I never really knew her and spend time practicing with her and being around because I think we are one or two years different. Okay, four, so it's even more. So yeah, you see, I never really spend some time with her. But, yeah, I know she's from the region.  
  
  Q. You will be seeing her up close.   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: That's definitely going to be the case.  
  
  Q. What were you thinking as you saw that upset brewing?  
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I was interested first to see how she plays, because I haven't -- I've never seen her play. Also didn't think it was going to be such an easy match for Ivanovic because I saw her first match and I could see that the confidence was not quite there.   
 So, yeah, I was -- yeah, it's a surprise but I was not surprised like really big one.   
  
  Q. You didn't see Julie in the locker room?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I did.  
  
  Q. What did you say to her?  
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Congratulations, of course, yeah.   
  
  Q. Your play has been getting better as the summer has progressed. What are the small technical aspects in your game that are getting better?  
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: It's not really technical. More of the intention and the way of playing and wanting to be more aggressive, take more opportunities to come in and put some pressure on the opponent.   
 That's also physically I was feeling much better after the Cincinnati tournament. I guess I needed some time to adjust a little bit to playing matches again because I hadn't played for a month or month and a half at the time. So I'm just feeling better in all these areas now in the game. Yeah, obviously it's going to be still good.  
  
  Q. The No. 1 world ranking has changed I think five times this year on the women's side among four different women, one of whom is now retired. Does that say something about the parity in the women's game?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: It says probably a little bit about the depth, but it says also about the fact that, yes, probably since Justine retired and Maria is injured that there is not such a domination like it used to be throughout the years.   
 So it's -- yeah, there is no one that you really feel is really comfortable out there and playing strong game and being really consistent throughout the match or tournament and a year. So it's -- yeah, it's opportunities for other players like you've seen today, like to get to the highest level and put up some big upsets and play some good matches.  
  
  Q. Having been No. 1 yourself, is there still in you a burning desire to get back to that point?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: It's not -- to be No. 1 you have to play a lot. You definitely have to have a big -- quite busy schedule unless you win every tournament that you enter.   
 But it's, to me, I don't think it is realistic now to say this, considering the fact that I've been struggling all year with injuries before each Grand Slam, except this one, I've had injuries. So it's more realistic for me to say that I will aim for few tournaments and make sure that I try to be prepared for those tournaments.  
  
  Q. Do you see this as a tournament now? The way things have transpired today --  
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I will take any opportunity that I will have. That's definitely going to be the case. Whether it's going to be a great tournament, whether it's going to be a good one, whether it's -- might be disappointed, we'll see.   
 But definitely we'll play match after match.  
  
  Q. Did you savor the opportunities at this stage of you're career. The opportunity to win Grand Slam tournaments more now than when you were a young women?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it's very different, because the way I enter these tournaments now is completely different. I used to be favorite and now I'm more of really not knowing what's going to happen and how my game is going to be.   
 So it's -- I don't know if I savor it more. It's more surprising probably.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT