PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 22, 2008
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. CHAKVETADZE/A. Mauresmo
6-3, 3-6, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What was the difference between the way you played yesterday and the way you played tonight?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I guess I ran a little bit out of gas out there after last week and the few matches I played this week. 
 I started slow on the legs, then got a little bit better towards the end of the first set. She actually put me back in I think in the second set, giving away a few points and even games. 
 But, yeah, I guess that's basically what I have to say tonight, is just that probably the legs were not moving so well. For me, it's important to move around pretty well, to be able to adjust good and defend also good. 
 Yeah, I would have loved to play the last match tomorrow. But it's a good tournament. I'm pretty satisfied about the week, about the way I played throughout the week. Tonight was a little bit tough to produce some good level of tennis with not being good enough physically. 
 But I will stay on what I did in the first three matches. 

 Q. Do you think you found something this week?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I think so. I think I got a little bit of confidence back, really showing that I can definitely play this type of game against great players. So I'm happy about that. 

 Q. Were you worried that it wasn't going to come back?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I was always asking myself for a while, especially at the end of last year, if I was gonna be able to physically, mentally, and also feeling the ball the way I was before. It was always a concern for me. So I'm happy that this week I found that again. 

 Q. Do you think she has what it takes to be No. 1 and stay No. 1 for a little while? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: We've seen mentally today that she went down a little bit in that second set, so I guess she will have to raise these moments to really be able to do so. The serve was also a few double-faults there. 
 But I guess it's very hard to say. It's the way she's gonna evolve and the way she's gonna grow up a little bit in her game and mentally. That's always very difficult to know if she's gonna be able to put things together and really focus the way she has to to get to that No. 1 spot. 
 But it's gonna be hard, yeah. 

 Q. You said you sort of found your game again this week. You played with a lot of emotion last night, did a little dance after you won. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: A dance? 

 Q. Little fist kind of thing. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I don't dance like this (laughter). 

 Q. You seemed pretty happy. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I wanted to find this adrenaline, these emotions again. That's also what I was missing. I was not able to find these for the last month or so. And it was pretty frustrating also to be on the court and a little bit like not really finding joy and happiness and motivation. 
 So everything came together a little bit this week. And definitely this part of my game, when I was at my best level, I was definitely showing and pumping myself up. So it came back pretty good this week. 

 Q. Can you describe how you feel physically going into the Open?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, tired for now after this match. But I have couple days to, you know, get some massage work, recuperation, and be ready for Monday or Tuesday. I have no idea when I play yet. But I'm confident these couple days are going to be good. 

 Q. So what are your expectations now for the US Open?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: We'll take it as it comes match after match. But definitely really trying to stay on what I showed this week in terms of how to play. Yeah, anything can happen after that. I don't want to get out on the court in New York and thinking that I did not play what I had to and that I did not show what I was supposed to. 
 So that's basically gonna be my main goal. 

 Q. It's difficult when you're capable of winning Grand Slam tournaments, going into a Grand Slam not knowing what's going to happen. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah. But, you know, when I won the two Grand Slams, I almost came the same way, really not knowing what would happen. Yeah, I thought that I was playing well, but I was really not sure of what was gonna happen. 
 It was always for me a good way to take it match after match, not to put myself ahead in the tournament, whatever my level is. 

 Q. You'll open up against Dechy in the US Open. You lost to her recently. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Last week. 

 Q. How will you approach that differently?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I really thought I played a very poor match last week. So hopefully I'll be able to, as I just said, show a different face out there on the court and different motivation, different enjoyment, different happiness, different way of playing. I was really staying back and not doing much. 
 Try to really do a little bit more. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT