PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 21, 2008
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. MAURESMO/A. Szavay
6-4, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Must be happy with the way you're playing out there. Seems like you're getting better with each match. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Looks like it. Definitely very happy about this one. Even better than yesterday. Yesterday was better than the day before. So definitely needed these few matches to, yeah, finally get back I would say on the right track in terms of my game, knowing what to do, completely be aware that I should be aggressive, that it is my game, and I should not try to do anything else than this. 
 I thought I mixed up pretty well tonight and was really solid, not giving her any -- not any, but not many free points and making her work for every point, then also coming in and really letting her guess a lot. So just pretty happy. 

 Q. Was it very frustrating when she saved the two match points?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I got a little bit tight in that moment. I guess I need to get used to, yeah, being back again in these kind of situation. But then after losing that game I really regroup very well, played a good service game, then put a lot of pressure on her service game, and really hold tight to try to learn from the couple games ago and do much better that time. 

 Q. You've played Chakvetadze a few times before. What are your thoughts on playing her?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Well, she's definitely one of the young ones coming up. Very talented. She's playing a little bit differently from the other young girls, I would say, that are very powerful from both sides. She's capable of doing different things, playing a little bit soft and then suddenly change the pace, being able also to put a little bit of spin on both sides. 
 So it's gonna be probably a little bit of different match than tonight. But just really try to focus, again, on my game and see how it goes. 

 Q. You lost the last time you played her. What's the difference now?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Well, it was at the beginning of the year in Paris. I was definitely looking for my confidence again. I feel that I'm playing much better now. 
 But, you know, she's a tough player. It's gonna be a tough one. 

 Q. You mentioned earlier in the week serving had been a problem for you. You seem to have corrected that. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: On the serve? Yes, definitely. 

 Q. What do you attribute that to?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: We talked a little bit after the first match with my coach and tried to really work on the toss, the intensity, the fact to go for the ball. Yeah, we talked about it. Didn't have really much time to work on it as I spent a lot of time in the match. But just talking about it and knowing what's wrong technically, I could adjust that in the match. So hopefully it's going to hold. 

 Q. A lot of younger players making a mark this year. Where do you put Agnes in that group?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: She's playing good. It's the first time I was playing against her. I would say she's definitely capable of, yeah, playing some great tennis. Still giving a point here and there, giving away a little bit sometimes. And serve is maybe not so consistent. A little bit up and down. 
 But, no, definitely some good shots. Good hitting, good shots. Capable of great volley. That's also a little bit rare. 

 Q. Did she surprise you by how much she came into the net?
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: How much she came and how she volleyed. The volley surprised me, yes. And the fact that she puts topspin also, especially on the forehand side, is not usual. So a little bit different. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT