WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2008
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. WILLIAMS/A. Mauresmo  
6-7, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Amélie Mauresmo for you. Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How much did the thigh injury come into play today?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Not a lot in the first set, I thought, even though sometimes I was maybe not a hundred percent on the movement.   
 But overall, I thought some good moments and some good tennis out there. Then second set I really started to feel it on the set point actually, last point of the tiebreak. I'm not going to talk about the second set (smiling).   
  
  Q. I don't know if you saw the result that just came up, but Ivanovic just went out. We have two of the top three seeds falling to players outside the top hundred. Are you sensing this depth, this improved depth? What do you make of this?  
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: We can feel it for a while now. It's still improving. Yeah, all the players are capable of beating, as you said, top players.   
 It's something that maybe in the past we wouldn't have seen much, but I would say since two, three years it's really starting to be this way. I guess it's gonna be even more and more in the future.   
  
  Q. Do you have an explanation? Is it training? Is it globalization?  
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Well, it's training. It's girls are preparing better and better and finding new maybe things to work on.   
 Yeah, I guess we're probably kind of following the men's development in the tennis.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about your own future based on your results here?  
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: It's gonna be -- first of all, I will see how the leg is, and then I'll really see what's going to happen, how long I will have to take care of this before I can practice again, physically on the tennis.   
 The schedule for now will remain the same. But, yeah, we'll see what happens. I will do a few exams. But, yeah, second part of the season is staying on what I was planning to do.   
  
  Q. Do you think you'll be back here next year?  
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Oh, yeah (smiling). Yeah, I think so.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT