AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2008
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  What are your comments on that? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  She played better than me today and took the chances that she got.  That's my comment. 

 Q.  Do you feel you came up anywhere short in your own game? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Well, by her taking the opportunities.  I definitely thought I had some in the second and third set, but wasn't able to take those tonight. 
 Yeah, that's the area of the game I should have done better and been more aggressive in these moments.  That's where I'm a little bit frustrated and disappointed. 

 Q.  How much tonight was the crowd a factor? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No, I don't really think it made a big difference - on my side.  Maybe it made a difference on her side.  Didn't affect me that much. 

 Q.  What are your thoughts on her as a player? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Well, she can hit some great shots, and definitely hitting well on both sides from the baseline.  Yeah, again, she played very similar that I saw her play against Patty a couple days ago. 
 Yeah, sometimes able to put a little bit of spin on the forehand and sometimes flatten, hit out when she wants to come in or be more aggressive.  Yeah, can do that pretty well. 

 Q.  There were a number of service breaks in the second and third set.  Was that because the roof is closed?  Does the roof make any difference? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No, I don't think so. 

 Q.  Although you didn't win the match, there was a lot of good shot-making from you.  Do you feel your game is getting back to where you want it to be? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Not enough.  Definitely not enough.  You know, even though I would have -- maybe the match went a different way, I would still tell you probably the same thing:  Great beginning of the match, but then struggle.  Some ups and downs throughout the second and third sets. 
 So, yeah, not satisfying enough. 

 Q.  Were nerves a factor for you?  You had a few double-faults. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, confidence and really not keeping in mind the aggressivity that I should have, the fact that I should -- as I was doing very well in the beginning, mixing up some serve and volley, stay back.  That works pretty well usually on my serve, but forgot a little bit about that second and third set. 

 Q.  She now plays I think Jelena Jankovic.  How do you see that game unfolding?  Do you think she can beat Jelena? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Well, it's always very open.  In this sport, anything can happen.  I would still give Jelena as a favorite for the next match.  Also because she had -- Casey had tonight and the last match pretty difficult physically I think, so maybe will make a difference at some point. 
 Jelena having also some tough matches but being very strong physically. 

 Q.  There's been criticism about Casey in the past about her fitness, the way she moved.  Tonight she obviously did that very well. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah. 

 Q.  She's obviously improving. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, she probably does.  I mean, again, I've never seen her play before this year and never played against her before this match.  So I can't really tell how much she improved. 

 Q.  I noticed 10 double-faults.  Is this particularly where you lost the game tonight? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Not only.  I'm sure you have other statistics on unforced errors and things like that that are pretty high. 

 Q.  I saw a lot of double-faults happened in the tough moments of the game. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, well, it's definitely not the best thing to do in key moments.  Yeah, that's for sure. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT