WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2007
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Amélie. 

 Q.  Were you surprised when you found yourself with breakpoint against you in the first game? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No.  "Surprised" I don't think is the right word, you know, to describe how I was feeling.  You know, I thought that -- I don't know.  I didn't think.  It was the first game.  You just try to get your rhythm in.  You just try to really focus on each point you have to play. 
 I guess it was probably good that I made this game because then, you know, I was really into the match, then was able right after to have my first break. 
 But, no, nothing special about that game. 

 Q.  It wasn't nerves or anything then? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No, I don't think so. 

 Q.  Are you happier now that you can play on the grass courts at Wimbledon rather than at the French Open in front of your home crowd? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Well, definitely feels better in terms of the way I play here and the way I feel on that court.  It's also great to be back as the defending champion here. 
 Yeah, I mean, I feel good.  This year is a little bit different 'cause really I didn't feel that well at the French Open, so it definitely makes it better here this year for me. 
 But, yeah, I'm just looking forward every year and trying to feel the same in Paris, which is not so easy. 

 Q.  Do you feel more pressure here as the defending champion or more pressure at the French Open? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No, I don't know really.  I don't feel that way.  I feel that I'm enjoying it, that it's maybe a little extra tension before you walk on the court. 
 But then during the game and during the match, it really feels good. 

 Q.  Is your thigh giving you any problems? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  It has given me some problems the last few weeks, so I prefer just to make sure that it's not going to get any worse or whatever, to support it.  It's more of a prevention thing and support really. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT