INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 14, 2007
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  We'll start with your long story with Schiavone, or possible story with rematch with Schiavone.   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Well, I think I play tomorrow, right?  So maybe in the schedule is good I have some time to look a little bit at the match tomorrow.   
 But it's not so much about who I'm going to play against.  I think it's more how I feel and how I'm going to do on the court.  I make sure that I do my best and that I'm moving the best I can and playing the best tennis I can, and really I'm looking forward to have some matches and it's -- whether it's Stosur or Schiavone it's not going to go an easy one anyway.  Looking forward to that.   
  
  Q.  How far behind do you feel you are in your clay preparation?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I don't know.  No, I don't know.  It's always very tough to really see where you are, and things can change very quickly and can evolve very quickly.  I'm not thinking in terms of how behind or how ahead with what I've had in the last few months I should be.   
 I'm just thinking day after day and practice after practice trying to get the rhythm and the momentum going back again.   
  
  Q.  Do you prefer to play first day or you're okay with kind of table with the bye?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Well, I take it as it comes.  Of course when you want to play more matches you would like maybe to start before.  But I'm also happy to have a little bit more time to practice.   
 I play the doubles today, so that kind of get you into the rhythm of the tournament.  So, no I'm just happy the way it is.   
  
  Q.  What do you make of someone winning 77 consecutive matches on clay?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  It's ridiculous, especially when you have a three hour and 40 minutes --   
  
  Q.  Semifinal?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, semifinal and then you come out the next day and just -- I haven't seen the match, but looking at the score is a joke.  So what can you say?  It's extraordinary, and everybody is aware of that I think.   
  
  Q.  Do you think it could be possible in women's, a record like this?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  We don't have -- I don't think we have a player that is more specific to clay or grass or whatever.  I think it's more a men's thing to have like the Spanish or the Argentines to be more specific, at least on clay.  I don't see any women today capable of doing that.   
  
  Q.  What needs to be especially right about your game to be fluent, to play the way you want to play on clay?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Probably the rhythm of the matches and -- that's what I always try to get in the practice, because the way you moving on the tennis court is very specific and completely different from anything you can do of the court.   
 So getting used to react quickly and really the rhythm part of the motions for me is quite important.  Of course, the serve is also going to be important to really try to improve in the next few weeks because I haven't been able to really work on that.  But overall I think have a good vision and a good rhythm of the game back.   
  
  Q.  Serena didn't put your serve between the favorites in Roland Garros.  What do you think about this?  And what about the No. 1 in the world inside yourself?  You think you have the same level as Justine?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  For now I'm far from my best level, so definitely No. 1 ranking is not something I have in my mind for the moment.  As I said earlier, I think day by day is more something I'm focusing on and really try to do as much practice as I can, as much matches as I can.   
 That's my main concern for now.  So for the rest it's really not something I'm considering important right now.   
  
  Q.  Could you tell us what difference it's made to you to be Wimbledon champion for the last nine, ten, eleven months?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  It's just make may proud.  Everywhere you go and every tournament you play you are presented on the court right before a match to be Wimbledon champion.  Yeah, just makes me proud and happy every time I hear it.   
 I'm not -- yeah, I'm just enjoying it every moment.   
  
  Q.  Do you go back and watch the video at all?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No.  I watched the last game like a few days after the championship, but then I'm not watching it every day of my life.   
  
  Q.  (From Italian) Two questions. :  First question is what about the French elections, for whom did you vote?  Second question about Laura Manadou, who for love and sports decides to train in Italy?  What do you think?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  We'll start with the first question.  For a few months people ask me who I'm going to vote or now who I voted for and I chose not to be public about what I decided.   
 You know, I was -- I followed everything and I was really interested about what happened, but I just chose not to be public about that.   
 And about Manadou, what can I say?  I don't know the story, I think.  Yeah, I think it's her choice, and I'm sure you're very happy that she's in Italy.  I just hope for her that she's, you know, she's going to find a good atmosphere to practice and good people around her for her to keep going in her unbelievable career.   
 That's basically the only thing I have to say.  The rest is really not something I can judge or have an opinion on.   
  
  Q.  Maybe someone like you, which is sensible and very direct, could do the same choice for love.  I mean, maybe you could do something like that.   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I think she explain it quite well.  Yes, she want to be closer to her boyfriend, but I think a page has turned on her practice life with her ex-coach.  So I think she really thought about it, and I don't think --   
  
  Q.  The real question is is love is the first thing, or not?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I thought after ten years I was out of that, but...   
 When you are twenty, probably.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT