AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2007
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English first.   
  
  Q.  Amélie how disappointed are you now?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  What?   
  
  Q.  How disappointed are you now after some hours?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Well, the disappointment is here.  I'm just, you know, trying to analyze a little bit, you know, the way I played not only today but also throughout the tournament.  I didn't really feel that I was really getting too into the tournament just the way I wish I would.   
 But, yeah, disappointed.  What else can you say.   
  
  Q.  Did her aggressiveness surprise you at all?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Well, you I knew that because we talked with my coach a little bit before, even though I never seen her play.  He saw her play a couple times.  So I knew that she has this type of game.  You know, being aggressive, taking the opportunities, and she actually made a very good match with not too many unforced errors.   
  
  Q.  In Sydney you spoke about some parts of your game that you weren't really happy with, and I think one was shot selection.   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Was that present today and also the previous matches?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah.  Well, not only the shot selection, but also the deepness of my shots.  And really I was not effective enough on every shot I was playing to that hope I would have some opportunities to get in, to hope that I would have some opportunities to really take control of the point and of the match.  Even though I was up at the beginning, I really didn't think I was playing that great.   
  
  Q.  Once you lost your game, you didn't seem able to get it back.   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  You mean --   
  
  Q.  Once you lost momentum and you weren't playing confidently, it didn't return at any stage during the rest of the match?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No.  There was not a moment after when I could feel that it was coming back or I could feel that, you know, my shots were coming back.  It was so frustrating.   
  
  Q.  Was there a time in the game when -- you're 4-1 up.  Did you -- was there a danger that you were closing there or --   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No, never.   
  
  Q.  Okay.   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Because as I said, I didn't feel in that moment that I was playing great, you know.  I was being careful.   
  
  Q.  What does this do your confidence?  Does it knock it at all?  Are you used to it after so many years an tour?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah.  I'm not completely down or whatever.  I'm just disappointed.  As I said, it's always disappointing to go out of any tournament, even more in a Grand Slam.  But I am going to go back on the court, go back to work, and that's obviously what I need.   
  
  Q.  Is it like kind an a Czech complex?  Like you lost to another Czech girl at Roland Garros.   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  We'll see.   
  
  Q.  Is it more difficult to defend a Grand Slam title than to try to win it the first time?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No, I don't think so.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT