AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2007
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.   
  
  Q.  Can it get any better for you?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yes, actually it could.  No, I have mixed feelings about today's match.  I really started not the way I wanted to, and definitely making way too many unforced errors.   
 You know, it happens.  I was able throughout the end of the first set and then the second set to really find a little bit more of my rhythm, especially on the forehand side.   
 I'm really looking forward to doubles tomorrow and then the next singles match.   
  
  Q.  Ideally, at this time in the tournament, it's better to have some improvement left.   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  For sure, no.  But I'm not worried or whatever.  I'm just telling you things the way they are.  You know, I'm not stressed out about that or whatever.  I'm just telling you the way I feel, and what's left to improve.   
  
  Q.  Can you draw any parallels with last year?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No (laughter).  I don't like to do that.   
  
  Q.  As you get closer and closer to the opportunity to defend, when does it start to come into your mind in percentage terms?  Do you think about it 5%, 10%?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  It's really I think a little bit too early to really talk about that.  I guess there's still a long way to go.  I do focus on each match, each day actually, to really improve and get the feelings on the court right.   
 It's too early, I think.   
  
  Q.  But you are dispatching opponents pretty quickly and pretty well.   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, so far it's been going along well for me.  Hopefully it's going to keep going like this.  It's obviously going to get tougher and tougher as the tournament goes on.  As I said, I'm really looking forward to be able to play better and better.   
  
  Q.  You've defended quite a few titles.  Does it feel different to come in and defend a Grand Slam title?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No, not to me.  At least not for the moment.  I really feel that I'm dealing with this tournament just the way I do with every Grand Slam, every tournament I play.   
 No difference for the moment.   
  
  Q.  Are you doing the same things as you did last year?  Are you staying in the same hotel, using the same restaurants?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, yeah.  Well, same restaurants maybe not.  We stay at the same place, yeah.  We like the area.   
  
  Q.  Same sort of routine?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah.  But that's really -- we have our routine.  We know all the different cities in the world now, where we go, where we have to play tournaments.  We basically, every time we do, yeah, we kind of have the same routine every time.   
  
  Q.  In Melbourne, what does your routine include?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  As you mentioned, a few restaurants.  I didn't go to my favorite French one yet, but I'm going to go soon.  Yeah, we are on Chapel and Toorak Road in the South Yarra area.  Just really stay in that area, play cards with the other French guys, have some good time at night for dinner.  That's about it.  I'm pretty busy with singles and doubles here.   
  
  Q.  Is the French food up to standard?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, it's not bad (laughter).   
  
  Q.  What about tonight's game?  I think they're putting it live into France, as well, the men.   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Probably, yeah.  We've been talking about these two guys for quite a long time in France.  I really think it's about time for them to really show what they're capable of.  It's a great opportunity for both of them.   
 Gaël already did a little earlier on center court, a night match.  He just loves that.  I was not surprised the way he really reacted to that match.  Really they have both the opportunity to go further in a Grand Slam.  I think really both of them want to take that chance.   
  
  Q.  Who will you be supporting?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I'm not going to support any of these two guys.  They're really different, different characters, different way of playing.  But, no, no favorite for tonight.   
  
  Q.  Do you have any theory on why players don't jump over the net any more?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No (laughter).  I'm sorry.  Because we can stop better than they used to (smiling).   
  
  Q.  After they win a match, they used to jump over the net.  Remember?   
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Because we're too tired (smiling).  No, I don't know.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT