AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2007
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Looking forward, how was tonight's match?  Could you sum it up? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Really I felt that I think it was much better than the first match, and really getting to find my rhythm a little bit more tonight and serve was much better.  Different areas of the game that were really much better. 
 I felt I was moving also pretty well tonight and very serious in what I was doing.  You know, I felt pretty good out there tonight.  It was good. 

 Q.  Can you take us through that Hawk Eye line call that amazed everyone? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  You saw it just like me.  Yeah, I forgot about that, actually, right now.  But that was very special, very strange.  Really, yeah, the image was very clear that there was a space between the impact and the line, but it stayed in. 
 I'll have to check on that. 

 Q.  Will you follow it up?  It's something that -- 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, I have to.  I have to ask the question.  I mean, maybe something was wrong or not well.  I don't know.  I don't know really.  It was very funny.  Everybody could see, but what can we do?  It's the machine. 

 Q.  There seems to be two different views at the moment.  Andy Roddick was saying, Look, it's great.  It gets the crowd involved, the Hawk Eye thing.  Roger Federer was saying he doesn't think it's so good.  He described it as nonsense. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I think it's good.  I personally think it's good.  It's entertaining.  It's also good for us and the umpires.  I still think that except in that case it makes our mind just be relaxed and sure about the decision. 
 I still think it's good, but this experience was a little bit strange tonight. 

 Q.  Something you've done a hundred times, but when you've got a night match, how do you stop from getting bored or tired during the day? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I watch some episodes of Prison Break (laughter), I have a little bit of physical training, a warm up, I eat, I phone.  No sleep.  I don't like to sleep.  I watch some tennis, a little bit. 

 Q.  Is it more stressful waiting all day to play a match? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, you probably have -- yeah, more time to think about it, but I thought it was okay today and I held it well just the way I do probably every time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT