MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 10, 2007
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 AMELIE MAURESMO:  No, I'm just disappointed about the way I feel, and I think I feel there is a lot of work to do in my game and physically, and so that's more this part that I'm concerned about than really the fact that I'm out of the tournament.  I would have loved, of course, to play one or two more matches, but, you know, still some work to do. 

 Q.  Are you feeling sluggish?  When you say movement, are you slow around the court or not seeing the ball as well as you want? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  I think I still need to work on the quickness around the court and reaction.  Yeah, it's the final part, the final details, which at the end of the day are not details anymore but are very important.  Still things to work on. 

 Q.  Does it knock your confidence a little for next week? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  No, I think I have a few more days to get ready.  I know it's not big, but it's important, so it makes a big difference in my game, at least. 

 Q.  There's been a lot of withdrawals from this tournament, and Roger Federer today was saying that he would like to see the Australian move back in the calendar.  What are your thoughts on that?  I know it's an old chestnut, but -- 
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  It seems like we've been talking about that for years, at the same time we were talking about shortening the season.  Since I'm on the Tour, I think people, players especially, talk about that.  It's obviously -- it would make the off-season, you know, the break a little longer, and I think everybody would appreciate that.  That's definitely one question, but it doesn't seem to be the concern of the organisation here. 

 Q.  What did you think of Jelena's performance today? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  You know, she's a good player, great player.  She plays well, moves well and has confidence in the past few months I would say.  She played some good tennis. 

 Q.  I just wanted to ask, your schedule now, you'll go to Melbourne tomorrow or stay here and practise, or what will you do? 
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  I don't know.  I think for sure tomorrow we're going to be here, maybe leaving tomorrow night or Friday afternoon. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT