US OPEN
September 8, 2006
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. Q. Was it lack of fatigue combined with concentration today?AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, it's a little bit of everything. The focus. Maybe have a little bit of good thinking and the right thinking tactically on the court today. Yeah, maybe a little bit of fatigue also. But, you know, all the credit to her. She played a good match. I didn't play the way I wanted to today. Even when I win the second set, I don't really feel like things are going the way I want to. But that's the way it is. Conditions were not so good today, as well. She handled them much better than I did. That's about it. Q. Did she do anything different today than she's done the other four times you've met with her? AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Well, I think she maybe put maybe do less unforced errors. I did the unforced errors today. I think that's obviously what made the difference, and look the scoreboard so tough. But, again, I think she handled the conditions much better than I did today. Q. You won the second set, you jumped up in the air. Did you have the sense you said you didn't feel like things were going your way. AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I think it was, you know, coming and that things were getting better obviously than the first set. But I still didn't felt that I was really taking control. You know, as I was saying, maybe I am 30 Love up on my first service game in the third set, maybe if I make this one, then things might look a little different in the third set. But I think, yeah, I didn't feel very well throughout the match, and it showed. Q. Was there anything physically wrong with you today? AMÉLIE MAURESMO: No, no, no. I just, you know, was probably maybe a little tired. But nothing specific. Q. Jelena said earlier that you recommended your physiotherapist to her, and she thought that a lot of other players probably wouldn't have done that. AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I don't want to comment on that (smiling). Q. When you were down 2 Love in the third set, did you feel at that point that really the ship had sailed, it would be almost impossible to come back with Sharapova?AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I think I really thought to myself then it's over at 5 Love. Till then, I always thought it was gonna be maybe possible to come back. Q. How do you think about your year now, your Grand Slam year, that is? AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Useless (smiling). No, I think I'm just very proud of what I did this year. I think it's been some great moments for me, and really things have been going unbelievably well for me. I'm just, as I said before coming here, you know, I just enjoy that. I wouldn't have maybe expected this kind of year before the beginning of the season, so it makes me proud. Of course now it's disappointing, but, you know, if you put things a little bit into perspective, it's just amazing. Q. A lot of players talk about Maria's shrieking. The crowd was laughing a little bit when it got pretty loud today. Are you able to tune that out?AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, really, I mean, that's what I said a couple days ago. When I play against her, I think it's more you hear it much more when you watch the match than when you play against. I mean, I just totally don't pay attention to that. Q. How do you see the final? AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Well, it's a tough one. I think it's I wouldn't I don't really have a favorite. Maybe Maria just a little bit because Justine looked a little bit tired maybe at the end of her match. But it's gonna be a close one.Q. Will you watch? AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Two o'clock in the morning in France, I'm not sure (smiling). Or I will be at the airport. FastScripts by ASAP Sports...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT