US OPEN
August 31, 2006
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  Q. Of all the matches you've played in your life, what's the best you've ever played on the court where just everything seemed to be working? One or two matches like that, the best you ever felt?AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Couple examples?  Q. Yeah. AMÉLIE MAURESMO: That's tough (smiling). Probably I'd say first set against Myskina in Wimbledon this year; couldn't miss. I have memories for me that's good. The final of the championship probably. Q. Those were better than Australia, the first set against Henin down there?AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, this one was good, too. Yeah, I have a few good examples. It's tough right now just like this (snapping) to remind of all these matches.  Q. Can you give us a few general thoughts about how the match went today. AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Well, I think it was pretty intense match, you know. On both sides I think pretty good on the serve, you know, on the serve. On my side I think few errors, you know, here and there in the first set, and then was really starting to get my rhythm in the second set. You know, it's one of these it's good to have these kind of matches, I think, for me, especially not having played too much in the summer. Good intensity, good fight. Really getting into the rhythm of a match, of a competition, and of a really good fight. So I'm just very happy, very satisfied. As I said, few things that I really need to work on in terms of, you know, getting to avoid these little unforced errors I'm doing here and there that can make a big difference at the end of the day. But was really able today to be strong enough to close it out in the first set in two sets, sorry. Q. A lot of the women's matches today were incredibly one sided. AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Especially on my court. I watched Svetlana start and then Justine and then Maria. Mine was the tightest one. And this one is one sided, too, is it 5 2? Not the one we thought it was, but... Q. Any reason why you think that should be? AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Well... Q. Just so many one sided matches today? AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Well, it seems that for the moment, you know, the seeds are, like Justine, like Kuznetsova, like also Davenport earlier today, they're capable of really playing their best level. And when this happens against maybe a girl that, you know, is not playing so good, then it makes a huge difference. FastScripts by ASAP Sports... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT