US OPEN
August 26, 2006
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Amélie, please. 
 
 Q.  Now that you've won Grand Slam tournaments, do you find that more is expected of you within the game as the No. 1 player? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Well, I don't really feel the pressure of entering a tournament as the No. 1 player in the world.  Really, I've been asked this question for a few weeks now, and I don't really feel that -- it's a little bit of the contrary, I would say.  Now I've really proved myself that I can do great.  Much more relaxed I have to say now. 
 
 Q.  How do you feel about your draw?  Is there anyone in particular you're preparing for? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Well, I haven't looked at my half of the draw, to be honest.  I know I play a qualifier in the first round.  I don't even know if this is made yet or... 
 
 Q.  How about playing Sharapova potentially? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Well, yeah, I mean, I guess we will play in the semis if we play probably?  So it's still a long way to go.  No, it's still a long way to go.  I think it's, you know -- every time I enter these kind of tournaments, I feel that every match is, you know, gonna be a tough one.  It's really, you know, you shouldn't underestimate any of the opponents you're gonna play. 
 I remember at the French Open we were supposed to play also in the semis and we both didn't get to the semis, so I'm just really concerned about really taking things after another. 
 
 Q.  Is it more enjoyable preparing for Grand Slams? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, yeah, because I felt -- I kind of felt really the pressure of having to win one in the past.  So now it's probably more relaxing for me thinking, yeah, I can do it and I want to do the best I can in this tournament.  But it's also not -- it can happen to lose, but I would probably take it differently now than I used to take it in the past. 
 So, yeah, very different. 
 
 Q.  How do you feel about HawkEye? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  It's good.  I think it's exciting.  We had the opportunity to try it in Miami, also last week.  I think it's good for the game.  I think it's good for the crowd also to get involved a little bit to see what's going on, to have the review on the big screen. 
 I think it's just if you don't overuse it, I think it's great.  Just really use it at the right timing.  I like it. 

 End of FastScripts... 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT