WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2006
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  As you know, I don't have too much time to talk to you because France is playing right now. 

 Q.  Were you in a hurry today because of the schedule? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I was (smiling). 
 No, no, I have priorities still in my schedule.  Of course, the tennis came first today.  I was pretty satisfied about the way I played this match, about the way I handled the wait also, because it was a pretty long day today. 

 Q.  What did you do for most of the day? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Nothing really special.  I just had a late lunch, and then after my practice.  You know, just stayed in the locker room, you know, chat a little bit with some players, and then wait.  You know, there's nothing much you can do. 

 Q.  Did you feel this was your toughest test yet?  It didn't look like it. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No, I think it was very different.  The last match was against a big serve player.  Then today was a little bit different.  She was using the slice a little bit more so that makes it sometimes tough to find the right balance.  But, no, I think the next one is going to be a big test. 

 Q.  That's Ivanovic. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, exactly. 

 Q.  You played her before? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I played her a few times already.  You know, she's one of the newcomer on the tour.  She hits the ball pretty hard on both sides, serve very well also.  I mean, I haven't seen how she plays here on grass.  I'm sure she uses a lot of power also. 
 So, yeah, expecting a tough one. 

 Q.  Are you comfortable being the No. 1 seed? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Very comfortable (laughter).  It is, yeah. 

 Q.  You don't find it adds extra pressure? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No, not at all really.  I'm just very proud of that. 

 Q.  Are you quite comfortable in general at Wimbledon these days? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I've always been very comfortable here.  Not only this year but also the last few years I've been playing here.  It's always a great atmosphere, as I always say.  On these courts, off the court also, we rent a house, it's very different from what we live in the other tournaments. 
 Yeah, it makes it very nice for me. 

 Q.  Going into the second week, do you feel your game is right there at the moment? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, I feel that everything really is coming together.  I struggled a little bit in the first set on my serve today, but was able to modify a few things in that second set, so it made it easier. 
 So, yeah, I think it looks pretty good.  But, you know, I have to keep going. 

 Q.  You're fit and healthy? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yes. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT