WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2006
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Looked good out there. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, yeah. 

 Q.  Did you feel good? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, it was I think a pretty good match.  A typical like serve and volley, I mean grass court match, against Stosur.  She likes to come in as well.  That made it a little bit different, I guess, from all the other matches I have to play usually. 
 So was quite interesting.  I felt I served and returned pretty well today.  I, you know, straight took the opportunity I had right at the beginning of the match, and then took another couple of chances in the second set. 
 So, yeah, very satisfied about this match. 

 Q.  You feel at home on Center Court? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  It feels great, I mean, to walk out on this court with this great atmosphere.  I mean, that's what I always say.  But that's really the way I feel.  You know, hopefully I'm gonna be playing a little bit more matches on this court. 

 Q.  Do you feel there's still more room for improvement in your game? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I think so.  I think so.  Couple of errors here and there that I could avoid, maybe do a few things a bit better. 
 But it's getting really much better compared to last week.  And also, you know, the fact that I played against, you know, a tough opponent today, you know, also it gives you more -- you know a bit more where you are and, you know, what needs to be a little bit improved. 

 Q.  Do you think that serve-volleying is still the key to winning on grass? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I guess you cannot really serve and volley a hundred percent of the time.  But, still, you have to do at some point.  It's been working well for me in the past, like probably mixing it up, not doing it all the time. 
 But I see, I mean, a lot of the men that used to do it, Henman, also Federer, they don't come in as much as they used to. 
 But, you know, I guess at some point it's still effective. 

 Q.  I guess you would have expected to play Tatiana in the next round.  That didn't happen. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, yeah.  I'm a little bit surprised.  But I also know that she's struggling with her ankle for a few months now.  So I guess she needs more matches.  She needs to really get some matches under her belt to feel more comfortable, and especially in the key moments.  Because I think she had some opportunities still today. 
 But, you know, another Australian, another player that comes in, that like to really finish the points at the net.  So, yeah, another -- probably not serve and volleying all the time, but another probably grass court game next time. 

 Q.  You've won pretty easily against Nicole recently.  You played in 1995 in Australia in Port Pirie of all places.  Can you remember anything about that? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I played who? 

 Q.  Nicole Pratt. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  In '95? 

 Q.  '95.  Can you remember that? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Uhhh... 

 Q.  She won.  It was the only time she beat you. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Here?  In Australia? 

 Q.  In Port Pirie, a little town. 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  In Port Pirie, yeah.  Well, I know I've been there (smiling).  I have no idea what happened there at the time. 

 Q.  You were just a junior.  Were you just on a tour of the challenger events there? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I think I was starting, like probably having my first WTA points at the time.  We played couple tournaments there in like nowhere in Australia before the Open. 
 Yeah, seems to me like it was a very long time ago.  But, yeah, I remember I been there. 

 Q.  Do you find when you play two players in a row with a similar style, then when you go to someone who plays not the traditional serve and volley game, is it more difficult? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No, because I think they're not so similar in the type of game they play.  I think Nicole is not serving as well, but maybe is returning a bit differently, using the slice backhand a little bit more. 
 So it's still gonna be a different game, and my first opponent was also another type of player. 
 So, no, it's okay.  I think I'm adjusting pretty well. 

 Q.  Would you swap your No. 1 ranking for a Wimbledon title? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Oh, yeah, if I -- yeah, why not?  In couple weeks, yeah.  But then get it again (laughing). 

 Q.  How have you prepared this year compared to previous years? 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I been doing about the same that I'm doing every year, like going to Eastbourne the week before, you know, try to play as much as I can on grass, which is probably the key.  Didn't work so well in the singles, but still played in the doubles last week.  And then also had some extra practice, so I guess that's the only thing you have to do if you want to play well on grass, huh? 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT