NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 30, 2006
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  It seemed like you didn't show up in the first set, like you just --   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, she played really well.  That's really what I felt and that's just what I was saying.  She hit very hard on both sides and very long.  You know, when you hit hard, sometimes it's not enough.   
 But I think today she played really well, so I started in the second set to change a little bit, started to serve and volley, started coming a little bit earlier in the points.  I couldn't find -- I couldn't play deep enough for her to really be annoyed.   
 So all the credit to her.   
  Q.  In the first game of the second set, it was 30-30, you won a point, and you yelled.   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, trying everything I could out there.  Obviously, didn't work, and she was playing great in the first set and I was getting frustrated that I could not, you know, express myself in the game.  So I tried another way to express myself.   
 Yeah, that helped me maybe a little bit to get back into the match, but it was not enough.   
  Q.  You were hitting so short, your forehand.   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, yeah.   
  Q.  It was popping up at mid court.  Are you saying that was all her, or are you saying that's not your usual forehand?   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, I usually try to get more -- get the ball deeper.  But, again, when you have someone in front of you that is -- I mean, she's one of the, let's say, two or three players that is hitting the ball the hardest.  So when she's hundred percent like today and when she gets every time 50 centimeters to the lines, I mean, it's pretty difficult to go and play deep again.   
 But, you know, I couldn't make it today.   
  Q.  How much does it help to play your doubles partner?  How much does it hurt to play your doubles partner?   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, it's a little bit strange even though I don't think in a match like today's match it really affect either of us.  I really felt that did not come into the match today.   
 It's pretty strange, but it's okay.   
  Q.  She said it was a little tough for her mentally before the match, that she was concentrating on not, you know, congratulating you during the match or anything because she said it was sad for her and sometimes she gets too caught up in who she's playing.   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, yeah, you have to deal with, I guess, different emotions that you usually deal with.  But I think everyone is learning, and at the end of the day it's okay.   
  Q.  Do you empathize with her at all after what she's gone through after winning the US Open?   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  "Empathize"?   
  Q.  It's kind of like sympathy.  Do you know the feeling that she has gone through?   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  I don't really know the feeling she went through.  I mean, she hasn't talked to me about it or whatever.  I just think in a career, it's very hard to always, you know, get better and better and to don't have some downs at some point.   
 So I'd really understand what she went through, you know.  It just happens sometimes.  But it's good for her that she's really put it back together and really came back very strong since the beginning of this year.   
  Q.  Do you feel like she's a more confident and consistent player than she was, again, after she won the Open?   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  Some ups and downs, yeah.   
 I think so, and looking at a match like today, you can see that she was, you know, never giving -- I mean not giving too many free points, or you could see that mentally she was really into it and staying into the match.   
 So these few things tells you about how consistent she's getting, that's for sure.   
  Q.  It seems like, obviously, you're No. 1 in the world right now, and obviously in France they love you, in Europe.  It seems the United States, they don't really have a feel for you yet.  When you came here today, maybe you could have shown, "Hey, I am No. 1 in the world," by playing a really good match.   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  You love that here, huh?  Yeah, you love it (smiling).   
  Q.  Do you feel you didn't really get that done?  Do you feel bad about that?   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  That's not my main concern for right now, I'm telling you.  My main concern is really to find some keys to her game.   
 But, you know, I know if you play well the US Open, then it's done, you're in the records in America.  So, you know, I still have a few months to get ready (smiling).   
  Q.  Besides her power, is there anything about her game that gives you problems?  She can be a very streaky player.   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  Very streaky.   
  Q.  She can hit a lot of winners then suddenly hit a lot of balls that are --   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, she didn't hit many balls today (smiling).   
  Q.  Not too many.   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  I didn't see that (smiling).   
  Q.  You said she's one of the hardest hitters on the tour.   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  I think so, really, yeah.  She's very powerful, I mean, with her legs, with her upper body as well.  That's her weapon, obviously, you know.  Hitting very hard on both sides is her biggest weapon.   
  Q.  You look at her on the court.  People don't look at her and think, "That's an athletic specimen," with all due respect to her.  Can you enlighten us perhaps as to how she strikes the ball.   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  First of all, I think she lost some weight since a few months.  You can see that she's very powerful.  I mean, I don't know how to explain it.  When she's placed and she's going to hit the ball, all the power coming from the foot to going to the racquet, you can see that everything is standing right there and is very strong.  I mean, I don't know how to really explain that.   
  Q.  Is there anything else like foot speed or reflex, quickness?   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  She's quick.  She's quick.  I think she's pretty quick, yeah.  Pretty good footwork and she's pretty quick.  She's practiced in Spain, so all the little footwork is there.   
  Q.  How much do you think it will affect things that you guys play doubles for her?  I guess most people rest a day before the finals.   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  Practice.   
  Q.  Huh?   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  Practice before a final.   
  Q.  So it doesn't have any effect?   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  I don't think -- yeah, it's about the same, yeah.  It's like a practice session, in fact.  I guess it's okay.   
  Q.  I want to get this straight.  Do you feel that you brought your "A" game to the courts today?   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  My "A" game?   
  Q.  Your best game to the courts.   
 AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, I think if I brought it to the court today, I probably would not be sitting here as a loser, so I guess the answer is no (smiling).   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT