AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2006
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  You made the final in 1999.  Are you a better player now than you were then?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I think so.  I think so.  Yeah, I think my game -- I'm using every part of my game much better now, I think, than seven years ago.  I think, yeah, I'm much more in control of what I'm doing, knowing pretty well also much better how to use my weapons with, you know, considering the opponent I have in front of me.  Yeah, I think so (smiling). 

Q.  Mentally tougher?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Also probably, yeah, yeah.  Knowing, having a little bit more experience, knowing a little bit more how to handle the situations.  So, yeah, everything is a bit better. 

Q.  Your potential semifinal opponents, Martina or Kim, your thoughts on them and their strengths and weaknesses opposed to yours?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, you know, Kim is using more power than Martina does.  Martina is taking the ball earlier than Kim.  They both have a very different game, I think.  We can really see the opposition of style right now on the court.  You know, I'm really -- I think in these kind of matches I really have to focus on my game, focus on what I have to do, really adjusting a little bit to the opponent that I will have.  But really, it's my game that counts. 

Q.  What sort of feeling is there if you play Martina?  It's been a long time since you've played her. 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah. 

Q.  Will it be strange?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, yeah, it's always strange.  And also to see her coming back right from the first Grand Slam she's playing at that level, it's pretty amazing.  Yeah, you know, a tough match, and really expecting a good fight. 

Q.  Obviously, if you play Kim, top two players in the world. 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, I mean, she's been very consistent since the beginning of the tournament.  Everybody said, you know, she was injured and everything.  But, you know, she's still here and moving pretty well, covering the court very well.  So, you know, a tough one. 

Q.  You've been to this stage of a Grand Slam many times in the last seven years.  Winning The Championships, is that going to play a big part in getting you over the line to the final confidence-wise?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, I hope and I think it really put me in different conditions coming here in Australia, and I guess I hope for the next Grand Slams I will play.  I think it can help me.  Is it going to be this time?  We'll see (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT