AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2006
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  34 unforced errors to your 2.  Was it your consistency that was the key to the match? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I guess so, looking at the stats, yeah.  I mean, you know, I knew she had some up and downs, I knew that before the match.  Obviously, just putting the ball in and taking the opportunities when I would have them was probably going to be the key.  I didn't think, though, that it was going to be this kind of score or this kind of a match.  Yeah, I mean, she made way too many errors. 

Q.  Is your confidence now pretty high? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, yeah.  I really felt I was struggling a little bit at the beginning of the tournament.  Then, you know, with just the one set I played on the match before, and now today, the way I played, I feel that my game is really coming together.  I'm feeling the ball much better than att the beginning of last week. So, you know, I'm enjoying that. 

Q.  Would you have liked maybe a tougher match now that we're getting into the business end of the tournament? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  No.  I think it gives you a lot of confidence to have these kind of matches and also not to spend too much time on the court.  I think it's good.  You know, physically I'm feeling well.  I didn't need to push myself a lot today.  That's good for the future, I think. 

Q.  What is your record against your possible next opponent, Schnyder or Myskina?  Looking forward to that?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, yeah, of course.  I mean, you know, all the matches now are going to be tough ones.  I mean, I don't know about my record.  I know both of them pretty well.  We've played many times against each other.  I'm going to have a close look at the match a bit later and see how it goes, see what they do both maybe differently from the last times.  But, yeah, I'll see. 

Q.  Are you struck at the size of the new girls, the height?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  She's tall and she's already very powerful for 16.  Maybe sometimes not so coordinated, but this is probably going to come.  Yeah, I mean, people in general I think are growing up with every generation.  I guess in tennis that's going to be the same. 

Q.  When you first hit the scene, people said you were strong, big shoulders.  Does it seem pretty ridiculous now when you look at the girls that are 6', 6'2"? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, might not be now -- I think they're all -- what is 6'? 

Q.  183. 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, they're probably taller than me, most of them.  When you look at the top 10, I think I'm one of the smallest now. 

Q.  Justine. 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  With Justine, and Kim maybe as well.  That's the way it is. 

Q.  When you play those girls, do you tend to play a more mixed game?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Sometimes I play with power, sometimes I'm capable of variation, especially on the back end using the slice which they're not used to it.  Not a lot of players, you know, are using these shots.  Not always hitting flat, but also putting some topspin or some slice.  I'm trying to use everything I can to mix it up. 

Q.  Have you ever had the chance to watch your tape of your final against Mary at The Championships? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I had the chance, yes, to watch this match. 

Q.  And how much fun was it watching it?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  It was a little bit strange.  It was fun, of course.  Yeah, it's strange to see yourself, how you behave, how you play.  Probably it's almost like you see someone else playing.  You have different eyes and you feel differently.  I mean, playing that match on the court, I wouldn't think it gives this effect from someone watching from the side.  Strange. 

Q.  What sort of reaction did you receive from people back home, your friends and family, after that? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Oh, great.  I mean, great reactions.  Everybody was so happy for me.  Not only family or friends, but also a lot of players came to me, you know, were very happy for me.  Yeah, all positive things. 

Q.  Has that given you the confidence that you can break through at a Grand Slam level?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, we'll see.  You know, if it has to come one day, it will.  Obviously, gave me some experience, a bit more of an experience, and realizing that I can really, you know, stay focused against the best players in the world for a few matches in a row, which has to be the case in a Grand Slam.  Yeah, that was positive. 

Q.  You've been to the quarters and semis quite a bit, what do you think is the difference to actually win one?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  A little bit of experience.  A little bit of also putting things into perspective.  You know, don't let the emotions probably get to you.  And I think also on the tennis side, I think I improved a little bit.  You know, every year I'm trying to improve a little bit.  So now I'm using different things a little bit better, coming in, staying back sometimes, variations.  Maybe that will make the difference, as well. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT