AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2006
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Amelie, please.


Q.  How rough was it out there? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, it is tough.  Obviously, a little bit more for her than for me because it's always, yeah, tough to play in these conditions.  I see they closed the roof right after our match.  Makes a big difference when you're out there.  So the heat is still here, but then the sun has no more effects.  I think it's better for everybody, though:  the crowd, the players, the game. 

Q.  Was it as bad as anything you've ever experienced? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I think last year during the quarterfinal was a very hot day as well.  I think it was on the Tuesday probably.  I remember a very, very hot day also.  But yesterday and today, it's pretty tough.  I heard tomorrow is even worse. 

Q.  You can't be very happy with this win, are you? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I? 

Q.  You can't be very happy with this win?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Can't?  Cannot? 

Q.  No. 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  As I said on the court, it's really mixed feelings, you know.  On one side you don't spend too much time on the court in these tough conditions.  On the other hand, you know, I was playing some good tennis and I -- much better than the first games, the first two matches I had.  So I maybe wanted to, you know, keep it up.  But that's just the way it is.  I just hope for her that it's not too bad and that she recovers well.  I guess the heat for her made a bad thing.

Q.  Is it a matter of age, experience, to cope with these temperatures, do you think? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I don't know.  Some people deal -- just handle it better than others.  Some will maybe always have problems playing in the heat.  I don't know if it's her case.  You know, maybe she didn't hydrate enough or, I mean, I don't know.  I'm not the doctor or whatever.  I don't know.  Maybe some experience can have a role in that, but also I think your body is maybe -- can handle it better or differently. 

Q.  Did you notice her being distressed at all during the first set?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I wasn't really paying attention to her.  I was really focusing on my game, what I had to do.  I could see that she was not moving so well.  As soon as the ball was little bit far, she could not really get it.  So, you know.  But I was -- I didn't know it was this bad.

Q.  Did the medical trainer suggest how much liquid you should be taking on before you go to play in a day like today, or do they leave it to you?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  No, not like specifically how much, how many liters or whatever.  I think first of all also it's depending on the person.  They of course tell us to hydrate a lot.

Q.  How much did you drink today before you played? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I don't know.  I don't know really.  But during the -- just one set, like half an hour we played maybe, it's already two liters.  One and a half, two.  So that's a lot. 

Q.  Given that you walk off and the roof closes, which obviously makes it different for the next game, does there need to be some sort of revision on the rulings of such a hot day as today when they knew it was going to be as hot as it is?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, I don't know about that.  Yeah, I guess -- I don't know, because it's very tough, I think, to make these rules.  Some players like it, to play in these conditions, and want to play because they say, "I'm stronger physically so it might be an advantage for me to play in these conditions."  Some others would prefer to have the roof closed and everything.  I'm just really wondering what's the right thing to do in these moments.  But, obviously, makes a big difference not only for the heat to have the roof covered - closed, I mean - but also for the game.  It's very different when you play.  Like it's not really indoors, but it's still conditions very different.

Q.  Given your fitness, were you happy to have started there in normal conditions for the match? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, I don't know if you're happy to play in these conditions.  Actually, I wasn't even thinking about playing with the roof closed.  I just, you know, I knew coming on the court, so didn't go through my mind.  But I have to say, yeah, it must be pretty nice to play with the roof closed. 

Q.  Could I just change the track slightly.  Could I just ask you how you interpret Martina Hingis' return to the game and the fact that she's in the fourth round here now. 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, she seemed to be playing really well.  I was playing right after, so I watched a little bit of her match.  And really plays very consistent tennis, given also the very small number of matches she's played in the last couple weeks.  That's quite impressive, I have to say.

Q.  Does it surprise you that after a three-year break she can come back and be so competitive?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  It's a little surprising, I think.  But in the meantime you can see she still has the eye, you know, the coordination, you know, the feeling in the racquet and everything.  So she's doing great. 

Q.  What about the Williams sisters?  They both got knocked out early here.  Do you think the days are over now when they will just completely dominate the Grand Slams?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Sorry?  I didn't get it. 

Q.  Do you think the days are over when the Williams sisters will completely dominate Grand Slams like they used to?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  You know, it was already over couple years ago when Justine had some great moments in all the Grand Slams, and Kim as well.  And I think now it's more -- more players can really consider winning a Grand Slam.  But you never know with them.  I think -- I remember last year at this time, everybody was saying, "Oh, they're not ready," or, "They're not prepared enough," or whatever.  Then you see Serena winning the championship.  And it happened quite often.  At Wimbledon, Venus was also -- you know, a lot of people saying, "No, they're not focusing on tennis enough," or whatever.  She comes up and winning the event.  So just really never know. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT