AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2006
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Do you have a message for all of your gay fans in Australia? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I haven't thought about that actually.  Just, I don't know, come and enjoy some tennis. 

Q.  How are you feeling about your chances? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, we'll see.  I think there's a lot of contenders here.  It's a pretty open draw, I have to say, especially seeing all the best players are here looking healthy and fit.  I'm really used to take it one match at a time and really see how it goes as the tournament is moving forward.  Yeah, I'm feeling good as far as, you know, my preparation.  I think I've been doing some good job.  We'll see where it takes me. 

Q.  Do you know much about your first-round opponent?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I never played against her in singles.  Played against her in doubles a couple years ago.  I know a little bit of her game, but not so much.  I think in these cases where you don't really know exactly how your opponent's going to play, I think you really have to focus on your game, your own game, your own weapons, and really what you have to do:  being aggressive and dictating the game.  That's what I'll try to do.  Obviously that's the only thing basically you can do. 

Q.  Must be happy that it's nearly a full draw for the women.  There's a lot of injuries on the men's side.  It's fantastic to see. 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  It is.  It is fantastic to see.  I think we've been saying for a few years now that there was a lot of injuries and everything.  It's great to see a Grand Slam with all the players here.  It's good for us.  It's good for the crowd.  It's good for you guys, as well.  Yeah, some good matches coming up I guess in the next couple weeks. 

Q.  Are you in your best shape of your career, do you think?

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I think I'm in a good shape.  I think, again, I did a good preparation.  I was happy to be able in these last few days before the tournament to really adjust few things here and there in my game.  You know, looking forward for the tournament to start now 'cause I think it's time to go. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT