MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 10, 2006
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. She wasn't the greatest opponent to get for the first round. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, of course. Especially she's had a few matches already this year, and this was my first one. So I think probably made the difference in some key points today. And so, you know, really nothing -- not much to say about this match. Just she played better than me today and, again, I probably would have needed at least one match before playing against her, you know. She's playing well. She's been playing well for the last few months. That's just the way it is.  
 
Q. How much of a setback is this for next week? You've only had one match. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, that's the way it is, you know. You just take it as it comes. I'll have the, you know, opportunity to play a double I guess tomorrow. We played one yesterday. So just, you know, to keep hanging in there, hanging in to the tournament, into a competition mind. And then keep, you know, keep working on the singles part of the game.  
 
Q. Despite the result, is it important to at least experience the conditions and actually being in a competitive match rather than practicing? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, that's why I came to Sydney this year, just to, you know, to feel the atmosphere of competing and playing in an official match because it's quite a -- really quite a difference between practice and matches. So, you know, I would have loved, obviously, to have had a couple more but, again, I just take it as it comes.  
 
Q. How does Ana's forehand compare in terms of power to the other girls on tour? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Only in terms of power?  
 
Q. And quality. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I think it's at the level of the biggest hitters in the women's game. And, yeah, she's -- you know, she's hitting it pretty hard and also is capable of really hiding it pretty well I think.  
 
Q. She caused you a few problems today. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Of course. I mean, that's her biggest weapon, obviously.  
 
Q. How did you spend the off-season? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I had couple weeks of rest and then got back on the practice courts to - as usual - to get ready for the next season (smiling).  
 
Q. Are you one of the players that likes to stay at home, have a holiday at home, or did you travel? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No, I travelled somewhere actually because it's pretty cold at home. I like the sun (smiling).  
 
Q. Where did you travel to? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: What?  
 
Q. Where did you go to? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: To Tahiti.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT