US OPEN
September 3, 2005
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English for Amelie, please. 


Q.  Could you just talk generally about the match and how you thought you played. 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Well, first of all, I felt I served much better than the last match I played.  You know, she played also very differently from Karatantcheva, and with a bigger serve.  Obviously, put me in much more trouble with her serve than the match before.  So I had to deal with that.  And to finally, you know, in both sets have a break and go out with a win.  But overall, you know, pretty satisfied about the way I played.  Thought I was very aggressive.  Maybe, again, on the return of serve, could have done things maybe differently, maybe stepped back a little bit or even come in, you know, differently.  But, you know, I tried few things and sometimes it worked, sometimes, not so good.  So, yeah, overall, I think pretty consistent match and didn't really give her the opportunity to, except in that game in the second set, to break me.  I think the main thing was probably the serve today.

Q.  Do you feel you're getting a good preparation for the tournament ahead of you? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Yeah.  You know, even if like these kind of matches that don't really give you a lot of rhythm, you know, you don't have much of long rallies or, you know, tough ones, but, you know, it's good to play these kind of players that, you know, hit very hard and make the points in two or three shots. 

Q.  Your next opponent, your next match? 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Likhovtseva? 

Q.  Yes. 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  I played her last week, so it seems like I'm playing the same tournament.  The last time I played against her, I gave her a lot of trouble, I know.  But, you know, it's always very different.  You know, for example, last week against Groenefeld I felt I won in a pretty easy way, when today was a bit more tough.  So it's always different, you know, week in and week out.  Obviously, she's, you know, playing well, having a pretty good year so far.  I watched a little bit of the end of that match against Myskina a little earlier.  So, you know, hold on pretty well to -- I think she was matchpoint down or something. 

Q.  Three. 

AMELIE MAURESMO:  Three?  Well, she, you know, dealed pretty well with these moments and finally came through.  So, you know, expecting a tough one.  I know her pretty well.  She knows me also pretty well.  So it's going to be a tricky one. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT