US OPEN
August 30, 2005
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Amélie, please. 


Q.  In general, coming off New Haven, playing today, how do you feel about the way you're playing?

AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I'm feeling good.  I think conditions are a little bit different.  I think the court is a little faster.  That's what I would, you know, tell my first feelings were.  It's a little bit faster.  So just a few things here and there to adjust, especially probably the footwork.  No, otherwise just feeling good.  Pretty solid today, consistent match.  Really a good way to get into this tournament. 

Q.  How do you believe you're serving and returning is going?

AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I think I still have a few things to adjust.  Talking about today, she was serving and volleying.  You know, it makes the return -- you hit it a little different when you have this kind of player in front of you.  So I had to adjust a little bit because it's not usual to see a player do that.  Yeah, a few things to probably adjust on that.  And I thought my serve was pretty effective, pretty good today, especially, you know, when I was coming in after it, I thought it was pretty strong. 

Q.  Coming off of New Haven, feeling good about your game?

AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yeah, you know, I think I had pretty good preparation.  Toronto, played some good matches there.  Then New Haven last week, played also some big matches, with a great way of playing the game.  I felt if I can, you know, keep doing that, keep being aggressive, coming in and really play my game, you know, I'm feeling good doing that.  So I'm going to try to keep going like this. 

Q.  You took a pretty long break after Wimbledon.  Was that always part of your plan when you made your schedule the beginning of the year?

AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Yes.

Q.  Or did you decide you needed some extra rest?

AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  No, that was on the schedule.  You know, we thought -- that's what I do every year, except last year, because there was the Olympics.  That's what I usually do, take a little rest after Fed Cup.  You know, there was Wimbledon and, the week after, Fed Cup.  Then I took some rest just to make sure that you come back being fresh - not only physically, but also mentally.  You know, after six months of playing tennis without almost stopping, it was important I think for me to really have this break, get some rest. 

Q.  Was it three weeks you had off?

AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I had two weeks off, and I then I got ready for three weeks, I mean, practicing.

Q.  No competition for five?

AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  Five, I think altogether.

Q.  You spent some time in the south of France?

AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I spent some time in the south of France, then I went back to Geneva to practice.  To come back on the tour, you have to be ready.  It was good to have this time.  Physically, I worked pretty well.  Technically, as well.  I thought it was good.  You know, good break.  You come back, you're feeling fresh and ready for the three or four months that you have still to go. 

Q.  Considering all the injuries we've seen this summer, do you think we're going to see more top players like yourself taking an extended break?

AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I don't know.  It might be, you know, a good idea sometimes.  But also you have to realize that while you're away, some players are playing and are getting points and are getting, you know, their rhythm also in competition.  It's a choice you have to make.  And I decided to make this choice.  I also understand players that prefer to keep playing, playing all the summer season in the States.  If they can stay fit and healthy, like we've seen Kim doing unbelievably well throughout the summer season.  She's still free of injury and feeling great now.  Why not? 

Q.  You have been a consistent quarterfinalist and semifinalist here.  Do you feel this court inspires aggression in you or do you come in with that mindset?

AMÉLIE MAURESMO:  I come in already with that mind -- you know, thinking that's the way I have to play.  Also especially a couple months after Wimbledon where I play really the serve-and-volley game.  Yeah, that's what I'm trying to do.  I think I do it even more often this year than I used to do the years before.  As I was saying, I think the court is a little bit faster, so it helps, I think, playing this kind of game. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT