PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 26, 2005
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  A bit of a struggle today to get it done?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, tough one, tough one, but she also really took her chances today and I thought she played great tennis.  I also think maybe I didn't play as well as I did yesterday or the day before, but all the credit to her, I think for pushing me, you know, the way she did today.

Q.  She feels in the end you won because you are No. 3 in the world and it was an intimidating thing for her and that was an advantage for you?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Maybe, if that's what she feels, that's  -- that's maybe the way it is that's her analyzation.  I think the physical part obviously played a huge thing today and, you know, maybe she also broke down a little bit in the third set and even though she had some opportunities in the second set to close it up.  Yeah, these kind of matches it's always good to win and maybe because you have more experience because you know how to play  -- I mean, you have played these matches more often maybe than her that might make the difference.

Q.  You feel that could have been a factor as well?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, but I think the physical part also was a big one.

Q.  What was the second set, what was that like playing that it lasted an hour and a half, you had like 10 straight breakpoints and you just  -- she hit everything back?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, yeah, that's why I say all the credit to her really because I think she played a great game today.  She didn't give me any free points.  I am not talking about the third set, but in the first couple of sets and I couldn't, you know, put her into the run so I could really have the opportunities to come in and she seemed to really  -- she was moving very well, covering the court pretty well, reading the game very well also.  So I could have  --, you know, could have gone either way.

Q.  You felt lucky to escape basically?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, lucky, I wouldn't say lucky, but I think I really even though, you know, I didn't play the game I wanted, I felt proud because I hung in there, I really, even though I wasn't playing my best tennis I really felt I could still win this one.  I really battled out there today and I felt in the end I was, how you say.

Q.  Rewarded?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Yes. 

Q.  How are you feeling physically, I know you pulled out of the doubles?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Obviously very tired and it's, you know, always tough for the body to have these kind of matches in this heat and, you know, covering a lot of ground today and playing almost three hours or something,.  I am going to have to make sure I recover as well as I can tonight and, it's one more to go and we'll see how it goes tomorrow.

Q.  What do you see about the prospects of playing Davenport?

AMELIE MAURESMO: It will be great.

Q.  You haven't had a whole lot of success of late.

AMELIE MAURESMO: I know but we played a tough match last time.  We played at Wimbledon together and, you know, before also before playing a Grand Slam you always want to compare yourself with the other best players and, but you know it's going to be interesting to see how she does tonight as well. 

Q.  What does a match like today tell you about the Open where you are in terms of prepared to play it, success?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, first of all, it shows that I  -- my game, the aggressive part of the game is not yet quite 100% there every time I want it.  Because I really felt I should have had more opportunities to come in, but I didn't have a great record on my approaches, but it shows that physically I am there.  Of course, if I need to  -- I need to recover, but it's encouraging, I think, and the mental also played a big part today.  I think I really hung in there.

Q.  Second set she held her serve.  She saved a number of breakpoints in that game, 3-3.  Then she broke you.  Was that a matter of just a lapse in focus or concentration?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I was -- maybe also I was  -- it was tough to lose that game on her serve because I felt really I had so many occasions and I should have been ahead probably for two of the time, so then probably a little down on the focus at that time.

Q.  Did you worry that that was going to  -- that that game was going to decide things  --

AMELIE MAURESMO: It could have.  It could have really decided the whole match and, you know, that's  -- would have been the way it was today, but I wasn't done yet and I really wanted to keep things going.  Since I had so many occasions on her serve the game before I thought I am going to have some more and I will do them this time.

Q.  So many players skipped this week because they don't want to wear themselves out.  If you get involved in a marathon match like this, does it occur to you out there am I had doing myself more harm than good by wearing myself out?

AMELIE MAURESMO: You just don't think like that when you are on the court.  You play a match.  You are here to win obviously to win and do the best you can on the court.  Today she pushed me really to the last resources, but, you know, I still got to get the win.  I think it  -- maybe you push yourself physically but it is great for the mental, for the confidence to have these kind of matches also.  But it's very personal.  Some players prefer not to play the week before and that's okay.

Q.  Is that the best type of win, the gut-check type of win when you really get pushed and then you can respond?

AMELIE MAURESMO: I think it's not tennistically (sic) the best win, but yeah mentally and physically it's one of those that you remember as a huge battle and really gives you a lot of confidence. 

Q.  Last year coming into the Open a lot of people were talking about the Russian players.  A year after, how do you think that the class of players has kind of stacked up?

AMELIE MAURESMO: I think maybe it's a little bit more open now.  Maybe they don't dominate as much as they were last year and I think Belgium is coming back, the Williams having won in Australia and at Wimbledon, you know, Lindsay also is in great shape and, you know, it shows that it's very open and the level is very spread out.

Q.  Is it disappointing when you have to pull out of doubles or is that part of like a tournament that happens sometimes or is it disappointing?

AMELIE MAURESMO: When you enter both events you wish, I think you want to play both 100% and make sure maybe, you know, try to get to the end on both of them.  But I think today was really too much.  It would have been too much.

Q.  Obviously you have heard people say that you are way too talented a player to not have won a Grand Slam yet.  Do you find that positive or negative?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, it's positive.  It shows that I have the potential to do it, but, you know, I am just keep working on it.  I really feel, you know, it might come one day and  -- but again, I am doing what I do like practicing, you know, playing tournaments to get there at some point.  We'll see when it comes.

Q.  Does that thought get a bit frustrating or you just got to take it in your stride and  --

AMELIE MAURESMO: Not really because as long as I feel I am getting closer and closer in terms of tennis and physical and also the mental, I am still positive about it.  Maybe one day I will feel, you know, it's getting away from me then I will think differently but for the moment that's the case. 

Q.  Davenport has dominated you on the hard courts.  Is that just simply a case that she is a superior hard court player?

AMELIE MAURESMO: She plays great on that surface.  There is no doubt about that, that I think this year Kim has been playing unbelievably well also on hard court.  You cannot forget her, I think, winning Indian Wells and Miami and doing so well this summer, she's another one to look after.

Q.  Against you she is  --

AMELIE MAURESMO: Sorry.  Well, yeah, she has the advantage obviously on the record and she likes this surface.  That's for sure.  She prefers, I think she prefers this to clay, even Rebound Ace and maybe even grass.  And she is still pretty good on grass. 

Q.  Without saying win the last point, what do you have to do to turn it around against Lindsay, let's say you play her in the final?

AMELIE MAURESMO: We'll see.  We'll see. 

Q.  Her serve has been off the past couple of days.  I think she's had 12 or 15 doublefaults in this tournament.  Is that something that that you can capitalize on?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Well maybe, but we'll see and I think she's, you know, really capable of stepping up to another level once she reaches maybe the Finals of certain events and against also, you know, tough players, so we'll see how it goes and really I am going to have a close look at tonight's match and because again I think it going to be very interesting.

Q.  Do you feel closer to wining a Grand Slam and why?

AMELIE MAURESMO: I think in the last, let's say, couple of years I felt probably especially at Wimbledon I felt that you know, I was closer and closer.

Q.  Any reason why?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Probably maturity is coming, experience is coming and I am adjusting things also, mentally, physically and in terms of tennis, you know, every time I  -- I don't get it I am trying to think why and adjusting to that.

Q.  Mentally what did you have  -- were there any hurdle you had to get over mentally?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Some, but it's a long work, and it's not only on the tennis side.  It's a lot of thinking about how you see things and how you react in different type of moments, so yeah, it's a long road. 

Q.  As far as these Slams are concerned, two parts, firstly which one do you think you feel you got the best chance at and secondly, which one would you like or does it not matter it's a Slam?

AMELIE MAURESMO: Oh, it wouldn't matter really, but I said a few times already I think Wimbledon is probably the one I have more chances. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT