ROGERS CUP
August 20, 2005
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. It was 1-1 in the third set. Looked like we were in for a long night. Looked like you were going back and forth. Can you talk a little about what changed. 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: You know, I think in that second set, you know, I think maybe I was feeling that she was going down physically and that I was maybe going to be able to make the difference physically in that third set. I guess that was the contrary that happened. You know, she came back pretty strong, really able to put, again, the pressure on me on each point. And then I felt, you know, I was a little bit, little bit down in that third set physically. So I think, yeah, probably that's what made the difference tonight. Also the serve was a key point I think throughout the match. I'm sure when we look at the stats, the first-serve percentage was very important. I think in the second set, when I won it, I put a little bit more in, and not enough in the first set and not enough in the third set. So, yeah, a few things here and there that made the difference. You know, that's the way it is. I think, you know, before coming into the US Open, still have a few things to work on, and also getting a little bit more ready physically because, you know, also had a tough match last night, and maybe didn't recover enough. Yeah, some positive things as well, but not enough - not quite enough.  
 
Q. There was a call you definitely didn't like in that third game. Did that bother you at all as the match went on? 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Well, it's never comfortable to feel that, you know, it doesn't go the right way. But I didn't think that, you know, it made the difference in the third set.  
 
Q. How disappointing is it? I know you're focused mainly on the US Open, but not to get to the final here. 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: You know, you always want to win the tournaments you enter. That's the case for every player. You know, as we see, we're fighting out there, whether it's, you know, Justine, myself, Kim, Anastasia. Today I saw the match earlier, as well. You know, it's always disappointing. As I said, you know, we have to keep in mind that it's also preparations to get better for the US Open. That's what I have to go out, thinking like that.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT