ROGERS CUP
August 19, 2005
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Have you ever a delay that was that long between a match? 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Oh, yeah, I had an overnight.  
 
Q. To have to go back and do it the same day? 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I don't know. I can't really remember. But, yeah, it was very impressive, especially the storm that came out this afternoon. We were really thinking, "Are we going to be able to come back on the court today?" Because it was looking so dark all over the place, we were not seeing one spot of blue sky around. Yeah, but, you know, in a way we're used to probably dealing with these delays, find some ways to, you know, relax a little bit but still stay focused also on what we would have to do if we go back on the court. As I said on the court, we were still able to come back and play some high level of tennis. That's a good point for me today.  
 
Q. Can you just tell us what you did for that delay. Did you just hang out in the players lounge? Did you relax, have a nap? 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, most of the time I stayed in the player lounge, played a little cards. I had a little lunch, as well, as I saw, you know, that the storm was still there. So I had to eat a little bit. Basically read a little bit. Just, you know, stay there and hang in there and wait (smiling).  
 
Q. Did you win any money playing cards? 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: No. We were even at the end of the game, yeah (laughter).  
 
Q. What was it like playing the first time in the first set when everyone in the stadium knew it was just a matter of time where it was going to pour? 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: It was okay. To start, I was just trying to focus on the game. At that time, yeah, I was thinking, you know, it's going to come. There's no way this is going to stay like this for all the match. But you just have to try to go off the court the best -- in the best position you can. Actually, it was 4-All, 15-All, deuce for everybody. Just stay focused on what you do on the court basically. That's all you have to do.  
 
Q. Is that hard to do when there's thunder going and, like I said, everyone knows that it's going to pour? 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: It's okay. It's okay. I felt it was okay to do that day. Maybe I was in a good mood (smiling).  
 
Q. Do you have to really careful about little injuries on a day like today? 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: You rewarm very well, just as you haven't started the match, the same way.  
 
Q. Just like you started over? 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, yeah, exactly. Of course it's not too cold. That's a good point. So you rewarm pretty quickly with the humidity as well. But, yeah, you pay a lot of attention to that.  
 
Q. Can you just talk about what you did in the second set to kind of turn things around and how surprised you were that she pulled out. 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I think I was able to step up and really play better and better as the match was going. I didn't think I was playing bad. But, you know, she was very solid, didn't give me any free points, and I was going for things and missed a few shots here and there that made the difference. You know, in these kinds of matches, it's just two or three points that can make the difference in one set. Then I was capable of really cancel these little errors that I was doing and keep also the pressure on her serve, even though she was a break up, you know, keep putting the pressure on her. Basically just hang in there and keep doing what I was doing: being aggressive and coming in.  
 
Q. All week we've talked about injuries being a major theme. This is the seventh person to pull out or retire. You talked earlier about how you took some of your own time off, gave yourself a little off-season. 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: Yeah, I mean, I keep my fingers crossed. Maybe it was the right thing to do, even though injuries can come at any time and nobody's, you know, how you say, is for sure not going to be injured. That's just how I felt I had to do and really not only physically but mentally also to come back strong in the second part of the season. You know, maybe that's made the difference today. I don't know.  
 
Q. Can you say because it's come to this point that maybe the WTA should look at imposing an off-season? 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: We've talked about that for years. You know, and apparently they're looking, you know, for how they can do because you have tournaments and they want to be played. But obviously, you know, I think it's their main concern. I think next year is going to be a bigger break at the end of the season. But we've been talking -- as a player, I've been talking about that for years, believe me. You know, already this year Fed Cup is not at the end of the year, it's after the US Open. So that's a little change. But, you know, I'm sure other things have to be done.  
 
Q. Were you surprised that she couldn't finish the match? Were you aware she was hurting that bad? 
 
 AMÉLIE MAURESMO: I was a little bit surprised, yeah, because she just -- actually, I didn't really know. I think it was the shoulder. That's what she told me at the end. Don't really know when it happened, on what shot it hurt. So, yeah, I was surprised because, you know, I was just focusing on me and what I have to do. Obviously, I saw that she called the trainer, but I didn't think it was that bad.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT