WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2005
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Just one match to go? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: One more?  
 
Q. Semifinal and then... 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Ah, maybe try to make it one step further this year. Played already two semis in the last two times I came here. So, you know, pretty happy about the way I played today. I think I was -- you know, I took every opportunity that she gave me, very aggressive. Yeah, we'll see how it goes now.  
 
Q. You looked more in your rhythm today. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Much more.  
 
Q. Straightaway. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Much more from the beginning. You know, I really -- not only on my serve, but also on the returning games, I was very aggressive. I knew I would have more opportunities on her second serve especially. You know, I've really decided to put the pressure on her right from the first game and make her play as many shots as I could - especially to pass me. Yeah, much more comfortable on the court, much more in my rhythm, and really enjoying the game.  
 
Q. You had some success from the baseline early on. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Also, yeah. I think I also mixed it up pretty well. Again, I think the way the courts are, you have to really mix it up - come in but also stay back. You know, sometimes it's tough to come in. You really have to choose the right ball. Yeah, you know, I'm very satisfied about that, and was really able to choose the right ones to come in, so that was good.  
 
Q. You mentioned the semifinals you've been to before. What did you assess as something in your game that you needed to upgrade to go past the semifinals? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, I was very close last year, actually. I thought that my game was pretty consistent last year. Just a little bit like the way I played today, really aggressive, coming in very often, and was very close, you know, to beat Serena in the semi last year. You know, I really think on a few occasions that I might get to make the difference, I will need to be a hundred percent on these points and make sure I take these opportunities. Because I felt last year I had maybe two or three key moments I, you know, dropped down a little bit the intensity, probably made the difference. We'll see how it goes this year.  
 
Q. If it's Lindsay Davenport who is your next opponent, you don't have a great record against her. It's been sort of one-sided. What specifically is the challenge for you when you play her, and here on grass? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, she's been serving pretty well since the beginning of the tournament and returning pretty aggressively also. You know, also she hasn't played probably the type of game that I play. So we'll see maybe how she reacts to that. But, you know, I watch a little bit of yesterday's match against Kim, and she looked pretty impressive from the baseline. You know, it's going to be a tough one. As the tournament is going, it's tougher and tougher to win. But, you know, it's a great challenge and we'll see how it goes. But I think it's not over yet. Maybe Svetlana is going to make her work a little hard.  
 
Q. When you've played Lindsay before, what's been the difference for her against you? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: She served pretty well every time. I think she has a huge serve. Really, when she's on her rhythm on that side of the game, she's tough to beat - especially on fast courts and on hard courts or even, you know, grass.  
 
Q. So how do you approach, if she is serving well? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Just nothing to lose really. Just focus on my game. That's also what I want to do. Because I think when I'm able to really play my game, it's very effective, whatever the player is on the other part of the net, and then make a few adjustments with her game. But mostly concentrate on what I have to do.  
 
Q. Could be Kuznetsova. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Could be Kuznetsova, as well.  
 
Q. You play with her later in the doubles today. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah.  
 
Q. If she goes through, what conversation will you have? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: It's fun. We are having a lot of fun playing the doubles together. It's been working well so far. Hopefully we're going to keep going like this. You know, obviously she won the US Open last year, been playing well since then. Very, very aggressive and very talented player. You know, I don't think it doesn't really matter that we're going to play doubles together. It's okay.  
 
Q. What will you be doing to relax now up till the next match? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: You know, I play my doubles later on today and then recuperation tonight and have maybe another doubles tomorrow. Otherwise I'll practice and then wait for the match on Thursday.  
 
Q. On the other side of the draw, Maria had another strong performance today. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yes. I didn't see it, but...  
 
Q. What are your thoughts on her in the last year? What's impressed you most? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think since she won last year here, she's been, you know, playing great tennis, very aggressive, also with a huge fighting spirit. She's improved so much because, you know, I think her record for one year since Wimbledon last year is pretty impressive. She's playing well. She's a tough player, great player.  
 
Q. You lost a very tight match to Serena here last year. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah.  
 
Q. Can you remember what you thought about the final when Maria was going against Serena? Did you think she had much of a chance a year ago? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I don't remember really what I was thinking. I wasn't really worried about what was going to happen in the final because I was a little bit disappointed with my semi. But, no, I remember what I said is Serena played I think the last four finals or five against her sister. So I said, you know, maybe that might make a difference in the next final because then it's another story when it's not Venus against her.  
 
End of FastScripts… 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT