WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2005
Amelie Mauresmo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. We saw you at Eastbourne last week, and then today there was a great big difference. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, you noticed it (laughing)? Yeah, you know, obviously, I'm feeling much better, you know, as the rhythm is coming. You know, it was still good for me to go to Eastbourne because I really got to practice on the grass, which is a very special surface and different from what we play on all year long. So, you know, I still think it was a good idea to go there even though I didn't play a good match. But, you know, I kept -- after that loss last week, I kept working for the last few days and, you know, had a pretty good first round and obviously a very good second round.  
 
Q. Can you remember playing better on grass? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: That would be difficult. Yeah, it would be difficult because I really felt, you know, everything was working very well - not only of course my service games, but also, you know, I was returning pretty well, doing many things on her returning games. Yeah, hopefully I'll keep going like this.  
 
Q. Ever done a dropshot off a first serve before? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Was it first serve or second serve?  
 
Q. Yeah, first serve. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: First serve, I don't think so (smiling). No, I was feeling great on the court, you know. Really controlling the match very well. It's also easier when you're ahead, you know, to start doing different things. Once you have the break, you know, it makes it a little easier. So, you know, I tried --  
 
Q. You dropped just four points on your service. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: In the first set?  
 
Q. In the whole match. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: In the whole match? That's pretty good (laughing). Yeah, I didn't know. I just got the stats. So, yeah, that's good. I mean, I've been serving very well, following that serve, coming in, you know, especially on the first serve, and being very effective on the second serve as well. So, yeah. But, again, very great match. I mean, very good match. Nothing really much to say about that. It's just hope, you know, that I'll keep going like this and keep having these feelings on the courts.  
 
Q. You were very effective again coming to the net. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yep.  
 
Q. Do you feel that might be the added weapon you need? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I think so, especially on the grass, you know. That's what I did last year and a few years ago also when I reached the semis. So I think it's important. Even though the grass is pretty slow, it's still effective to get in, to really put some pressure on the opponent and make sure that you make her make the pass. So, you know... And, again, when you're serving well, then it makes it of course very easier to come in and volley.  
 
Q. Are you bothered too much about the way other people might be talking when people mention about potential champions and perhaps you're not mentioned in there? But anybody who saw you today, maybe that changed their mind. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Yeah, well, I don't really, you know, pay attention. It's good, you know, if the focus is not on me, if the attention and the expectations are on other players, you know. It's fine with me. I just do it my way. I know I'm playing good on this surface, and I'm looking forward for the next one.  
 
Q. You were fine on Court 2 today? No problems with that? It is known as the "Graveyard of the Champions." 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Oh, well, I had some good matches on that court, actually. Last year also I played some great matches. So, you know, for me, it's fine. It's a good one.  
 
Q. Could be the making of a champion. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: We'll see (laughing).  
 
Q. With all the attention you get at the French, how does that compare coming here? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Oh, it's very quiet for me coming here, you know. It's very different. I guess it's like, you know, Tim at the French and then coming here is very different for him. So, you know, it's a lot of pressure coming down after the French and also the attention is on, as I just said, you know, on other players, especially maybe on the men's side on Tim Henman. So, you know, I'm doing great with that. I'm doing good like this.  
 
Q. That would be a preference? Would that be a preference of yours... 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Being here, very quiet?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: Well, so far I've been doing better here than at the French, so it's obviously I'm feeling much better here. Also the fact that it's coming right after the French Open, you know. I take it very differently from maybe even the US Open or the Australian Open. So it's usually coming after, you know - for the last few years - after disappointment in Paris. So, you know, taking things very differently here.  
 
Q. You're such a good player. Do you believe one day you will be a Grand Slam champion? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I hope so, you know. That's why I keep working, I keep playing. And I think I can do it, you know. Of course I think that; otherwise, I'm not sure I would still play (smiling).  
 
Q. Have you looked at the draw at all and who your potential opponents might be? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: No. I know the next round. I know that Perry won. So that's all I know.  
 
Q. Do you know much about her at all? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I've played against her in doubles only, never in singles. I watched a little bit of the second set that she played today against Tanasugarn. You know, she seemed to be coming in also a lot and serving pretty big serves. So we'll see.  
 
Q. Do you sort of look at the draw and think, "Maybe I might get her in later rounds, or get her," or do you just have to take each match? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: I take it each match, actually, depending. But this year I haven't looked at the draw at all.  
 
Q. Until the final? 
 
 AMELIE MAURESMO: (Smiling).  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT