UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2012
Mike Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Mike Davis.   

Q.   Mike, how much pride do you take in making spectacular catches?   Is there an art to it? 
MIKE DAVIS:   Well, this year I always had it in my mind to just be aggressive to the ball.   When the ball goes up, I just be like, Yes, ESPN.   I have the mentality like when the ball in the air, make a spectacular catch.   I do it in practice, one-on-ones, just taking the ball.   

Q.   Did you feel like a bird going up for that thing, catching that ball?   
MIKE DAVIS:   I don't even know (laughter).   I just know Ash threw a great ball, enough air on it where I could jump and get the ball.   It feels pretty nice.   

Q.   Mack mentioned a year ago if you dropped a ball, your head would have gotten down, you wouldn't have been able to recover as well.   Now you're a different player.   Can you talk about the maturity you've grown in that area.   
MIKE DAVIS:   I agree.   Last year a lot of things were going through my mind.   I really wasn't as focused as I am right now.   
Like now I can have a short-term memory.   If I mess up on a play, drop a pass, I forget it right then and there, just keep playing.   When the next ball come to me, I catch it.   
I think since last year, I matured a lot, have grown a lot.   I've become like really focused.   So, I mean, not everything going to be perfect.   

Q.   As an offensive guy, when you see West Virginia gave up 63 points, does that make you excited for this game? 
MIKE DAVIS:   Yeah, as receivers we see that and we like, Wow.   We might with do it, too.   But I don't put nothing in the past.   West Virginia is a good team.   Offense is really good, defense is really good.   Our offense and defense are really good.   It will just be a really great battle.   

Q.   Mike, your career has had some ups and downs.   When you look at D.J. Monroe and see a guy that has been around for five years looking for his niche, excels in the moment, what does that show you when he excels? 
MIKE DAVIS:   D.J. has been like a driven player.   Always confident, tough.   He really runs like he's 200 pounds.   He's just been doing great this year.   I like how he playing.   

Q.   Everybody is talking about West Virginia's offense.   Can you talk about UT's offense.   
MIKE DAVIS:   Really, they can talk about what they want to.   That's what they going to do anyways.   I don't blame them.   
Our offense has grown.   Our offense is clicking now.   But it really doesn't surprise me they're talking about West Virginia because they've been doing a great job.   They're a great team.   We'll just see Saturday how everything goes and outcomes.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Mike.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT