LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 11, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A nice 4-under round today.  How did you feel walking off the course?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Awesome.  The wind was very strong today, quite challenging, especially on the back nine.  But I was able to make a couple par saves to keep myself in it and make birdie putts when I could.
I'm happy, and hopefully I can just do something similar the next few days.
Q. Bogey-free, right, on a day like this when the wind is blowing; is that even more satisfying?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  I made a lot of clutch ten-footers inside for par, which really keeps my round going, keeps momentum, which is really nice.
Like I said, I hit ball really well and gave myself a lot of birdie opportunities, and I was able to make four of them.
Q. Is there anything you key in on when the wind is blowing?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I just try to hit it a little bit lower.  Brit is really good at calculating yardages usually into the wind or downwind, so we try to rely on each other a little bit and just try to play as smart as we can.
Once we pick a number, then we try to commit to it.
Q. You took pretty good advantage of the par-5s today.  I think three birdies there.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think I so.  The par-5s are key here.  If you can get them close to the green in two it's definitely as advantage.  1 and No. 5 I was able to do that.
Back nine was playing into the wind so I wasn't able to get them close, but I still able to birdie.
Q. How long was that putt just now?  About ten feet?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, that's really -- it feels good, because minus-3 compared to minus-4 is a big difference.  It's only one shot, but it's a couple places on the leaderboard, and also gives me that little bit more confidence going into tomorrow.
Q. I wanted to ask you about the ribbon or your visor.  I talked to Alena earlier today.  Our sympathies of course go out to everyone, but what does it mean to you to be able to wear the ribbons on your hat today?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, to be able to honor them and to remember those that have passed away and all the survivors that are fighting for their life and overcoming the injuries that they had there.  It was pretty terrible what happened.
They're in my thoughts and prayers.
Q. Hockey has always been such a big part of your life, I know.  Tell us a little bit about your hockey background.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I loved playing hockey growing up.  I think it gave me a lot of mental strength and a lot of physical strength as well.  The teammates and the friends that I made there I'll have for life.
So, you know, when you see something like that, when they lose their closest friends, it's really touching.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT