LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 12, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another bogey-free round for you.  Playing quite well this week.  How are you feeling?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Good.  Yeah, today was a lot of fun.  Got off to a really fast start:  4-under through I think eight or seven holes, which is really nice.   
Again, I made a lot of clutch par saves to kind of keep the momentum and keep it bogey-free, which is always awesome.   
I feel like I'm in a great spot obviously at the top, but I feel like I'm hitting the ball really well and I can depend on my putting right now, which is a big key for me when I'm playing well.   
 Q.  Feel like the course played any differently this morning than it did yesterday afternoon?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: A little bit easier just because the wind wasn't as strong early, and a little bit softer conditions which always helps as well.   
 Q.  Did you feel any rain at all?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: We did a little bit.  Fortunately didn't rain too hard.  Again, just helped with the softness of the course.   
 Q.  Given the winds and the rain and everything else, are you surprised you're bogey-free for two days?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, I have to thank my putter for that, which is a really nice feeling.  That's kind of where I've struggled early this year when I haven't played my best.   
I feel like really confident right now the way I'm putting it.  I'm seeing the line, which is always nice as well.   
 Q.  Does it help when Inbee is kind of blowing through bogey-free, too?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  You know, it was a lot of fun with my group, Inbee and Bronte.  Inbee is playing great, so I think that kind of pushes both of us to play a little bit better.   
 Q.  Were you able to play a little bit more aggressively today with the wind a little bit down, course a little bit softer?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, a little bit.  I think, you know, going birdie-birdie to start allowed me to be kind of more aggressive, knowing that I already made up two shots, which is good.   
You know, on this back nine - I guess the front nine for the regular course - but I started to not be as aggressive, kind of laid back a little bit.  I kind of got into more trouble, so I went back to my aggressive ways.   
 Q.  Take us through the par-3.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I was just trying to get good pace on it.  It was a little bit tricky putt, but read it perfectly and it went in.  Just kind of a bonus.   
 Q.  Longest putt you made today?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Probably that one on 8.  It was only 21 feet so wasn't super far, but it was a good putt.   
 Q.  Longest par putt?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I would say probably around ten feet.   
 Q.  Is that your sister caddying for you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yes.   
 Q.  Does that help you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I love it.   
 Q.  No bickering?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: No bickering.  No, she's really good to me and she does a really good job as well.  I know I can depend on her, which is great feeling, especially when it's super windy.  I can trust her judgment.   
 Q.  You played well here the last couple years.  Did you come in with any different ideas?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I knew what worked the past years; I was just trying to go with that.  There are a lot of birdie opportunities out here; it's a really fun course.   
Just tried to be stress-free, kind of more relaxed, and just try to chase after some birdies.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) said with a couple changes might be even a little bit easier than...  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  You know, visually I think it made it look a little bit easier with the par-3 12 and I think No. 3.  They took bunkers out of the back.  Just makes it look a little bit more open.   
 Q.  Do you have any carryover from hockey?  Is there anything you take from that?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, absolutely.  Mentally I got a lot of strength from that growing up.  I was a goalie and everybody kind of depends on you.  So you're either the hero or you're far from it.   
You know, mentally I really developed really fast I think that way mand physically as well, carrying around all that heavy equipment and skating with my teammates.   
It was a lot of fun growing up and I kind of miss it a little bit.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, yeah.  You know, like off-ice training, practice on ice, and then playing three times a week or so, it's a lot.   
 Q.  Was it hard to give it up?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: It was a little bit, but I was better at golf and it's worked out, so...   
 Q.  When did you actually give it up?  How old were you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I was 14.  Same year I made Canada's National Team and my first LPGA event.   
 Q.  (Regarding national team in hockey and golf.)  
BROOKE HENDERSON: No, just golf.   
 Q.  How far did you go?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I played my first year midgets.   
 Q.  Did you make like regional teams or...  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I just played for like my town of Smiths Falls team, but we won (indiscernible) one year, which was pretty cool.   
 Q.  Any regrets at all since you gave up hockey?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: No.  Like I said, it's kind of worked out pretty well with the golf.  I'm living my dream out here on the LPGA.   
 Q.  How big was hockey in your hometown?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's huge.  We have 9,000 people and we have three hockey rinks, so...   
Yeah, it's pretty cool.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  How did you first get into it?  Because of your father?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yep.  My dad played goalie for University of Toronto, and also for the Ottawa 67s for a little bit too, which was pretty awesome.   
Then I was actually a figure skater and they needed a goalie for the hockey team, so I switched over the next year.   
 Q.  How old were you then?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I was eight.   
 Q.  Have any NHL ties or anything?  Any sponsorships?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: No.  I like the Ottawa Senators, but I just like good hockey.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT