HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Seven birdies and no dropped shots, you must be delighted?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  It was a great day out there, a lot of birdies.   I had nine putts on the back nine, which is really awesome, especially for me, so I'm really happy about that.  Just a great day and got up-and-down when I needed to and climbed the leaderboard as much as I did today, I'm very happy on moving day.   
 Q.  Looks like Danielle Kang might drop a shot on 15.  So that brings you slightly closer to the leader.  What is your strategy going in tomorrow if you're three or four shots back?  What will you do?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I mean, hopefully I'm within striking distance going into tomorrow, and just keep doing what I've been doing all week, try it make as many birdies as possible and get off to a fast start.  There's a lot of birdie opportunities, especially the first five holes.  So just get off to a quick start and see what happens after that.   
 Q.  It is hot out there.  Just looking around at your fabulous caddie, even she's taking a bit of time out in the shade?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure, it is extremely hot, so definitely rest a little bit, maybe do a little bit of practice and head back to the hotel pretty early tonight.   
 Q.  You've been on the phone to your dad.  He is your coach and looks after your swing, so does he stay up, because it's 12 hours behind.  Is he watching you now?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  Mom and dad, they stay up all night and rewatch it again in the daytime.  So they are definitely my No. 1 supporters and helping me, even when they are half a warn the world.   
 Q.  How much are you enjoying this Asian Swing?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I love it.  Especially coming here to Singapore, it's one of our favorite places to travel so, and we love this golf course, so yeah, it's a great way to finish off this stretch.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT