HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 22, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Brooke, what a start from you today.  5-under through eight holes.  You were blistering.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, it was a really great start.  Felt good, especially coming out of last week.  I was happy to get a lot of birdies right out of the gate and feel comfortable again.   
Unfortunately gave two back, but I was able to fight pretty hard on the back nine and finish at 5-under.   
 Q.  You mentioned last week.  What was the turnaround for the last couple of days?  What have you been working on?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I've been working with Brit a lot just trying to get my swing back to where it was at the beginning of the year, which is only a few weeks ago.  A lot of things can happen pretty quickly, but we've been able to get it back.   
Like I said, I think just feeling comfortable again knowing that I can make a lot birdies and trusting and being confident.   
 Q.  You're from Canada, but you've spent a lot of time in Florida.  These grainy greens pretty much par for the course for you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, spending a lot time in Florida I've been able to learn all about grain and how to read putts like that.  Coming from Canada I didn't really know much about that, but last few years I've definitely learned a lot.  This heat is pretty similar to Florida.  Actually quite a bit hotter.   
I think that's adjusted for me as well.   
 Q.  Just a couple months ago you were shoveling ice in Canada; your new workout technique.  How is the adjusting to the heat out here?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I did go home and it was so cold and so much snow, but it was a lot of fun.  I would much rather this weather, but it's quite hot out here.   
 Q.  Nice 5-under round; you were 5-under through eight holes.  Got off to a great start.  Were you feeling that confident walking out on the golf course today?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, I made my first birdie on the 2nd hole, and that kind of released a lot of nerves for me.  Then from there, I was able to make four more pretty quickly.   
Coming around the turn I was feeling pretty good.  Made couple mistakes, two bogeys, but I was able to fight back on the back nine and make two more and get it back to 5-under.   
I'm really happy with that for day one.  Hopefully I can do something similar the next few days.   
 Q.  That's the great thing about golf, is when you make a mistake you have the next hole to fix it.  What is your mindset out on the golf course and you get off to a hot start and see maybe some stumbles there in the middle?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I was really confident when making all those birdies, and I felt really comfortable on the golf course again, which I was kind of lacking in the previous week in Australia.  I kind of had some struggles.  I've battled through those the last week or so.   
I feel really good out there again, which is a great feeling for me.  Hopefully tomorrow I can have a lot more birdies and just see what happens.   
 Q.  A question we're going to hear all week is it's really hot out here.  How do you manage the mental side of the game having to balance how your body feels out here in this heat?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it is really hot.  Fortunately this morning there was a lot of cloud cover, which really helps.  Brit and I were starting to pound back the water and just trying to eat as much as we can just so we stay healthy out here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT