SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 29, 2017
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was the highlight of your week in Malaysia?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Probably my final round.  I played my best golf here, and I finally got used to the heat.  It was super hot all week but it was a lot of fun and I really enjoyed being here.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you turned the corner this round?  Last year you had a bit of a struggle.  What was the difference this time?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, last year, I wasn't really feeling the best and kind of struggled all four round.  But I was excited to come back here and excited to see some monkeys, which I did.  To get a solid round like I did right now and to climb the leaderboard is really exciting and makes me really looking forward to the next coming years.   
 Q.  Do you have a favorite hole?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I would say 15 is probably the most memorable hole.  It terrifies me.  I'm so nervous every time I'm on that hole, but it's probably one of the beverage best holes out here.   
 Q.  You were 7-under, no bogeys, all birdies.  Had to be a pretty good day for you.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, the last three rounds I was bogey-free, which is exciting, especially on this golf course.  I feel like when you're hitting it well, you can definitely make birdies and shoot under par.  But when you're not hitting it quite as well, that's when bogeys come into play and a lot of things can happen down the stretch.   
I was really confident in how I was playing and I was just excited to be out there today.  To see putts going in was really awesome, and I'm just trying to use this as momentum going into my last event in Asia this year.   
 Q.  Are you playing next week?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Then Japan, week off Blue Bay, and CME.   
 Q.  How do you get ready for next week?  Won't be nearly as hot next week, but still, it's one big, long stretch for you.  How are you maintaining your pace throughout?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I feel like this stretch has been really good to me.  I'm kind of including New Zealand into it, and starting off with a win was awesome for me.  It gave me a lot of confidence, and to get my second win of the season really meant a lot to me.   
Now I'm just trying to climb leaderboards and get some Top-10 finishes, which hopefully that will happen today.  I had another one in Korea.  So far, so good and hopefully finish strong next week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT