CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 31, 2017
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under on Thursday.  Feel like you just kind of started right back where you left off here?
BROOKE HENDERSON: A little bit.  I would've liked to finish a little bit lower today.  I was 4-under through the front nine and things were going really well.
I tried to make a few more birdies on the back but they just didn't fall.  Hopefully tomorrow I can play a little bit better on that side.
5-under is a great start.  That bunker shot in the fairway on No. 9 really saved my whole round and I am really grateful for that, really happy, and hopefully tomorrow I can just play well again.
Q. How is the course playing compared to years past?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Felt the same.  It's always in amazing condition, and I feel like my strategy here works out really well.  You know, hopefully I can just, like I said, play well the next few days and keep going well.
Q. You've got nine competitive rounds in on this course.  There must be something about this course this fits you more than most places.
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think it just suits my eye.  I love tree-lined courses and I love when -- it's so green everywhere you look.  The grass is very lush, and I love that.
Just playing here I have so many incredible memories from two years ago, last year, and I just try to feed of the energy and adrenaline that I felt over the past couple years.
Q. Can you go through the bunker shot?  How long was the bunker shot?
BROOKE HENDERSON: 157 yards; I hit 7-iron out of the bunker.  It was just really good shot and I'm really happy for it.  (Laughter.)
Q. You got the chance to play with Nancy Lopez in the pro-am yesterday.  What was that experience like?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It was amazing.  She's so cool.  And, you know, a hole-in-one yesterday, to be able to celebrate with her and be able to walk alongside her, hit shots with her, and be on the same team together was awesome.
She's definitely a huge role model to almost every girl out here and really paved the way for LPGA.
Q. Do you try to put the thought of winning a third in a row out of your mind, or is it kind of hard to do that?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think it's just exciting for me to know that I have that opportunity to do that.  Last year I wanted to defend really badly and that was kind of a main goal of mine.
This year I would love to win again, but I know there are a lot of great players in the field this week and I will have to shoot minus-5 or better every single day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT