CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 29, 2017
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: World No. 10 Brooke Henderson here.  Brooke how does it feel to be back in Portland as the two-time defending champion?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's amazing.  You know, this event changed my life two years ago becoming an LPGA Tour member, winning my first event.  To be back here, I have so many great memories.
I played 18 holes, practice round just today, and just walking around I remember certain shots I hit and what they really meant to me.  It's just such a special feeling.
I'm really excited to tee it up on Thursday, and hopefully get off to a fast start again and see if I can contend on Sunday.
THE MODERATOR: What is it about this golf course here that really allows you to play some of your best golf?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, the first year it just set up really well for me.  You know, tree lined, kind of tight.  I had a really good feel for the right angles and where I could hit the ball on the greens, and I felt like my strategy was really good.
I was able to play my best, probably the best I've ever played that week to win my first LPGA Tour event.  Last year I was kind of running off adrenaline.  This year I'm trying to do a mixture of both.
THE MODERATOR: Is a three-peat on your mind this week?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Of course I would love to win here again.  The thing about wins is you can't really force them, though.  You need two get good breaks at the right moments and you need to play your best really to win out here against the best in the world.
Obviously I would love to do it again, but first things first.  I need to play really well on Thursday, Friday, and hopefully move up the leaderboard on Saturday and Sunday.
THE MODERATOR: Circling back to last week, you had your career-best finish at the CP Women's Open.  What was that experience like playing in front of your hometown crowd?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was truly incredible, something that I'll remember for the rest of my life.  It was just such an amazing opportunity to be able to play at home in our nation's capital, Canada's 150th birthday.
Just the people out there supporting me and cheering me on was incredible.  I felt like I tried to embrace it as much as I could.  It was my best finish at a CP Women's Open, and I'm really happy about it.  Hopefully I can just continue to learn from it, because I feel like I built a lot of confidence last week.
THE MODERATOR: It's been two really big weeks in a row for you.  How are you holding up mentally and physically as well?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think two weeks off after the British I kind of was able to relax a little bit and get mentally and physically ready for the upcoming weeks.
Obviously last week was a huge week for me; this week, very big as well.  I would love to be able to perform at my best.  I'm planning on playing next week and the final major of the year in two weeks.
Really busy stretch, but really excited for it.  I feel like my game is in the right spot to be able to compete at all four.
THE MODERATOR: What's it like walking around?  You got some fans; maybe signing autographs around here.  What's it like to be recognized here in Portland?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's amazing.  Like I said, this tournament changed my whole life two years ago.  To see fans out here cheering me on, again -- and, you know, I just saw couple little kids out there, and to see their smiles and want my autograph, it's really inspiring for me.
Hopefully I can continue to inspire this week and play really well and have lots of fans come on my side as well.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Brooke?
Q. (No microphone.)
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I'm super excited to be back here.  Such an important and special tournament to me.  Cambia has been a great sponsor the last two years that I've played.  I feel like my sister getting the sponsor exemption in 2015 and I Monday qualified, there are just so many special things that happened here.  I'm really excited to tee it up on Thursday and hopefully do it all over again.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Brooke.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT