CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 26, 2017
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, today was great.  I felt pretty good right from the start.  I was a little shaky on No. 1 but made par.  Got two birdies right away on 2 and 3.  I felt really good today.  I felt like I could make something happen, and I made putts that I didn't even know I could make, and I made shots that were just great.
To have these fans out here supporting me the whole way and cheering for me.  The biggest crowds I've ever played in front of, and I know they're all out here for me, so that makes it even more special.
Q. (Inaudible) just having the pressure on, did that help?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, absolutely.  Having the cut out of the way kind of gave me a little bit of a scare yesterday, being so close and almost not even playing the weekend.  So I knew I had to get going.  Today is moving day, so it was very -- I moved, that's for sure(laughing).
Q. The leaders will go off and kind of stretch the lead out in front of you.  But do you look at tomorrow like I could have a chance to win it?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, to be tied second right now is great.  I know when they tee off they're going to go probably pretty low today.  It is gettable.  But hopefully I won't be too far behind, and I can have another solid round and kind of give myself a chance tomorrow.  Maybe that miracle will happen.
Q. Have you shot this low out here before?
BROOKE HENDERSON: 63 I think is my lowest round ever on the LPGA Tour.  I might have tied it one other time.  Then here I've never actually kept score, so I don't know.  But you know, I think everything was going right today.  I hit the ball really well.  I made a lot of putts and that was really key for me.
Q. That par save on 16 was clutch for you?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was.  I was really disappointed with that second shot.  I kind of mentally got in my way there, and then that two-putt, when I went up to it, I was hoping for a two-putt and I was able to get it.  Just kind of fell in the side door there, and then it led to two more birdies on 17 and 18.
Really it was just like the perfect day.  Hopefully tomorrow I can match it and it will be a little better.
Q. The crowds that have been here the first three days, now that you're possibly going into contention on Sunday, what do you expect it to be like here tomorrow?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Crazy, crazy.  But I'm super excited for it.  Hopefully it does live up to the expectation, and hopefully I can play well enough to keep their interest and see what happens.
Q. Is that the biggest crowd of the week so far?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think so.  Coming up 18 I kind of just took a peek around and I didn't see any green grass outside of the ropes.  Everybody was everywhere.  So it's such an incredible feeling.  Being so close to home makes this week so much more special.
Q. You have been in this position before, of course, but any different preparation for a Sunday being at home here?
BROOKE HENDERSON: No.  You know, I know I have to play my own game, and I kind of learned that after the first round.  I was a little bit shaky, and I kind of let them get in my way a little bit.  But I love big crowds, I love when I'm playing well, and I can kind of ride with them and have their support with me.  So going into tomorrow, I'm going to do everything I do, just like every other week on the LPGA Tour, and just hopefully things go my way.
Q. What did you get up to last night?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I don't even remember.  It was pretty late.  We just had dinner and I went to bed right after.
Q. I'm pretty sure that's the lowest round anyone has shot at this tournament this week.  How does that feel to just put together the best round that anyone's seen so far?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was just like the perfect day.  Like I said, I hit the ball extremely well.  Mentally I was right on.  I felt in the zone as a lot of athletes call it.  I felt like I was in the best place of mind for me to play my best.  That's always a great feeling.  Shots I was hitting them close and making putts and making a lot of birdies.  I guess, eight birdies today.  On 18 holes of golf, that's pretty good.
Q. Seemed like you were having more fun too.  Laughing more, smiling a bit more?
BROOKE HENDERSON: That comes when you play better (laughing).
Q. Is there a sense that it's important to have your name up there on the leaderboard before the leaders tee off?  Now they've seen what you've done.  They kind of see you climbing up behind them.  When you're in the lead and you see a marquis player post a low number, does that give you a sense of they're coming for it?
BROOKE HENDERSON: A little bit, yeah.  It also shows that the course is very scorable today.  So they'll probably go low and I probably won't be as close to the top as right now, but I'm trying to embrace it right now and soak it in.  Then kind of use that as motivation for tomorrow that hopefully I can get back into this spot or one better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT