RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2017
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN CALLANDER: Good afternoon again.  We have Brooke Henderson with us.
Thank you very much for coming here this afternoon.  You were out in some fairly horrendous weather this afternoon, must have coloured your view of the course a bit, did it.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was pretty crazy but I also feel like it was good to start it early in the week and kind of get prepared for this week.  I've forgot my rain pants today, so I'll make sure they are in the bag for tomorrow.
But you know, I've seen the course twice now and very different conditions.  You know, yesterday, a lot of sun and very windy, and then today not much wind but lots of rain.  So I feel like that it's good preparation for later in the week.
COLIN CALLANDER: And does the course suit your eye from what you've seen so far?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I really like it.  In the past I haven't necessarily played that well on links-style golf courses, but I feel that I've kind of worked hard leading into it on different shots that I might need to hit and kind of prepared that way.  I feel better prepared this week and seeing the golf course, I feel if I can hit solid tee shots and get myself in good positions, then I'll make it a little bit easier to shoot even or maybe even under par.
Q. Can you just talk us through your experience of playing links golf, and is it sort of the type of golf that it caught your eye right away?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I played my first British Amateur in 2012 at Carnoustie, and two years ago, my first Open Championship at Turnberry.
So I've had a few goes at links golf and it is very different from what I normally play, but I feel like I just continue to get a little bit better at it and understand how to play it a little bit better.  You know, hitting different shots than I normally do, keeping the ball lower to the ground, feeling a little more stable with putting.  Sometimes when the wind blows, I feel a little bit off balance, so I just kind of tried to prepare myself for that this week.
This is a great golf course, beautiful views.  So that will definitely calm me throughout the round I think, just looking over the ocean.  But hopefully this will be my week and I can start out strong on Thursday and finish it off on Sunday.
Q. Carnoustie is quite an introduction.  Is that a good course to play first?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think so.  Like you said, it was a very big and very good introduction.  Really taught me exactly what links golf is all about.  Some of those bunkers there were the deepest I've ever seen.  You know, I really like it over here.  It's very different but it's really exciting and so hopefully I can play well this week.
COLIN CALLANDER: Do you more comfortable now hitting low shots and some of the shots you need to on links?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think so.  I've pride to work on my short game a little bit to prepare for the rolling greens and maybe not quite as fast as some of the greens we play in the US but definitely like the style of greens and low shots in the fairway, I've always tried to work on my knockdowns and hopefully those will come out this week.
COLIN CALLANDER: Is there anything about this course that particularly fits your game?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think there's holes that definitely you need to make birdie on.  Those other holes where if you make par, you're good, and you kind of move on.
So I'll work through a strategy tonight and tomorrow and hopefully when I step on the tee Thursday, I'll know those holes inside out and be able to perform my best.
Q. You've had some rare time off.  How did you spend your time, and anything that you work on with your game after Marathon?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, nice to go home and kind of rest up a little bit.  It was a true week off.  I didn't have any sponsor commitments or media.
So yeah, it was kind of good resting and spending time with family and friends that I haven't seen in a little while, practising and trying to get ready for this week, and also the Canadian Open which is in two weeks and Portland the week after.
So I have almost three majors coming up for me.  So that's kind of big preparation.  So I feel like that rest last week will really help me mentally strong as well as physically ready to compete over the next month or so.
Q. As you said, you were resting last week.  Did you watch any of The Scottish Open, and was there part of you thinking, thank goodness I'm not there, or that could have been good practise?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I did watch some of it.  I think Saturday I watched the most and that's when the horrible weather hit.  I'm glad I wasn't there to experience that, but having said that, I feel like the girls coming from there will kind of know what to expect a little bit this week and are ready and prepared.  But I feel like I'm just as prepared and ready to go, and I'm excited to get started.
Q. Was it because of the Canadian -- you felt you had to have a gap because last year you played every event --
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I did play a lot last year, almost every event.  This year I just wanted to space it out a little bit better.  So I just played four weeks in a row, and two of those were majors.  So I figured I would take last week off and make sure I was ready for this week.
COLIN CALLANDER: Brooke, thank you very much and good luck this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT