MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 18, 2017
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: It's my pleasure to welcome in Brooke Henderson, Rolex Rankings No. 8, four-time LPGA winner, including already this season.  Brooke, how are you doing?  Welcome back to Marathon.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Thank you.  I'm excited to be back here.  I started out really well at this tournament last year, and I didn't play quite as well on the weekend, so hopefully this year I can start out strong again and then finish strong, hopefully put myself in contention on Sunday.
THE MODERATOR: Have you had a chance to practice, and what are your thoughts on the golf course here?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I played nine holes today and then I'll play an 18-hole pro-am tomorrow.  Things are looking good.  With some of the new changes, it's different, and you need to see it, which always makes it a little bit more challenging for us to kind of get used to things, and it makes it exciting for everybody, including the fans, so I think it'll make for a great week.
THE MODERATOR: You're coming off a T-13 finish at the U.S. Women's Open last year.  It was your 14th top 25 of the season.  How are you feeling about your game?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, things have really gotten better since I won Meijer a few weeks ago.  My world ranking came back down, and it gave me a lot of confidence moving forward for the rest of the summer.  I played great last week, as well.  I would have liked to have finished a little better, but any time that you're shooting under par and finishing strong in majors, it definitely gives you a lot of confidence.  Going into this week, it's definitely a great opportunity for me to have another solid finish with the British Open in two weeks, which is something that I'm really looking forward to, along with the Canadian Open, which is almost like a sixth major for me on the LPGA Tour.
There's lots of great golf left, and I feel like every week my game is just improving a little bit, and mentally I'm just getting a little bit stronger.
Q. How have things evolved as far as getting used to the grind or being able to play week to week?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's definitely been a learning curve.  I'm kind of getting used to the tournaments that I really like and getting used to schedule wise and as you said, kind of getting used to the lifestyle out on Tour because it's very different.  Although it's only my second full season, I feel like I've been out here for a really long time, and I kind of understand where my limits are with practice, rest, and I feel like I'm really getting a grip on things, and like you said, I feel like a veteran because I'm kind of picking and choosing events that I want to go to, and kind of practice wise and schedule wise, time management, I'm really getting a lot better at it, and I feel like it's helping me perform a little better.
Q. How does having your sister on the bag help you on and off the course?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I love having my sister as my caddie.  She also does a lot of work for me booking hotels and flights and everything, so she's a big asset to my game.  She's my best friend, my sister.  We spend tons of time together, so we know each other really well, and I feel like it helps me be successful out on the golf course.
Q. The age difference between the two of you, did you kind of grow up different?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, absolutely.  There's six and a half years between us, so I was always trying to follow in her footsteps, always trying to be just like her, and then now to be doing this journey together every single week out on the LPGA Tour is really kind of a dream come true.
Q. You had such a good year in 2016; how do you assess this year as far as your performance?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, last year was really exciting getting down to No. 2 in the world, and I had a lot of really good things going for me, defending in Portland, playing in my first Olympic Games, and winning my first major, so it was really like a highlight year.  I definitely had a lot of expectations going into this year, and winning at Meijer a few weeks ago really helped put some of those expectations -- kind of checked them off a little bit and kind of get back to -- when and how I play great golf is kind of when I'm a little bit more relaxed but still demanding a lot of myself.  I feel like I really learned a lot over the last few months, and I feel like moving forward, I'm in a really good place, being able to challenge for some more titles before the end of this year.
Q. A lot of top players in the field this week; why did you decide to come play this tournament on the heels of a major?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I've been playing really solid golf, and I feel like my game is in a great place, and I'm just kind of trying to ride the momentum through and see if I can get some top finishes.  I'm going to take an extra week off, so my next event is the British Open, so I'm trying to think of this as a gear-up and kind of get ready for it.
Q. (Question on dress code.)
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, it doesn't really affect me too much.  I wear long pants and tee shirts, so for me it doesn't really matter, but maybe some of the other girls will pay a little more attention.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT