SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 3, 2020
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Brooke, nice 6-under par 65.  How good did it feel to put that up on moving day?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, being moving day I wanted to make a lot of birdies and try to climb up the leaderboard as much as possible, so it was nice to get off to a pretty fast start, I think five birdies in my first nine holes.
Tried keep going on the back and nice to finish with one there on 18.
Q. How different did the course play today?  Looked maybe a little less windy.
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, for sure.  It was definitely a little bit less windy, and then playing in the morning it was a little bit softer as well, which was nice.
Felt like it was definitely scorable, so it was nice that Brit and I were able to take advantage of that.
Q. How much of this week has been about - obviously you want to do your best here - but also fine tuning your game for next week?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, absolutely.  Next week being a major is really exciting, and you f definitely want your game to be in a good spot heading into next Thursday.  I feel like preparing for that in the back of my mind, but also trying to post some good scores here and climb up the leaderboard.
Hopefully I can do that tomorrow.
Q. How much of an effort like today will it tomorrow to continue to climb the leaderboard and make a run?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I think if I can continue to make as many birdies as I did today and continue to hit the ball in good spots, I feel like Brit have done a good job of judging the conditions, especially the wind, so hopefully give ourselves a lot good looks for birdie and hopefully I can continue to climb.
Q. Were the first two days and where you felt your game was at kind of lead to you getting out there and saying, This is what I can definitely do today?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, first two days I didn't really score as well as I felt like I was actually hitting it.  I didn't make as many putts.
Today I kind of made some putts that I wasn't expecting to make, so it was a little bit of a bonus.  Evens out, but hopefully tomorrow I can continue to make all those putts that I made today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT