KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2017
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What is it about title defenses that make you such a strong player?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I don't know.  You know, I love being here at the KPMG women's, and I had a great group today with me and Alison.  3-under today, I got hot on the back nine.  I was going to try to take it a day at a time and see what happens, but I'm in a great spot right now, so I'm really excited.
Q. What was the key to the round?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It wasn't anything special starting out.  It was nice to make that par save on No. 4.  That was special.  My round really wasn't, but that was.  I was able to make a few more long putts throughout the day which is really nice.  To get three birdies on the back nine with zero bogeys was great, and you know, it gave me a lot of good momentum and a lot of confidence on those tough finishing holes where I was able to make a great par save on 17 and then birdie on 18.
So overall, I'm really happy with that day, minus three on this tough course, and these tough conditions.  You know, it's a great way to start out this championship.
Q. Are you a streaky putter?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I don't -- I wouldn't like to call it that.  But sometimes with golf, you're making everything, and then sometimes you don't.  And you've really got to always believe in yourself and always be confident with your putter, because that's really where you score and where you make up shots on the rest of the field.  It is kind of up-and-down, but I'm just hoping I'm on a high right now.
Q. How challenging is the wind out there?  It picked up.
BROOKE HENDERSON: It did.  With the morning tee time, I was really hoping it would be quiet and I kind of would get out before the wind started, but it started a few holes in, and we really had to re-adjust and just stay patient in the wind, because it is really tough, and it swirls at times and it gusts at times.  So you've just got to really get a good number and then be confident with it.
Q. Anything extra on your shoulders this week as defending champion?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, the way I've been looking at it is there's 156 players in the field this week, the top hundred in the world here.  Anybody can win this championship.  Of course I would love to do it again, but you know, it's a different golf course and it's a different year.
Everything's different, but I gave myself a great round today.  Hopefully if I can continue to do that over the next three days, I think I have a great chance.
Q. As far as your game off the tee, there's a couple fairway bunkers but you were able to carry those.
BROOKE HENDERSON: I hit my driver great at times and I hit a couple loose ones.  But like you said, I was able to carry a couple fairway bunkers, which is huge, because not a lot of players are able to do that.  I was able to take them out of play and then give myself a short shot into the greens.
Again, hopefully I can do that over the next three days, and you know, hopefully just hit a few more fairways tomorrow.
Q. What's it like having your sister on the bag?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's awesome.  She's my best friend, my caddie, my sister, and it's just, it's amazing to go through this journey together.  I grew up always looking up to her, always trying to follow in her footsteps, and now we're trying to do this incredible career together.  So I think it's something really special.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT