KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2017
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I thought you did a great job of adjusting to the changing conditions after the rain delay, because it looked like the greens slowed down and your putter just caught fire.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  It was a lot different than it was yesterday.  The balls are holding.  No wind; I couldn't carry some bunkers today with my driver.  The fairways were holding, as well, and the greens slowed down, like you said.  It was a different golf course out there today.   
But it was nice not having the wind swirling around all the time, and like you said, I made a lot of putts to keep myself in it today.  Then made one or two putts when I really needed it to get me under par.  So great day overall.   
 Q.  What did you have in on 18 to set up the eagle?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I hit my hybrid, so it was like 197 pin and I was just trying to land it over the front, which I did, and was able to knock it in.   
 Q.  Ten feet?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was nine feet.   
 Q.  Is 18 you think a really important hole because it's so scorable?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Absolutely.  And it kind of gives you a little bit of confidence, because coming through 17, you tend to lose a lot of it.  Then you know that you have a chance to get one stroke back or hopefully two if you play it right.   
 Q.  But does that mean 17, like a par there, just feels even better?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, 17 is a really tough hole.  And I haven't played it quite right yet.  Yesterday wasn't a great tee shot.  Hopefully tomorrow I can get that tee shot on the green.  Then it's not necessarily an easy 2-putt, but you're looking better for par, if you can just at least hit the green there.   
 Q.  Got to like where you sit, 2-under today, get yourself near the lead going into the weekend of a major championship.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's been a great last two days.  I would have liked to have seen one or two of those putts fall on 8 and 9 there, but I gave myself great opportunities, and that's all you can do around here.  So hopefully my putter stays hot and keeps me in it over the next two days, and hopefully I have a chance on Sunday.   
 Q.  Now you're ready for whatever conditions Olympia Fields presents; you've seen it all pretty much the first two days.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: For sure.  I was glad to see that storm pass and it became beautiful outside.  Hopefully it will be two good days and hopefully the wind won't be too strong.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT