MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
June 11, 2017
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What did you think about your day and the tournament?  Can you sum up maybe what some of your problems were?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, today was a really tough day.  Conditions were extremely difficult.  You know, the wind was blowing.  The greens dried out.  The fairways dried out as well.  You had to pick different lines and land the ball 15 yards short sometimes of the pin, which we're not necessarily used to.   
So it took a lot of patience out there and a lot of consistency with your shots.  You know, I did that pretty well.  Obviously a little bit disappointed.  But T11, I can't complain too much.   
I feel like my game is so close to being so, so great.  I make eagle there on 16 and that could have changed my day completely.  I was 2-under at that point.  Maybe I make a birdie coming in, and then all of a sudden I'm in the top 10 and I don't get questions like that.   
 Q.  I didn't mean it that way, but you were struggling with your putter a bit.  Do you think that could have been a difference for you this week if it had worked better?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, absolutely.  I missed a lot of putts today.  I know in the middle of the round I kind of got it going a little bit, which was nice.   
But, yeah, putts starting to fall, that's usually who the winner is.  I haven't seen Lexi play this week, but I bet she's making a lot of putts.  That's what you need to do if you want to be on top.   
 Q.  Your best finish here.  Congrats.  How does it feel to get it done in front of the home crowd?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, definitely nice to have a better finish than I have the last few years.  It's always been a tough week for me; a lot of commitments.  I love seeing the fans out there and they really showed me so much support over the last four days.   
It's really been an incredible week, and hopefully I can build on this and get ready for CP Women's Open later this summer.   
 Q.  How much would you miss this tournament if it's the last one?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, it's very sad to see a tournament in Canada go away, but hopefully somebody else can pick it up.  I feel like there is a spot for it in women's golf.  It's growing in Canada.  Alena is right up there on the leaderboard; Brittany Marchand and myself are all within -- I would say a couple strokes off the lead, but not quite.   
But I feel like there is definitely a great opportunity for a sponsor and some people to pick it up in this area.   
Hopefully that's the case.   
 Q.  When you struggle with the putter, what's your approach?  How do you address it?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, it comes and goes a little bit.  You got to stay patient and you got to work hard on it.   
I'll work hard on the putting green over the next few days and hopefully in Meijer I'll play a little bit better.   
 Q.  Do you ever contemplate equipment changes as far as that goes?  Switch out the putter?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  I've switched five or six times this year already, so I'm searching.  A lot of golfers switch all the time.  Just trying to find that spark.   
A little bit of a lesson, but hopefully I'll find something here in the next few weeks because this is kind of the best part of our season with four majors coming up pretty soon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT