MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
June 9, 2017
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good round for you today.  How did you feel walking off the golf course?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Great.  You know, that was the day that I needed.  To get it early in the round -- you know, I was I guess 5-under through 12 holes, so I knew I could make a few more birdies hopefully, or just par in and have a great round.   
So it was really exciting.  The fans were amazing today, even more than yesterday.  Walking up 18 I just kind of took a look around and it was all red and white.  It was really incredible.   
 Q.  Did you adjust your game plan at all before today's round?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, I played really well yesterday.  I hit a lot great shots; I just didn't make any putts and my energy kind of dropped a little bit.   
Today I was able to get a few tap-in birdies that were only at three or four feet, and that gave me a lot of confidence.  I felt like I could make any putt out there.   
I rubbed even more edges today, so it could have been a lower score, but I'm really happy with 5-under.  Hopefully on the weekend I can climb up a little bit more.   
 Q.  You had a bogey on No. 2 or 3 was it?  Were you thinking, Uh-oh?  Is that when you decided to bear down a little bit more maybe?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think definitely beared down after that.  It was just playing really tough.  I think Shanshan bogeyed it as well.  Just a tough hole today that early in the morning.   
But going back to even and knowing that the cut was at even, I knew I needed to kick it into gear or it could be a rough weekend.   
 Q.  That is one thing you're known for, the ability to grind it out when you have to.  You must be very proud, especially after that bogey, the way grinded it out?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, absolutely.  Like I said, I was hitting the ball extremely well; just the putts weren't dropping.   
That was kind of the case on 2 as well.   
To get it going again, and like you said, kind of grind it out while things were kind of tough, I'm really happy and feel like it was kind of a special day today.   
 Q.  Was it just a touch thing with the putting?  You missed some short ones yesterday that you probably usually would drop.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, absolutely.  My putting hasn't been perfect the past few weeks, that's for sure, but it is a lot of energy.  Once you know you can make them you tend to make them all day long.   
If you miss a few then your energy usually drops and you usually start rubbing edges.  That kind of when you get the even or minus one rounds like I had yesterday.   
 Q.  What about the mindset last night?  How easy is it for you to shake off the round?  What were you feeling, thinking last night?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: That's the learning curve and I'm still working on that.  I still take them pretty tough sometimes.  But coming back with a day like today is really important and teaching me that it's only one round; the cut is two rounds; and the tournaments is four.   
It's not the end of the world when you make a mistake on the first day.   
 Q.  What do you turn to, Brooke, when you do have a round that's a little more frustrating?  You talk to your sister?  Your dad?  Coach?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, it's really a family effort.  I'm really fortunate to have my parents travel with me, and my sister as well.  Last night I talked to my dad -- who's also my coach -- and my sister, and they said that I hit it great.   
That gave me a lot of confidence.  Like I said, having those three- or four-footers that I knew I had to make, and when I made them it put a smile to my face and made me aware that I could have possibly a minus 7 round, which was kind of what I was chasing after.   
 Q.  What's it like to see all these people dressed in red and raising awareness and funds women's heart health?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, unfortunately I couldn't find my red shirt today, but I put a ribbon and I tried to wear as much red as I had in my suitcase.   
It's amazing the amount of people that wore red today for St. Mary's and for the women that we love.  I think it's extremely important to raise awareness, so I'm really happy.  The outcome was really spectacular.   
 Q.  Great to see the game of golf can help a great cause and help put things in perspective, that lives out there are being affected or helped by this.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, absolutely.  That's the thing about the game of golf:  You can do so many incredible things with it.  That's something that as I've become more popular I realize that I can influence a lot of things.   
Having St. Mary's be a part this tournament I think is really huge, and hopefully we can raise as much money as possible.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT