HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 5, 2017
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Strong finish, 6-under.  You must be delighted with that?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure, I got off to a great start, 5-under through nine holes, and only one birdie on the back.  But I gave myself a lot of great chances today and I was able to capitalise on a lot of them.  It was nice to see my name up on the leaderboard, so hopefully over the next few weeks I'll see more of that.   
 Q.  You started eight shots off the lead coming into the final round.  Did you have a target today?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I was trying to get to 16, but I was an outside chance and I got to 14, so I'm pretty happy.   
 Q.  Tell us what was going through your mind as you saw yourself up on the leaderboard.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was really cool coming around the turn, and even before that, I saw my name starting to climb.  At one point I was tied for the lead I think.   
Would have been nice to finish off with a few more birdies, but I'm happy to finish inside the Top-10 and see more of my name on the leaderboard in future weeks.   
 Q.  You entertained all of us seeing you go up that leaderboard, but is there a tinge of disappointment, as well?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: A little bit I think.  But coming into today, if I would have knew that I would shoot minus six today, I would be extremely happy.  I am, but I think just finishing 1-under on the back is disappointing, but it's okay.   
 Q.  So what's next for you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I'm going to go to Phoenix, have a week off, go to PING headquarters and try some new equipment and the following tournament is in Phoenix, as well.   
 Q.  Did you get to the night safari?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: No, I didn't.   
 Q.  You've had plenty going on, but what an electrifying start to your round.  You were 6-under for the first ten holes.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was a great start today.  Felt like everything was just kind of working.  I was hitting my irons really close and I was able to make a few putts early, which was nice.   
Saw my name climb up the leaderboard, which is always a good thing to see.  A little disappointed on my back nine, only finishing 1-under, but overall, 6-under today, and like I said, see my name up on the leaderboard is important.   
 Q.  How encouraging is that, because by your lofty standards as a Major Champion, only 19 years old; it has not been the most brilliant of starts to 2017.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, exactly, I think this was a real turning point hopefully and I feel like my game has really improved since the start of the season.   
So I'm really looking forward to Phoenix in two weeks and hopefully with the first major of the year coming up, hopefully my game will be right there.   
 Q.  Your golf bag, I know it's very heavy, do you have binoculars?  Because you're going it need that to keep Inbee Park within your sights.  She's playing brilliantly.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I was able to play with her earlier in the week and she was playing great.  It's good to see her back in action.   
 Q.  You got in in just about time, because it's starting to rain now.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I know, I just heard that coming down.  So I'm glad I'm not out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT