HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 2, 2017
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What clicked for you out there today?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, just felt like I finally got it going, and two birdies to finish off 17 and 18 really help out a round.  I feel a lot more calm and relaxed and I felt like good things were going to happen today and I'm happy with a 5-under round.   
 Q.  We've talked a lot about the new golf course.  How are the greens out there, considering that they are so young?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: They are pretty good.  There's a couple ridges and short putts you've got to be a little firmer with to hold the line but I really like the course.  I think it suits my game really well, and I guess hearing from the members and everything, it's a really good change.   
 Q.  So you've got a little bit of local knowledge from the members, did you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Just here and there.   
 Q.  Obviously it worked today.  Are you going to go out and explore any of Singapore with your sister this week?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: We love Singapore.  It's our favourite place that we travel to.  We love it.  Just being in a hotel room and looking out over the city is cool.  Maybe a night safari or something like that.   
 Q.  Solid day, wasn't it?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was.  3-under through the first seven holes I guess, and then bogey on 8 kind of set me back a little bit.  But I was hitting the ball so well and giving my putts really good chances.  I was hoping I would capitalise coming in, and I was able to do that on 17 and 18.   
 Q.  You left a few putts out there.  Do you feel like you could have had a better round?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Maybe, but I made a long putt on No. 1 to save par and a couple others throughout the round.  I think it was -- I'm happy with it.  Of course I would loved to have made more, so maybe tomorrow.   
 Q.  I know you've been working a lot on your putting in the off-season coming into the Asian Swing.  What exactly have you been working on?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, distance control with my wedges, my ball-striking and my putting.  I worked a lot with my dad, who is also my coach, and my sister.  I'm just trying to read putts a little bit better, taking in all the factors, and seeing the front of the hole and seeing the line better.   
 Q.  You were here last year and you played at the Serapong.  What are your thoughts on the new course?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I really like it, and I think it suits my game really well.  Hopefully the next three days will go well, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT