REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
September 30, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Brooke, another great round today.  66 fast becoming your lucky number?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  It was an awesome day today.  I felt like my start was awesome.  Birdied the first 5 through 6 and felt like things were going to be a good day.   
 Q.  How are you finding your time in China?  Spent much time here before?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: No, my first time to China, and it's really cool.  The language, the culture is all very different from back home in Canada.  We've been enjoying it and looking forward to the next five weeks in Asia.   
 Q.  Must be nice to share it with your sister, first-time experience like this?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it is.  It's so cool to have her on the bag.  She's my best friend, and my sister, and we get to travel the world together.   
 Q.  It's a fun dynamic to watch.  Must be hard to manage who makes the cups of tea in the morning.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: (Laughter.)  You know, we're pretty good.  We kind of share the roles.  We just kind of do things together.   
 Q.  66; 7-under par for today.  Eight birdies and one bogey.  Just thoughts, please.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, today was awesome.  I got off to an awesome start starting with a birdie on the 1st hole, par'd the 2nd, and then had quite a few birdies in a row.   
I felt like today could be a good day, which is always a good feeling to have.  One bogey, which kind of set me back a little bit, but then some more birdies on the back nine to get to 7-under, and 14-under par, which is really nice, especially only two days into the championship and I know I have two more days left.   
Really looking forward to it.  Hopefully have two more 7-under rounds.   
 Q.  What's your impression of China?  Have you ever been to China before?  Have you ever been to the Great Wall, the Summer Palace?  Do you like the food?  The language?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, so this is my first time to China.  I've only been to Asia three times, so we're definitely enjoying the experience.  My sister and I, we love to travel and try newer things and see different things, so it's really been really cool the last few days.   
We haven't been able to see the Great Wall up close, but when I was playing my pro-am a few days ago my partner said, Look at that mountain over there.  So I got my laser out and looked at it and you could see.   
 Q.  Oh, to calculate the yardages?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: No.  Just to see it.  Like a telescope.  Made it like big.   
 Q.  All right.  All right.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: You could see the Great Wall.  So I've seen it from really far away but it was really cool.  Hopefully maybe not this time, but some other time we'll be able to go walk it and see it a little bit more up close.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
BROOKE HENDERSON: No.   
 Q.  Not yet.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Not yet.  Just enjoying the really nice resort.   
 Q.  (Regarding gripping down on clubs.)  
BROOKE HENDERSON: So I get down on all my clubs since I was a little girl when I started at three years old.  I just find it a lot more comfortable and a little bit more accurate.   
 Q.  We're talking about your playing partner but not the opponent, just your partners.  Having your sister, will you change that mode or just keep doing that as always, playing with your sister, have her on your bag?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I love having my sister caddie for me and I think we make a great team.  I have had a lot of success this year and I think that's because she is caddying for me.  Like I said before, we're traveling together, she is caddying, and she does a lot of work for me on and off the course.  We're best friends and we're sisters, and it's a lot fun to be able to share it together.   
 Q.  (Question regarding her sister. )  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yes.   
 Q.  Looking at your resume we notice you have the experience of playing hockey right before.  Why you give it up and switch to the game of golf?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I loved playing hockey.  I started when I was eight years old.   
 Q.  Six?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Eight.   
 Q.  Start?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Start.  Then when I was 14 I made Canada's national team for golf and I was playing hockey too.  Just got a little bit too busy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT