MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
September 4, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you describe these past three weeks and this week?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's been incredible, you know, that the fans and the support that I've had is just unbelievable.  I can't even explain it.  And I just can't wait till next year when I'm in the lead and the crowds triple, but no, it was awesome.  And yeah, like even just coming up 18 and seeing how many people were up to watch not only me but all the other girls out here is awesome, and yeah, I'm just excited for next year.   
 Q.  What do you make that 8- to maybe 12-year-old kids are out here and they're saying your name when I've talked to them saying who they were here to see?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  It's awesome.  If I can try to help grow the game or kind of inspire someone to pick up this game, this amazing game, it really makes me feel awesome.  And like you said, they were yelling my name between shots and high 5s at the end of the holes.  And it's just really cool to see and a lot of fun.  And I think about even half these people start to play the game if they didn't before, I think that would be just incredible.   
 Q.  Last three weeks have been really busy for you, in representing Canada.  Are you a little bit tired maybe especially with the warm weather, long sleeves you're wearing?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: They're actually not too bad.  They're pretty cool.  But no, I mean I think maybe a little bit still adrenaline now.  I think having a week off is probably a good thing, going into the last major of the year, rest up, work on my game a little bit, practice hard and hopefully get things to a good spot and hopefully I'll be in contention in this last stretch of tournaments.   
 Q.  What's going to be more important, then, the rest or the little bit of work?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think equally important.  You can only work when you're feeling well, and I got a lot of work ahead of me, but hopefully I'll rest up tomorrow, Tuesday and then start to pick it back up and work hard till I leave on Saturday.   
 Q.  The seasons that you and Alena have had, the Olympics, the crowds that are here and in Calgary, what do you think all this means for women's golf in Canada?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's amazing.  Alena has been playing awesome, and I would like to think I've had a good season, too.  So I think as you can see by these fans and crowds, I mean I didn't have this last year.  I don't think Alena did either.  So you can tell that the game is growing and more and more people are getting involved and watching it, which is really cool and I'm really excited about it, and hopefully either both of us or one of us will be closer to the top of the leaderboard, and I think you'll just see the country come together a little bit more.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT