MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
September 3, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pretty good day overall.  I know it was a bumpy finish at the end, but how do you sum up your round?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I played awesome today, and it was a lot of fun for me.  It's been a little while since I -- I keep saying it, but it's been a little while since I felt that kind of energy and felt like I could really have an awesome score, and I was 5-under through 16 holes and had the whole crowd behind me, and the crowds were amazing today.  You know, unbelievable really, and I just love playing in front of them, and I had a lot of fun today, which again, is kind of newer.  I haven't been enjoying it as much, but today I really enjoyed myself.   
 Q.  Seemed like the putter was finally working for you a little bit today, especially on the front side.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  You know, I've had kind of on and off days with my putter but today was definitely an on.  And that putt on 18 was for bogey, but it really saved my entire round.   
 Q.  What do you take now when you go into Sunday, when you're in a position where you are right now, where you're not quite sure where you're going to be at the end of the day, but what do you look for when you go for the final round?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  I just noticed I was about T27, I think.  If I don't bogey the last two holes, I would have been in a lot better place, but maybe I should go out and birdie one or two tomorrow and then I'm right back where I started.   
 Q.  The course seems a little more gettable out there today, lots of low rounds out there.  Did you find that?  What was the difference?  Just the wind laying down?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  Some of the tees were up a little bit, no wind which was a huge help, made almost every hole kind of a birdie hole, which was different than the last few days, and I think just getting to know the course a little bit better.  It's our third round, you know kind of where the hard bounces are and the soft, and I think everybody is just learning the course a little bit better.   
 Q.  You did walk around with a big smile on your face.  Hard not to, I guess, when you look at the massive galleries out there.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  I know.  I turned to Britt at one point, I was like, it's going to be boring when we go back to not having this kind of crowd.  But no, it's really been so much fun to play in front of, and I just thank everybody for coming out.   
 Q.  Good luck on Sunday.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT