MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
September 1, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did you feel about your first round out there today?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: It was okay.  You know, I started out really well, 3-under through the first nine and 4-under through 11.  I was feeling really confident and knew I had a birdie hole coming up on 12.  And unfortunately I let that one slip away, and then the wind really picked up on the back nine.  It was kind of difficult.  And you could see all three of us not really playing exactly the way we wanted just because of the wind and the conditions, but I finished 2-under on afternoon tee time in windy conditions, I'm happy.  I'm just excited to tee it up tomorrow where conditions will be a little bit softer and not as much wind.   
 Q.  What's the strategy for tomorrow?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, I had a really good strategy coming into today.  I did a lot of really good things.  I think just kind of keep that going, and like I said, it'll be a little bit softer tomorrow morning, which I'm looking forward to, and hopefully I'll make some more birdies.   
 Q.  So on No. 12, you just birdied 11, you were just beside the green in two.  What happened on that third shot?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I was trying to have the ball jump over the first cut there a little bit, and it just ran right through it, which slowed it down.  But I looked at it and said ten feet for birdie, I'm still happy.  So an opportunity.  And I kind of let that putt slip away on me.  You know, the next couple holes weren't really my best, and I was kind of fighting myself a little bit coming in.  But like I said, 2-under, first round, it's a solid start.   
 Q.  And then 16, I think your tee shot -- I think that happened last year as well.  That's a hole you have to kind of overcome tomorrow I guess?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  Last year was left, this year was right.  So hopefully the next three days it'll be down the middle.   
 Q.  Talk about the Canadian crowd out there today.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  Amazing, teeing off on the first hole and seeing that many people there supporting all three of us and myself was really, really cool.  And I definitely was the fan favorite out there, I think, today.  You know, par saves were like birdies with the noise of the crowd, which is always really exciting.  And I was very happy with the crowds today, and hopefully they'll just continue to grow over the next three days.   
 Q.  I want to ask you about your caddy.  How important is it for you to have Brittany on your bag?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, it's really, really important.  I love having her there.  She's my best friend, my sister, my caddy.  She does a lot of work for me on and off the course, and I think we make a really solid team and I don't think I would have had the success this year without her there.   
 Q.  What does she bring to you to your game that you can't do yourself?  What added pluses does she bring?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I mean that's a very loaded question.  I mean there's lots of things that she does that really help me out, but I think having a sister dynamic and her knowing me as well as I know myself is really cool, and kind of knowing what to say and when not to say anything at all.   
 Q.  I think you mentioned coming in that you wanted to attack the course a little bit more today than you did last year this time around.  How quickly did you have to change that mindset because of the wind?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, wind, and it was a little bit firmer than I was expecting, too, so I tried to play smart.  And on a couple of holes I was able to attack the pins, was able to make birdie or have a good opportunity, but some holes just hit it to the middle of the green and take your putt.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT