RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 28, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you feel you accomplished what you needed to do out there?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I do feel I left some shots out there.  I gave myself tons of opportunities.  I'm pretty sure I hit 17 greens today, and a lot of them were good opportunities for birdie.  Would have been nice to capitalise on a few more, and playing in the morning, the wind is a lot less and the greens are a lot softer, so it was definitely scoring conditions.
Hopefully I'll just go out there tomorrow afternoon and shoot a good number.
Q. Do you feel there's a chance for a low number tomorrow?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I'm hoping so, that little bit of rain right there, and if it rains a little bit more, it's going to be soft.  Just have to watch the wind a little bit more.  But with that said, I think the golf course is very scorable if you hit in the right spots, and if I hit 17 greens like today, I think there's a chance for a good number.
Q. What else was missing?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I was just maybe a little too careful.  But I'm happy with 17 greens.  That's really good.  Just make a few more putts.
Q. How eager are you to get another major after KPMG?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  I'm really excited to play another major and have the opportunity to win.  Now with only one under round, I have a lot of work to do the next three days, but it's really exciting that I've done it before and I have a chance to do it again.
Q. What's the challenge been following up, because I'm sure things have changed a little bit for you?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  It's been really busy summer.  Lots of media attention, lots of fan attention.  All really good things.  I just have to be able to manage my time a little bit better and practice when I need to practice.
But it's definitely boosted my confidence a ton, too.
Q. How did this course set up for you?  Were you able to hit driver as much as you wanted?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I had to lay up a few times, but when I do hit driver, I think I can hit into good spots off the tee.  Just want to hit fairways and give yourself a good opportunity at the greens.  I'm hitting three different clubs off the tee but it's been working out all right.
Q. How many drivers did you hit?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I don't even know -- one.
Q. What time did you get here this morning?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I left my hotel at, I don't even remember, 5.15, so 5.20.
Q. Are you still feeling jet-lagged?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Not too bad.  Not too bad.  I think the five-hour time change isn't too bad I guess and I'm just kind of getting used to it.  I had a couple early wake up calls the first few days which got me adjusted and I tried to stay up pretty late so when I fell asleep, I fell asleep pretty hard.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT