MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 14, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, going into today I knew the course conditions were going to be a little bit softer and easier in the morning with the big rain last night and just because it was in the a.m. and it was going to be a little bit easier.   
So tried to take advantage.  Unfortunately dropped a shot on the last hole which got me back to 3-under.  Overall it was a solid day.  Got some really good breaks out there and was able to take advantage for the most part when I had an opportunity.   
So just looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  How will you carry this momentum into tomorrow?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, as I mentioned, I got a lot of really good breaks, so hopefully going into tomorrow just clean up some tee shots a little bit, hit a little more fairways, and just continue to make birdies and hopefully have a good score.   
 Q.  Even though you dropped that on the last, the 9th, how do you still feel about the tournament going forward?  Still tied for third, of course.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, there is tons of golf left.  I know I didn't have my best game today, but still have three more days to climb up the leaderboard and hopefully be in that No. 1 spot.   
 Q.  Is that reassuring when you realize you don't have your best game and you're still up high on the leaderboard?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yes.   
 Q.  With the chance to have the lead with that putt?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  On the 8th hole I had the chance to go to minus-5 and I didn't know it, but take the outright lead, and then two holes later I bogey and I'm minus-3 and tied third.  I was really close to having a really solid round and being at the top.   
But even to see that I'm third at the halfway point in the a.m. group is really cool.   
 Q.  As you continue to have more success, do you put more pressure on yourself to play well?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I don't think so.  I've always had dreams and goals and aspirations that I'm chasing after.  Trying to be a better person and golfer every day.   
I think people put more pressure on me, but I don't necessarily put it on myself.   
 Q.  Do you pay attention to what people are saying?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: A little bit.  People are sometimes crazy, so you kind of got to filter it out a little bit.   
 Q.  Have you talked to older, more successful, experienced players about that kind of thing?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: No.  My dad doesn't have a degree in psychology, but he's very good from the mental side.  And my sister as well.  She's a great support system for me.   
I think everybody has a little bit different path.  I'm just trying to pave my own.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT