CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
July 1, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So a little different today out there?  Not putt quite as well?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I just didn't hit the ball as solidly as I'm used to.  On this course you kind of need to hit fairways and you need to hit greens.  For the way I struck the ball I scored extremely well.
Hopefully just hit the ball a little bit cleaner, a little bit more solid tomorrow, and hopefully get things to happen.
Q. On 18, what shot did you hit for a second shot?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I hit a knock-down 6-iron.
Q. Do you know how far it was?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It was 145 to the front and I was trying to hit it just over that.
Q. I didn't see all your shots today, but I'm guessing that was right up there with the best of 'em.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, that was definitely a high point of today's round.
You know, I gave myself a lot of opportunities.  Like I said, I didn't hit the ball quite as well as I would've liked.  Clean that up a little bit tomorrow and hopefully make a few more birdies.
Q. The shot on 18, was that one you had to think through?  Were you in position where you thought you might layup or just right at the green?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, at first I thought there was no way I could go for the green.  I was just thinking about laying up before the water, but then I knew that was a hard shot.
So I kind of re-looked at it and saw if I could get it over the front right apron and just give myself a putt that would be good.
Turned out really well.
Q. You've either shared or had the outright lead the last five rounds in this tournament.  For your age that's great, but I guess that's a pretty good accomplishment.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  I really like this golf course.  I like the Northwest.  I've played pretty well on these courses.
There is still two days left and anything can happen, but I like where I'm hit sitting.  Hopefully I'll just make some putts, make some birdies, and see how it goes.
Q. Having gone through this last year where you were in to the lead after two rounds, does that make tomorrow and Sunday less nerve-wracking?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I mean, they're all different scenarios.  Lots of times I'm pretty good with nerves and stuff like that.  I'm not too worried about it or anything.  Just each day got to get a feel for where your body is at and how you're feeling and just kind of react to that.
Q. Have you played with Suzann much before?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I played with her once in a major last year, but I think just the once.
Q. What do you think when you Suzann Pettersen?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Well, along with Morgan Pressel she was one that I really looked up to growing up and kind of wanted to be like.  Definitely cool knowing I'm playing with her every single day out here on tour and we just happened to be paired together tomorrow.
Q. You were talking about your body holding up and how you're feeling.  You've played a lot of events this year; you did last year.  Physically how are you feeling?  Obviously you're playing very well.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think I've had some kind of high points and low points over the last seven-week stretch.  I like to play a lot though.  I considered taking a week off, then like what am I going to do?  I am just going to go home and practice.  I might as well go and play and just conserve energy where I can and just try and focus on the things that I need to.
I played an extra event between, Arkansas and here.  It was so much fun.  It kind of gave me an extra boost watching the men play.  Seeing Jamie Sadlowski who was my partner hit it like a mile every single hole.  It kind of gave me perspective and kind of focused me again.
I'm really excited to be out here again.  Three more weeks then a week off.
Q. You got the par-5s today.  How close were you on other holes?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yes, you know, I gave myself a lot of opportunities.  I would say almost 18 holes.  I know the par-5s were really good to me.  I got all four of those and a good birdie on 18 there.
I just didn't hit the ball as well as I would've liked, but hopefully that'll change going into tomorrow.
Q. Plans for Canada Day?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Plans for Canada Day.  I don't know.  Me, Brit might have to think of something to celebrate.  I think it's 147 years.
Q. That's what she said.
BROOKE HENDERSON: That's pretty cool.
Q. Is that a fireworks-kind of holiday?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  Yeah, it's not quite as big as July 4th maybe with the fireworks, but it's a pretty big deal.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT