CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
June 30, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did you feel about the round today?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: It was good.  It was a good day.  You know, I started off with a birdie on the 1st hole and then nothing was really happening through the first 5, I guess.  Just getting things rolling again and just being out here on this golf course in the Northwest, you know, in the beautiful temperature.  I like wearing long sleeves and pants.   
I was able to make four birdies coming in right in a row to get to minus 7 and put myself in a good position.   
 Q.  Something in particular that clicked during the run of birdies?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I mean, think I came off a bogey and I knew I had two par-5s which were really gettable.  I kind of put my focus on them and I was able to get them.   
Then long birdie putt on 8 that I'm very thankful for.  Wasn't really expecting it to go in, but I'm very happy.   
 Q.  How long was it?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: 12 paces, so 36 feet.   
 Q.  When you come off a bogey, are you fired up wanting to get that shot back on the next hole?  That's how it worked out.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  That was a dumb hole.  I missed my tee shot to the right when there was tons of room left.  And a hole that with my length I could've really taken advantage of.   
So the bogey kind of bothered me a little bit.  But, again, like I said, I knew I had two par-5s coming up, so just tried to focus on them.   
 Q.  Does this course fit your game more than most places or just the good feelings from last year that sort of make you play well here?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I love tree-lined courses, and that's very much what this course is.  And, again, with the bent grass, which is kind of what I grew up on.  I just really like it.  It suits my eye.   
Then winning here last year, that gives me those extra vibes and extra adrenaline which I think will help as the week goes on.   
 Q.  Any memories from a last year that hit you while you were playing?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  I mean, just walking around I remember some of the shots I hit.  Some of the pin placements are kind of similar, so trying to think back to what the putts did and how they broke.   
Yeah, a lot of great memories.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT