KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 10, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Was it the weather?  Was it the pin locations?  Was it simply the fact that it's a tough golf course?  What was it that made it a lot tougher today?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think it was all of the above.  I was 1-under through 4, I guess, and was feeling pretty good.  I just -- I got a little too aggressive to a couple of pins early, which kind of cost me a couple of bogeys.
But I just regrouped a little bit and started to hit to the middle of the greens, which helped me score on the back nine.  I hit a lot of really good putts today that just didn't fall.  But I'm hoping that will change for tomorrow.
Q. Is it one of those golf courses where center of the green is almost always the correct play?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I do agree with that.  And for me I like to pin hunt sometimes, so it's hard for me to kind of just hit to the center, but I think that's what you've got to do.
Q. Coming from Canada, you must have some experience playing in the cold, crappy weather like that?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, definitely growing up, springtime, fall time weather was very similar to this.  Definitely it gives me a little bit of advantage.  But I like to think I'm a good player in all conditions.  Maybe it runs in my favor a little bit.
Q. You talked about a quick start for this week.  You saved your best golf for weekends so far this year.  You're encouraged about that for this weekend?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, to be tied for the lead through two rounds in a major championship is pretty cool.  But I know I didn't play my best today.  And so I'm looking forward to having a good strategy and being able to execute tomorrow.
Q. You can draw on that experience of how well you played last year with this tournament on the weekend and the U.S. Open?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think so.  I got my T-5 finishes by playing really steady on the weekend.  In the U.S. Open I played a 5-under round, I think, on Sunday.  So if I do that this weekend I'll have a really good chance.
Q. Do you look at the leaderboards, and right behind you is the world No. 1, a stroke behind, do you think about that?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I don't necessarily think about that, but I do see the names up there.  I like to see mine on top.  It definitely gives me a confidence boost.  Yeah, I'm a player to look at leaderboards to see who is behind me.
Q. Are you going to change your strategy at all for the weekend or stick with the game plan you came with?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, stick with the game plan, and hopefully see a few more putts drop.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BROOKE HENDERSON: I am.  I love it.  I didn't make a whole ton today, but every putt looked like it had a chance to go in, which is kind of new for me.  And I really like it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT