KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 9, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brooke, could you think of a better start? 4-under, hole-in-one, and you won a car?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was a pretty good day today.  Yeah, the hole-in-one was awesome.  I pulled my shot a little bit, caught the left apron and followed right into the hole.  It's my fourth one.  And ended up being the car hole.  And 4-under today.  So it was a good set.
Q. First time you've won a car?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, first time.
Q. What is going to happen to the car?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I donate it to my sister.  All year this year I have walked up on the practice rounds and said, see that car, if I get it, it's yours.  I didn't say it this week, but she ends up getting it.
Q. Is she here?
BROOKE HENDERSON: She is here, she was on my bag.
Q. Does that also mean that the next time you're not going to say anything when there's a car on the tee?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I guess so.
Q. So you scrambled, actually, from the hole-in-one.  It's kind of hard to say you came back, it went a little sideways in the middle, but you were able to scrap your way through it.  What was going on there?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Just the whole round?  I believe the hole previous to the hole-in-one, it's okay, went over.  And the next one a birdie hole.  And then I ended up knocking it in for one.  It really helped a lot.  It gave me momentum for the rest of the day.  3-under through the first nine holes.
Making the turn I was a little shaky.  I hit a couple of bad drives.  But I was able to, like you said, scramble, get up and down a couple of times, saved my round.  And then I finished really strong on 8 and 9.
Q. Can you give us play-by-play of 8?
BROOKE HENDERSON: So, 7-iron is 155 hole.  I pulled it a little bit, but it still caught the green.  So I was happy.  But it caught the apron and followed right in.
Q. What are your impressions of the course?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It was awesome.  It was raining right now.  But it was pretty early this morning.  There was still some really, really good putts.  It was a lot of fun to play in front of them.
Q. What's it like having your sister on the bag?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I love having her there.  She's a great support system for me.  We spend a ton of time together on the course and off the course.  We have an amazing friendship, really.  It works out really well.
Q. Given how tight and difficult the golf course is, did you have say number when you started out today that you felt would put you near the top?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I was trying to get under par.  But it's tough to say how hard this course is going to play going into today and for the rest of the weekend.  This rain will definitely help with the firmness and slow the greens down a little bit, which I think will help the scoring for the rest of the week.  But they also had some tees up on a couple of holes, which helped as well.
It's hard to say, but 4-under is definitely a good start.
Q. Most of the time this year you played better as the week went on.  How helpful is it to have a good start?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it really helps.  A lot of my top-10s have come on Saturday and Sunday, so to start off today with a pretty good round.  I kind of was feeding off the energy I had last year at KPMG.  I started off with a 6-under round, so I was hoping to do the same thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT