SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 19, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Here with Brooke Henderson.  Brooke, last year to at the start of the Swinging Skirts LPGA Classic you were 207 in the Rolex Rankings; today, this week, you're 7.   
Did that third-place finish here last year  really give you the confidence to know that you belonged out here on the LPGA Tour?   
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure it did.  Last year at time it was really my breakthrough moment on the LPGA Tour.  It was the first time that I shot really 4-under par, minus 7 on the Friday.   
You know, that gave me a lot of confidence going into the weekend.  I was a little biggest disappointed with my finish, as I had the lead going into the final two rounds.   
Third place, and the next week I was able to Monday qualify and back it up with a T13.  So this was definitely a big starting point for me.   
 Q.  Now seven consecutive top-10 finishes for you.  What's the key to get over the hump and got your first win as a member?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I've been asking the same question to myself the last few weeks.  I'm playing really well and doing a lot of really awesome things.  Really consistent with, like you said, seven top-1o on the LPGA Tour.   
If you include a European Tour event I played, I've had eight straight in a row.  A lot of good things happening.  I think I just have to stay patient and hopefully get off to a fast start this week.   
 Q.  You're 18 now, which is very young, and you have big responsibility representing yourself as an LPGA Tour player, but also with some pretty big brands.  How have you handled all of that?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's been really a lot of fun.  Representing different things is really cool.  I recently signed on with Biosteel, and I'm really excited for that partnership.  They have so many great athletes and ambassadors, and I'm happy to be one of them.  Their products are great with helping the mind and body.   
I think especially this year with such a busy LPGA schedule, I think it will be really important and beneficial to my game.   
 Q.  You ever sit down and realize that you Lydia are 18 years old and how long the rivalry could go on?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  She's an awesome player and I'm starting to get to know her more as a friend.  It's really cool.  I really appreciate and look up to her for everything she's done on the LPGA Tour and everything she has done in her career.   
I think it will be a lot of fun, and hopefully in the future we'll become pretty good friends and are able to compete out here for a while.   
 Q.  This is one the older golf courses in age that you play on tour.  Any aspects of this particular golf course, Lake Merced, that suit your game, that you particularly like?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I love this golf course.  I think it's definitely a ball-striker's course.  You have to hit it straight and pretty long off the tee, which I think really suits my game well.   
Last year I finished well here.  Hopefully I can keep some of those secrets and keep some of those things that I learned last year and have a good week again this year.   
 Q.  What are some of the things you enjoy off the course?  Have you been able to enjoy anything around San Francisco, or do you have that luxury of time to get out there and do something?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: This year we haven't done too much yet.  Last year I saw the Golden Gate Bridge for the first time and walked all the way across and took tons of pictures.   
We went down Lombard Street.  I saw a lot of the downtown area, which was really cool.  Staying with a host family it was easy because they were able to show me the good parts and show me some cool places.   
This year, my sister and I, we hope to venture out.  She hasn't seen the Golden Gate up close, so maybe we'll go see that tonight.   
 Q.  Next major is a little more than a month away.  Do you know anything about the course?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think the majors are always in the back of your mind.  Definitely weeks you want to peak for, and especially I want to play well there in just about a month's time.   
Definitely looking forward to it.  Never played that golf course or seen too much of it, but I know it's an outstanding golf course and I'm excited to go see it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT