DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 18, 2020
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's the plan for tomorrow?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think going into tomorrow, just try to hit smart shots. It was really windy today. It was hard to judge, at least we found it that way. So hopefully make some smarter decisions tomorrow and give ourselves some good looks for birdies and hopefully jump up the leaderboard a little bit.
Q. Can you give me an example maybe where you felt like you didn't make a great decision today?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Well, it started early. I was pretty confident standing on the 3rd tee, and we were back and forth between two clubs and chose the wrong one, and it sort of changed my whole day, which was unfortunate. Made double there and bogeyed the next hole, so definitely not the start we were looking for. I feel like we fought pretty hard and nothing seemed to go my way too much today. It was a good fight out there. Hopefully tomorrow just a few more birdies.
Q. Do you find after a round like this that you can learn more going forward than one of those rounds where you shoot a 63? Like you said, you file that stuff away and make smarter decisions, remember where things went off the rails?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think you learn -- you probably learn more on days like today for sure. They're harder to take, that's for sure, but I do think that moving forward we will learn from some of the decisions we made. I think we were trusting what the wind was forecasted to do and not what it was actually doing. So I think just being a little bit more aware.
Q. You're still in prime position heading into the final round. You've done it before. You've had those kinds of rounds. How does it feel in the season opener getting ready to start the year still being in contention?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I had two great days and sort of a backwards day today a little bit, but at the same time, I feel like I'm hitting it really well. I think, if we can just finish it off strong tomorrow and jump up the leaderboard a little bit, we'll be really happy with how this week went overall.
It's a good feeling to be in contention so early in the year and to feel like my game is right where I left it in November, or even in some aspects maybe a little bit better. So that's a good feeling.
Q. You were playing with Chad Pfeifer, wounded warrior, incredible story. What was it like out walking with him today?
BROOKE HENDERSON: He's a great golfer too and a great person. Yeah, it was a lot of fun to be able to play a round of golf with him, and Inbee played great as well. So I just had fun out there with both of them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT