ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  In that round it seemed like you were scrambling?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Some holes I was, other holes I played awesome and just didn't take advantage.  I had a lot of birdie putts that I missed and then holes that I kind of messed up on.  I kind of messed up big time.  So I don't know.  It was just one of those rounds and hopefully clean up a few things tonight and have a better day tomorrow.   
 Q.  So you take out of it all the positives that were there that you had the chance to shoot low and just didn't convert?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, two birdies back-to-back on 11 and 12 really helped.  I thought it was going to be the start of something good.  13, just mis-hit drive and the rough's thick, so you can't expect miss hit shots out of there, but birdie putt on 14, 1516 too, 17 was close, and then 18 another mis-hit drive.  But there was opportunity to go low and one or two of those putts fall and it's like a whole different day.   
 Q.  I don't know how small the sports world is in Canada.  Do you run into Eugenie at events or anything?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I've never met her, no.  Big fan, but never met her.   
 Q.  Is there anything that you can learn or take away from her story?  She's had sort of a meteoric rise and then a bit of a plateau?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you can look at any athlete's story and there is some part of it you can learn from and most of the time it's really inspiring and motivational, and hopefully the same with my story.   
 Q.  How aware are you of the galleries growing?  Do you like to be engaged with them?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's super cool.  Every round it seems there are more fans and not only just from Canada.  Though there is a huge Canadian crowd out here this week.  Just Brooke Henderson fans in general are definitely growing and it's definitely exciting.   
 Q.  We were told that your chip in for par got a louder cheer than any of the birdies made there today.  What do you make of that?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: That's pretty good.  It was kind of an interesting par.  I think it's the best one I've ever made in my life.  I was happy to see it go in, and the crowd seemed to enjoy it too.   
 Q.  Do you feed off that, off the crowd when they are just cheering so raucously for you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think so.  On 11, walking up to the green before I hit my third shot out of the bunker, they yelled, "Go Canada," and I kind of felt a little better about myself and I was able to make two birdies in a row.  So I definitely think it helps.   
 Q.  Can you take us through the best par of your life?  Take us through the hole?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: To be honest with you, I thought I hit my drive perfect.  I just hit it a little too tight to those trees, clipped the top one and bounced into the water, took a drop, hit a 7-wood not far again from being really good, just didn't catch it quite as well as I would have liked.  Hit into the bunker and jumped out into the rough.  I guess caught a flier.   
I was trying to lean on a pitching wedge to get it there just over the back of the green, and then chipped in, saved par and everything's good and go home happy.   
 Q.  How would you describe your sort of competitive personality?  Is it kind of a killer instinct kind of thing that you feel?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I definitely learned a lot from hockey in the sense to be a competitor and not to give in to certain things.  However, on the golf course I'm a little more calm than I would be on the ice.   
 Q.  Do you like pressure?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I do, yeah.  It's a lot of fun.  It's only what you make of it really.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT