COATES GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY R+L CARRIERS
February 6, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the eagle on 18.  What did you hit in, what was your number and how long was the putt?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I had 216 to the pin.  I hit 7-wood.  I thought I hit it a little bit fat, so I was happy to see when it was on the back of the green, but I was trying to get to 9 early yesterday and kind of got off to a late start, was only even before the darkness set in, and then was able to get the other five today.
Q. Was that tee up a little bit today?  I didn't see many people attacking that green in two on previous days.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was, and unlike most days, it was downwind, as well, so it really gave a lot of help.
Q. What does that do for your confidence going into this afternoon's final round?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's definitely a confidence booster and it's exciting.  I think it's third right now, but a lot can change.  There's still a lot of players up there.  In good position, and hopefully I can just go low and see what happens.
Q. What's the game plan for between now and starting up again?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I don't even know what time it is right now, so --
Q. You've got about 55 minutes.
BROOKE HENDERSON: 55?  Oh, good.  I'll probably grab something to eat, maybe hit a few putts, but just kind of relax a little bit.
Q. Putting was something you said you kind of struggled with last week.  How did you feel like it was this week here?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's kind of been up and down.  The first three days I made some putts and I missed a lot that I should have made, and then today on the back nine, a lot of putts were going in, which is nice, but I still missed two or three that were very makeable.  It's coming, and it feels a lot better than it did last week.
Q. How has it been this week just with the crazy schedule and the weather and everything?  How do you feel like you've handled it?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Pretty well.  Things like this are going to happen, and you've just got to deal with it and move on.  Two early mornings in a row is kind of tough sometimes, but I was able to take a long nap yesterday afternoon, which really helped.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT