CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 23, 2015
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good way to end the week?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It is.  It was a really fun day out there today.  I was only 1-under through nine but I was hitting the ball really well and giving myself a lot of opportunities.  So to go 4-under the back nine and finish birdie, birdie, 17, 18, is definitely a cool feeling, and good momentum builder for this week.
Q. Does this put a different tilt on the week, or did you need a round like this, or is this week going to be a special thing no matter what you shot today?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, I wanted one.  I wanted to show and to give the crowd a little bit of excitement, and I think today did that, especially like I mentioned on 17 and 18.  I knew I was capable of it, and the other couple days, I was hitting the ball not too bad but just wasn't making any putts but today they feel.
Q. How much is this week maybe learning off the course, the media attention and the corporate functions, how much of that was a learning curve?
BROOKE HENDERSON: One hundred percent it was.  I've received quite a bit of attention in my amateur days and then earlier this year playing well.  But after a win and coming back to Canada, I have received a lot of attention that made my schedule extremely busy.
But it's a great problem to have, as I've been saying to a lot of people.  I learned a lot about myself and how I can handle it, and I think it will be good for the next time.
Q. Do you take some time to relax the next couple of days and recharge after a pretty busy week?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I'm definitely going to rest pretty well today and tonight.  I'm going to fly out tomorrow morning to Alabama.  So I'll have a couple hours on the flight to rest, as well, and then get ready for next week.
Q. The 14th hole, they moved the tees up and you went for it.  How long was it?
BROOKE HENDERSON: The plate said 306.  So I either hit that really well or the fairway is really firm, I don't know.  I think I'm going to go with the fairway is really firm.
Q. What did you have left for eagle?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I had about -- it was 12 paces, so 36 feet, just down the hill a little bit.
Q. You going to Alabama, are you almost looking forward to being a normal touring pro?  I know it's all still new but you won't have the crowd and you'll just be a player in the field.  Is that something you're almost looking forward to?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I'm really excited to be a tour pro because now I have somewhere to play and I know I'm playing next week, which is really exciting.
I've had a little bit of a crowd; almost everywhere I've gone, I've had some people that were supporting me.  I think the more and more I play on Tour and the more better finishes I have -- I have people saying, "Let's go follow Brooke Henderson's group."  That's really amazing and hopefully it continues to grow and get bigger.
Q. Do you have a sense of what your schedule will be after Evian?  Will you play in any of those Asian events?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I wish I could.  As of right now, I don't have enough earnings because I went down to zero after I got exempt and into the Tour.  So as of right now, I won't be able to but maybe if I play well next week and in France.
Q. You don't reload on sponsor's exemptions?  Can you start fresh on those?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I don't know.  I haven't really talked about it yet with my management group, or my family, really.  We just haven't really thought that far in advance.
Q. At the end of the day, do you this week a success on the golf course?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, 100 percent I do.  I hit the ball pretty well and being able to play in front of all of these fans is something that I can definitely take away from and I loved playing for them and I loved playing in front of them.  For the most part, they enjoyed it, as well.  To have a solid day today, finish 5-under, was a good feeling.
Q. Do you think you were spread too thin for this week?  You handled it so well, but next time you come up to Canada, it will be the same thing next year.  How will it change for you; will your management company look at stuff like that?
BROOKE HENDERSON: The last few years at the Canadian Open, I really haven't played that well.  I think I've just gotten more and more used to the attention that I receive up here, and I think the more years that I come up here, the more experience and the better I will be at handling all of the attention.
I think this year was a really big learning experience and hopefully next year in 2016 in Calgary, I'll just be a pro by then.
Q. What will you do with your time off before France?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, I'm really excited to go and hang out with my friends and family a little bit and go to my cottage and just chill out.
Q. Making the turn to 10, did you feel something coalesce on the back nine, or just got back to your normal self?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Like I said before, I was hitting the ball well on the front nine.  Giving myself a lot of opportunities.  I just wasn't really capitalizing on it as well as I maybe could have.
And the back nine, things just sort of fit together.  There's the two par 5s, and unfortunately I didn't get 13 today, but was able to get 10, and then back it up with hitting the green in one on 14.  So it was just a little more birdie opportunities out there and I was able to take them.
Q. What was your thought on the last birdie, able to bang it down without any worry; what was your thinking standing over that?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I really wanted to make it one to make my score a little bit better and to please the crowd around me.  I hit it pretty firm, yeah, you're right, a little firmer than maybe I should have.  But hit the bottom of the hole and that's all that counts.
Q. Did you fix the back of the hole?
BROOKE HENDERSON: No, I didn't (laughter).  Hopefully it's not too big of a dent.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT