COATES GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY R+L CARRIERS
February 6, 2016
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just your thoughts on how it all ended.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Well, starting the day, if I would have finished second, I would have been very happy.  I had a great round this morning on my back nine, 5-under, and finished off with an eagle, so it was definitely good momentum going into the final round, and I had it going.  I was 2-under for the day at one point, and it was feeling pretty good.   
A couple putts on the back nine kind of cost me, but overall it was a good day, and I'm right in position where I want to be.   
 Q.  What was it like to watch at the end, your first situation where you've been waiting for someone to finish knowing that you'd have a shot at it.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I mean, it wasn't anything too stressful or anything like that.  I knew whatever was going to happen, that was just the way it was going to be, and she played great, and it finish off the last hole the way she did was pretty cool to see.   
 Q.  How would you describe just the challenge of the conditions the last couple of days getting up so early, the cold, just the long days, the rain, everything?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, it was kind of a mixture every day.  You never really knew what to expect.  You know, 27 holes for me today, but I was lucky yesterday, I only had to play 21 where some people had to play 27, as well.  A couple early mornings, lots of rain, cold, wind, we kind of had it all, but overall it was a great championship, and I'm looking forward to next year.   
 Q.  Was it just a mental grind today for everybody?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: A little bit.  I think when those conditions come up, it is that way for everybody.   
 Q.  The lay-up, where were you trying to leave the lay-up?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Well, actually not very far from where it actually ended up.  I was trying to take it 20 yards right of that and like 10 yards back from the end of the fairway, so I drew it a little bit, so it wasn't the ideal situation, but it really wasn't too far off from where I wanted.   
 Q.  Just how tough was that?  It looked like you couldn't get your left foot settled.  How tough was that pitch?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, the ball was pretty far above my feet, and my left foot would have been deep in a hole if I would have stood normally.  Just trying to make the best shot I could.  As soon as I hit it, I thought it was really good and it was going to run out, but I ended up with a 20-something-yarder putt.   
 Q.  You're hitting the ball really long off the tee.  I understand you made some adjustments to your driver.  Can you talk a little bit about that?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  I've definitely gained a lot of distance, and I think it was a big key to the way I played this week and being at the top of the leaderboard.  Yeah, about a month ago I worked with Scott Wolpa, the Ping rep, and I got the new G-Dragonfly Ping driver with a 48-inch shaft, so the longest it can be, and so far it's been good to me.   
 Q.  What was your shaft length before?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: 47 and a quarter, I think, so three quarters more.   
 Q.  That's still already longer than the 47 that most people have out here.  Can you explain just how you got comfortable with a long shaft?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think growing up as a little girl I played with longer clubs, so in that way I was kind of used to it, and then I usually hit my driver pretty straight, which is a strength of mine, so if I can get a few more yards and maybe lose a little bit of accuracy, I'm willing to take that chance.   
 Q.  Do you know Ha Na very well?  Have you played with her, know anything about her game?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: No, I don't know her very well, but I'm happy for her to win out here.  Like I said, she played great right from the start.  She was leading the first day and was able to finish it off.   
 Q.  What was the hardest thing about today, waking up early, playing in the rain, playing a lot of holes?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I don't know what the hardest thing was, but I was excited once I got off to that fast start this morning on the back nine.  I think maybe the hardest part was knowing that I could have been better on the back nine of my final 18 and just let it slide a little bit.  However, like I said before, it's overall a great championship for me.   
 Q.  Who did you have caddying for you this week?  Last week you had your sister.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, Nick Keefer, a good family friend.  He did an awesome job on the bag.  He's caddied for my sister a few times, and this was the first time he's caddied for me, and he was runner up in an LPGA event, so I think he's a pretty good caddie.   
 Q.  Can you spell his name?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Nick, N-i-c-k, Keefer, K-e-e-f-e-r.   
 Q.  Brittany is going to Australia and then after that?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, she'll be two weeks in Australia and playing that European event the second week, and then in Singapore she will be, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT