CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2015
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Little nerve-wracking coming down, knowing you were close?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Not really, no.  I just knew I needed to hit a good shot in there, and unfortunately didn't -- anyway.  But glad I got up-and-down.  It was a tricky up-and-down.  I played really smart with that chip, and was happy to make that putt.  Wasn't a great day out there, but I grinded it out pretty well.
Q. You say it wasn't a great day.  Just tired, fatigue catching up a little bit, or just the day?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I just miss-hit some shots.  Other than that -- it could have been good.  I parred the first hole, made that 4-footer.  And then I birdied No. 13, which I only had, again, four feet.
You know, it could have been a different story.  But like I said, I hung in there and really played well on the back nine.
Q. Did you feel the crowd, how much they were wanting you to do it?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  No, the crowds have been amazing the last two days, and unbelievable, really, for Friday morning.  And to see that many people out there cheering me on is really cool and I really appreciate it.
Q. Do you feel the difference in a situation like this where so many people are sort of counting on you to come through for them?  Does that put any extra --
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's pretty cool that so many people are watching and wanting me to do so well.  And I think it is a much different atmosphere than if I was playing across the border.  Same conditions just different crowd.
You know, it's fun, though, and I have to really learn to enjoy it and just build off their energy, because it is pretty cool that they are cheering for me.
Q. What about tomorrow?  Do you take maybe -- I don't want to say relaxed, but does it take a little pretty sure off tomorrow and you can just go and play golf now?
BROOKE HENDERSON: If I make it to tomorrow, I don't have to worry about the cut anymore and just focus on moving up the leaderboard.  Unfortunately that should have been my thought process, but like I said, tomorrow, I'll have to make things happen.
Q. What's the cut in your mind through the round?  When did it poke in your mind?
BROOKE HENDERSON: When I was making a couple bogeys there on the front nine, I was like, oh, I've got to really bear down here because at the beginning of the day, I think the cut was plus two and I think it's probably right around there now.
I was like, you're getting pretty close, and then I kept making more bogeys, so I was like, uh-oh.  But a couple birdies on my back nine helped that out.  And I knew on 18 that I needed to make par or birdie, and so I was happy with the par.
Q. What's your reflection on the week?  It's been a week unlike any other ahead of the tournament for you.  What's your reflection on it now looking back?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's been really busy.  I have had a lot of attention and lot of things I've had to do over the last couple days.  That's no excuse for how I played today but I think -- hopefully I'll get used to all that attention because hopefully I'll be winning more often.
Q. What's your plan heading into the weekend?  What do you need to fix?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Just a few things.  Back nine, I hit the ball much better than I did the front nine, so I sort of learned and changed things as I went.  I think if I just go and focus on my ball-striking and a little bit of pace putting tomorrow morning, I think good things will happen.
Q. Can you talk about your relationship with your sister and how that helps out with your golf career?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  My sister, she's playing today, too, and she's a professional golfer just making her start.  It's been a lot of fun being able to travel and play and be with her all the time because we are on a similar journey.
You know, she's been one of my best friends for many years and she knows me as well as anybody does, so it's nice having her around.
Q. She said at the beginning she's kind of mentoring you but now the roles have switched.  How do you find that?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I don't know about that but I think we both just help each other out.
Q. What about, like you said, having your best friend with you.  Does that help you kind of calm down when you're out there?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I mean, it's so nice having someone to travel with because golf can be a lonely sport.  And having fun close to my age and someone that I can tell anything to pretty much is really nice.
Yeah, I couldn't ask for a better person to be around.
Q. Is there any extra competitiveness between you two?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I don't think so.  We just kind of focus on what we're doing each and every day.  We don't really -- there's no sister rivalry, if that's what you're asking.
Q. I know you probably get annoyed with these kind of questions, but you've got hundreds of people following you around.  What have you done differently this week than in Portland to kind of block out that pressure?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, I've been trying to build off the crowd's energy the last couple days.  As was mentioned earlier, they are always cheering me on, whether it's a good shot or a bad one; or whether I'm 1-over par or 2-under.  I think that's really important and it's really cool to see a country come together like that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT