CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2015
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  With the Early tee time, the group following you, what did that mean?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I had a huge crowd, and it was as you said a very early tee time, much earlier than I would have liked.  But they were pretty much from the get-go, an amazing crowd.  It makes it exciting being able to play in front of your home crowd even though you're not playing your best.  You still have the whole country behind you.   
 Q.  How has the week been for you, kind of uncharted waters, media darling and everybody wants a piece of your time.  How has it been going for you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's been really busy but hopefully it's something that I get used to and hopefully I'll have lots of wins and good finishes in the future.  I think coming back to Canada was pretty cool, being able to celebrate with the whole country and having them really be the first ones to see my game right after the win I think is really good, as well.   
It also was a lot of attention on me and made my week a little bit busier than it was planned to be.  But it's a great problem to have.   
 Q.  Learning experience, do you think you're going to take something out of this?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: For sure.  At the start of the year, this was a learning experience year for me.  I didn't really know where I was going to be playing or what I was going to be doing, and things have turned out unbelievably well.  Very, very blessed for the opportunities that I've been given here and I think this is just another week where I need to learn from it and move on and get better.   
 Q.  And today, I just walked with you the last six, you were 1-under and you could easily have been 3- , 4-under.  Is that the story of the round?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know what, it was a really rough start this morning.  I had an easy birdie putt on one, unfortunately missed it and went bogey, double and sort of found my way back after that.  I'm happy to finish with the birdie on 18 and it sort of makes you feel good about the round, even though maybe I shouldn't be.   
 Q.  Good feeling to sleep on, isn't it?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Exactly.   
 Q.  You and your sister are close and she's caddied for you in the past.  What makes that partnership work on the course?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think so, she probably knows me better than I know myself sometimes.  Having someone that tells me what to do, when I'm not playing well and tells me what to do when I'm keeping it on a roll, I think that's really important to have someone like that.   
 Q.  How many times has she caddied for you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think this is about the sixth time this year and I've caddied for her a couple times this year.   
 Q.  Do you fight?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Not very often, no.   
 Q.  When you had that rough start, to kind of bring it back on track, is that part of the learning curve we're talking about?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, yeah, for sure.  I think after I saved maybe five feet for par on the fourth hole to avoid going 4-over after four holes, that was a big putt there.  Then I was able to come back on 6 and 7 and make two birdies and make it somewhat respectable and was able to finish on the last with a birdie.   
 Q.  Not many low scores today.  Is the course playing even firmer?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: This morning they were a little bit softer just because the dew was still out.  But I think -- I mean, I found the course a little bit difficult at times, and on the back nine, it definitely got -- firming up.   
 Q.  It the double on 3?  
 Q.  The double on 3, what was the story?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Hit in the water.  Took a drop.  Chipped on, 2-putted.  Nothing too special.   
 Q.  What are you looking forward to tomorrow?  Again, probably you had a bit of a crowd and a lot of good wishes; take something positive out of the week?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  There's been a lot of positives this week which is always good.  I know I can take a lot from it and learn from it.  Hoping just -- I'll have a pretty early tee time again tomorrow.  Hopefully just go out there and shoot a decent number and hopefully climb up the leaderboard a little bit.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT