CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 14, 2015
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BROOKE HENDERSON: I gave myself a lot of great opportunities and just rubbed some edges, but I was happy with 1‑under because it was raining and there was a couple other different conditions than yesterday, but then the back nine, especially the last couple holes, I made a lot of birdies and really started to make my climb, which was exciting, and it's nice to finish with a birdie there on 18, or the 9th hole.   
   
 Q. I think you're going to be in the lead. How comfortable are you in that position?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I've been in it once or twice earlier in the year, and I think I learned a lot that weekend just about myself and how I face pressure and how I just enjoy the final groups. I'm excited to be in the final group, or close to it, and hopefully Sunday and Saturday I can get some good, solid rounds together.   
   
 Q. What did you learn most when you were in those first couple times, in the last groups?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Just to stay within myself and play my own game. Playing as an amateur I was used to a lot of people, a lot of media and television and stuff like that, but it's a little bit different on the LPGA Tour, and I think that's something that I've gotten a lot more comfortable with this year. I think if I can just stay patient and play my own game and not focus on outside factors, I think good things will happen.  
   
 Q. You have a chance to become the third person to win an LPGA tournament before she turns 18.   
BROOKE HENDERSON: That would be really good, but I'm still a long way from that, and I realize that, and I have to go low and shoot some good numbers, too.  
   
 Q. How do you feel about how you played on the Tour so far this year?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Pretty well. I have two top 5s in majors, third in San Francisco, and I've had quite a few other solid rounds, 67, 66 a couple times, and I feel really good out here. I've gotten to know the girls a little bit better, and they've been really good to me for the most part, and Alena Sharp has been a huge part of my success this year I would say, and being able to travel with my dad and my sister this week and bunk, who's been on my bag for the last two days, I have a great support system around me, and I think that's really helped me.  
   
 Q. Was your dad your first coach?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, he still is my coach.  
   
 Q. How good a player is he?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: He was really good. He doesn't play anymore. He just coaches my sister and I.  
   
 Q. He was a schoolteacher at one time?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: That's right. He was an elementary schoolteacher for 31 years, I believe, and just recently retired.  
   
 Q. How about your mom?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: My mom works with the mentally disabled, and she retires in December.  
   
 Q. I know you were a good hockey player. How good were you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Not too bad. I had a lot of fun with it. I love hockey, and I got to meet a lot of great girls on my team. I think it was really important for my golf game because it gave me a lot of strength, not only mentally but physically.  
   
 Q. You played all the way through your freshman year?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I stopped playing when I was 14.  
   
 Q. The Senators are actually one of your sponsors; is that right?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: No, they did help me out and make me my turning pro video, though, in December.  
   
 Q. When you think about what you can accomplish on the Tour, have you thought at all about what you want to accomplish?   
BROOKE HENDERSON: Right now I'm just taking it one day at a time and one tournament at a time, but I'm really looking forward to the next couple years, and hopefully this week I can secure my card for next year and be full time on the LPGA.  
   
 Q. That would secure you being in the Top 40 on the Money List?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  
   
 Q. So that's a big goal for you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: It is.  
   
 Q. Were you disappointed they didn't accept your petition last year?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, at first I was, but I think it was probably the best thing that could have happened to me. It really made me bear down and focus and become a lot more dedicated and really desire what I wanted. I think, like I said, I think it was the best thing that could have happen.  
   
 Q. Last question, you're 5'4"?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  
   
 Q. Where did you get that big swing?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think I took after my dad, actually.   
   
 Q. It must be fun to just power that baby, almost like a home run swing?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, yeah, I haven't touched it since I was a little girl.  
   
 Q. The same swing?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Kind of born with it, and I love it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT