KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2015
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KELLY SCHULTZ: Good evening, everyone.  We would like to welcome Brooke Henderson into the interview room, sitting at 8-under par, three shots back of the lead. But Brooke, kind of a roller coaster day, a lot of birdies, a couple bogeys.  What really was it like kind of battling out there for you today?BROOKE HENDERSON: It was very similar to the way it was yesterday.  Like you said, a lot of up-and-downs and I was hanging in there pretty well, and I'm happy to get it to 8-under par. Especially with a couple bogeys out there, I was a little bit disappointed in myself, a couple pace putts.  I didn't get it quite to the hole like I would have liked to. So I'm going to go out and practice that a little bit now and try to get that figured out for tomorrow.  But I made a lot of birdies, too, which is always a good thing.  Especially coming through the turn, 9 and 10, two big birdies got me to 8-under par. Unfortunately made a couple bogeys and birdies coming in to finish at eight, but overall it was a good day and I'm happy where I sit.KELLY SCHULTZ: The pin positions looked a little bit tougher out there today.  Did you have to be a lot more strategic about where you were going for on the greens?BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure, pin positions today were very tough.  A couple of them tucked behind bunkers, a couple back on back tiers; I didn't even know it was possible to put a pin back there. I did a good job with my dad today trying to decide where to land it and where I should leave it to make the easiest putt, and I think we did a pretty good job.  I think leading into tomorrow, they are probably going to do the same thing with the tough pin positions.  So just got to stick to our game plan and stay patient.KELLY SCHULTZ: Playing alongside Inbee, a two-time defending champ, been world No. 1, what did you take from watching her today?BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  I played with Inbee once before a few weeks ago in Texas where she also won.  She's an amazing player, definitely, and it was cool to see what she's capable of. She made a lot of birdies out there today.  Like I said, it was really cool to watch.  I think if I can just hang in there tomorrow, I think I can creep a little bit closer to where she's at and Sei Young Kim, but we'll see what happens.Q. Will your experience at the Swinging Skirts help you tomorrow, having been through a similar kind of pressure situation?BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think every LPGA Tour event that I've played this year, I've definitely learned something about myself and the game and the competition.  It's been a lot of fun.  I've been playing a pretty full schedule, even though I don't have status, which is amazing.  I'm happy to be where I am.  I think tied third maybe, somewhere around there.  As I said, just stay patient and try and climb up that leaderboard.Q. What was going on with the putter, because a couple of them looked kind of squirrely, and did that put any pressure on your long game as you were coming in?BROOKE HENDERSON: Not really.  My long game is usually my strong point and I tend to rely on it quite a bit to get me close to the hole and try and get as many tap-in birdies as I can. Today the putter wasn't my best friend, that's for sure.  But I think we can change that for tomorrow.  I just need a little bit better pace, and my dad was giving me good lines.  They looked really good on a couple, especially near the end, I started to get it figured out a little bit more.  But I'll go work on that right now.Q. A lot has been made about you not getting the age exemption.  How are you using that all in your golf game, making a statement to get your card by winning; how are you using that?BROOKE HENDERSON: I don't know, I have just been trying to play my own game.  I've been in a lot of cool positions the last few weeks near the top of the leaderboard, and a couple times I've been close to missing the cut and made a run on Sunday to climb up the leaderboard. This year is definitely a learning experience for me, and it's a year where I'm trying to play my best and get my card for next year, 2016 and do as much as I can to make sure that I do have card, whether it's the Money List or the win this year, or go to Q-School.  My goal is to have full status next year.Q. Father/daughter relationships on the golf course can be a little tricky.  Can you go through your relationship with your dad as your caddie?BROOKE HENDERSON: I love him on my bag.  He's my coach; he's my manager; he's my caddie; he's my friend; he's everything, and most importantly he's my dad.  I love having him there and I wouldn't want anybody else in his place.KELLY SCHULTZ: Wish you best of luck tomorrow.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT