KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 12, 2015
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Conditions seemed a little tougher out there today.  How much more difficult was the golf course?BROOKE HENDERSON: It was.  I didn't have my A Game today.  I hit a lot of shots just really close to being really good but would just roll off the back because the greens were a little bit firmer and a little bit faster.  I had to pay attention to where I was leaving the ball, like yesterday but especially today, too, just to make sure that when I hit good shots, I was rewarded for them and not having to save for par. And I think today, I was up-and-down a lot.  I had a lot of bogeys on the card and I had a lot of birdies, too.  Just one of those days you have to learn from and move on.Q. Most major championships, par is a very good score.  Did it feel more like major championship conditions today compared to yesterday?BROOKE HENDERSON: A little bit.  I think yesterday I just really had it on a roll and was able to keep it there, where today I could never really get on that roll.  Once I made a birdie, I was coming back with a bogey unfortunately. Like I said, I'll learn from it and pay attention a little bit more to the course conditions leading into tomorrow and try to get a good game plan.Q. Obviously only 17 but this is your fourth major championship.  How much pressure do you feel coming into this tournament?BROOKE HENDERSON: Not a whole lot.  It's pretty exciting being able to play against the best in the world on one of the best golf courses and the best-run tournaments.  It's really exciting seeing my name up there with Stacy Lewis and Karrie Webb and all the big names.  It's awesome.  I think I just have to stay patient, stay consistent and keep working on my game and I think good things will happen.Q. Happy with the way you hung in there?BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I am.  It could have been a lot worse than it was today.  I was 2-over at one point on the front nine and was able to come back with birdies on 9 and 10.  And pretty easy birdies, tap-ins, which I'm very happy with.  Back nine, the three par 5s, I want to take a little bit more advantage over them and hopefully over the next two days, I can do that a little bit better. But I mean, overall, even par, as you mentioned, on a major championship course is never too bad.Q. If you were to describe what makes a major different from any other tournament, how would you start describing that?BROOKE HENDERSON: Well, the courses are always going to be tougher.  There is going to be a little bit of extra pressure and there's a lot move attention everywhere.  KPMG, the LPGA The PGA of America have done an outstanding job with the tournament this week.  It's always just that little bit more of an excitement around the majors, and I think I'm ready to compete in all majors this year.Q. Do you find the adrenaline flows better for you in these?BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think it does for everybody.  Like I said, there's just that extra bit of excitement.  It's just that extra bit of everything that makes a major so special.Q. What's been the biggest challenge so far two days in?BROOKE HENDERSON: I think just staying focused and staying in my own rhythm.  Because I knew I could have been a little better out there today, but I'm still on the first day.  So I've just got to stay calm, stay relaxed and stay focused.Q. What's it going to take to get on the top over the next two days?BROOKE HENDERSON: I think just playing my own game and staying patient, like I said, because there are going to be bogeys out there because there's no doubt it's a really tough golf course, but the more birdies I can make, I think it will be good.Q. How has caddying for your sister helped you in your own game?BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it has for sure.  Just being able to, well, first of all, calculate yardage very quickly, I think has helped me a lot, because you don't have a whole lot of time out here. So being able to calculate all the factors like the wind and the green, yardage play and everything, I think has really helped speed up the process when I'm in my own game. And as well, able to visualize a shot and being able to explain it to somebody else instead of just having it in your own head I think has really benefitted me a lot, because I am very much a feel player, so being able to visualize and execute is important.Q. Stacy Lewis says that she doesn't think at this point in time golfers your age don't come out with any here in events like that.  Do you feel that way after Lydia and others, why be afraid to come out?BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, there's a ton of great young players, and it's really inspiring, even to me who is considered one of those young players. I don't really think age has much to do it.  I think it's more about the experience, even Lydia Ko has said that before, that it's experience not so much the age. I think we don't have a lot of fear.  That's one of my mottos I try to stick with is no fear and just try to be aggressive and play my own game.Q. How do you keep your game in shape all winter growing up?BROOKE HENDERSON: Well, when I was younger, I used to play hockey six months of the year and golf the other six. Then when I was 14, I joined the imagination national team and we travelled down to the States about a week at a time, which was really helpful, because otherwise I was just hitting indoors on indoor simulators and things like that.  However, the last two years, I've been living down south in Florida with my older sister and we've been able to train and practice every day.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT