SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 29, 2015
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Could you describe how it was?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah.   It was a bit of a tough start.   Bogeyed the second hole, and then came right back with a birdie, which was nice. 
Then, you know, end of the Back 9 I had two bogeys and then two birdies again.   So you know, it was a lot of ups and Downs, like you said, but overall it was a great day, and I was happy to see a couple of long putts go in.

Q.   How did you sort of maintain staying on an even keel with the way the round was going?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I mean it was tough, but I know this course is a super, super difficult golf course.   And I knew that I just needed to keep it going and try and make good shots and see what can happen out here.

Q.   Eight birdies, is that kind of sort of a high for the year or have you had more in a round?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I've had a couple of rounds actually with eight birdies or a couple of eagles, which is nice.   And unfortunately, I had a couple of bogeys, too, but hopefully over the next couple of days I'll take care of the bogeys and keep making the birdies.

Q.   And you said a couple of long putts there.   Any like sort of stick out for you?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah.   There was one on No. 5, right there.   I had a short chip in front, but it was just such a tough green that I ended up having, I think, 33 feet and was able to roll that in.   Then on No. 1 I had a similar putt that was 35 feet and was able to make it, too.   And a couple of tap‑ins, but I putted really well all day.

Q.   How was the wind out here?   What was it doing to your golf ball?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Well, it was nice because this morning there wasn't much wind, but there was a lot of bugs, especially warming up on the range. 
But you know, once the wind came out, the bugs went away, which is nice, and it was a little bit strong at times, but you just had to be careful and make good decisions.

Q.   On a day like today, what's it like to have your sister with you to kind of keep everything relatively under control?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   It was nice having her there.   She's definitely a calming effect, and there was a lot going on today, and it was nice just to stay down to earth and keep it going.

Q.   And what did she do specifically on maybe a hole or two to kind of guide you through it?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Well, I can talk very freely with her, which is nice.   And you know, she just said the right things and didn't say anything when she didn't need to.   (Laughs).

Q.   So she knew when to be quiet. 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah.

Q.   In a tournament like this you need to get off to a good start, 3‑under.   Just talk about where you are right now.   I mean you're in a good position.   A bad round today, it's a long shot?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, exactly.   With it being a three‑round event, you gotta get off to a good start, and especially with these tough conditions with the wind, and I hear there's supposed to be thunderstorms on Sunday, so you just gotta make birdies and make putts when you can.

Q.   Another week on the leaderboard.   How have you been so consistently start so far?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Well, it's been really nice.   Definitely I think my game is right there.   I just need to get a little more consistent throughout my game and just keep it going.   And I'm excited to be in the positions that I have been in the last couple of weeks and playing with great players and seeing my name up on the leaderboard, and hopefully that continues.

Q.   Was it consistency?   Was there a problem with ball striking or putting for the ups and Downs or were you just not getting some breaks at times?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   It was just a mixture of things.   I didn't make the best decisions off the start, but with the wind and just a few different things, but I was able to get it together and finished off 3‑under.   I'm happy with it.

Q.   At this point in the season what are your kind of goals for the rest of the year.   You know you got a couple of sponsorship exemptions left.   You're in the U.S. Women's Open.   What are the goals now after seeing how successful you've been so far?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Just continue what I'm doing, you know, make cuts and climb up the leaderboard.

Q.   Is it making cuts or do you want to win or are you thinking about the top 40 exemption?   What are you thinking about out there?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Well, first I gotta make sure I make the cut and have a chance on the weekend, and then I just gotta give it my all, and I love being in the final groups.   And if I'm in that position, then great.   Otherwise I'm going to work my butt off to get back there.

Q.   You're not a fan of off weeks, are you?   Even when you're not playing, you go caddy for Brittany, it seems like?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah.   I like it, though.   It's fun.   And I think she enjoys it, too, and she's returning the favor this week.

Q.   Do you two pay each other when you're caddying for each other?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   No.

Q.   No?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   No.   Sister love.

Q.   Get the free discount this week, huh?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah.

Q.   Have you gone and played any KPMG, Manulife courses?   Have you played any of those courses coming up at all?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Not KPMG.   I've heard good things.   But Manulife, I went up there for media day a few weeks ago, so I got to see a little bit.   I haven't played all the holes, but it looks really nice.

Q.   Do you prefer the tournaments where you go to a new course like that where everyone in the field is kind of at a level playing field essentially?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I mean but I think I am pretty quick at learning a golf course.   It is nice to have experience from year to year on golf courses especially, but you know, it is nice having somewhat level playing field, but you just gotta knock the course out the best you can and see what happens.

Q.   Do you feel pretty good about the fact you haven't missed a cut this year?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, but I don't want to jinx anything, so hopefully I'll have a good round tomorrow and stay clear.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT