CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 24, 2019
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great final round to end your 2019 season. What do you take away from today?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was a good round. Got off to a pretty good start. Front nine things were looking good. Would've liked to get a few more on the back, but overall really happy. Really happy with how 2019 went. Looking forward to the off-season, hopefully get a little better, and be ready for 2020.
Q. What are your off-season plans? What will you work on?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Nothing too much. Like no vacations or anything. Just kind of taking it easy, enjoying South Florida, and going back home to Canada, too. I think just kind of continue what I'm doing. Just be a little bit more consistent. Hopefully 2020 will be even better.
Q. How much do you think you'll stay down here before you go back to Canada?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I'm actually going to be here quite a lot, basically like two months. I'm only going home for a couple weeks.
Q. Okay. Were you leaderboard watching or was there a number you tried to get to? I know you were a little bit far back. I don't know.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, the leaders were pretty far ahead. I was trying to just make as many birdies as I could and climb up as much as possible.
I'm happy with how I finished. Like I said, I would have liked to maybe get a few more, but it's golf. I played well, so I'm happy.
Q. And last one. I know the putt didn't go, but putting out of a difficult spot there on was it 14 or 13?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Oh, yeah.
Q. What were you facing there? Talk about that shot.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, my stance wasn't very comfortable. It was even hard because of the long grass. I guess the individual grasses were sticking out over my ball so I couldn't even really get my club behind it, so I was like hovering it like this far above it.
But was able to hit a great shot. Yeah, unfortunately didn't convert the birdie, but I was happy to walk away with par there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT