VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 3, 2015
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just disappointing day overall?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   You know, my Back 9 was really good.   It was just a couple of holes on the front nine just sort of got me, and bogey, double bogey, and after that I knew that I had just had to keep grinding it out and try and get the best finish that I could.   And I'm proud of the way I played on the Back 9 because it was tough out there, and I made a lot of up‑and‑downs to save par and was able to make birdie on 10 and birdie on 18.  
   
 Q.   Was it just the par‑5, the bogey that rattled you at the start of the front nine?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   A little bit.   I only had 177 to the front of the green and just turned my 7‑wood over a little too much and unfortunately hit it out of bounds.   
Just a couple of bounces today, but hopefully I'll get them the next time.  
   
 Q.   What did you do the last two days?   This is the second weekend in a row you're playing in contention and playing with some great players out there.   What do you take away?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Every time I'm out here I'm learning lots, and being with those great players.   I played with Cristie today and Juli Inkster yesterday and just all these great names.   And it's a lot of fun.   And Inbee Park, too.   I'm watching them, learning and I'm learning a lot about myself, too, which is always important.  
   
 Q.   How much gas do you have left in the tank?   It was a long week, long week last week?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah.   It has been a long week.   I'm excited to sort of go and relax a little bit while I caddy for my sister in South Carolina.  
But no, it's been a lot of fun and I wouldn't change it for the world.  
   
 Q.   How different is it being on that side of the back next week?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   It's fun.   It's really, really different.   But I know her game, she knows mine, so I love having her on the bag.   And I enjoy caddying for her, too.   It's easy to work on my mental game because I have to visualize the shot before she does, so I'm always trying to use it as a learning experience.  
   
 Q.   How hard is it to not be the one hitting the shots?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Oh, it's really hard.   I want to step in there all the time.  
   
 Q.   What's the plan?   You won't know for Kingsmill yet on sponsor exemptions?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Not yet.  
   
 Q.   Hoping for that?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah.   I'm really hoping.   Fingers crossed.   But I know I'm in ShopRite and Manulife.  
   
 Q.   So would you Monday qualify if you don't get the sponsorship at Kingsmill?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I'm going to try.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the ShopRite event.   Big crowd there.   You said your family is going to be down.   Pretty excited about that one?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I'm very excited.   The next couple guaranteed LPGA that I'm in, ShopRite and Manulife are pretty close to home, compared to a lot of the other tournaments during the season, so I'll have a lot of family and friend support and I'm just really excited to get back out there.  
   
 Q.   I know you talked about you really rallied on the Back 9.   It's even more important for you to grind on the Back 9 and try and get as good of finish as you can; right?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, for sure.   I think it's really important for everybody to grind it out, but I'm really proud of the way I did it today because I could have very easily given up after the first couple of holes today.  
   
 Q.   I think you could really take something like that going forward; if you have a bad hole, knowing you can rally and kind of get it back together.   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, for sure.   You know, I talk about great rounds being confidence boosters, but days like today, knowing that I can bounce back and can make those key par saves when I am over par, and I think that really helps my confidence, too.  
   
 Q.   What will you think about when you look back at this week?   What stands out?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I really enjoyed it, and I got to play with some awesome players, and just another opportunity to play against the world's best and being out here on the LPGA, I love every minute of it.  
   
 Q.   Obviously disappointed at not getting a win, but you gotta feel pretty good about the way the last two weeks have gone; right?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, for sure.   Like I said, a lot of experiences and I'm learning a lot.   So I can't say anything bad about them.  
   
 Q.   Looking back, what do you think kind of separates you from getting a win at this point?   Have you noticed anything like as soon as I get back I want to start working on this?   Is there anything that stands out?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I think just continue to do what I'm doing and keep telling myself to stay patient.  
   
 Q.   You feel like you're right there?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT