VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
April 28, 2015
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Run me through the whole turnaround from going from San Francisco to one back and then all of a sudden you're in a qualifier on Monday?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, it was a little bit crazy.   We went straight to the airport Sunday night, and we didn't have a flight when we showed up, and then we got one and it was delayed until 4:00 a.m., so we spent most of the night in the airport.   I was able to get some sleep, though, and then I slept on the plane, also. 
    Arriving here just before 10:00‑‑ actually probably around 9:00 in the morning, and Brian, my caddie, went out and looked at the course a little bit, and I got some rest, and then was ready to play at 2:00. 

Q.   So what time did you get to the airport on Sunday night?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   On Sunday night, like probably 8:00.

Q.   So then your flight was delayed until 4:00 a.m., so you got a couple hours of sleep in the airport?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, and then on the plane.

Q.   You got here at 9:00 and then you just came straight to the golf course?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah.

Q.   So you were basically operating on zero sleep yesterday?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, not a whole lot.

Q.   So then yesterday you go out and play 14 holes, you're 1‑under through 13; is that right?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, that's right, and I was hitting the ball really, really well and giving myself a lot of opportunities, I just didn't make that many, and then I made two putts on 9 and 10 to get me to 2‑under, which really helped, and then a bogey on 12.   It was really getting dark because of the storm yesterday, so I'm happy that we could start again this morning.

Q.   Did you have a hotel last night or did you have a flight planned?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   I didn't have anything booked last night, and then as soon as the delay happened, then I booked one, and it was close by. 

Q.   You looked pretty upset with only 1‑under yesterday through 13.   Was that the case? 
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I wasn't super happy.   I was giving myself a lot of opportunities, and I just need to stay patient.

Q.   Did you think when you got in at 1‑under that you would be in a playoff?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   No, I thought I was out, so I was happy when I found out I had the chance.

Q.   What happened the first playoff hole?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   First?   I gave myself a good look at birdie, was probably 15 feet straight up the hill.   I saw a little more break in it than it was, and then I was lucky, on the second playoff hole I was a foot away from where I was the previous time, so I knew the break a lot better and was able to make it. 

Q.   What's that like to go from literally final group of one of the strongest fields of the year besides a major to one shot back when you had a birdie putt to be in a playoff for the championship and then you're back in a Monday qualifier a day later?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I mean, it's cool, and it's all part of it, where I am this year, not really playing the Tour consistently, like a full schedule.   I'm sort of all over and doing different things.   Just the whole part of the experience, and I'm glad I was able to do both things.

Q.   Has it come quickly, all the attention and everything?   Obviously you're used to it all, but this is a whole new level, being in the final group of a huge event like that, with Morgan your hero, and then obviously someone who's No.1 in the world?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, it's amazing, just like the whole atmosphere.   I feel like my game is at a really good place right now, and I'm working mentally, too.   I'm working hard, and hopefully good things will happen.

Q.   What did you learn from Sunday? 
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   I learned a ton.   You know, just the whole‑‑ like I said, the atmosphere, the experience, and getting to play in the final group with TV cameras and all the people, not really pressure, but just that sense of wanting to play really well.   It was a really cool experience.

Q.   Have you ever played in front of that big of a gallery?   There was a pretty huge group following you?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   I think that was the biggest.   It was pretty cool.

Q.   What hole was the short putt on?   Did that eat at you a bit?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   12, yeah.

Q.   Have you thought about it at all or did you just kind of wipe it hopefully?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, after it happened I just tried to forget about it.   I wasn't comfortable over it.   I felt I should have waited, just took my time over it, but it was a short putt, and I've been putting well all week, so I figured I could just knock it in. 

Q.   That's got to give you pretty good confidence the rest of the year, though, that not only did you make the right decision but your game is at a level where you can win out here. 
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, for sure.   Like really close last week, and I'll have a few more chances on sponsor exemptions of the rest of the summer and hopefully Monday qualify a few more times like I did today. 

Q.   Pretty excited about ShopRite?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah.

Q.   Obviously in the field there.   What are your thoughts on that tournament?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   That's awesome, and it's pretty close to home.   I think it's an eight‑hour drive from my hometown, so a lot of people are going to try to make it up there, which is exciting.

Q.   Is it pretty cool to see all the interest in Canada?   We're getting blown up over here with media requests with people wanting to know what's going on with you. 
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, the support back home is amazing.   I think Canadian golf has been waiting for something.   Mike Weir has definitely been a headliner, and there's been a lot of other great players like Graham DeLaet and David Hearn and Brad Fritsch that have come up on the men's side, and then of course Lorie Kane, Alena Sharp, and a few other like young pros that are starting to make their way onto the Tour now.   But I think over the last couple years, the amateur teams have been playing really well, like last year, Corey Conners and I, we were both finalists in the U.S.Amateur, and that had only happened once before, and it was pretty cool. 
    I think the interest in Canada is just continuing to grow, and I think golf in Canada is growing pretty rapidly.

Q.   How close are you to Corey?   I know he had the first day at the Masters but really played well the second day.   Was that pretty cool to see?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, it was.   I was so happy that he was there and being able to play.   Yeah, I saw the 80 the first day, and I was like, ooh, a little bit.   But just the whole experience for him to be able to go there and then turning pro right after, I think I'm really excited for what his future holds.

Q.   Is that pretty neat, situations like that, you're just sitting here and Christina Kim comes by, like, Did you qualify?   Good work! 
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, it's awesome, and getting to know the girls a little bit better the last couple weeks.   I'm really excited for the summer and the summers in the future.

Q.   I know you said Morgan has been really nice to you.   Did you feel for her on Sunday?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, a little bit.   But Lydia is a great player, too, and inspiring.   I think the two holes, it was really close, and Lydia made a great putt on the second one, so it was good.

Q.   Did you take anything away from the way they handled that final group on Sunday, the way Morgan did or‑‑
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   I definitely was paying attention to the other players.   I mean, I felt very comfortable.

Q.   You looked comfortable out there. 
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I felt very comfortable, especially on the Saturday playing in the final group.   Sunday I had a little more nerves, but overall, you know, I was very comfortable, and I like to rise up.

Q.   Are you surprised by that at all, that you seemed so comfortable?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   A little bit, yeah.   On the Friday night when I knew I had the lead going in, I was trying to imagine myself in that situation and trying to imagine the nerves, and they weren't really there like I had thought they might be, which was really exciting, and shows that I'm just that much closer to playing my best.

Q.   Because it was before 12:00, I guess there was only really one shot that was poor, the first hole you hit the squirrelly shot to the right and then it seemed like you settled down from there?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, exactly, and that first hole I think I got all my nerves out, and after that it was okay.   Yeah. 

Q.   Have you watched the eagle back at all, the hole‑out from the bunker?
    BROOKE HENDERSON:   No, I haven't seen it, but it was pretty cool.   I was just trying to‑‑ in the back of my mind I was trying to make it, but I was just trying to give myself a good opportunity for birdie, so I was really excited when it went in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT