CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2019
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're a Naples resident. You opened with a double bogey and then after that you get it back to even, five birdies in your last seven holes. What were you thinking after what happened on 1 and how did you recover?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, it was really unfortunate, No. 1. Like you said, it wasn't very much fun, but I wanted to get it back on the front nine, wanted to get it back to even, and that was really key for me, I think. I wasn't hitting it that great, but then on the back nine I made a long putt on 12 and that really started to get things rolling, and I had a great crowd out there today, as well, which is always really fun, and I started to make some birdies there, and it just seemed like I could make everything. So the last like six holes were really fun.
Q. Four previous starts for you in this championship, but your best finish has been tied for 10th. Why do you think the first two days have been a little bit better for you so far?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think every year I understand how to play this golf course maybe a little bit better. I'm really excited to be here this week. I think it's a great opportunity. Hopefully I can finish strong on the weekend and just kind of put myself in contention.
Q. A rocky start out there with a double on 1, but how were you able to turn it around and have a great round?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, not the start I wanted for sure, but I was able to get it back to even after the first nine holes and that was really important. I kind of started to get things rolling a little bit. Big, long putt on 12 that was really a bonus, and then after that I just seemed to be making a lot of birdies, which is always a lot of fun. Great crowd, great energy out here. I'm excited to be playing the weekend near the top of the leaderboard, so it should be fun.
Q. You've got one of the biggest crowds out here following you. What's that like in Naples to have a sense of support?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I love playing here. A lot of snowbirds, a lot of Canadians down here, and a lot of friends that we made here in the Naples area close to where I live. It's always great to be out here, and this is a great golf course that suits my game, so yeah, hopefully good things will happen.
Q. You had the bogey at 2 yesterday, the double at 1 today. When you get off to slow starts like that, what kind of things do you and your sister talk about to sort of get you back along the right frame of mind?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, sometimes bad things happen and you're really not hitting it that terribly or just things aren't going your way, so just to stay patient I think is a big thing that I've found the last few years. Brit is really good at keeping me calm and relaxed and patient out there. Then once things start to turn around, hit a few good shots, see a few putts go in, then you kind of feel that momentum and energy, and I was really able to feed off that the rest of my back nine today.
Q. Now you're in good position going into the weekend. What kind of things do you work on going into tomorrow to keep the momentum going?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, my last six holes were great. I was hitting the ball in good spots and ball-striking really well and making putts, so I can't really ask for anything more. I think just stick to our strategy, go over the game plan a little bit more tonight maybe, and hopefully just have a big crowd out there and make a lot of putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT