SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 23, 2015
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Pretty pleased with that today?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I am.   I hit a lot of great shots out there and was able to make a few putts on the front nine.   
My back nine were all pars, which I can't complain too much with conditions the way they were today.   Would've liked to capitalize on a few more birdies.   I am hoping I will get the chance the next couple days.  
   
 Q.   Good to be back out at an LPGA Tour event?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   It it.   It's awesome.   The field here is just amazing, and seeing all the girls and just the whole atmosphere here is unbelievable.   Hopefully I'll be spending a lot more time out here.  
   
 Q.   How has the professional playing going so far?   What's it been like?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   It's a lot of fun.   It's always been my dream to turn professional and one day to play full time on the LPG Tour.   I am working my way towards that by playing a mixture of tours, some mini tour stuff, Symetra, and LPGA.   
So it's been mixture of things, but it's been fun.  
   
 Q.   Has it been pretty cool to go through this experience with your sister, her starting her pro career as well?   Obviously totally different ages, but it's pretty neat.   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, it is.   It's awesome, and we get to practice and train together.   Most of time we get to travel to tournaments together, too, which is a lot of fun.   
She's definitely one of my best friends and we get along really well.   It's nice when we're able to you push each other to the next level.  
   
 Q.   You both were in contention at the same tournament at Symetra a couple weeks ago.   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, it was fun and sort of funny, too.   144 players and we both finish second.   
   
 Q.   What did that do for you?   Give you pretty good confidence this is the right move and everything?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, for sure.   I'm doing something that I love and having a little bit of success right now.   Hopefully that will continue.  
   
 Q.   Being in contention here, what does that mean to you after the first round?  
STACY LEWIS:   It's good.   It's only the first round, though.   Have a few more days to go.   Hopefully I'll get better each day.  
   
 Q.   You think Canada is back there watching?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I believe they are, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Will you and your sister talk tonight?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, we will.   She's first round tomorrow for a Symetra tournament, so probably won't be too long of a chat, but hopefully touch base.  
   
 Q.   Was it different not having her on the bag?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   It is, but Brian is a great family friend of ours and he does a good job out there.   
I'm looking forward to when my sister is back on, but he does a good job.   
   
 Q.   Did he caddie at Canadian Women's Open for you last year?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, he did.   
   
 Q.   What's the plan the rest of the year?   Obviously in the U.S. Open; kind of back and forth between LPGA and Symetra exemptions?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yes, exactly.   I am just trying to work on some exemptions and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   What's your goal for the year?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Just to play as well as I can.   Definitely keep up my Olympic ranking and professional ranking in Canada so I can go to Rio next year.  
Trying to make as much money out here and move up my world golf ranking so that I either give myself a good chance going into Q‑School or I can skip Q‑School altogether.   That would be awesome.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   Monday qualifying in Dallas after this; is that right?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Possibly, yeah.   Depends how I do this weekend.  
   
 Q.   Has it been crazy traveling at your age?   You were in school and you've played all over the world, but all of a sudden have full time to devote to golf.   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, it's cool, though.   I love to travel and I love the new experiences of culture and everything.   It has been a little bit hectic, but I love it.   I'm young so I can deal with it.   
   
 Q.   Who is here with you this week?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Just Brian, my caddie.   
   
 Q.   Okay.   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   We're staying in private housing and the people are super nice.   Typical San Francisco home, so we're getting a good feel for the city.  
   
 Q.   It's been you and your sister going around?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Mom and dad are up north right now, but they joined us for a few tournaments and they'll be joining us in a couple weeks.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   Where did you practice at this winter?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   This winter I was in Daytona Beach, Florida at a course, Indigo Lakes, just a few miles away from LPGA International.  
   
 Q.   Does it give you any confidence to see what Lydia is doing out here, to know it that is possible for somebody your age?   It's crazy that you're this age and in contention out here.  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, she is unbelievable and definitely a huge role model not only for me but girls and women everywhere.  
She's an incredible player and a super nice person, too.   
   
 Q.   You ever think about what you can do for golf in Canada?   I know golf is getting bigger in Canada, but seems like having a star like you going forward would be huge.   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I hope it is.   Golf in Canada is definitely growing, and you see that over th last couple years.   The U.S. Am, both men and women, there were two finalists that were Canadian.   
The national teams are really improving.   A lot of positives, and I'm excited for what the future holds.   
   
 Q.   Seemed like last year at times and at ManuLife and at the Canadian Women's Open that you had bigger crowds than some of biggest stars of this tour in a sense.   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, it's pretty cool when I go back home the support that I receive.  
   
 Q.   Right.   What's the day‑to‑day been like since you turned pro?   Differs which tour you play, but just practice every day?   Give yourself off?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I'm practicing pretty much every day.   I love it and love to be on the golf course.   I don't know what I would do if I wasn't out on the golf course.  
But I'm having fun with it and I think that's the key.   You got to have fun and enjoy it.  
   
 Q.   What did you learn from the second‑place finish at Symetra?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I learned a lot.   I could compete out there just as well as anybody.   I didn't play that great that week and I was still able to finish second.  
That was definitely a big confidence booster for me.   Hopefully I'll get a chance to go back out there later this summer and hopefully play in a few more events.  
   
 Q.   Playing out here, is there anything that you've noticed that you think that's the pinpoint area that I need to target to get to this level, to get better?   What's different from playing Symetra?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Definitely the girls are just really consistent and good all the time.   This course is extremely tough, and the course conditions today were tough also.  
But for me, definitely short game is a big thing that I've been working on the last couple years, and I hope to continue to improve to hopefully be a top player out here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT