CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2014
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You said you wanted to make the cut.   Do you feel good about the place you've put yourself in now? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I played pretty well today.   I left a lot of opportunities out there and missed a lot of birdies, but that's okay.   If I play the weekend, I'll get them tomorrow.

Q.   How much pressure is it to have the kind of attention that you have here? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   It's awesome.   I love it.   It's a challenge to be able to play well for them, and I love it.   I know they're all cheering for me, so really it's positive energy.

Q.   You feed off of it? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, exactly.

Q.   How much better do you feel than the first two Canadian Opens when you didn't make the cut? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   A lot more comfortable on the big stage which is awesome, because when I was in here and I was 14, I was pretty nervous, and didn't really know anybody.   Now I know the other pros and they know me, and I'm more comfortable in the big setting with all the fans and all the cameras.

Q.   What part of this course works to your advantage do you think? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Definitely tee shots it's a little wide open, but you have to be smart in your position.   My strength is definitely ball striking, so being able to hit the greens in the right spot because they're large, being able to point yourself in a good position to make birdie is key.   I still have to work on some putting, and hopefully I'll clear that up for tomorrow.

Q.   Is that four for four now on the LPGA Tour this year as far as making cuts? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, if I make it today, it will be.

Q.   Are you glad you went out and grabbed it?   You could have been around even and wondered, right?   But now you're ‑‑
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Honestly, today I could have been easily 5‑under.   I had so many opportunities for birdie inside 10 feet and didn't capitalize on them.   Unfortunately, I missed that last putt on 18 to be only 1‑under for the day.

Q.   You played with Doug Alexander.   Did he share any local knowledge with you that you brought to the course this week? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, for sure.   It was fun being able to play with Doug, he's President of Golf Canada and a member here, and another member and his friend, Jeff.   I mean coming out here three weeks ago the greens weren't in the best of shape, but he was able to show me around and show me some of the elevations and some good spots to be in the fairways.

Q.   You're playing so much golf lately, but your mental aspect is still very keen.   Is that going to continue throughout the year?   There is still a lot of golf left. 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, it's been a busy summer.   I only have one more tournament left for a little while.   So I'll go to the World Amateur in Japan in two weeks, and I'm really excited for that.

Q.   You're 16 years old, and you seem to be handling this so well.   What is your secret? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Oh, I don't know.   That's a tough question.   There are a lot of young players out here.   Lydia Ko, Lexi Thompson, Jessica Korda, that's just to name a few.   I know I still have a long way to go to get to where I want to be, so I'm always trying to get better.

Q.   What would be your ultimate goal? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   My ultimate goal this week? 

Q.   No, in general.   You ask a player and they say in five years they want to reach this point.   What is your ultimate goal? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Definitely I want to have full status on the LPGA Tour and have a successful career out here for a long time and be able to win tournaments and hopefully win a major someday.

Q.   Brittany on Monday suggested you were going to caddie for Q‑school? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I'm caddying for her next week at Q‑school and then I'm leaving for Japan.

Q.   To go to Q‑school and look at it, what's that mean after all the summer?   Does that feel like a holiday break or is it to work again? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   No, it's fun.   I love caddying for my sister, and she caddies for me a lot, so it's nice to return the favor.   It will be nice to go out and scout out the course for Q‑school because hopefully I'll be there in the next year or two.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT