CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2014
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rebecca was just saying she got a lot of love out there.   Is that a different golf experience than you're used to with all the Canadians out there?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   It was awesome.   The support out there was amazing.   They clapped for everything, which was great, and playing with two other Canadians and having an all‑Canadian group was so much fun.   They're great friends.   I've known them for a long time.   Having such support from family and friends and my playing partners was great.

Q.   Do you feel like you left any shots out there that could have made a difference?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, definitely.   I hit the ball great all day.   I hit a lot of greens and had a lot of opportunities for birdie, and they didn't fall today, but hopefully over the next couple days they'll make up for it.

Q.   How do you feel about the setup of the course so far, challenging or fair?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Definitely fair.   It's a great track, it's beautiful, one of my favorite courses that I've played.   Over the next couple days they'll probably toughen it up a little bit.   The key to this course is you have to hit the fairways.   The rough is so thick and so deep, and today I managed to stay out of it for the most part, which was great.

Q.   Just a comment about London golf.   You've won out at Fire Rock here, playing at London Hunt, getting a lot of support from local events. 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, definitely.   I think playing at Fire Rock two or three weeks ago really helped because I saw a lot of women that were there watching that day are here following today, also.   I had a great run when I was there, minus 13 for two days, so hopefully I can get a good run together and match that.

Q.   I think you played over here the day after you won at Fire Rock, so that's really helping you this week?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, definitely.   I came up here three weeks ago with (inaudible) Alexander and my sister and another member, and they were able to show me around the course and some keys to the course.   Two or three weeks ago the greens were in rough shape.   They had a really hard winter here, and they've worked really, really hard to get them the way they are.   I mean, the course is in immaculate condition, and I'm really impressed with all of the work that they've done. 

Q.   You always see poa get a little bumpy toward the end of the day, but was it any bumpier than usual?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   At the end of the day, there were a lot of spike marks.   You've got to expect that.   But no, they're rolling really nice.

Q.   In these type of tournaments, you play in the morning one day and then the afternoon the next day and vice versa.   Which do you prefer to do, the morning first or the afternoon? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I love mornings.   I love practicing early in the morning.   Like these tournaments you have to play one afternoon, one early, but I have a great draw and great playing partners, and 1:30 and 8:30, it's good.

Q.   You're not really a typical teenager that likes to sleep in?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   No, I wouldn't say so.

Q.   What about the pairings, three Canadians, kind of pretty cool, right?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, it was.   It was so much fun.   Like I said, I've known them for a very long time.   They grew up with my older sister, Brittany, and they played on the national team with her.   So I've known them since I was seven, eight years old, and I've always just sort of grown up watching them play and wanted to be like them and my sister.   So it's cool to get to play with them and just get to talk to them about their lives now playing out on Tour.

Q.   And being comfortable with them, too, did that help your game a bit?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, definitely.   Over the last couple years I've gotten a lot more comfortable on the big stage, and I've gotten to know more pros, and playing with good friends today made it even that much more comfortable.

Q.   Talk about the success you and Lydia Ko have had as teenagers.   It seems like there's more female golfers who have success as teenagers than on the men's side.   Any idea why that is?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, there's a ton of young golfers out here, that's for sure.   Lydia Ko is amazing, and so is Lexi Thompson, who's really young, and Charley Hull, just to name a couple.   It's great to be out here against the best in the world, and hopefully over the next couple years I'll be out here full‑time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT