U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2014
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Brooke, can you hear us? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yes. 

Q.   Thanks so much for talking to us.   I understand today probably didn't turn out the way you wanted it to.   Tell us how you're feeling right now. 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I played well today, and I held the lead after the first 18.   I just didn't play quite as well on the back 18 as I would have liked.   Kristen played really well and she made a lot of putts when she needed to. 

Q.   Can you talk about the pressure that you were feeling down the stretch with Kristen really throwing some darts into the flagsticks and usually hitting first?   Can you talk about what you were thinking on those last few holes on each of those approach shots? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I wasn't thinking about much, just trying to play my own game and trying to hit targets that I would normally choose in stroke play.   She was throwing darts, and that definitely affected my game a little bit.   I was trying to match it, and a couple holes I was able to, and others I just didn't. 

Q.   When you look back on the second 18, I guess the back nine in particular, is there a moment when you really felt momentum shift? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Definitely on 12.   After that point I knew I needed to really start playing well.   She made a putt on 12 that really got her going, and after that she made a few more birdies. 
The whole time I knew the US Women's Amateur is not an easy championship to win, so I was trying to put the pedal down. 

Q.   I know you always want to take the win, but sometimes you can learn even more from a loss than a win.   What do you hope to take from this whole experience?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Well, it's been a great week.   I really enjoyed it.   I spent a whole seven days here, which is awesome.   Coming into the week if they said would you like to play in the finals, I would have said yes for sure.   I definitely will learn a lot from this and take away a lot from this week. 

Q.   Obviously this is an emotional loss for you.   Can you just kind of talk about how hard this was for you?   You've won a lot in your career.   Is this the toughest loss you've ever felt? 
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Definitely I wanted to get my name on the trophy, but that's not necessarily success for me.   I played well, and I had a lot of fun this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT