U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you feel?   That was a big win against a very tough opponent.   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, that's for sure.   Alison is an amazing player, third in the world, which is awesome, and it was nice to finally get to be able to play with her.   I've heard so much about her and watched her play but never actually played with her, so it was really nice.   It was a tough match right from the get‑go.   I think the most I was up was 2‑up and she was 1‑up at one point, too, so there was a lot of back and forth.  
   
 Q.   You don't see a lot of these going the full 18.   Would you have liked to have gotten it done sooner or do you like playing a full 18 of good golf against a really good opponent?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I definitely like to get them done as fast as possible.   That was my first match this week to 18.   Hopefully the next couple days if I'm up, they finish early, and if I'm down, then we go all the way.   
   
 Q.   You seem really calm today or this whole week, or just really comfortable.   Is that fair?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I'm hitting the ball really well, and it's an amazing tournament.   Just a great chance to contend for the title, and I'm really excited for the next two days.  
   
 Q.   Was there any point in the match that really stood out to you as a point where you were able to get your feet under you, a good hole that stood out to you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Definitely the putt on 12 for par.   Alison just missed her putt for par and I was able to make it, and at that point I went 2‑up, and that was the first time where I was kind of like, you know, I can win this thing.   After that she fought back hard, got down to one, and then just that little putt on 17 was really‑‑ or 16 I should say, was really huge.  
   
 Q.   When she lipped out there?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, and I was able to make my par putt.   That was major turning point.  
   
 Q.   What goes through your head when you see an opponent have the opportunity there but then it really quickly turns back your way?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   These greens are hard to read sometimes, so even my putt after she missed, I was like trying to take my time and just really go through it because you have to be so careful.   I mean, you never want to see them miss, like you don't want to wish bad on anybody, but you've got to take advantage when you can.   
   
 Q.   Going back to 12, about how far was that putt?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   12?   I'd say a good 12 feet.   
   
 Q.   As far as just conditions in general this week with the whole course, what are your thoughts on that?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Amazing.   USGA picks amazing golf courses, and they're some of my favorites that I've played, and this one, too, it's a great track.   It's really firming up and getting really, really fast, especially the fairways and greens.   They're releasing a lot, and you've just got to be careful and smart about it the next couple days.  
   
 Q.   Where are you trying to put yourself mentally before tomorrow?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I still have a lot of work to do until that match on Sunday, so I'm excited, but I know it's still a long way away.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT