U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did you enjoy yourself?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Oh, it was so much fun.   I just enjoyed the day.   I have a lot of family and friends watching.   It's a beautiful golf course, and it's just a lot of fun.   I started off a little rough on the first couple holes, but I was able to get it back and finish at 1‑under.  
   
 Q.   Nelly Korda is around your age.   She told me that she wasn't nervous at all on the first tee.   What were you feeling?   What were your nerves like?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, definitely a little bit.   I wanted to play well, and I wanted to have a good round.   So definitely a little bit of first tee jitters, but having my sister there really helped me stay calm.   Once the round got going, it really felt better, and I was able to finish strong.  
   
 Q.   Your drive on the first tee there was that just being pumped up or was that a misjudgment of some sort?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Honestly, I didn't think I could get there.   I thought I'd be a couple yards short.   I hit it the way I wanted to, I just ended up in the bunker.  
   
 Q.   What were your expectations this week?   Do you have goals or do you just come out, enjoy yourself and see what happens?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I'm looking to make the cut, definitely, that is a big goal.   But I just wanted to enjoy myself and take in the whole experience so I can get better and hopefully down the road that experience will help me out.  
   
 Q.   With a few holes did you feel like you had some birdie opportunities that just didn't drop for you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I had a couple there on the back nine that I could have made (Indiscernible), but hopefully I'll get it tomorrow and make up for it.  
   
 Q.   What are your long‑term plans?   Would you like to play college golf?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I think college golf is awesome.   I'm looking at a few schools right now.   So hopefully I'll play college golf and hopefully turn pro after that.  
   
 Q.   You're playing in two more LPGA events coming up here pretty soon?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yep.  
   
 Q.   Kind of talk about the schedule that you've put together?   You're playing above your age quite a bit.   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   When I found out that I qualified for this, I was really excited that I played well the last couple of events, so that got me into those two other LPGA Tour events.   I'm really looking forward to that.   Just taking in the experience right now and gaining as much as I can.  
   
 Q.   How long was that putt on 18?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Probably 15 feet, maybe a little less.  
   
 Q.   What happened there?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Breaker, left to right, just had enough speed there and just sort of fell on the top side.   I was happy to see it fall instead of just sitting there.  
   
 Q.   Sometimes your putter wasn't that hot for you, but that could change things around for you that putt right there, do you think?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I definitely had a couple of putts out there.   14, I had a clutch par save to keep my round going.   Then on 18 there that was a good one.   So left a few out there, but I made them when I really needed to.  
   
 Q.   Did you miss a fairway after the first two?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   No, I don't think so.  
   
 Q.   Well, and that's got to be part of the success today, obviously, right?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, definitely.   This course can really jump up and bite you if you miss the fairways, so that is definitely the key.  
   
 Q.   Was 14 the one you were in the rough?  
BROOKE HENDERSON:   By the left side.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, the left side.   You figured out that would be a pretty big shot for you too?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, definitely that chip shot over there.   I just had to get it to the top of the hill there and let it run all the way down, and I hit it like I wanted to and it turned out.  
   
 Q.   So you won a tournament and broke Lydia Ko's record for youngest winner in a pro tournament.   Is that a big deal to you?   Do you pay attention to what other kids your age are doing and the amazing things they're doing?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   It was pretty cool.   I liked to win that event.   At the time I didn't know about any of the records.   It wasn't until after.   And to think there are so many amazing players out here on TOUR that have come through, so it's pretty cool to think that I am the youngest one to win, but at the time, I didn't know.  
   
 Q.   Minus‑1 after your first round in a major tournament like the U.S. Open, better than you could have expected do you think?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   It's pretty good. (Indiscernible).   
   
 Q.   Just, you're playing in the Manulife now; that's been confirmed.   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I think the press release was supposed to come out today.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, it did, so maybe just a word about that?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Oh, I'm really looking forward to it.   It's pretty close to home, actually, so hopefully some of my family and friends will come out there and support me.   I'm sure they will.  
   
 Q.   Did you notice how many were out here today?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, there were quite a few.   That was pretty awesome.  
   
 Q.   That helps?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, definitely.  
   
 Q.   I mean, people that aren't even family drove quite a long ways to come watch you play.   Were you surprised by that?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah.   They're awesome.   They're actually from my club, and they support me 100% all the time.   When I knew they were coming a few weeks ago, I was really excited to have them come out and watch.  
   
 Q.   One more question about you and your sister; you guys must be close if she's on the bag here.   What have you learned from her and what has her career meant to your career?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Actually, when I was younger, I grew up watching her and wanted to be just like her.   She's a huge role model for me.   It's a huge comforting factor to know she's there and she's very knowledgeable.   She just finished her fourth year at university college golf, so she knows a lot and helps me out.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT