GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 27, 2021
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Brooke, on one of those days where the conditions are ripe to go low, what was working so well for you out there?
 BROOKE HENDERSON:   I feel like all week I been hitting the ball well.  Just made a few more putts early, which was exciting and gave me more confidence.  It was nice to make six birdies out there.  Unfortunately left a couple bogeys, too.  Happy with how the day went overall and hopefully can do system similar tomorrow.
 Q. Being able to start with a birdie, what was feeling so right on that front nine?
 BROOKE HENDERSON:   I actually had a great group today and everybody was playing well.  Marissa and Sofia, too.  The first hole I think we all birdied, so it was kind of a nice way to start.  Yeah, just to make a lot of birdies, kind of get the confidence up a little bit.
 Going to the back nine I was hoping to make a few more.  Made a couple, but hopefully make some early tomorrow and make up for some of the lost shots today.
 Q. Even though you're Canadian, you do have a that Florida residence.  Can you take from your experience playing in Naples to here at Lake Nona?
 BROOKE HENDERSON:   Well, this golf course is beautiful and in amazing condition.  I've always wanted to play here, so I was really looking forward to the opportunity, and it's definitely met expectations or exceeded them.
 So definitely fun to be here.  Yeah, playing in Florida that conditions all winter at my home down in Naples definitely prepares me a little bit.  The grass is overseeded here and the rough, so a little bit different, but overall just laying in the heat and the conditions it's very similar.
 Q. What have the last couple days been like?  You just said this is your first time playing this course.  What was this like when you first got here and had to adjust?
 BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, it's beautiful.  Seeing the lake on the last few holes, it's a great feeling.  It reminds me a little bit of being back home in Canada by the lake, there.  So good thoughts and good memories.  I'm just really excited that we were able to have a tour event here.
 Q. (Indiscernible.)  What would it mean to come away with another victory here in Florida?
 BROOKE HENDERSON:   Everybody is playing really well right now, so hopefully just get off to a fast start tomorrow and make as many birdies as possible and put myself in good position coming a down the back nine.  Definitely be fun to put myself in contention.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT