BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 18, 2019
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How many times do you have hole-in-one before this time?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think this was No. 7. When I have them in tournaments usually I play pretty well, so I was excited to get one today.
Q. (Through translation.) You play very well today. Talk about how you feel about your performance today.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Definitely really happy to have played as well as I did today, especially with the hole-in-one. Then I was able to continue the momentum and make a lot birdies which was a lot of fun.
I'm excited to be at the top of leaderboard and looking forward to the next two days.
Q. (Through translation.) With players playing very well these days and you can see the score is very low, how do you prepare to perform to keep the leadership?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I feel like there is a lot of birdies out on this golf course, but can also be very difficult. You have to just kind of pay attention to where the wind is and make sure you're hitting good shots.
If you hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens, it's usually a remedy for success. Hopefully just continue what I've been doing.
Q. (Through translation.) This year is a good year for you. You won twice. How do you feel about that, and what is your plan for this year and your goals?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Really happy how I've played so far this year. A lot of Top 10s and two wins, which is really exciting. I was able to break a record in Canada, too, so that was a lot of fun.
I think for the remainder of the year I only have four events left, so hopefully put myself in contention on the weekends and then hopefully go low and just see what happens.
Q. As you are very young player, you just said you made a lot of hole-in-one. Do you think it's lucky for you, or you have a particular swing skill to make lots of hole-in-one?
BROOKE HENDERSON: No, I think they're just very lucky. Even today I got a lot of bounces. I think hole-in-ones, they're just the right bounces and a lot of luck.
I don't think you can -- I feel like if you're a consistent player and you have good yardages from your caddie that maybe your chances go up a little bit, but for the most part it's just all luck and I'm just very grateful.
I guess I've been pretty lucky.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT