CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 31, 2019
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under, sitting at 14-under for the tournament. You shot 5-under, 4-under, 5-under. What's kept you so consistent this week?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I love this golf course. It's a lot of fun for my sister and I to go out there and play, and there's lots of birdies available. If you have a couple of rough holes, just try to stay patient and make good things happen on the birdie holes and I feel like we've been able to do that and capitalize on that, which is really exciting. I'm looking forward to tomorrow. I'm a lot of shots back but maybe I can get off to a fast start and see what happens.
Q. What allows you to be so aggressive here?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Off the tee it's so narrow that you have to have good tee shots to put yourself in play, and after that, you can kind of go after birdies, and these greens, I feel like I read them the best that I do out of all the greens on Tour, so it's really a fun week for me.
Q. What is it about the greens that let's you read them so well?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think just kind of similar grasses to what I grew up playing on back home in Canada. I think just having so much experience on these green, having won here twice, I've always played decent here, the four or five times I've played it. I think it's just experience, and also, just a good feeling when you step on to them.
Q. Going into the final round, what are you hoping to take away from your play from the opening three rounds heading into Sunday?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I bogeyed the first hole the first two days, and I was a little disappointed about that. I went out and tried to birdie it today. Didn't get the birdie, but maybe I'll get it tomorrow and that will make me feel a little better.
Q. So you won here as a non-member to get your membership. Yealimi is putting herself in prime position to do the same thing. What is going through your mind as you're on the final round of what could be a life-changing day for you?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, in my case, I had I think a five-shot lead on Sunday, so I was just terrified. Just like don't give that away. I was just trying to make more birdies and stay ahead of the crowd.
It's really fun. It's the opportunity of a lifetime, and you can make it easier on yourself if you can go out and play one round well, as opposed to going to Q-School play a lot of rounds play. If you can capitalize, it changes your whole life.
Q. It was a springboard for you.
BROOKE HENDERSON: It was, and then to come back the next year and repeat -- even though I had won a major in between there, I felt like I was really proving myself out here, which was nice.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT