CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2019
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Basically where you left off last year. What was the key to the round today?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Just tried to keep things really simple. When I showed up this morning it was really cold and windy and I was like, uh-oh. But in the back of my head it was also sort of like Sunday last year, so figured it might not be a bad thing.
Just tried to hit a lot of fairways, give myself good shots into the green, give myself some good looks at birdies, and felt look I made quite a few birdies on the front nine. That kind of calmed my nerves a little bit. Kind of got the feeling that I could go low possibly today.
Then everything just sort went right. I had one bogey, but other than that, I felt like everything was in good shape. Hopefully I can continue that.
Q. Seemed like you had the putter going.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, absolutely. My putter was really hot, especially for me today, which was really exciting. You know, when I need to save par, like even on the 2nd hole, that was sort of a testy five, six-footer. To get that and make par and keep my round alive, to start the day like that was really key.
From then I felt really good with it all day. It's nice to finish on the last with a birdie.
Q. When you saw the weather this morning did you have to adjust the game plan?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, absolutely. You know, even off the 1st tee I had to be a little careful on what line I took. I ended up being pretty aggressive anyway, but just have to really pay attention when the conditions are colder and windy like that.
I felt like I could have maybe chased a few more pins out there today, but I was kind of playing a little bit more conservative because it was so windy.
Q. Pretty good crowds out there. A lot to see you. Do you like playing in front of bigger crowds like that?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, this week is amazing. To have this many people out on Thursday morning is pretty special. They're cheering for me bright and early, so that's pretty cool.
To get a solid round like this in in front of them I think is really a confidence booster for me; gives me a lot of momentum going into the next three days.
Q. As the defending champion, was there a little practice nerves or butterflies in the stomach on the 1st tee this time compared to last year?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Actually I think the opposite. I think I was a lot more relaxed and more confident than I have been other years stepping on the 1st tee just knowing I have done this before. I have handled the pressure.
Q. What were you trying to accomplish today when you went out? What was your thought process?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, when I saw the conditions early I didn't know how low you could really go, so I think it kind of gave me a step back and I was just trying to play simple golf: hit fairways, hit greens, and then if birdies were there try and take them etch.
All the birdies pretty much fell for me today, which is a great feeling. It's going to be hard to back up. Hopefully I'll go out and keep hitting it well.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, Mike is great. He's been helping us out. He helped at media day. He took us around the course. We didn't play, but he gave us some hints and tips. Both my practice rounds today he was out on the course -- or this week -- was out the course and just kind of helping me find my way around.
Think that was really helpful, and gave me that little bit of extra confidence knowing that was the line off the tee and not just kind of guessing.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think so. I think those were key really.
Q. Amazing shot into 18. What kind of lie did you have over in the rough?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I actually was really happy. It was sitting up. When I hit it over there I was sort of secretly praying that it would be sitting up and have a good lie, and it was.
Q. Canadian women are doing amazing things right now in sports. You're the reigning champion of this tournament. Andreescu won the Canadian women's championship in tennis. You notice that? Is that something you think about?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's really exciting. Watching her compete was really inspiring for me, and I think gave me a little bit of extra motivation and I think it's doing the same for the whole country. It's pretty cool time to be involved with Canadian sports I think.
Q. You have a two-shot lead right now. Do you like being in that position where everybody has to chase you?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I mean, there is still lots of golf left to be played. Half the field still has to go out and compete. So I feel like it's early. It's one round of four.
It's nice to be in a position where I had a good round; everything seemed to go right for me. Hopefully I can continue to stick to my game plan, make a lot of birdies, and I would love to be in this position on Sunday.
Q. Do you watch the leaderboard this afternoon or just go home and focus on whatever you need to do?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's too early to start leaderboard watching, I think. Might pay attention before I go to sleep to see where I'm at. Other than that, just have to go out tomorrow and have a solid round. There is tons of golf left.
Q. There was a fair bit of discussion between you and Brittany on the approach shot on 16, tee shot on 17. Was i the wind? The club? What was it?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I think the wind was really challenging all day. There are some times you have to take a few more seconds; you have to take a little bit longer to get it right.
Those two shots in particular we just needed to do that. That tee shot can be tricky on 16 because the big tree covers the majority of it. You can't really see a lot of the fairway off the tee. She was just helping me feel a little bit more comfortable.
Then 17 is a really difficult shot. You saw Stacy and Minjee. Just take a little longer just to get it right.
Q. The teamwork with you and Brittany, do you think it even makes it a little easier than some other players, the relationship you guys have?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I'm obviously super comfortable with her. I think that's really important when you have a caddie/player relationship, being really comfortable and up front and honest with them, and we definitely have that.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, for me, when I'm playing well, my ball striking, hitting a lot fairways, greens, and then just hoping I'm making some putts, too.
So I think if I can just, again, keep it simple, fairways, greens, and give myself some good looks tomorrow.
Q. Can you just talk about the condition of the course a little bit?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's amazing. It's in incredible shape. The fairways are pretty soft. The greens at times get a little bit firmer, but everything is great.
Q. Obviously there is pressure coming here as a Canadian. You're defending champ. Is there extra pressure out there? Do you feel any extra pressure out there?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Knowing I was capable of winning this event after having done it last year I just think gave me a lot of confidence. Made me more comfortable in front of these crowds. Just knowing that I've done it before I think just gave me a little -- just relaxed me a little bit. Made me a little bit more calm. I think that's key when I'm playing well.
Q. I noticed you be flexing your wrist a little bit after a shot down the stretch. Was that just a general stretch? Everything is okay there?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Oh, yeah. I just probably do it subconsciously to be honest with you. I don't know.
Q. Was it important for you to take advantage of the par-5s today? Was that part of the game plan?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, in the practice rounds I could hit all of them in two. The wind switched around a little bit today and was stronger and didn't get to quite all of them.
I think being close and up and around them definitely -- maybe not the gives me an advantage, but makes me confident that I can make a lot of birdies out there.
Q. (Regarding weather in Regina.)
BROOKE HENDERSON: I don't remember like the temperature or the miles per hour in the wind or anything, but just that it was cold and very windy at times. I was wearing rain pants and rain jacket the entire round.
So a little bit different than today. I'm a little hot right now.
Q. Do you have anything you do as a habit as part of your cool down?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, right now I'm excited to go have some lunch. I always just talk through the round with my dad and my sister. Just try to see what I did well and what I can work on going into tomorrow.
Q. What about as far as fitness, nutrition?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Well, lunch is always good. I like to do just a few exercises once I got back to my hotel room. Keep it really simple. Always trying to get a little stronger and then also stretch it out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT