MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
July 9, 2019
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Happy to be joined by World No. 8, nine-time LPGA winner, Brooke Henderson.  Brooke, this season you've got two wins, five additional top 10 finishes.  What's been the key to your success this year?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, it's been a great year so far.  Really consistent.  A lot of top finishes and lots of weekends where I'm in contention, which is a lot of fun.
I think hard work over the off-season just trying to get my game to the next level.  Always trying to work on that consistency.  Short game I think made big gains over the last couple years with the wedges.
(Indiscernible) really been beneficial in some of the top finishes.
THE MODERATOR: You took a rare week off last week.  How did you spend your time?  Get some practice in?  Anything you were working on?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, it was a really good stretch of six weeks we did.  We were ready for a little bit of a break.  We were able to go back home to Canada, which was really fun, and see some family and friends.  Celebrated a friend's wedding, which was really awesome.
Just a little bit of practice, but a lot of rest getting ready for a four-week stretch for us, including two back-to-back majors.
THE MODERATOR: Yeah, you mention there is a huge stretch coming up.  This week at Marathon, next week you're teaming up with Alena at the Dow Great Lakes Bay Invitational, and back-to-back majors.  How do you set expectations and manage, pace yourself through a big stretch like that?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, I think it's going to require a lot of energy the next four weeks.  It's exciting to be back here where I finished so well last year.  It was really fun to be in contention and leading the tournament most of the weekend.  Hopefully I can build off that momentum this year and get right back into that position.
Next week I'm really excited to be playing with an Alena.  She's a great friend of mine.  I think our games will match up well for the team competition.  Back-to-back majors, I've never done that before, so just have to see how it goes.
THE MODERATOR: You mentioned being in contention here last year, having a great third place finish.  What do you like about this golf course and this event?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I think ball-striking is really key around here.  Hitting the ball in the correct spots off the tee.  There are some narrow holes, so if you can position yourself in the correct spot it really makes it a lot easier on yourself.
Then you got to hit it close on these greens and roll in a few putts.  I think I learned my best strategy for the course here last year.  Hopefully I can just build on that.
THE MODERATOR: Okay, we will open it up for any questions for Brooke.  Start in the back row there.
Q. You kind of just mentioned it, this event.  But specifically for you and others on tour, what's the word on why people like to come back to Sylvania every year?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think there is so much history here.  This event has been running for a long time and people look forward to having a chance to make a lot birdies around here.
I think that's fun for everybody.  The crowds are always great as well.  It makes it a really fun atmosphere for all of us.
Q. Is there something else specific that sticks out to you maybe outside the way the course plays in terms of the way you're hosted here or whatever the case may be?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think it's really neat they have a ton of new events every year they take in.  I just walked by the pro-am putting challenge earlier, and just a little bit different.  A little bit of fun for the girls to experience different things.
I think the community really involves themselves in this event and makes it a really fun and cool atmosphere for them as well.
Q. You've had your sister on your bag for a few years now.  Was that the plan for her?  I remember reading something that she put her career on hold.  Has she found a new career, I guess?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, we just sort of got really fortunate.  She was maybe looking for a little bit of a break and I was needing a caddie.  We knew it worked really well in the past so we thought we would give it a shot.
Four years later she's still working for me.  We make a great team and it's really fun for us to be able to do this together, share this dream and journey together.  It's really special.
I don't know how long she'll do it for, but I hope she's around for a really long time.
Q. You're one of the five faces, at least for now, of the DriveOn campaign.  What has been the biggest, most rewarding thing being able to work on that campaign this year?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was really special to be a part of that and really set an example and hopefully inspire the younger generations.  Not only girls, but people of all ages.
It's just really powerful and it's fun to be a part of something so special and something that's making such a big difference.
Q. When they approached you with the idea, did you think, Hey, this is something we need?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think it's always a great idea to try to add extra motivation or try to inspire people to chase their dreams or believe in themselves a little bit more.
I think that's exactly what that campaign does.
Q. I talked to Roberta earlier.  She said your feature will be coming out.  Can you release the date of that?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Oh, no.
Q. No?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Sorry.
Q. I tried.
THE MODERATOR: Any final questions for Brooke?  Okay.  Best of luck, Brooke.  Thanks very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT