PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 25, 2019
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a comeback since yesterday's opening hole.  You really fought today.  Played really solidly.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, it was an awful way to start yesterday, but just talked to Brit and we just kind of said to stay patient and try to make a bunch of birdies.  I did make an eagle and a bunch of birdies yesterday to get myself back and in the right mindset.
Going out today, you know, I wanted to birdie the 1st hole and I was able to do that, which felt really nice.  I just had a ton of momentum and tried to ride it.  Had great fans, creat crowd today.
Q. What's the difference?  You've played here in the past.  (Indiscernible.)
BROOKE HENDERSON: I mean, last year it was so wet out here that you weren't getting any roll.  Greens were so soft.
This year it's a little bit windier too than it has been in the past and you're getting a lot of roll around the tee and on the greens too.
You just have to play smart around this golf course.  I've been working pretty well with Brit so far this week.
Q. Solid day out there for you today, Brook.  What was going through your mind after the way yesterday played out?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I finished really strong yesterday, which was really important for me, making a lot of birdies and feeling confident on the course again after a tough start.
But going out today I wanted to birdie the 1st hole and I was able to do that, which was awesome and kept the momentum going throughout the round.
Q. What was the mindset walking up to that first tee after what happened yesterday?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, I've played that hole a bunch and I know I can give myself a ton of birdie opportunities, so I was just trying to forget about yesterday and remember all the good shots I hit on that hole.
I think I was maybe a little bit more determined than normal to birdie it and try to get a good start.
Q. Weather is going to be brutal tomorrow with the heat.  What's the strategy going into the final round?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, today was kind of nice.  Bit of a break from the heat even though it's very hot out here.  Just try to stay away from dark colors I think tomorrow and drink a lot of water.  Hopefully I can play similar to the way I did today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT