PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 23, 2019
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 66 today.  What were the highlights of your round and how would you assess your play?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Started off 1st hole with a birdie and that was nice.  Kind of made a few birdies on the front nine; got things rolling.
I was hitting the ball well and giving myself a lot opportunities, which was nice.  Gave me a lot confidence for the rest of the round.
Would've liked to have made a few more, but I'm really happy with 66.  Hopefully keep it going the rest of the week.
Q. If memory serves, you closed here last year with the pair of (indiscernible - wind.)  When you have a finish like that in a tournament, the following year is there a sense of comfort and confidence?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, finishing T4 last year was awesome.  I mean, it just tells me I can play really well on this golf course and shoot low scores.
Every hole around here I kind of have a great memory from, so stepping onto the tee it's a good feeling.  Hopefully, like I said, just get three more rounds like I did today and hopefully put myself in good position.
Q. When you walked away from here last year were you pleased with how you played, kicking yourself? (Wind.)
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, golf is a really funny game.  When you think back at the end of four rounds, that one shot you could have picked it up really easily.  But at the same time, I shot a really low number on Sunday and climbed the leaderboard a lot.  I wasn't really in contention going in, so I was happy to finish T4.
Knowing that I was so close to getting into a playoff and getting another win is just confidence and momentum for the rest of the summer.
Q. Is today the kind of day you can build on, or does every day have a life of its own?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, every day is a new day out here.  Definitely knowing I made a lot of birdies out here is nice.  Tomorrow I'm in the afternoon so conditions will be different.  A lot firmer and a lot faster.  If it's windy like this it's play a little tougher than this morning.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, it was a lot softer this morning than what they'll face this afternoon.  I don't know if the wind was supposed to stay like this the rest of the week, but it makes the course a lot tougher.  When you're making a lot birdies and you have confidence, it's a little bit easier to go with the wind, but when you start to struggle I think that's when some the higher scores start to come in.
Q. One bogey today?
BROOKE HENDERSON: One.
Q. Where was that?
BROOKE HENDERSON: No.4.
Q. Just hit it crooked off the tee?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I wasn't too far off the fairway.  Just a tough lie out of the rough and just didn't get up and down.
Q. We were talking with Bronte earlier.  She was mentioning the fairways this year aren't what you're accustomed to.  How different did that make it for you?
BROOKE HENDERSON: In comparison to last year it was soaking wet.  We played three rounds here.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, that's right.  But the years before last year it always played kind of firm around here.  I mean, just kind of every year is a little bit different I guess.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT