LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 19, 2019
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tough day today.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  It was really windy today.  Really had to stay patient.  I kind of fought through my front nine a little bit.  Bogeyed the 2nd hole I guess, but made a birdie on 5.  Hitting good shots; just not really making birdies.   
The back nine I made a lot of birdies, which was a lot of fun.  Couple saves for par, too.  Would've been nice to finish 18 with a par, but I'm excited to have moved up a little bit today.  Just looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Just grinding along the front nine, and go birdie-birdie on 10 and 11.  Something kind of kick in for you there?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I knew I had to get going a little bit, make some birdies.  I was hitting it well the last few holes on the front nine; just wasn't converting.   
So it was nice to get that birdie-birdie.  Gave me a little momentum going into a couple of par-5s, and I was able to make some putts, which was really nice.   
 Q.  14 was an adventure there, right?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.   
 Q.  Take us through that drive in the bunker and having to recover from that and the putt from the fringe.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I was disappointed because that's a hole that I can really take advantage of, especially with the tees up.  Would've been easy for me to hit it in two today.   
Anyway, the bottom line is I made birdie, which is great.  Just kind of had to do it the hard way.   
 Q.  Going into tomorrow tied now for the lead and being on the course where you have finished well before, just a year ago, does that give you some added confidence going into tomorrow?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I mean, it's still a really packed leaderboard, and whoever plays really well tomorrow is going to come out on top or close to the top.  So right now it's hard to say what that number is going to be.  Kind of all just depends just on the wind.  It's a packed leaderboard.  Really anything can happen.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  Did you play in a lot of final groups together?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  Yeah, pretty much every tournament I've played with her we were in the final groups together, so very familiar there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT