BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 22, 2019
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round out there today.  What were you feeling on the course the past two days?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, past two days have gone really well.  Happy with it.  I feel like my ball striking has been pretty decent, but I'm making a lot of putts, which is a nice feeling for me.
This course you have to make a lot birdies, which I usually like to do, so I feel like over the weekend make a few more and see what happens.
Q. How is the course out there compared to yesterday?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It was a little bit softer this morning playing early and not as windy, so that was nice.  Yesterday got really cold and was windy.
I feel like conditions are pretty similar the last two days, and just was able to make a couple birdies today; not as many as I would've liked, but I'm happy.
Q. How special is this event to you, especially with the Founders here this weekend and the launch of the DriveOn campaign, which you are a star of?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it's pretty amazing to be here among three Founders.  Many it's pretty incredible.  Shirley is one of my favorites.  I guess two years ago she grabbed my 48-inch driver and took some swings with it.  She's just a lot of fun.  Marilynn as well.  I don't know Marlene as well.
But just to be in their company and kind of realize all the hard work they out in to making this a reality is pretty cool for me.
Q. This season is there anything different about it for you?  Anything that you prepared differently or new goals or whatever?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I feel like every year on tour I've just learned a little bit more about how I handle pressure and stress and everything.  I feel like this year maybe I'm a little bit more relaxed generally and just having a little bit more fun; trying to make as many birdies as I can.
I feel like my game has been in a good spot the last couple months, and hopefully I can continue to put myself in good positions.
Q. Is this a place that you feel like you'll win here one day?  What is it about this that you like?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I do like how you can make a lot of birdies out here.  I usually, by the end of the year, I'm right up there in number of birdies made on tour.
I feel like this is comfortable territory for me.  I also feel like it's always jam packed at top of the leaderboard, too.  You just have to catch some breaks and hopefully I will.
Q. I didn't get out there today, but I remember in years past you had a huge Canadian contingent.  Is that everywhere?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's back.
Q. It's back?  How is that to have to that following here?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's really awesome, especially the snow bird destinations.  So here and Palm Springs is another one.  Actually next week there are quite a few, too.  So I'm really fortunate to have their support; they've been out really strong the last two days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT