LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 17, 2019
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice start.  65.  What do you feel was working for you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, the wind was really different on my front nine.  Never experienced that wind direction here before, so took a little bit of adjusting and kind of patience.   
I bogeyed my first hole but kind of hung in there.  The chip-in on 15 for eagle really was a big help and kind of got my momentum back.   
Yeah, really happy to finish at minus 7 and hopefully just keep doing it the next three days.   
 Q.  You said yesterday, if the wind is calm scores are going to be low.  Stayed pretty calm most of the day.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Pretty calm for here.   
 Q.  There were some low scores this morning.  When you came out did you have a number in mind?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, were we took a look at the scores early and were like, Wow, people are really going low.  I figured the wind was down a little bit.  Just knew you had to maybe attack a little bit more.  Play smart with the wind, but definitely be a little bit more aggressive.   
 Q.  You mentioned the eagle on 15.  What did you hit?  How far out were you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I had 45 yards, I think, so big drive there, which was nice.  Then it was a tricky little chip, but happy it went in.   
 Q.  And then birdie on -- right over here.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: 8.  I hit a 9-iron and it was 132.  It was a really good birdie.  Pin was really tricky, and just tried to get right distance on it and was able to do that, and then just kind of a bonus to make birdie.   
 Q.  When you come into a tournament and you've won seven times and you go back to an event where you're a defending champion, is it a whole different feel?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, definitely.  Definitely a little bit different.  It's exciting.  You feel a little bit more comfortable.  You think you know the golf course a little bit better which gives you a little bit more confidence.   
I think I was able to use some of that strategy from last year this year, which is a big help.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT