DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 17, 2019
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Does it maybe favor a certain kind of personality because this is more of a Pro-Am or maybe it takes a certain mindset?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think maybe a little bit.  It's not quite as serious.  You're going to talk a little bit more, generally.  I mean, you're not hitting from the same spots.  A lot of the big men are hitting it further than we are, so it's not like you're seeing -- and you can't really compare clubs on par 3s because they're quite a bit different than us.
Generally, I feel like it's just a really fun atmosphere, and if you can kind of go with it, stay positive, and have good energy with the rest of your group, then good things can happen.
Q. I'm here with Brooke Henderson, off to a great start at the Diamond Resorts Tournament of Champions.  A 65 to start it off here after that bogey.  How did it feel to bounce back and get off to a great start?
BROOKE HENDERSON: After that bogey on 2, I was like, uh-oh, I'd better get things going.  Made a nice par save on the par 3 next hole, and after that I started making a lot of birdies.  It was a lot of fun.  I was doing well today, and you're making putts.  That's all you can really ask for, and I got that today, and I'll just keep it going over the weekend.
Q. You have a unique perspective, having played in this before when it was a Champions Tour.  You played pretty well, tied for seventh.  What sort of advantage do you think that gives you, and what did you learn that can help you this week?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I'm more comfortable coming here.  A lot of people recognize me, and we're saying hello and catching up.  I'm just a little more comfortable, and that gives me confidence as well.  Knowing that I have played well here in the past.  Last year I hit 67, which I was really happy with.  Just knowing the course maybe a little better.  It's fun for me.  It showed today, but I'll just keep going.
Q. This being your first event back, how did you spend your off-season?  What did you do?  Anything you worked on for your game?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Off-season was really fun.  Went home to Canada for a few weeks.  Dropped the puck at the Ottawa Senators game.  That was really exciting.  Nothing too new in the game, just trying to work out some kinks from the off-season.  I feel like my game is in a good spot right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT