CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 13, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: All right, we are back with our final press conference of the day.  World No. 9, Brooke Henderson.  She is third in the Race to the CME Globe reset points; winner at the Lotte Championship and the CP Women's Open; eight other top 10 finishes; in the top 10 this year on tour in birdies, rounds in the 60s, Top 10s, scoring average, and driving average.
It's good to have you here with us, Brooke.  It's been a couple months now, but I think at least for a lot of us, the high point of the season certainly your win at the CP Women's Open.  Take us back to that kind of surreal moment on the 18th in Regina.  Has it truly sunk in you won your national championship?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, that was truly amazing and definitely a highlight for this year and I think over my entire career that will be a highlight as well.  Just being surrounded by family and friends on the 18th green when I could finally hoist that trophy.  Hearing, Oh, Canada was all really a dream come true.
It's really been inspiring this year having so many people win in their home countries and feeling those pressures that we feel entering that week and then being able to pull off and win in style, you know, for many of us is really cool.
THE MODERATOR: Did you ever think you would get to a point in your career you would have the prime minister tweeting at you?  I mean, come on.  That's pretty awesome.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, that is definitely an honor.  When you win like that Canada definitely embraces all Canadians and the support is unreal.
THE MODERATOR: How fulfilled do you feel by your great performance this year?  This truly has been a good season for you.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, 2018 coming into the year I wanted to have a big year.  I'm very happy with how everything has turned out, you know, winning twice when the competition is so tough out here.  Having multiple Top 10s, and as you're listing, I've been top 10 in a lot of different statistics, which is big keys for my season.
I'm just really happy to be back in the position of third in the CME.  Coming into the year I definitely wanted to be in the Top 5 to have a chance this week.  I think it's just an amazing opportunity, so hopefully I can capitalize.
THE MODERATOR: Looking back on the your performances here at Tiburon, this is your fourth time here; you've never finished outside the top 25.  Your worse was a tie for 25th.  What is it about this golf course that seems to fir and you how do you feel coming into this week?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, it's a great golf course, and this year it's really in great shape.  The greens are rolling well.  I think as long as your ball-striking is in a good spot, which generally that is my strength, then you can get around this golf course and shoot under par.
I think this week ball-striking is definitely going to be a big key, especially if the wind picks up, which it's predicted to do on Thursday.  Hit it to the right spots on the greens and hopefully give yourself a lot of good looks.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Given where we were in the season and the amount of travel that everyone has done, you walk up and down the range and there is a lot of the zombie looks out there.  How do you feel physically and how do you kind of ramp yourself up for this last week?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, physically and mentally I feel like I'm in a really good spot.  I feel like 2018, especially the last half, both those things have been really strong for me, which is really exciting.  I think a big part of that is taking a week off after Japan and before this week.  Just being able to rest, being able to practice and prepare the best that I can going into this week.
I feel like Brit and I have done a good job in this off week we just had.  Looking forward to finishing off the season hopefully with a big week here.
Q. And I'm glad you brought Brit up.  She just got into -- was it her college Hall of Fame?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.
Q. Talk about that.  That's got to be a big deal for you guys.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I'm so, so happy and so proud of her to be inducted into Coastal Carolina University's Athletic Hall of Fame.  It was a special night for her and a special thing to happen.  Just really proud I got to be there and really happy for her.
Q. The focus this week, is it play well, win the tournament, end the year right way, or does the math and the Globe and all that enter into your thinking at all?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, it's all about the process.  I feel like my game is in a good spot.  I feel like mentally I'm ready.  I just got to put four solid rounds together.  It all starts Thursday with a good round.
Like I said, ball-striking is really key.  Hitting fairways, greens in the right spots.  If I do that, make some birdies and put myself in a good position on the weekend, then I think maybe your thinking changes a little bit more towards hoisting that trophy at the end of Sunday.
Basically just got to go out and play good golf like I have all year.
Q. You have a home here in Naples.  How far away is it from here?  Do you ever come out to this golf course and practice?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's about half hour, so I don't practice here throughout the rest of the year, but I do get to sleep in my own bed this week, which is really nice.
Q. Where would you rank this event among your priorities of events you want to win?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, it's right up there.  One of my main goals this year was to be in the Top 5 coming into this event so that I could have this opportunity.  I've been really fortunate that for the past three years I've been in position if I play well this week that I could walk away with that $1 million, which is pretty special.
I think it all comes down to you need to have a really great week.  You need to finish at least in the Top 5 or be in that final group on Sunday with a chance to win.  I feel like this is right up there with all other majors and even the CP Women's Open just because this is a big goal of mine to win the Race to the CME Globe.
Q. You said you were hoping for a big 2018.  I don't know if you saw Justin Thomas, but sometimes he posts his goals for the year.  Do you set out a list of goals like that?  Would you like to share any of those?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I definitely have goals going into the season.  I feel a lot of mine have been accomplished this year.  Getting back into the top 10 in the world ranking was a big one.  Now I'm sitting No. 9.
As you mentioned the Race to the CME Globe and being in the top 10 in scoring average, and a big thing for me to was work on my short game, which is just a continuous process I'll continue in the off-season and hopefully get ready for an even bigger 2019.
Q. Was there anything on the list that you didn't get that is at the top for next year?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  Probably just say that the short game, getting less putts.  I think everybody wants that.  Just continue to work on that and hopefully come out stronger next year.
Q. Working on your short game, is that part of evaluating what it will take to be No. 1?  Do you think about it that way?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, if you look at May, her short game is the best of anybody out here.  You combine that with her great long game, and that's why she's right up there every single week and has walked away with so many awards this year.
It's a big key, especially to compete against the best in the world and move your ranking up.  I feel like my ball-striking is just as good as anybody's, but the short game, I feel like that could move me up a bunch of levels.
THE MODERATOR: Final question?  I will wrap things up with my big question.  You have a chance to win and take home $1 million.  If that happens, what would you do with it?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I've been asked that the last three years, and I'm still not really sure.  But just the opportunity to be here, I'm really grateful.  Hopefully I can do something special this week.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you so much.  Good luck and we'll see you throughout the week.  Thanks, Brooke.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT