THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you play overall?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Played really well today.  Hit the ball in really good spots and gave myself a lot of birdie opportunities, which is really exciting.
I didn't capitalize as much on my back nine as I would've liked to, but overall to shoot minus-4 on this course golf course, I'm really happy with it.
Q. Conditions obviously beautiful today, so different than we've seen the last few years.  What sort of adjustments do you have to make and how different were the conditions?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, definitely.  There was no wind today and it's definitely firming up.  You kind of had to adjust for the release as the day went on in the fairways and on the greens.  I feel like I did a really good job of that.
I'm just excited that I got off to a good start, and hopefully play well the next few days.
Q. We're seeing you in the mix here at these big events more and more in what's been a short career but feels a lot longer than it is.  Do you feel like you're getting more comfortable in these sorts of situations in major championships?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I definitely think so, and I look forward to them a little bit more knowing I can be in contention and do have a chance to win if things go the right way.
So it's really exciting.  I was really looking forward to coming here this year, so hopefully I can finish off well.
Q. Huge win a few weeks ago back home in Canada.  What kind of effect has that had on you and your game?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, that was amazing.  Really dream come true winning in Canada our national championship was really awesome.  I think after Portland you kind of saw the effects of the emotional high kind of coming down, but I feel ready to go this week.
Q. Fantastic round today; 67.  One bogey, one dropped shot.  How do you feel about your round today?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, the front nine went really well for me, 4-under, and I felt like I was hitting the ball in great spots, giving myself a lot of birdies opportunities day.
Unfortunately I did drop a shot on my 17th hole today, but I'm just excited that I was able to finish off with my score and look forward to the next few days.
Q. The few years have been wet and rainy and soggy.  This year obviously so far to good.  Playing conditions, can you describe them for us?  Any different?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, definitely very different from the last couple years that I've played here.  It's beautiful, which is really nice, but no wind.  It's very firm comparatively.  I think we had to adjust as the day went on.
I played in the morning, so I can only imagine in the afternoon it'll be that much more firm.
Q. You've been playing really well in majors this year so far many.  Do you prepare any differently for them?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, I think the proper amount rest and practice is kind of key for me.  Last week at home I just tried to rest as much as I could and mentally and physically prepare for this week.
I feel look did I a good job of that and I'm very confident coming into this week.  I'm glad I was able to get a good round off.
Q. Congratulations on the win in Canada.  I have to ask you, how was that like winning on home soil again?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, that was amazing.  You know, I think for all the Canadians it's a dream come true to win a national championship.  I'm really fortunate that I was able to do that.  Just such an amazing feeling walking up to the 18th hole.
I feel like I'm back in playing form.  I tried to play the next week but kind of lost some energy.  I feel like the energy is back and I'm hitting the ball well.
Q. What's the game plan for tomorrow and what are you going to do for the rest of the afternoon?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, just hit a few putts, just practice, have some lunch and go back and rest.  I think the game plan very similar to what it was today.  Just kind of depends on the conditions.
If we do get some rain, I think that will adjust things a little bit more, too.
Q. Thoughts on the tournament moving to July next year?  How do you feel about that?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I definitely think it'll be hotter, but I think it's probably good.  Last couple years it has been very difficult conditions, and hopefully moving to July fixes that a little bit.
Q. How was your birthday?  Did you do anything to celebrate?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I celebrated last week early so it's kind of been like a birthday week.  Then on Monday, just couple friends, we went downtown Evian and had a really nice meal.
Q. 21, right?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yep.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT