U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN
December 9, 2020
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. You normally play a lot golf in a year, so about 2020 on a whole, how has it been I guess personally and as far as your game?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   It's kind of in and out like a lot.
Q. Just asking about 2020 on a whole.  As somebody who normally plays a very full schedule, how it's been for your golf and I guess for you personally, how hard it's been?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I think 2020 has definitely been a challenging year for everybody.  From a golf standpoint it's been really nice since the LPGA has been able to return to play.  Been pretty successful having small amount of positive tests, and I feel very safe out here at the golf course, which is a great feeling.
I feel like my game has been in a really good spot since ANA.  A lot of top 10 finishes and putting myself in contention, which is what it's all about.  So it's really fun on the weekend to be in those final groups, so hopefully this week I can play solid tomorrow and Friday and see if I can put myself back in a solid position on Saturday and Sunday.
Q. What's the game plan for this week?  You're a very aggressive player normally.  This is a U.S. Open.  So is there some adjustment to your strategy or how are you going to go about attacking these two different golf courses?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, definitely two different golf courses.  Happy to be playing Jackrabbit tomorrow to get it out of the way and play Cypress three days in a row after that hopefully.
But like I said, I feel like my game is in a really good spot.  Feel like I'm hitting the ball well, which is going to be key this week, especially hitting a lot fairways and hitting it to the correct spots on every green.
The greens are massive on Cypress and on Jackrabbit they're very small and odd shaped, so ball striking will definitely be key in putting yourself in good positions there to give yourself some goof looks for birdies and also just make some easy pars.
Definitely looking forward to the opportunity of playing my eighth U.S. Women's Open and hopefully can play well.
Q. With these golf courses we've heard a lot of players say they're playing long; they're built more for the summer than the winter.  Have you found that, and how much practice have you got so far this week out there?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, I played early Monday morning and the course definitely played very, very long; a little bit wet as well.
But I just finished playing nine holes now and it seems to be drying up a little bit and the ball is carrying a little bit further in the afternoon, so that's good news.  Not playing quite as long but still very challenging.
I think hitting it a little bit further than some off the tee will be a bonus this week.
Q. Last one from me.  For someone who has accomplished so much in your career, are you now at the point where you're circling the major championships and really how important is it that these majors, you have your best game for them at this point in your career?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, with 2020 being so uncertain, when we made the decision to return back to play in the summer, my team and I, we said, Let's just focus on the majors.  I had two solid finishes at ANA and also at KPMG.  Hopefully this week I can also peak for it and follow it up next week at CME.
So two really big weeks this week and next, and I'm really looking forward to them.
Q. This week, up to this point has it been a bit more of a physical grind for you knowing that you have to play these two different golf courses or a mental thing for you to try to wrap your head around I got to get ready at a major for two separate layouts that are very different?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Honestly I think it's a bit of both.  I'm not used to playing 18 hole practice rounds and I just played two, Monday and Tuesday.  So today I only played nine holes and felt like a huge relief.
So, yeah, it's been a little bit taxing that way, just playing a lot more than you do normally early in the week.  Then mentally just trying to focus while you're out there, learn the golf courses in the limited amount of time and try to understand the best you can and get a good strategy.
So I feel like even tonight and tomorrow morning before I play, talk a lot with Brit and confirm what we're trying to do out there on each golf course, make sure we have a good understanding of every hole.
Q. How about the stage of the U.S. Women's Open itself?  We talked before about how you arrive on site at majors on a Monday and there are fans and signage.  What does it look like there this week and how have you been able to adjust to that?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, you know, the atmosphere is still amazing; a major championship is still great.  Definitely missing the energy and adrenaline from the fans, but we've missed that all year.
So I feel like it's just really exciting.  Saw the trophy on display I guess yesterday and it just kind of gives you chills to see it.  Just pretty cool.
I feel like just try to do everything that we can, try to get a good plan in place and focus on every shot, and hopefully put myself in contention on Sunday.
Q. And given the time of the year on the calendar, Christmastime is right around the corner and Alena was talking about this yesterday, it's kind of weird to go to the golf course and Christmas music on the radio.  For you, how do you wrap your head around knowing I still have a big job to do this week and next week too at the Tour Championship.  How do you get yourself in this go-mode to know you a job to do even though it's almost the end of year?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, usually by American Thanksgiving I'm putting my feet up and taking a break and getting ready for Christmas, buying gifts and everything.  So it's a bit of a jugging act between buying gifts and making plans for the holidays and trying to compete at the two biggest tournaments of the year.  So it's definitely been a lot different, but it's been pretty cool.
I love Christmas music, so hearing it on the way to the course is kind of calming and relaxing.  I feel like this would be the best Christmas present I could ever give myself.
Q. Do you have a favorite Christmas song?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I think just all of them.
Q. Yeah, right.  Okay.  That's it for me.  Thank you.  Good luck.
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Thanks.
Q. (Audio cut out.)  Hard to believe at 23 and your eighth U.S. Women's Open.  (Audio cut out.)  Tee times that are the (audio cut out) how different is the preparation for this event this week compared to previous years?
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, definitely very different.  A lot of those things that you mentioned, I feel like the biggest one being try to learn the two courses and understand them at the best level that we can going into tomorrow and Friday.
I think it's nice I play Jackrabbit tomorrow so get it out of way and then just focus on Cypress.  So I feel like Brit has been working really hard, so hopefully we can come up with a great advantage and post some low scores.
It's really exciting to be playing my eighth U.S. Women's Open.  It's hard to believe.  I feel like it's just amazing to even be in the field, and then now being in a position where I can potentially put myself in good spot come the weekend and win this thing would be amazing.
So I'm just really looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT