CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 31, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do receptions like that ever get old, walking off the golf course like that?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's pretty awesome.  You know, to see all the little kids especially.  It's pretty cool to see when they are so happy just to get an autograph or just to spend a little time with them.
Q. Coming off the course, another 1-under round; seem to be pretty steady out there.  How are you feeling?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I kind of got off to a shaky start, two bogeys right back-to-back on the back nine, which was my front nine, and I just kind of fought the rest of the day to kind of get it under par.  So I'm happy with 1-under.  I would have obviously liked to have been better today and get up the leaderboard a little bit more, but I just felt like I kind of battled my way through today, and I feel like I did a good job of that.
Q. Kind of hard to sustain something today?  Just a grind?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I just didn't feel that well this morning, and like I said, I was just kind of fighting everything out there.  But I got some awesome breaks and made a few putts to finish under par.
Q. Where did you get a break at?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, on 1 and 2 actually, I hit the ridge of the bunker and it bounced closer to the green.  So instead of me having a bunker shot or a tough pitch shot, instead I could just hit a little bump-and-run.
Q. Then you got some birdies after that, 3 --
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yep, 3, solid hole; 5 and 6, yeah, I made some putts there, which was nice.  Happy to get some birdies, especially on the closing holes.
Q. You're looking at only 1-under today, but you're still in nice position.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I imagine that this course is actually -- it'll probably be pretty good, so I'll probably be quite a few shots back by the end of today, but yeah, in a good position, and I'm happy to play the weekend and just see what I can do.
Q. How is the course different, pins or other things?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I mean, it definitely was a little bit softer today.  The ball wasn't flying quite as far.  I think it may be just a little bit cooler than yesterday afternoon, but pins pretty similar.  There were some that were tougher to get at, but most of them were pretty accessible.
Q. Having done what you did today, are you going to go work on something or is it more you want to rest?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, normally I would practice pretty hard after a round like today, but I think I'm probably just going to rest, maybe take a tour around Portland and just kind of hang out for the rest of the afternoon.
Q. Anything you're looking to see in Portland?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Well, we just heard that there's a lot of cool things, so hopefully we can see some of those.  I don't know, we've never really ventured out, so it's sort of fun for us.
Q. You've got to get a Voodoo doughnut.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I heard about that, and what is the ice cream place?
Q. Salt and Straw.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, that one.  So we'll just kind of see what we see.
Q. I like to go get lost in Powell's Books, the bookstore that's a city block wide.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Really?  All right, sweet.
Q. You obviously play here really well; what's your favorite hole here?  Can you narrow it down to one?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I would say the stretch 5 through 7 are probably my favorite holes, I guess just because of the two par-5s I can reach easily in two, and usually I make a lot of birdies in that stretch.  I mean, I think 18 is a great closing hole.  You've got to hit great shots, but if you do that, it's not a hard hole, but if you mis-hit one shot, it can add up to like a high score.  I don't know, I just really like it here.  All the holes are good.
Q. I don't know if you read about the auction of Alena's bag yesterday.  What are your thoughts on that?  That was such a great thing.
BROOKE HENDERSON: That was so amazing.  To have the idea about Sarah and Alena, and then to act on it and make the bag and use it last week and then have the idea to auction it off after that and raise $19,000 is unreal.  You know, she was extremely happy about it.  She told me before I teed off yesterday, and I'm just so happy for them, and I'm happy for Saskatchewan, as well.  That was a lot of money.
Q. You've been asked this a million times.  Growing up, who were your golf idols?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, Morgan Pressel was a huge role model for me.  I loved watch her play, and I really looked up to her.  Being from Canada, obviously Lorie Kane and Alena Sharp were also two big ones, and Alena has really been a great friend to me over the last few years, and Lorie, I'm on CP with her, so we run into each other quite a bit.  Again, she's just a legend in Canada, so it's pretty cool to get to know her.
Q. Any of the guys, like the old-time guys, like Mike Weir?
BROOKE HENDERSON: No, I don't really know them that well, but Mike has been really supportive of my career so far.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT