CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The crowds, I didn't think they could get any bigger today, but how do you feel coming off the course?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was amazing.  Walking up No. 9 there, my final hole, to see that many people there to watch me finish was incredible.  I was happy I was able to birdie for them and get to 12-under.  It was a great day.  The winds really picked up.  It was a much different golf course, much tougher, but I think starting on the back nine kind of gave me a lot of momentum, making a lot of birdies, and then was able to finish really strong here.   
 Q.  How was the wind from 6 to 9?  Pretty strong?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it definitely picked up.  It was strong all day, but definitely on my last four or five holes, it picked up even more, and it even changed direction a little bit, so it was hard to kind of figure out.  But I feel like Brit and I did a great job overall today just trying to manage our way around the golf course.   
 Q.  Do you feel very fortunate that you were off in the morning instead of afternoon?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, definitely.  I think this week I definitely got the better half of the draw with this wind coming in, so I'm glad I was able to take advantage of it and post two solid scores, and I'm just really excited and looking forward to the weekend.   
 Q.  One of the players said yesterday she thought it might be unplayable if the winds picked up.  What do you think about that statement?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: I mean, the greens are very firm and very fast.  They did try to slow them down a little bit for today so that no balls would roll in the wind, which I think was really smart on the LPGA and Golf Canada, whoever was in charge of that.  I think none of my balls even looked like they were going to roll away today, so I feel like the course is definitely playable, it's just extremely strong winds and challenging.   
 Q.  How important was that opening chip-in birdie given that the course was going to get a lot tougher throughout the day?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, that was definitely a nice way to start.  I only had 55 yards, I think, to the pin on the first hole, so I was a little disappointed with my second, but to make the birdie, I was really happy, and it definitely gave me a lot of confidence during the day.   
 Q.  You shot the same as yesterday; how would you compare this round with yesterday's?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, I got it there very differently, but overall, I feel like I'm hitting the ball in great spots, and my putter is really bailing me out sometimes, and it's also making putts that I don't make every single week.  So it's definitely -- I've kind of just ran off the momentum and made a lot of birdies, which is really fun, and I feel like both rounds are sort of comparable even though they're extremely different conditions, if that makes sense.   
 Q.  Did you guys feed off each other?  There was so much good golf played in your group.  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was awesome.  It's always fun to play with great players, and I definitely had an awesome pairing this week, and today everybody was going low, so you kind of feel like you need to make birdie or you're falling behind and that's kind of a good feeling.  Sometimes it pushes you in the right direction.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the fan support?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Oh, yeah, it's really amazing.  Coming here, I didn't really expect this many people to be cheering me on, but I'm pleasantly surprised, and hopefully I can just keep playing great golf for them over the weekend.   
 Q.  Does that add to the pressure, or does it buoy you?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's a lot of fun, especially when you're playing well.  You love those cheers and you love when you hit it -- you love when you're walking down the fairway and you hear your name and you know that they're all there behind you.  I would say it's definitely a lot easier to play in front of them when you're playing really well, so hopefully I keep it up.   
 Q.  Have you had an experience with an atmosphere like this before?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, definitely last year in Ottawa it was very similar, but I'm extremely happy because I live very far from here, but I think all Canadians kind of stick together.   
 Q.  Really nice round out there leading you into the weekend with some nice momentum.  How would you assess your round out there today?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was awesome.  The wind was very strong, especially compared to yesterday, and I feel like Brit and I really managed ourselves around the course extremely well.  I hit the ball in good spots and made birdie putts when I had them, and I feel like I made the most of today's round, which is always a great feeling.  To be close to the top of the leaderboard heading into the weekend is awesome, especially when you're here in Canada.   
 Q.  How important has rest been for you over the last couple days?  You played nine holes in the pro-am until Wednesday and didn't have to tee off until Thursday in the afternoon.  Have you been able to manage that rest really well this week?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I think this week we did a great job.  Obviously there's a lot of demands on me this week playing at home, but I feel like my team has really done a good job kind of minimizing that and making sure I get the proper rest and practice so that I can perform well.   
 Q.  Your putter has been just tremendous this week; would you say it's been your most important club in your bag so far?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Definitely have a lot of confidence in it this week, which is always amazing when you can depend on that club.  But I think overall, everything is kind of going really well.  I'm hitting the ball in good spots and then I'm making putts when I have birdie opportunities.  I think overall, my game is in a good spot.   
 Q.  Anna Nordqvist was 7-under par through the first nine holes today.  Were you kind of feeding off that momentum a little bit, kind of wanting to keep up?  
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, my group, all of them were going really low, and it seemed like almost every hole we were making birdie, at least one of us, which is really fun, and it kind of pushes you to keep getting better and try to make more birdies yourself.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT