RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Eventful indeed, Tom, because of course, the ninth was a hole-in-one for Brooke who's just told me that was the sixth one of her career but the second one at a major championship.  The last time you had a hole-in-one at a major you went onto lift the trophy at the KPMG Women's PGA.  Could that be, Brooke, a good omen for the women's PGA this week?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I'm definitely very happy about it, to get a one there and get my score back to reasonable and close to the top of the leaderboard was really cool.  Kind of struggled a little bit on the back nine, but birdied 15 and I'm really happy with my round today.
Q. When something like that happens in a round, how does it help you with the momentum?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I was just trying to hit fairways, hit greens and make birdie putts and just seeing that drop kind of gave me a little extra boost to keep going, and like I said, I'm in a good spot and hopefully I can play well on the weekend.
Q. I was listening to some of your comments after your round yesterday.  You said that the win you had in New Zealand at the end of last week kind of helped you learn the conditions you're playing at Lytham in week.  Why was that?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, for sure.  You know, I never really played that well on links courses until New Zealand.  So it kind of gave me a fresh look at links courses, and how to play with the wind and the firm and fast of the fairways and the greens.  So I think that was a huge boost to my career, gave me a lot of it was coming into this week.
Q. So in the past you've said you're not necessarily that fond of links golf.  Is it wearing on you now?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  After these two days, it's just very challenging and not what I grew up playing on, but it was a lot of fun, and you really gotta think your whole way around.
Q. Well, we've off the lead going into the weekend.  Good luck.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Thank you.
Q. Another really solid round of golf.  How do you reflect on it?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, it was solid.  I kind of got off to a good start on the first hole and we were looking good and then I got to the nine and had a nice surprise on the hole-in-one, kind of shot me up the leaderboard a little bit more and gave me some confidence going into some tough holes on the back and to finish up 5-under after two rounds I'm really happy, so just looking forward to the weekend.
Q. Talk me through nine.  You didn't know where the ball had gone.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah.  I had trouble following it all the way to the hole, but I heard it hit the flag, so I knew something good had probably happened, and my sister said it's in.  So I'll take it.
Q. Absolutely.  And it's an interesting card.  I think you had every number from one to six on the card today.  Are you the kind of person that sort of takes the greatest pleasure from the one or do you kind of have the frustrations over the six?  How do you sort of describe the kind of golfer you are after a round like this?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I mean I think today was definitely a balance.  I had great holes, one, two, three, like you said, and then I also had a six.  But a bit of balance, but I think that's what you get on these golf courses.  So just try to deal with it and move on to the next hole and I feel like I did that really well today.
Q. You're five shots back from the lead heading into the weekend.  What's going to be the key focus for you as you head into tomorrow and Sunday?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Actually, I think just keep doing what I'm doing, trying to hit fairways, play smart and hit greens and try to give myself as many birdie opportunities as possible and when things go awry just try to stay calm and try to make the smallest number possible and I think over the last two days that's worked really well, so I'm just excited to be in this position.  I haven't played that well at British Opens before, so I'm happy about this.
Q. Well done today.  Thank you.
BROOKE HENDERSON: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT