MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 14, 2018
Brooke Henderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I had the pleasure of watching you play today.  How are you able to play this type of golf consistently playing as many events as you do?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I love to play a lot of golf.  This week things have been clicking for me a little bit better than normal, and I'm just excited to see my name at the top of the leaderboard.  I would have liked to play a little better today, but I'm happy to still be in the top spot and hopefully make a lot of birdies tomorrow.
Q. We all talk about your heart when you're playing tournaments.  Where do you feel that comes from and how does that help you play on Sundays?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think you need it if you're going to win championships and you're going to shoot low scores.  Especially when you hit it in spots that I hit it today, you kind of need to bounce back quickly and grind it out as best you can, and just try to do the best you can all the time.
Q. You say you like being the hunted going into the weekend; what about being the hunted going into the final round?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, I looked at the scores just walking by the leaderboard there, and there are a lot of really awesome scores today.  I know I have to make a lot of birdies and shoot an awesome score.  I'm excited to be in this position.  I was a little disappointed how I played today, but overall I'm in a good spot.
Q. How would you assess 18 holes today?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's just up-and-down.  I made some birdies but I made some bogies.  I didn't hit it how I normally hit it, so I kind of grinded it out as best I could, and that's good.  That's a good sign when you can still shoot under par and not hit it very well.
So, you know, just going into tomorrow trying to get back to the way I normally strike it, and hopefully make a lot of birdies.
Q. Did the course play more difficult than it did on Thursday and Friday?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I think it's just adjusting again.  You know, it was very dryish afternoon, and today it seemed to be a lot softer.  Things weren't releasing the same, and the greens were holding a little bit better, which I thought was a little weird, but we just tried to adjust with it and just go from there.
Q. What was your mindset with the 1-shot lead and so many players close behind?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, it's pretty crazy to look at that leaderboard.  It's all jammed up.  But it's a fun position, and you've just got to go out there and play your own game.  You can't really worry about it.  There are going to be people that shoot minus-7, minus-8 probably.  So I have to go out and match that or better it.
Q. Are you a player that watches the leaderboard throughout the round?
BROOKE HENDERSON: I do a little bit.  Just kind of depends on how I'm feeling.
Q. Is it difficult knowing how many birdies you're probably going to make tomorrow?
BROOKE HENDERSON: This course definitely gives it to you.  As long as you hit it in good spots and you're positive, and you feel like you can make a lot of birdies.  You can usually make them out here.  So that's a good feeling.  So like I said, hopefully I'll hit it a little better tomorrow and see what happens.
Q. You are putting yourself in a position to be chased again.  11 for the tournament here at Marathon Classic.  Tell us what was working for you today?
BROOKE HENDERSON: Yeah, you know, I kind of grinded it out really well today, which is always a good sign when you shoot under par.  Some of the places I hit it today is always (inaudible).  I think this course, when you're hitting it really well, there are a lot of birdie opportunities.  When you don't hit it so great, you're kind of fighting for pars, and I know that.  So hopefully tomorrow I can go out and play a little bit better and give myself a lot of birdie looks.
Q. Going into tomorrow's round, what is your game plan?
BROOKE HENDERSON: You know, similar to the first two days, just try and hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens, and hopefully my putter's hot tomorrow.
Q. What do you think it's going to take to win tomorrow?
BROOKE HENDERSON: It's going to take a really good score.  Lot of people shot minus-6, minus-5 today.  So I would imagine something close to that tomorrow would do the job.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT